SEN. CANTWELL URGES DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY TO DEVELOP SECURITY STRATEGY FOR 2010 OLYMPIC GAMES
  Friday, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) announced that she has secured language in the omnibus spending package directing the Department of Homeland Security to develop, within three months, a plan to fund its recommendations to prepare Washington State for the economic opportunities and the security challenges the 2010 Vancouver Olympic and Paralympic Games will bring. The recommendations address the expected increases in border flow, necessary enhancements to border security, estimated border crossing wait times, and any need for increased border personnel. The recommendations were included in the Department of Homeland Security's 'Report to Congress on the 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games' that Cantwell required them to do as part of the Department's fiscal year 2007 appropriations.
   "The Olympics and Paralympics in 2010 should be a time of excitement and celebration, and we need to ensure the federal government has a strategic plan and the resources it needs to make sure the games take place in a safe and secure way, without undue border delays or security risks," said Cantwell. "It is very important we make sure first responders and border personnel in the U.S. and Canada can communicate effectively with all other agencies involved with the Olympics." 
   Additionally, Cantwell also sent a letter to Secretary Michael Chertoff following up on the Report, asking what steps have been taken by the Federal government since its release to ensure the recommendation made by the Report are being implemented. Specific recommendations include:
   The creation of a Multi-Year Training and Exercise Plan and Schedule;
   A plan by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to meet the anticipated impact of increased border flow at domestic airports, seaports, rail stations, and bus terminals;
   A plan by CBP to ensure border wait times at ports of entry do not exceed "the current average peak wait times" including the opening of additional lanes and augmentation of temporary duty officers;
   An operational and funding plan to establish a "brick and mortar Multiagency Coordination Center close to the border"; and
   An integrated interoperable communications plan
   [The text of the letter from the Senators and Congressmen follows below]
   December 21, 2007
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff
  Secretary
  Department of Homeland Security
  Washington, D.C. 20528
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   Earlier this year, the Department of Homeland Security, in accordance with Public Law 109-295, released the Report to Congress on the 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games. We are writing to follow up on the Report and to ask what steps have been taken by the Federal government to ensure the recommendations made by the Report are being implemented.
   As you know, the 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games in Vancouver and Whistler, British Columbia, Canada, are remarkable opportunities for both Canada and the Pacific Northwest. According to the report it is estimated that 1.8 million tickets will be sold for the event, and 250,000 visitors will attend. Additionally, the report anticipates that there will be 35,000 volunteers, nearly 7,000 athletes representing 80 countries, and 10,000 members of the media in attendance. Three billion people are expected to view this world event on television.
   With opportunities come challenges. As the Report indicates "the operational challenges facing regional, local, tribal, State, and Federal authorities\x85\x85are particularly complex due to the close proximity of the Olympic venues in Whistler, BC and Vancouver, BC to the U.S." We agree. A number of things will need to be accomplished, as indicated by the Report, before the Games begin in February, 2010.
   Due to the high profile of the Games, as well as the existence of the U.S. - Canada border the Federal government must play a lead role in the planning and preparation for the Games. The following is a list of recommendations included in the Report to Congress. We are interested in knowing what, if any, steps have been taken by the Federal government to implement these recommendations and what sources of funding exist to ensure implementation is successful.
   * The creation of an Integrated Federal Support Plan (page 9);
   * The creation of a Multi-Year Training and Exercise Plan and Schedule (page 12);
   * A plan by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to meet the anticipated impact of increased border flow at domestic airports, seaports, rail stations, and bus terminals including the expected displacement effect (19);
   * A plan by CBP to ensure border wait times at ports of entry do not exceed "the current average peak wait times" including the opening of additional lanes and augmentation of temporary duty officers (page 20);
   * An operational and funding plan to establish a "brick and mortar Multiagency Coordination Center close to the border" (page 25);
   * An "integrated interoperability plan to support the 2010 Olympic mission using SAFECOM Interoperability Continuum to develop a robust interoperability solution" (page 46);
   We also believe that an agreement to ensure expeditious cross-border transit for emergency personnel will be necessary.
   We offer our strong support for these recommendations. The 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Games are critically important for Canada and for the Pacific Northwest, and we should do what we can to ensure the Games are a success. The recommendations made by the Department of Homeland Security in its Report to Congress are important in this regard.
   Thank you. We look forward to your response.
   Sincerely,
   Maria Cantwell, Patty Murray, Norm Dicks, Adam Smith and Rick Larsen
 
 