SEN. CANTWELL'S WEEKLY UPDATE FOR WASHINGTON STATE, FEB. 21
  Standing Up to Stop the Bush Administration's BPA Rate Hike  
   Last week, I told you that President Bush's proposed federal budget could double power costs for Washington state electricity consumers by changing the way the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) has set its rates for more than 50 years. Currently, about 70 percent of the electricity used in Washington state is BPA power and, this plan could cost Northwest ratepayers more than $2 billion over the next four years. In response, I have launched an online petition drive to oppose the Administration's proposal. In its first week, more than 6,500 of you have signed on to voice your objection to this short-sighted plan that would harm our region's economy. If you haven't already added your name, I invite you to do so. You can access my "Stop the Rate Hike Now" online petition at http://cantwell.senate.gov. If you have already joined the petition, please share it with your friends and neighbors. Together, we can see that the Bush Administration gets our message loud and clear. Giving Police the Resources They Need to Stop Meth Crimes
   I'm also disappointed in the President's budget because it fails to provide local communities with the resources they need to fight the growing problem of methamphetamine use. On Sunday, police in Everett told me the same thing I continue to hear from local law enforcement agencies around the state: they're being inundated with meth crimes, and they need help. Earlier this year I asked the President to boost funding to fight meth to $100 million, but his budget allocates just $20 million to this effort. Local communities depend on annual earmarks for assistance in the fight against meth, since there's no formal federal program to backstop their efforts.
   That's why I introduced the Arrest Methamphetamine Act of 2005 in the Senate last week. My bill authorizes $100 million in anti-meth funding for the current federal fiscal year, and establishes a stable federal funding source to combat meth abuse through 2010. It alsos urge the President to negotiate a bilateral agreement with the Canadian government to curb the Northern Border meth precursor trafficking problem. We need to provide steady federal support for the law enforcement and first responders on the front lines of the meth epidemic, not shift the burden onto local communities. We also need a smart, coordinated approach that recognizes the international scope of the problem. I believe we must take these steps now, so that local cops have a leg up in this fight.
   Fighting Identity Theft, America's Fastest-Growing Crime
   The entire country received a harsh wake-up call last week about the scope of identity theft, the nation's fastest-growing crime. The FBI is helping Los Angeles police investigate an identity theft ring that may have stolen the credit reports, Social Security numbers, and other personal information of as many as 145,000 Americans. It's becoming clear that although the crime occurred in California, the victims include consumers nationwide. Experts estimate that ID theft costs Americans $750 million a year. That's why I worked to pass legislation enacted in 2003 that allows consumers and law enforcement officials to get expedited access to business records to help ID theft victims restore their credit. I have urged the FBI to cooperate with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), to make sure the victims of this fraud are given the assistance necessary to reclaim their identities and repair their damaged credit. I am following this situation closely, and will keep you updated. In the meantime, if you would like to learn more about ID theft, and what you can do to protect yourself, please visit my web site, at http://cantwell.senate.gov/ID/index.html 
   Opening Foreign Markets to Washington Farmers
   Agriculture is the biggest employer in Washington state. It's a cornerstone of our economy. That's why I'm committed to expanding our trading opportunities and opening new markets for Washington state's agricultural producers. In the past four years, we've had some successes. I've been honored to lead two trade missions to Cuba, which resulted in the first shipments of dried peas, lentils, apples and pears from Washington state to Cuba in four decades. Since Congress passed a law in 2000 to begin reopening Cuban markets to American agricultural products, United States farmers have made nearly $800 million in sales there. I think we can do even more to build on that success. I've introduced a bill to cut through the red tape to help Washington farmers. My bill would eliminate a number of current restrictions on trade with Cuba, which waste time and money and jeopardize the ability of U.S. producers to sign export deals. This trade relationship can only improve the lives of people on both ends of the cargo. Economic engagement - not isolation - will be the most effective method of promoting political reform in Cuba.
   For more information, please visit my web site: http://cantwell.senate.gov/
 
 