WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  THIS WEEK ON THE SENATE FLOOR: DECREASING AMERICAN DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
   This week the full Senate begins consideration of national energy legislation. I supported the legislation in the Energy Committee because it includes some important provisions for Washington state, such as protecting consumer interests against the greed of companies like Enron, and expanding federal support of biofuels so our farmers can produce a clean and affordable alternative to foreign oil. 
   On the Senate floor I will offer an amendment to the energy bill that will make it even better - for Washington state, and for America. In order to prevent the United States from becoming any more dependent on foreign oil imports, my amendment would set a national, 20-year goal to import 1.5 million barrels oil per day less in 2025 than we are doing today.
   In 1973, our nation only imported about 28 percent of its oil supply. But today, we are importing about 58 percent of our total supply - a figure that is expected to increase to 68 percent in 2025. As long as we remain dependent on oil as a primary fuel source, dependence on foreign imports will remain a fact of life. The U.S. sits on just 3 percent of the world's proven oil reserves, in stark contrast to the two-thirds located in the Persian Gulf region.
   Technology already exists to dramatically increase the productivity of the U.S. energy supply and replace imported oil. These include numerous efficiency technologies, oil extraction technologies that can pull more oil from existing U.S. oil fields, and the potential for American farmers to grow cleaner-burning biofuels to replace foreign oil.
   The price of oil could climb as high as $100 per barrel during some periods in the next 20-25 years. My amendment would reduce foreign imports equivalent to the amount of oil we currently get from Saudi Arabia. By setting a goal for energy independence, we will strategically combat foreign oil's stranglehold on the U.S. economy.
   PUSHING TO RENEW THE VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
   This weekend I met with survivors of domestic violence, local advocates, and law enforcement officers in Vancouver and Seattle to hear about the services available to victims of domestic violence.
   These programs are supported by landmark legislation first passed by Congress in 1994, the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). This important bill stiffened penalties for repeat domestic violence offenders, provides resources for battered women to get services they need, and funds local law enforcement training programs.
   Many great programs exist around the state to provide these services, but they are at risk of being eliminated if VAWA is not renewed before it expires at the end of this year. That is why last week I co-sponsored legislation to renew VAWA, so that so that services for survivors of domestic violence will continue to be available for them and their families.
   Over 51,000 domestic violence-related arrests were made in Washington state in 2003. While over 25,000 Washington state adults and children were served by programs funded by VAWA in 2001, almost 33,000 other victims were turned away because there were not enough resources to help them. These statistics explain the need to renew - and build upon - existing domestic violence support efforts.
   Domestic violence is a tragic and horrible act that happens everywhere. This is not just a problem for women, it's a problem for everyone, and we all need to work together to solve it. I'll keep you updated as the legislation to renew VAWA is considered by the Senate.
   STANDING UP FOR WASHINGTON STATE AEROSPACE WORKERS
   Washington state's aerospace industry is poised to compete with anyone in the world. Our workers are dedicated and well-trained, and in the new 787, Boeing has designed a product that promises to take the world by storm. In fact, recent news reports predict that for the first time in the last four years, Boeing appears likely to receive more new plane orders than its primary competitor, Airbus. This proves that American innovation in aerospace technology is alive and well, and that Washington state's aerospace professionals have plenty of work ahead during the next few years.
   Unfortunately, the international aerospace market is not a level playing field. The European Union continues to provide billions of dollars in subsidies to Airbus. One form of these subsidies from European governments allows Airbus to develop new planes without risking financial loss if the planes don't sell. We should all be so lucky.
   I believe these subsidies violate international trade rules regulated by the World Trade Organization, and I applaud the U.S. Trade Representative for bringing a case against the Europeans for continuing to provide these subsidies. Consumers around the world will win when there is true competition, not direct government financing.
   VISITING WASHINGTON, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, June 16, at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my web site at http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html .
   For more information, please visit my web site: http://cantwell.senate.gov http://cantwell.senate.gov/
   WASHINGTON AIRSPACE DESERVES PERMANENT PROTECTION FROM TERRORIST THREATS
   Washington state would largely benefit from the list of recommended military base closures and realignments released by the Pentagon last month. While some states will see multiple base closures and thousands of lost jobs, we may actually see a net gain of almost 800 civilian and military personnel.
   However, the Pentagon's list also contained a questionable plan that would move all fifteen F-15 fighters of the Portland-based 142nd Air National Guard fighter wing to New Jersey and Louisiana. These are the same jets that patrolled the Northwest skies for three days after the September 11th terrorist attacks. It's my fear that moving the F-15s from Portland will result in slower response times to the Northwest.
   In the midst of another attack on our homeland, fighters would have to quickly scramble from distant bases to Northwest skies, possibly compromising the security of densely-populated areas and other high value targets along America's west coast. The closest permanent fighter wing capable of responding to airborne security threats would be based almost 800 miles away, in Fresno, California.
   The Pentagon's plan overlooks the critical role these jets play in ensuring the security of the Pacific Northwest and our nation. Last week, along with the entire Washington state congressional delegation, I sent a letter urging the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission, which is currently reviewing the Pentagon's proposals, to reconsider the recommendation to move the F-15s.
   I followed up on that letter this past Saturday by touring the Portland Air National Guard base with the Commander of the Washington Air National Guard, Major General Frank Scoggins.
   We should not let our guard down when it comes to defending our citizens against terrorist attacks. As the BRAC process moves forward, I will continue to work with local leaders and the rest of the Washington congressional delegation to make sure our communities have the protection they need.
   FIGHTING FOR ENERGY SECURITY
   This week, the Senate continues consideration of comprehensive energy legislation. This bill contains some important measures that will help Washington state, including consumer protection against the greed of companies like Enron, and expanded federal support of biofuels so our farmers can produce a clean and affordable alternative to foreign oil.
   Unfortunately, an amendment I introduced last week to increase America's energy security was narrowly defeated in the Senate. Facing staunch opposition from President Bush and the Republican Senate leadership, we fell 4 votes short.
   In order to prevent the United States from becoming any more dependent on foreign oil imports, my amendment would have set a national, 20-year goal to import 1.5 million barrels oil per day less in 2025 than we import today. Analyses by multiple national security organizations and others have found it is possible to achieve this goal, combining greater production of home-grown biofuels to displace petroleum, growth in the market for next-generation technologies such as hybrid vehicles, and greater efficiencies in all sectors of our economy.
   During the Arab oil embargo of 1973, the U.S. was importing just 28 percent of our oil, but today we are importing 58 percent. That figure is projected to grow to 68 percent in the next 20 years, unless we take steps to tackle the problem head-on. Unfortunately, as our dependence on foreign oil grows, so does its stranglehold on the American economy. And in the coming decades, the U.S. is projected to compete with emerging economies in China and India for the same oil supplies, driving prices even higher than record-setting levels today.
   If the last generation of Americans was brave enough and accountable enough to put a man on the moon, this generation of Americans ought to bet on the ingenuity of American brain power to curb our growing dependence on foreign oil - which has cost the American economy some $3.6 trillion since 1970. I believe this is an issue of economic and national security. And while the Senate failed America by not raising the bar on energy independence last week, I will continue to fight for a common-sense energy policy to meet the needs of a 21st Century economy.
   FIGHTING TO SAVE EMERGENCY OIL SPILL CLEANUP FUNDS
   Last October, when a mystery oil spill spoiled Puget Sound's Dalco Passage, and the responsible party could not be immediately identified, the cleanup was completed with emergency funds from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. As it was, the spill affected hundreds of miles of sensitive shoreline in the Puget Sound, but had emergency cleanup funds not been available, the damage would have been much worse.
   We need to make sure that the same resources are there if, regrettably, there are additional spills in our state's beloved coastal waters. Unfortunately, the Coast Guard predicts that the Trust Fund will run out of money in 2009, unless action is taken.
   That's why I joined the leaders of the Senate's Commerce Committee to introduce legislation that will permanently ensure the availability of these funds and prevent future oil spills from ruining the economies and environments of our coastal communities.
   The oil spill fund is like an insurance policy for the Puget Sound. Without it, we have no safety net for our waters and surrounding wildlife. I'll keep you updated as my legislation is considered by the Senate.
   VISITING WASHINGTON, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I welcome the opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, June 23, at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my web site at http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html .
   For more information, please visit my web site: http://cantwell.senate.gov.
 
 