WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY REP. CANTWELL
  PROTECTING THE ARCTIC REFUGE, AND PROMOTING AN AGENDA FOR ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
   Last week I told you about an attempt to sneak language that would open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil companies through the Senate as part of the massive budget resolution. I led the fight against this budget sleight-of-hand by introducing an amendment to the budget resolution that would have blocked this manipulation of the rules, and forced the issue to be debated on its merits, not hidden by budget chicanery. Unfortunately, it was narrowly defeated by a vote of 49-51.  
   But I want you to know that the fight over drilling in the Arctic Refuge is far from over. We almost stopped this budget trickery on the floor, and now that the Energy Committee will consider this legislation, I'll use every tool at my disposal to stop drilling in the Arctic Refuge. I have long been opposed to opening this natural treasure to oil exploration for no more than a six month supply of oil that would take a decade or more to extract. This issue is of such importance that it should be debated on its merits, not hidden by budget chicanery.
   Most Americans agree that drilling in a wildlife refuge - to secure a six month supply of oil that won't even reach the market for nearly a decade - just isn't worth it. There are far better options on the table that rely on American ingenuity, strategic investment, and revitalizing existing sources of oil supply. I also believe this issue is about more than just protecting a unique and irreplaceable part of our country's natural heritage: it's about setting our national priorities for a secure and sustainable energy plan for the future. We can't drill our way to energy independence in the Arctic: we need a serious national strategy to reach this goal.
   We know what can be gained from a sound energy policy: a strong, vibrant economy led by the world's most technologically advanced workforce; a cleaner, healthier environment; reduced reliance on outdated energy sources; greater independence from foreign energy producers; and enhanced national security. But we must choose to make these goals a priority, and the take the necessary steps to make them a reality.
   DEFENDING SEATTLE'S FLEET OF COAST GUARD ICEBREAKERS
   Recently I was named Ranking Member (the most senior Democrat) on the Senate Fisheries and Coast Guard Subcommittee. This subcommittee works on a number of issues vital to Washington state, including commercial fishing, port security, maritime transportation and trade. In the Northwest, we recognize that environmental stewardship of our waterways and coastline and the strength of our economy are naturally intertwined. Washington has many diverse needs as a coastal state, since maritime trade fuels our economy and coastal waters are a key to our region's character and quality of life. My new position will help me better represent these issues and shape policies impacting the nation's coastal waters, and including salmon and orca recovery efforts.
   The panel also oversees the U.S. Coast Guard - a critical resource to our state's safety, security and environmental enforcement efforts. Washington state has thousands of miles of coastline that adjoin both rural and urban areas, is home to the second-largest shipping port in the nation, and operates nearly half of the car and passenger ferries in the U.S. The Coast Guard has a large presence in the Port of Seattle and uses the ports of Seattle and Tacoma as a base for many of its local and distant operations.
   On Thursday, I attended my first hearing of the subcommittee in my new role as Ranking Member, and asked Admiral Thomas Collins, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, about a Bush Administration proposal to shift budgetary control for its polar icebreakers from the Coast Guard to the National Science Foundation, with the Coast Guard maintaining "operations and maintenance" of the vessels. The Seattle-based fleet of icebreakers provides an irreplaceable service to our country. These are the only ships in the nation that can barrel through thick Arctic and Antarctic ice and deliver key supplies to our polar stations conducting critical climate change research. I'm concerned that maintenance for the icebreakers is already underfunded, and I'm concerned this proposal will further short-circuit their maintenance and operations. I'll use new my position to ensure that this important part of the Coast Guard fleet is protected.
   VISITING WASHINGTON, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the opportunity to meet you. On Thursday, April 7, at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my web site at
   http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html 
   For more information, please visit my web site:
  http://cantwell.senate.gov
 
 