SEN. CANTWELL BACKS BILL TO IMPROVE BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES OF SOLDIERS KILLED IN ACTION
  Wednesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined a new bipartisan effort to improve benefits for the spouses of military personnel killed while serving their country and make sure survivors receive the full federal benefits to which they are entitled. Under the current system, benefits are subtracted from retirement funds, leaving surviving spouses with less than they were promised. Cantwell first advocated changing this policy after hearing from Debbie Bridges, a Federal Way military widow and president of the local Gold Star Wives chapter.  
   "Military families should not have to worry about making ends meet during a time of tremendous loss," said Cantwell. "These families have sacrificed immeasurably, and we have a responsibility to stand by them and do as much for them as possible. They need to know our federal government will be there to help, and we owe it to them to fix the current system." 
   There are two main programs that provide benefits to military widows and widowers following the death of a spouse on active duty: the Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) program and the Survivors Benefit Plan (SBP). Under the present system, any payment received through DIC leads to a dollar-for-dollar reduction in SBP benefits. As a result, DIC does little to increase the actual benefits spouses receive. 
   Debbie Bridges contacted Cantwell after she had difficulties getting the benefits she was promised. In July 2006, Cantwell met with Bridges and other local military widows in Federal Way to talk about legislation to correct the situation Bridges and other widows face. 
   The Military Retiree Survivor Benefit Equity Act, introduced Tuesday by Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) and cosponsored by Cantwell, would end the policy of subtracting DIC payments from SBP benefits, ensuring that spouses receive full benefits from both programs. Cantwell backed similar legislation last year, which passed the Senate as part of the 2007 Defense Authorization bill. Following Cantwell's July meeting with Bridges, she sent a letter to the Conference Committee called to work out differences between House and Senate versions of the Defense Authorization bill asking them to preserve the section on survivor benefits. Unfortunately, the provision was not included in the final version of the legislation passed by Congress. 
   The Military Retiree Survivor Benefit Equity Act is supported by the Gold Star Wives and numerous veterans groups. The Gold Star Wives, founded in 1945, serves the survivors of service members who died while on active duty or from service-related disabilities.
 
 