SEN. CANTWELL, LAW ENFORCEMENT TARGET METH EPIDEMIC
  Thursday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) convened a community meeting with Sheriff Bill Mahoney, local leaders, educators, and law enforcement to hear firsthand about the recent meth trafficking increase in Cowlitz and Wahkiakum counties, which may be the result of police efforts in larger metropolitan areas driving drug dealers and meth manufacturers to more rural areas. At the meeting, Cantwell also discussed federal initiatives to help law enforcement in this fight. The president's most recent budget proposal undercuts federal support for local law enforcement, and Cantwell is working to reverse these cuts, boost anti-meth initiatives, and deliver better tools to first responders. 
   "With help from programs like Meth Hot Spots, our state has succeeded in reducing the number of local meth labs, but now we're seeing more out-of-state meth and more meth abuse," said Cantwell. "We have a responsibility to protect our communities and combat this new threat. With tougher penalties and better equipped, we can continue making a real difference. By listening to local law enforcement and delivering the resources they need, we can reduce violent crime and stop this highly addictive drug at the source. That means strengthening and utilizing every tool we have at our disposal, from education and prevention to enforcement and treatment."  
   In a letter sent Thursday, Cantwell also asked U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to investigate the possible links between gang activity, violent crime, and methamphetamine. 
   "Many communities throughout Washington state are experiencing an increase in criminal gang activity that seems correlated with ongoing problems with methamphetamine distribution and in some cases, the release of previous generations of gang members from prison," Cantwell wrote. "The federal government needs to study the problem and understand its scope so that federal, state, and local law enforcement can develop effective strategies that maximize inter-jurisdictional coordination and resources to combat the subsequent problems and links identified." 
   While the number of statewide meth lab seizures is down from 1,456 in 2001 to as few as 503 in 2005, meth abuse continues to rise, with as much as 75 percent of all meth now coming from out-of-state sources. At a time when communities nationwide need more resources to confront this problem, the president's budget proposal for fiscal year 2008 undercuts federal initiatives that deliver vital recourses to local law enforcement. These initiatives include the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which faces $509 million in cuts--an amount equivalent to 94 percent of the program's entire budget--and the Byrne/JAG and Meth Hot Spots programs, both of which receive no specific funding under the president's proposal. 
   The COPS program provides state and local law enforcement agencies with grants to hire additional community police officers and purchase new crime-fighting technology. Cantwell is working to reverse the president's proposed cuts, and joined Senator Joseph Biden (D-DE) last month in introducing bipartisan legislation to reinvigorate the program, improve the grants process, and authorize a total of $1.15 billion for COPS. Since the program's creation in 1994, Washington has received more than $192 million in COPS grants, allowing law enforcement agencies to hire more that 1,900 additional officers and purchase $22 million in new technology. 
   In January, Cantwell also joined Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in introducing bipartisan legislation to combat violent gangs, reduce gang-related crime, and cut gang membership. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act would establish new criminal gang offenses, strengthen punishments for existing crimes, identify and assist areas especially prone to gang violence, target at-risk youth for gang prevention initiatives, and improve the coordination of anti-gang efforts. The legislation would also provide more than $1 billion for anti-gang initiatives, and contains several provisions specifically related to drug trafficking by gangs. 
   Since taking office, Cantwell has worked tirelessly to promote meth awareness initiatives, increase funding for anti-meth programs, and move meth ingredients behind pharmacy counters. Last year, Cantwell worked with her colleagues to include the Combat Meth Act and other anti-meth measures in legislation to re-authorize the Patriot Act. The Combat Meth Act restricts the sale of products used to produce meth, provides funds to help those affected by meth use, and gives new tools to states, law enforcement, and prosecutors working to combat meth. Cantwell has worked to curb meth trafficking across the U.S.-Canada border, and plans to reintroduce her legislation to investigate the link between meth crimes and other criminal activity such as identity theft. Last year, she also joined Representative Brian Baird (D-WA) to create a National Meth Awareness Day, observed in November, and backed new legislation, signed into law in September, authorizing $40 million annually to help children affected by meth.
 
 