WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  HELPING MILITARY PERSONNEL GET THE EDUCATION THEY WERE PROMISED
   I'm calling on Congress to increase funding for the state programs that help veterans and active duty personnel take full advantage of their GI Bill benefits. Earlier this year, the president proposed a 30 percent cut in funds for these State Approving Agencies (SAAs). SAAs certify the quality and integrity of education, training, and apprenticeship programs used by veterans under the Montgomery GI Bill. They also provide information about GI Bill benefits, help veterans and active duty personnel select programs to enroll in, and assist military personnel in the transition back to civilian life. With the number of veterans enrolled in educational programs expected to increase during the coming years, it's imperative that we restore the funding that helps them take advantage of these valuable benefits.
   IMPROVING SAFETY FOR WILDLAND FIREFIGHTERS 
   Last week, I reintroduced my legislation to improve safety training for wildland firefighters. My bill would improve accountability by requiring federal firefighting agencies to report on the implementation and efficacy of safety and training programs, as well as the steps they're taking to make sure contract firefighters receive the same training as federal firefighters. A 2006 report found that one in three contract firefighters either did not meet national requirements or had inadequate training records. My bill would also require a system to track the money spent on firefighter training. Stronger safeguards and more effective training will save lives, and the federal government must do a better job making sure all wildland firefighters get the comprehensive training they need.
   KEEPING MINES OFF OUR PRISTINE FOREST LANDS
   I'm pressing the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to reconsider plans for a mine on the edge of Mt. St. Helens National Volcanic Monument. The BLM is moving forward with this mine over the loud objections of local residents, without completing an adequate environmental impact review, and with severe disregard for the environmental degradation this mine would bring. The mining company still doesn't have the permits it needs to begin mining, but the approval process has started. The Forest Service purchased this land northeast of Mt. St. Helens using Land and Water Conservation funds-a special category of money used to buy land for conservation and public recreation purposes. Now, this land, purchased for public use, might instead benefit a private mining company. A massive mine on this site would end multiple recreation opportunities, degrade roadless forest, and harm water quality in nearby rivers used by endangered salmon. We need to keep this kind of reckless development off our fragile public lands.
   TACKLING COAST GUARD FUNDING PROBLEMS
   At a Coast Guard hearing I chaired last week, I looked into the funding problems faced by the Coast Guard's Seattle-based icebreaker fleet. In recent years, the administration has given the entire allotment of money needed to run these three ships to the National Science Foundation (NSF)-the primary user of the icebreakers. Under the current arrangement, NSF controls the purse strings for these Coast Guard assets, which can leave the Coast Guard without the money it needs when NSF decides to neglect long-term repair or contract with other countries for icebreaking. The Coast Guard must still maintain its icebreakers, but often with insufficient funds. These arrangements with other countries can also cause additional problems, with a Russian icebreaker itself becoming stuck in ice last year while doing NSF work, requiring Coast Guard icebreakers to free it. The NSF also does not reimburse the Coast Guard for rescue work preformed by the ships during NSF missions. We shouldn't keep placing the Coast Guard at another agency's mercy. Shortchanging the Coast Guard just means we're forcing them to cut other programs-a dysfunctional funding system I intend to fix.
   WORKING TO IMPROVE MEDICARE PART D
   In my last Monday Memo, I told you about legislation I helped pass out of the Finance Committee that would let the government negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. Last Wednesday, Senate Republicans prevented the full Senate from considering this bill. Fifty-five senators, including six Republicans, supported a Democratic effort to consider this important legislation. However, bringing the bill to the floor required 60 votes. We owe it to America's seniors to improve the Medicare Prescription Drug Program, and that means acting on this legislation to let the federal government leverage its purchasing power to lower drug prices, and putting in place the strong transparency requirements needed to make sure we pass savings on to seniors. Standing in the way of commonsense reforms will only keep seniors from getting the affordable prices they were promised under this program. This is an issue I'll continue working on from my Finance Committee post during the months ahead.
 
 