SEN. CANTWELL, LAW ENFORCEMENT TARGET METH EPIDEMIC, GROWING GANG PROBLEM
  Friday, at a meeting she convened with County Executive Aaron Reardon, Sheriff Rick Bart, and other community leaders and law enforcement, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) called on Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to launch a formal investigation into possible connections between gangs and meth trafficking. Cantwell convened the community conversation to hear firsthand about recent gang activity and possible ties to Washington's ongoing meth epidemic. Pastor Paul Stoot, who works with at-risk youth, and Pat Slack of the Snohomish County Regional Drug Task Force also took part in the meeting at the Greater Trinity Christian Learning Academy.  
   "With help from programs like Meth Hot Spots, our state has succeeded in reducing the number of local meth labs, but now we're seeing more gang activity and more meth abuse," said Cantwell. "We need to look at the possibility that gangs may be involved in bringing meth into our communities. With the president proposing budget cuts to the very programs that support law enforcement in this fight, I'm calling on the U.S. Attorney General to investigate the link between gangs and meth trafficking and help us tackle this potential threat. We need to stand by our local law enforcement, and that means delivering the resources and tools to help them keep criminal gang members behind bars, reduce violent crime, and stop meth at the source." 
   In a letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, Cantwell is asking for an investigation into the possible links between gang activity, violent crime, and methamphetamine. 
   "Many communities throughout Washington state are experiencing an increase in criminal gang activity that seems correlated with ongoing problems with methamphetamine distribution and in some cases, the release of previous generations of gang members from prison," Cantwell wrote. "The federal government needs to study the problem and understand its scope so that federal, state, and local law enforcement can develop effective strategies that maximize inter-jurisdictional coordination and resources to combat the subsequent problems and links identified." 
   At Friday's meeting, Cantwell also discussed federal initiatives to help local law enforcement combat gangs and meth trafficking. The president's most recent budget proposal undercuts federal support for local law enforcement. Cantwell is working to reverse these cuts, toughen anti-gang laws, boost anti-meth initiatives, and deliver better tools to first responders. 
   The Snohomish County Regional Drug Task Force, led by Sheriff Rick Bart, is a prime example of how federal anti-meth programs have produced results. In 2003, the task force reported 95 encounters involving meth labs. With funding provided by the federal Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, and a focus on specific community needs, the task force succeeded in lowering meth lab encounters to 43 in 2005 and 14 in 2006. During fiscal year 2006, Snohomish County received $1.48 million in COPS funding. Statewide, lab seizures dropped from 1,456 in 2001 to 503 in 2005. But while the number of lab seizures is down, meth abuse continues to rise, with significant quantities of meth now coming from out-of-state sources, including gangs. In 2006, one in four Snohomish County arrestees tested positive for meth - five percent more than during 2002 and 2003. There have been 30 separate street gangs identified in Snohomish County, and they are responsible for the vast majority of local drug distribution. 
   At a time when communities nationwide need more resources to confront this problem, the president's budget proposal for fiscal year 2008 undercuts federal initiatives that deliver vital recourses to local law enforcement. The COPS program faces $509 million in cuts - a 94 percent funding decrease - and the Byrne/JAG and Meth Hot Spots programs both receive no specific funding under the president's proposal. 
   The COPS program provides state and local law enforcement agencies with grants to hire additional community police officers and purchase new crime-fighting technology. Cantwell is working to reverse the president's proposed cuts, and joined Senator Joseph Biden (D-DE) last month in introducing bipartisan legislation to reinvigorate the program, improve the grants process, and authorize a total of $1.15 billion for COPS. Since the program's creation in 1994, Washington has received more than $192 million in COPS grants, allowing law enforcement agencies to hire more that 1,900 additional officers and purchase $22 million in new technology. 
   In January, Cantwell also joined Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in introducing bipartisan legislation to combat violent gangs, reduce gang-related crime, and cut gang membership. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act would establish new criminal gang offenses, strengthen punishments for existing crimes, identify and assist areas especially prone to gang violence, target at-risk youth for gang prevention initiatives, and improve the coordination of anti-gang efforts. The legislation would also provide more than $1 billion for anti-gang initiatives, and contains several provisions specifically related to drug trafficking by gangs. 
   Since taking office, Cantwell has worked tirelessly to promote meth awareness initiatives, increase funding for anti-meth programs, and move meth ingredients behind pharmacy counters. Last year, Cantwell worked with her colleagues to include the Combat Meth Act and other anti-meth measures in legislation to re-authorize the Patriot Act. The Combat Meth Act restricts the sale of products used to produce meth, provides funds to help those affected by meth use, and gives new tools to states, law enforcement, and prosecutors working to combat meth. Cantwell has worked to curb meth trafficking across the U.S.-Canada border, and plans to reintroduce her legislation to investigate the link between meth crimes and other criminal activity such as identity theft. Last year, she also joined Representative Brian Baird (D-WA) to create a National Meth Awareness Day, observed in November, and backed new legislation, signed into law in September, authorizing $40 million annually to help children affected by meth.
 
 