SENATE COMMITTEE CLEARS SEN. CANTWELL'S WILDLAND FIREFIGHTER SAFETY BILL
  Wednesday, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee passed legislation introduced by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to improve accountability in wildland firefighter safety training programs. The legislation, which builds on Cantwell's work to improve safety after the tragic Thirtymile fire, would require a review of the current approach to make sure needed improvements are implemented. This marks the first time the committee has cleared Cantwell's legislation for consideration by the full Senate  
   "We have a responsibility to make sure improved firefighter safety and training is actually happening," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "Reviewing the current system, tracking who gets trained, and making sure we know where the training money goes will increase accountability, strengthen safety, and save lives. We need to make sure nobody's life is put at risk because they don't have the comprehensive training they need." 
   To improve the accountability of the federal agencies that administer safety and training programs, Cantwell's legislation would require the Secretaries of Interior and Agriculture to jointly submit a report on the implementation and efficacy of these programs. The report must describe steps federal firefighting agencies are taking to make sure contract firefighters receive the same training as federal firefighters. The legislation would also require a system to track the money spent on wildland firefighter safety and training. 
   Timothy Ingalsbee, Executive Director of Firefighters Union for Safety, Ethics, and Ecology said, "...a commitment to the best safety practices can reduce some of the risks that wildland firefighters face out on the fireline. Requiring federal fire management agencies to report to Congress on their safety training programs and field activities is an excellent means of improving accountability of the agencies towards giving firefighters the tools and training they need to be safe." 
   Casey Judd of the Federal Wildland Fire Service Association said, "We support [Cantwell's] position that the land management agencies must provide clear information to Congress as to their efforts to improve safety and costs associated with those efforts." 
   A 2006 report by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Inspector General found that the Forest Service did not have a procedure to verify the qualifications of many contract firefighters. The report found that roughly one in three firefighters sampled either did not meet national qualifications or that training records were inadequate. 
   Cantwell's bill is similar to legislation she introduced in 2004 during the 108th Congress and again in 2005 during the 109th Congress. Last May, the Energy and Natural Resources Committee held a hearing on the measure during which Cantwell questioned federal firefighting officials on wildland firefighter safety. The most recent version of the legislation would apply to wildfire suppression and prescribed burning as well as more traditional firefighting activities. 
   In 2001, four forest firefighters lost their lives fighting the Thirtymile Fire north of Winthrop. An investigation revealed that Forest Service safety rules were violated and the deaths could have been prevented. Cantwell worked to help create a cultural shift within the Forest Service to increase accountability and improve training. She also worked with Representative Doc Hastings (R-WA) to pass legislation, signed in July 2002, that requires the USDA Inspector General, not just the Forest Service, to investigate any firefighter deaths.
 
 