SEN. CANTWELL RENEWS PURSUIT OF ?WILD AND SCENIC RIVER' STATUS FOR UPPER WHITE SALMON
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today continued her push to add a 20-mile stretch of the upper White Salmon River and one of its tributaries to the National Wild and Scenic River System. On the first day of the 109 th Congress for Senators to introduce new legislation, Cantwell filed the Upper White Salmon Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, identical to the bill she successfully steered to Senate passage last year.  
   "World-class recreation, habitat preservation and job creation are three important goals that coexist along this 20-mile stretch of river. We came within an inch of finalizing this protection last year, so I expect quick Senate action this year," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, which has jurisdiction over the legislation. 
   Cantwell's bill would protect portions of the upper White Salmon River and Cascade Creek-all located within the Gifford Pinchot National Forest . The Senate passed Cantwell's upper White Salmon legislation last October, only to have the House of Representatives adjourn for the year before it could take action on the measure. Nevertheless, the Bush Administration has previously voiced its support for the bill. Rep. Brian Baird (D-WA) has also introduced companion legislation (HR 38) in the House of Representatives. 
   Cantwell will jump-start the effort to secure "wild and scenic" designation for this stretch of river by pushing for prompt consideration in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. The bill is expected to be on the Committee's agenda in early February, when it meets for its first legislative mark-up of the year. 
   Cantwell originally announced the introduction of her bill in August 2003 during a press conference at the Vancouver headquarters of the United States Forest Service. In a show of support, several local business leaders joined her at the announcement, including Dean Hostetter, the owner of "The Farm" Bed & Breakfast in Trout Lake . 
   Reacting to news of Cantwell's continued efforts to protect the river, Hostetter renewed his support for Cantwell's bill. 
   "Thanks to Senator Cantwell for introducing the Upper White Salmon Wild & Scenic Rivers Act," Hostetter said. "Our Bed & Breakfast business gains significantly from recreational and scenic opportunities which guests can enjoy. Our local community also has shown strong support for this project. This will certainly benefit our region's economy too." 
   At an Energy Committee hearing on the bill last year, Cantwell showed her colleagues a petition supporting the bill that was signed by 102 local citizens, 30 of whom represent businesses in the area. 
   The local petition read, "This is a magnificent gem of a river, with waters that plunge through rugged canyons and provide many benefits for small towns on the way - organic herb and dairy farms; river rafting; kayaking; bed and breakfast enterprises; tourism; hiking; fishing; camping; wildflower viewing; sales of gas and food. These are only a few of the businesses and recreational activities that provide livelihoods for residents of our rural region."
 
 