MILLIONS IN SEN. CANTWELL-REQUESTED FUNDING FOR NORTHWEST DEFENSE INITIATIVES, JOBS APPROVED
  Monday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) announced $31 million she secured for local defense projects throughout the state that will advance our national defense and promote Northwest jobs. The funding secured by Cantwell was included in the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations Act, approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee last week. 
   "These projects support the innovation needed to help our men and women in uniform complete their mission more efficiently and safely," said Cantwell. "Cutting-edge technologies developed here in the Pacific Northwest are playing a critical role in enhancing security throughout our region and world. We are profoundly grateful to the men and women who serve our nation and are proud of the technologies being developed here in Washington state to support those who serve so bravely."  
   The U.S. Senate is expected to approve funding for these Northwest projects in the upcoming months. Once approved, a conference committee will work out differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation. The final legislation will then go to both the House and Senate for final approval. 
   Washington state projects slated to receive funding include: 
   Bremerton $4 Million for Dimension 4 Project Title: Intelligent Graphic Interface for SSN and SSBN Submarines 
   This funding will allow for the implementation of a new digitized graphic database for the U.S. Navy's submarine fleet. This new graphic-based system, developed by Dimension 4, will improve reliability, reduce logistics, and lower operating costs for the U.S. submarine fleet. 
   Bothell $3 Million for the Aculight Corporation Project Title: Mid-Infrared Semiconductor Laser Technology for Aircraft Protection 
   The proliferation of man-portable surface-to-air missiles represents a threat to military personnel and assets in hostile regions of the world. This funding will help develop a semiconductor laser, which will help facilitate early deployment of a more capable laser-based missile jamming system, reducing acquisition costs and increasing life-span. 
   Pullman $2 Million for Washington State University 
   Project Title: Nanoscale Microelectronic Circuit Technology Development for Military Applications This WSU initiative provides the Air Force with nanoscale microelectronics research that will allow a number of other Defense Department technologies to function effectively and efficiently. In addition to military applications, this dual-use research will have commercial applicability by advancing technologies used in consumer electronics. This research will also enhance learning opportunities for WSU students by providing them with the chance to develop cutting-edge defense and commercial electronics. 
   Poulsbo $3 Million for Paladin Data Systems Project Title: Naval Shipyard Electronic Procedure and Training Tracking System 
   This funding will allow for the implementation of a more efficient maintenance, training, and processing system. This will improve shipyard efficiency through the automation of floor procedures, real-time data collection, and real-time updates on worker qualifications. 
   Monroe $2 Million for Research International Project Title: Field Rapid Assay Biological System 
   This funding will continue development, under the guidance of the Marine Corps, of a portable, responsive, and economical field testing device for a variety of biological agents that could be employed as weapons. Both extremely precise and very sensitive, the device employs a patent-pending centrifugal concentration system. Spin-offs of this technology can also be used to monitor outbreaks of naturally occurring biological hazards like avian flu. 
   Portland Metro Area $5 Million for Silver Eagle Manufacturing, Project Title: Future Medical Shelter System (FMSS) 
   This funding will be used for a low-rate initial production of a mobile field hospital called the 21st Century Military Hospital System (CMHS), as well as a new, smaller shelter solution, called the Mobile Single Pallet Unit (MSPU). This funding will support the construction of an estimated five MSPUs and additional CMHS units. These will be made available to the Army, Air Force, and Navy for evaluation under field conditions. About one-third of Silver Eagle's 250 employees live in Washington State. 
   Puget Sound $2 Million for the National Center for Manufacturing Sciences Project Title: Advanced Technology to Reduce Vulnerability of Military Installations 
   The environmental factors imposed by locations on and in Puget Sound, in addition to the close proximity of civilian communities and commerce, increase the challenges of implementing effective security technology. Existing technologies and emerging technology developments can be the basis for lower cost and more effective solutions not immediately accessible or visible to military planners. This program accelerates improvements in the security of the people and critical defense assets in Navy Region Northwest by adapting, developing, integrating, validating, piloting and accelerating the use of advanced technology solutions. NCMS, a Department of Defense independent 501c3, will work to accomplish these goals. 
   Seattle $1 Million for Cascade Designs, Inc. Project Title: Modular Military Steel Traction Combat Snowshoe for U.S. Marine Corps 
   The Denali Snowshoe currently used by special forces teams have patented steel traction bars with integrated saber teeth and crampons that provide the superior traction. At half the size and weight of current snowshoes, Denali Snowshoes are far more portable than other options. The snowshoes will be manufactured at Cascade Designs in Seattle-supporting the last domestic producer of snowshoes while ensuring that the Marines have the equipment needed for winter combat operations. 
   Wapato/Yakima Area $1 Million for Amtech, Project Title: Advanced Lightweight Composite Armor for Tactical Wheeled Vehicles 
   The project will help meet requirements for higher armor levels for military vehicles with lighter weight solutions to improve vehicle performance and maintainability. Funding will support engineering and design to increase ballistic protection, ease field repair and damage assessment, and integrate the armor into add-on armor kits and various military vehicles. 
   Pierce County $6 Million for Rockwell Collins Defense Advanced GPS Receiver (DAGR) / Situational Data Advisor (SDA) 
   This funding will help support soldiers participating in military operations where orders, intelligence, and other combat information is distributed in digital form. The DAGR is a lightweight GPS receiver that allows a soldier to download and display maps for improved battlefield awareness. The SDA is interoperable with current equipment and allows for the integration of digital maps, and position locations of the soldier, other friendly units and known enemies. Integrating all of these aspects provides the soldier with enhanced tactical awareness-improving safety and effectiveness on the battlefield. Components for these systems are manufactured in Pierce County. 
   Redmond $2 Million for Microvision, Inc. Project Title: Vehicle Information Manager Display for Drivers (VIMD) 
   The Vehicle Information Manager Display is needed to provide a seamless, body-worn interface for the driver of a military vehicle. With this prototype, drivers will be able to perform two-way exchange of data by using state of the art wireless technology. Using this system, drivers of will be able to receive vehicle status and tactical updates whether mounted or dismounted near the vehicle.
 
 