WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  PRESIDENT CONTINUES TO REFUSE TO IMPROVE CHILDREN'S HEALTH PLAN
  Last week, President Bush called for a temporary extension of the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) instead of signing Congress' bipartisan legislation to provide health care coverage to 3 million uninsured children. The president's insistence on temporarily extending CHIP at current funding levels, rather than letting the Congress do its job, means that almost a million children will lose health care coverage and an additional 3 million children will continue to be uninsured. This is unacceptable--CHIP provides a crucial backstop to help families who can't meet the cost of rising premiums. It helps prevent the number of uninsured children from growing and gives our kids the right start in life. President Bush has already issued a veto threat on the CHIP legislation passed by the Senate and House, but I believe we need to renew and improve this successful program. I hope the president will put aside political grandstanding and sign it without delay, so America's children can have a better tomorrow.
   ANTI-GANG LEGISLATION FINALLY PASSES THE SENATE
  On Friday the Senate passed comprehensive, bipartisan legislation to combat violent gangs, reduce gang-related crime, and cut gang membership. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act would authorize more than $1 billion over the next five years to identify and assist areas especially prone to gang violence, target at-risk youth for gang intervention and prevention initiatives, improve the coordination of anti-gang efforts, and deliver more resources to law enforcement agencies. It would also establish new criminal gang offenses and strengthen punishment for existing crimes. This bill is long overdue and will address a growing problem in Washington state and in communities across the nation. Law enforcement officers need more help to keep gang violence off the streets. Hopefully the House will act quickly to get this critical bill to the president's desk so our local law enforcement can have the necessary tools to fight rising violence and crime.
   STOPPING MEDICARE RATE CUTS THAT HURT WASHINGTONIANS
   Seniors, veterans and the disabled who rely on Medicare for health care access in Washington state are having a harder time finding a doctor who will accept Medicare coverage. That's why I've called on Congress to overturn scheduled cuts in reimbursements to doctors who treat Medicare patients. In a letter to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, I asked that the reimbursement rate decrease be addressed before the end of the year. In Washington state, these cuts will affect over 700,000 Medicare patients, and over 300,000 veterans currently receiving coverage under TRICARE. Last year, I worked to overturn a scheduled 5.1 percent cut, and made clear my opposition to these cuts going forward. Two years ago, I introduced the Affordable Access to Medicare Providers Act to block cuts and actually increase reimbursement rates doctors receive for caring for Medicare patients and I will continue working to preserve access to care for the millions of seniors, veterans, and disabled individuals who depend on it. 
   KEEPING COLLABORATIVE PROCESS ON TRACK FOR NEW SALMON PROTECTION PLAN 
   Last week, I asked the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee to remove a controversial provision that would threaten an ongoing process to protect the salmon and steelhead populations living in the Columbia and Snake Rivers under the Endangered Species Act. In a letter, I reminded the Committee that by court order, the federal government has been working for two years with state and tribal governments to complete a new environmental proposal to protect these fish in compliance with Environmental Species Act regulations. It is very important that we get the salmon recovery plan right. The court-ordered collaborative process has been underway to ensure that the plan put in place not only complies with ESA, but reflects an important regional dialogue. We need to ensure that this independent process stays on track. On October31st, the federal government will submit a draft outline of its plan to operate federal dams while preserving salmon populations. The language I am seeking to remove would have reinstated the invalidated 2005 federal government proposal and terminated ongoing cooperative efforts.
 
 