SEN. CANTWELL HONORED FOR WORK TO BOLSTER NANOTECHNOLOGY INNOVATION IN WASHINGTON STATE
  Tuesday morning in Vancouver at the Micro-Nano Breakthrough Conference, the Nanobusiness Alliance honored Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) for her work on behalf of Washington state's nanotechnology industry. Cantwell received an Economic Development Leadership Award for her work to promote investments in the field of nanotechnology.  
   "I am proud of this special honor from the Nanobusiness Alliance," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Commerce and Small Business Committees. "Nanotechnology is the next great frontier in science and engineering, and the groundbreaking work in nanotechnology going on right here in the Northwest makes our region stand out as a leader in technological advancement. Nanotechnology can give our economy a competitive edge in fields like cancer care, aerospace, and energy. This means less expensive health care, improved electronics, more efficient transportation, and, above all, more high-skill jobs here in the Northwest." 
   To spur innovation, Cantwell has long championed efforts to make the Research and Development Tax Credit permanent, and secured funding to launch and continue the Washington Technology Center's Nanotechnology Initiative, begun in 2004. The initiative is now working to identify and encourage economic development opportunities in micro and nanotechnology in Washington state. 
   In 2005, Cantwell joined Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR), who was also honored by the Nanobusiness Alliance Tuesday, to sponsor the Nanoscience to Commercialization Institutes Act. This legislation would improve the benefits of nanotechnology to consumers by accelerating the commercialization of nano and micro research and development through the creation of up to eight Nanoscience to Commercialization Institutes throughout the United States. Cantwell also cosponsored the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act, which was signed into law in December 2003 and authorized substantial funding for nanoscale science and technology research and development programs at several federal agencies. 
   Cantwell is the co-chair of the High Tech Working Group, a forum for leaders from industry, academia, and advocacy organizations to share ideas on how to promote continued innovation and a healthy environment for technology growth and job creation. The group's goals include strengthening U.S. competitiveness and innovation and fostering a business climate favorable to innovation.
 
 