COMMITTEE CLEARS SEN. CANTWELL MEASURE TO INVESTIGATE LINK BETWEEN IDENTITY THEFT, METH
  The Senate Commerce Committee has approved a proposal introduced by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to conduct a national study of the link between identity theft and meth. Cantwell has heard about this link from law enforcement officers throughout the state, but no national data exists on this combination of crimes, and there is no comprehensive strategy to deal with the connection.  
   "Getting our law enforcement more information about the link between identity theft and meth is long overdue," said Cantwell. "This study will focus attention on these two related crimes, and build the case for more resources to fight them. It will aid local law enforcement in developing far-reaching solutions to the problem of meth addicts engaging in widespread identity theft." 
   The Meth-ID theft study was included in the Identity Theft Protection Act, passed by the Commerce Committee Wednesday afternoon. The bill, now ready for consideration by the full Senate, requires the Federal Trade Commission in partnership with the Justice Department to conduct the study, including a statistical analysis of the correlation between meth and identity theft crimes, within nine months of the legislation's enactment. 
   The overall Identity Theft Protection Act addresses the stream of recent security breaches that potentially put sensitive personal information in the hands of criminals. It also confronts the current lack of tools consumers can use to protect themselves against identity theft. The bill would require better notification in the wake of a breach, let consumers place a freeze on their credit report, and improve security at organizations that collect sensitive personal information. 
   In 2004, the Spokane County Sheriff found a meth connection in each of the area's identity theft crimes. That same year, Pierce County officials reported that between 80 to 90 percent of the county's identity theft defendants had either a pending or prior meth charge. 
   Cantwell has long fought to curb identity theft and help victims of this fast-growing crime. In 2003, legislation she sponsored to fight identity theft was signed into law as part of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act. Cantwell's legislation helps identity theft victims protect their credit rating from further damage by requiring credit reporting agencies to block information on fraudulent transactions resulting from identity theft. Cantwell's legislation created a standardized process for people to establish themselves as victims of identity theft, and allows law enforcement to act as the victim's agent in obtaining business records. The law also requires businesses to provide all relevant records and documents to victims. 
   Cantwell has worked tirelessly to promote meth awareness initiatives, increase funding for anti-meth programs, curb meth trafficking across the U.S.-Canada border, and move meth ingredients behind pharmacy counters. Last year, Cantwell also joined Representative Brian Baird (D-WA) to create a National Meth Awareness Day, observed in November, and backed new legislation, signed into law in September, authorizing $40 million annually to help children affected by meth. In February, Cantwell toured the state for a series of community meetings with local law enforcement to hear firsthand about meth issues and look at how the federal government can help curb the manufacture, trafficking, sale, and use of meth.
 
 