SEN. CANTWELL, WASHINGTON STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL MCKENNA STRESS NEED FOR ANTI-GANG LEGISLATION AT STATE, FEDERAL LEVEL
  Monday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) convened a community meeting with Washington State Attorney General Rob McKenna, Seattle Police Chief Gil Kerlikowske, federal law enforcement representatives, and social service providers to hear firsthand about the region's recent rise in gang violence. Last month, Cantwell introduced comprehensive new anti-gang legislation to provide additional tools to law enforcement officers and prosecutors. At Monday's meeting, Cantwell also discussed other federal initiatives to help local law enforcement combat gangs and gang-related crime. The president's most recent budget proposal undercuts federal support for local law enforcement. Cantwell is working to reverse these cuts and deliver better tools to first responders.  
   "Gang membership, gang crime, and gang violence is surging in our state," said Cantwell. "Our local law enforcement is doing great work meeting this threat head on, but they need federal support. That means delivering the resources and tools to help them reduce violent crime and keep criminal gang members behind bars. That also means stopping deep budget cuts that would pull resources out from under our local communities because we cannot afford to ignore gang-related crime or its impact on our kids, our families, our schools, and our communities. We need to stand by our local law enforcement and deliver the resources and tools to help them in this fight." 
   In January, Cantwell joined Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in introducing bipartisan legislation to combat violent gangs, reduce gang-related crime, and cut gang membership. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act would establish new criminal gang offenses, strengthen punishments for existing crimes, identify and assist areas especially prone to gang violence, target at-risk youth for gang prevention initiatives, and improve the coordination of anti-gang efforts. The bill would also provide more than $1 billion for anti-gang initiatives, and contains several measures intended to keep repeat gang criminals and violent gang members behind bars. 
   Violent crime in Seattle rose during 2005 and 2006, mirroring the first nationwide increase in the number of murders and aggravated assaults in 15 years. Possible gang involvement in the distribution and sale of drugs may also be contributing to rising crime across the region. In a letter sent last week to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, Cantwell asked for an investigation into the possible links between gang activity, violent crime, and methamphetamine. With more information on this connection, Cantwell hopes federal, state, and local law enforcement can develop more effective strategies to combat both gangs and drugs. 
   At a time when communities nationwide need more resources to confront gang activity and gang-related crime, the president's budget proposal for fiscal year 2008 undercuts federal initiatives that deliver vital recourses to local law enforcement. The Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program faces $509 million in cuts--a 94 percent funding decrease. The Byrne/Justice Assistant Grant (JAG) program receives no specific funding under the president's proposal. 
   Byrne/JAG funds are distributed to states based on population and the level of recent violent crime in each state. Grants under the program aid law enforcement, courts and prosecutors, prevention and education programs, corrections and drug treatment, and planning and technology initiatives. During fiscal year 2006, King County and the City of Seattle received a total of $478,815 in Byrne/JAG grants. Cantwell has worked consistently to reverse years of cuts to the program and fund it at the full authorized level. 
   The COPS program provides state and local law enforcement agencies with grants to hire additional community police officers and purchase new crime-fighting technology. Cantwell is working to reverse the president's proposed cuts, and joined Senator Joseph Biden (D-DE) last month in introducing bipartisan legislation to reinvigorate the program, improve the grants process, and authorize a total of $1.15 billion for COPS. Since the program's creation in 1994, Washington has received more than $192 million in COPS grants, allowing law enforcement agencies to hire more that 1,900 additional officers and purchase $22 million in new technology. During fiscal year 2006, King County received $296,168 in COPS program funding, while the City of Seattle received $98,723.
 
 