AS FIRE RAGES NEAR CLE ELUM, SEN. CANTWELL CALLS FOR MORE FUNDS FOR FIREFIGHTERS
  Today Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) announced her support for a bill to increase funding for Washington state's firefighters - allowing them to battle wildland fires while also improving local response times. Sen. Cantwell's announcement comes as a firefighters battle a 400-acre wildfire between Cle Elum and Ellensburg. The legislation could bring Washington state fire departments more than $20 million next year alone.  
   "Our firefighters are the heroes of the summertime - battling wildland fires that destroy not only our forests, but also our homes," Cantwell said. "Continuing - and increasing - available funds for fire departments will ensure that they can better help the communities they serve, while also receiving newer, safer equipment and training." 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Act of 2004 (S.2411) has bipartisan support in the Senate, with 40 Senators joining Cantwell as co-sponsors. The bill reauthorizes the Firefighter Investment and Response (FIRE) Act, which expires this year. Washington state fire departments, which would apply individually to the federal government for the grant funds, could see an increase on the $18.8 million they received from the FIRE Act during fiscal year 2003. 
   Funds in 2004, which are still being distributed, will provide $750 million nationwide. The Assistance to Firefighters Act of 2004 will increase the funding by $150 million for 2005, to $900 million. That number will increase to $950 million in 2006, and provide $1 billion annually from 2007 to 2010. 
   The legislation does more than just increase funding over 2004. It also increases funding caps on grants to individual departments, reduces the mandatory matching funds that small departments must spend in order to receive the funding, and allows non-profit emergency medical service (EMS) providers not associated with fire departments to compete for the funds. The bill will also provide funds for firefighter safety research and fire safety education programs for children and the elderly. 
   Cantwell continues to be an active supporter of Washington state's firefighters. Last October the Senate passed Cantwell's amendment to the Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HR 1904) that called for firefighter safety training for contract firefighters and increased congressional oversight of firefighter safety. Unfortunately, this amendment was stripped from the final bill during the conference committee. 
   Cantwell is also a co-sponsor of the Rural Fire Department Equipment Priority Act (S. 641) that will increase rural communities' access to expensive firefighting equipment that many fire departments cannot afford at full cost.
 
 