SENATE MOVES CLOSER TO MAKING LOWER COLUMBIA RIVER NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Wednesday, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) praised the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee approval of a bipartisan bill that would establish a National Heritage Area for land in Pacific, Wahkiakum, Clatsop, and Columbia counties along the lower Columbia River. If enacted, this legislation would direct the National Park Service to conduct a study on the proposed area--the first step Congress must take to establish a National Heritage Area. 
   Cantwell is an original cosponsor of the Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area Study Act (S. 257), which was introduced by Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR) in January. Congressman Brian Baird (D-WA) introduced companion legislation in the House.
   "I believe it is important to establish a Columbia-Pacific National Heritage Area for the educational and historical benefit of current and future generations," said Cantwell. "The Lower Columbia River has played an instrumental role in the history and development of the Pacific Northwest, from the Lewis and Clark expedition to the Hudson's Bay Company trading post. Establishing a heritage area along the Columbia River would allow area residents, visitors, and businesses to learn more about and celebrate these important pieces of Northwest history."
   Baird said, "For years, we have been working to recognize the historic and cultural significance of areas surrounding the mouth of the Columbia River. A National Heritage Area designation will help promote tourism throughout the region, create jobs, and strengthen our local economy."
   The study will examine the historic, cultural, educational, and recreation resources that could be enhanced through a National Heritage Area designation. Once the study is complete, Congress will introduce new legislation to officially designate the land as a National Heritage Area. After the designation passes the House and Senate and is signed into law, regional stakeholders must develop a management plan for the area. The Secretary of the Interior will then approve the management plan, making the National Heritage Area eligible for funding.
   There are 37 national heritage areas designated across 27 states. Over 100 organizations, local businesses, leaders and members of the communities support this legislation.
 
 