WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  PASSING A FISCALLY RESPONSIBLE BUDGET
   Late last week, with my support, the Senate passed a fiscally responsible budget that will eliminate the budget deficit by 2012. The Senate plan, for the first time in six years, also reinstates rules that push our government to live within its means. These simple rules, which expired in 2002, require that any new spending or tax cuts either be paid for or pass by at least 60 votes. Having this extra check in place will help make sure Congress balances its budget just like millions of American families. Ending the policy of passing our debt on to our children and grandchildren is critical to ensuring a better future for our country, and gives us the foundation we need to reach long-term solutions to the problems we face.  
   The Senate budget resolution also includes a provision laying the groundwork for a permanent state sales tax deduction. Including the extension of this deduction in the budget blueprint is a clear signal that this legislation will be a priority for Congress this year. Currently, the deduction is set to expire at the end of the 2007 tax year. The Senate-passed provision ensures that legislation to make the deduction permanent will not add to the federal deficit. The budget blueprint also includes significant funding for children's health insurance, veterans health care, first responders, and education, and ends a proposal by the president to charge veterans higher out-of-pocket costs for medical care. 
   KEEPING FEDERAL PROSECUTORS FREE FROM POLITICAL INFLUENCE
   On Tuesday, the Senate passed legislation to reverse a Patriot Act provision allowing the administration to appoint federal prosecutors to indefinite terms, and also remove them, without Senate approval. I cosponsored this legislation, which passed on a 94 to 2 vote. The House must still act on the bill. Our U.S. attorneys must be independent and objective and the prosecution of federal crimes must be kept free of political influence. As more facts come to light in the firings of eight U.S. Attorneys, we need to see what Congressional investigations uncover. Administration officials should cooperate fully or face subpoenas, and it might also be necessary to appoint a Special Counsel to prosecute any crimes that may have been committed. No one is above the law in our country.
   DEMANDING FAIRNESS FOR MILITARY WIDOWS
   I'm working with Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) to make sure the spouses of military personnel killed while serving their country receive the full federal benefits they were promised. Under the current system, benefits for military widows and widowers are subtracted from their retirement funds, leaving surviving spouses with less than they planned for. I first advocated changing this policy last year after I heard from and met with local military widows. Military families should not have to worry about making ends meet during a time of tremendous loss. These families have sacrificed immeasurably, and we have a responsibility to stand by them and fix the current system.
   IMPROVING OCEAN OBSERVING AND MONITORING
   Increasing our understanding of the oceans and coasts is becoming more and more important, especially in the face of global climate change. As chair of the Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard Subcommittee, I've joined Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), the panel's top Republican, in sponsoring legislation to bolster ocean observing and monitoring. This bill will help us improve tsunami warnings, better understand the impacts of climate change, gain a greater knowledge of ocean ecosystems, track ocean conditions that affect human health, and support maritime operations. Right now, we lack a nationally coordinated ocean observing system. Effective ocean monitoring aids fishermen and mariners who rely on accurate forecasts for safety and navigation, and helps scientists gain valuable insight into changing ocean conditions. We're already seeing the effects of climate change on our marine environment off the coast of Washington state, as atmospheric CO2, which is driving climate change, increases ocean acidification and threatens food chains. A true nationally coordinated ocean observing system could supply the information we need to solve many of our ocean and coastal management problems.
 
 