SEN. CANTWELL CALLS FOR HEARING ON FUTURE STRUCTURE OF PACIFIC NORTHWEST NATIONAL LABORATORY
  Friday, in response to the Department of Energy's (DOE) announcement regarding the future contract for operation of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) located in Richland, Washington, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) called for hearings on DOE's proposed change to PNNL's structure. Cantwell wrote to Senate Energy Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Ranking Member Pete Domenici (R-NM) to ask them to hold a hearing on the topic. 
  "The Tri-Cities have long served as a vibrant technology hub for not just Washington state, but for the entire Pacific Northwest," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "I'm concerned about any move that would remove important tools for scientific research and private development. The Tri-Cities must continue to have a strong relationship with the federal laboratories to promote economic development and job creation. I hope a Senate hearing will help preserve that important relationship." 
  [The text of Cantwell's letter to Chairman Bingaman and Ranking Member Domenici follows below]
  October 26, 2007
  The Honorable Jeff Bingaman 
  Chairman 
  Senate Committee on Energy and
   Natural Resources 
  Dirksen Senate Office Building 364 
  364
  Washington, DC 20510-6150
   The Honorable Pete V. Domenici 
  Ranking Member
  Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
  Dirksen Senate Office Building 
  Washington, DC 20510-6150
   Dear Chairman Bingaman and Ranking Member Domenici:
  As you know, our federal laboratories are one of our nation's greatest scientific resources. Federal laboratories serve many roles including facilitating technology and scientific development while fostering economic development in surrounding regions.
  This week, the Department of Energy issued its draft Request for Proposals for the future contract for operation of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) located in Richland, Washington. PNNL is a world-class multi-program national laboratory, whose mission is to deliver science-based solutions for the nation's energy, environmental, and security needs.
  In this context, I write to respectfully request a hearing to examine the relationship between the Department of Energy and our federal laboratories as it relates to scientific research, technology transfer, and private sector development.
  In my home state of Washington, PNNL has helped foster vibrant private sector investment and economic vitality in the region. As we consider the future of our federal laboratories, we should examine existing and new business models to ensure fair and open competition and to best serve the communities where they are located.
  Thank you very much for your consideration.
  Sincerely,
  Maria Cantwell
  United States Senator.
 
 