DESPITE MAJORITY SUPPORT, REPUBLICANS BLOCK SEN. CANTWELL EFFORT TO HELP FAMILIES HEAT THEIR HOMES THIS WINTER
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) pledged to fight again to help more families pay their heating bills after the U.S. Senate rejected an amendment on Wednesday to add $2.9 billion in much needed funding to an emergency federal heating assistance program. This is the second time this month that fewer than 50 Senators have stopped the Senate from fulfilling its commitment to help the elderly, low-income families, and disabled individuals pay their heating bills this winter. Fifty-four Senators voted in favor of the measure, six short of the supermajority needed.  
   "A majority of the Senate has spoken, but Republicans continue to use tricks to block these vital funds," said Cantwell. "It is irresponsible of Congress to leave these families out in the cold, and we will not rest until this gets passed. Winter is fast approaching and too many families still don't know if help will be available to them when they struggle to cover rising heating bills." 
   With consumers expected to spend 32 percent more for heating oil, 48 percent more for natural gas, and 30 percent more for propane, the burden could financially wipe out many families and elderly individuals this winter unless Congress approves additional funds. Cantwell's amendment would have helped meet the growing need by adding $2.9 billion to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) through the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies (Labor-HHS) appropriations bill. When added to regular and contingency funds already included in the Labor-HHS bill, the $2.9 billion would have brought LIHEAP funding up the authorized amount of $5.1 billion. 
   Most families in Washington state and throughout the country can start applying for home heating assistance this November. However, only a limited number of households will receive assistance if the Senate fails to increase the available funds. Congress already authorized $5.1 billion in its 2005 energy policy but it has failed to actually make the funds available in the appropriations process. Last year, the Washington state LIHEAP program received $41.6 million to help the state's poor handle their energy bills. With those funds, energy assistance was provided to 72,000 households--roughly 24 percent of the state's eligible population. If Cantwell's amendment had passed the Senate, it is estimated that the state's LIHEAP program would have $60 million in its budget, allowing them to provide assistance for another 36,000 households this winter. 
   Earlier this month, the Senate failed to pass a similar amendment to the Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (TTHUD) appropriations bill that would have provided an additional $3.1 billion in emergency funding to LIHEAP. 
   LIHEAP is a federal block grant program that provides states with annual funding to operate home energy assistance programs for low-income households. In addition to helping to pay energy bills for low-income families and the elderly, LIHEAP helps to fund energy crisis intervention programs, low-cost residential weatherization, and other energy-related home repairs.
 
 