WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  WORKING WITH LOCAL EXPERTS TO KEEP OUR PORTS SECURE
   With millions of tons of cargo passing through our state's ports each year, we have a responsibility to make sure these vital economic hubs stay safe and secure. That's why I joined Northwest technology and security experts from the Coast Guard and the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma in Seattle last Sunday for a fact-finding meeting on port security. At the meeting, I asked for fresh ideas to bring back to Washington, D.C. I want to make sure the right questions are asked when the Commerce Committee holds a hearing on port security this Tuesday. Listening to the ideas and concerns of those working everyday to keep our country safe is one of the best ways to keep us moving in the right direction.
   TAKING THE TIME NEEDED TO KEEP OUR PORTS SAFE AND OUR ECONOMY STRONG 
   Port security is critical to our nation's economic success. We know our ports continue to be vulnerable to terrorist attacks. Before we consider moving forward with any deal to transfer management responsibilities at any of our ports, we need to make absolutely certain it won't compromise our nation's security or undermine our economic strength. I'm pleased that the massive deal to hand over operations at six major U.S. ports to Dubai Ports World will undergo a more in-depth review. Any agreement allowing a foreign government-owned company to oversee the importation of millions of tons of cargo into our country requires the highest level of scrutiny. I'll continue working to make sure the American people get a thorough and transparent examination of this deal. I also want to know what measures are being taken to make sure cargo coming to our country is secure before it even enters U.S. waters. We have an obligation to make sure our international partners have strict security standards and a way to enforce them. 
   We need to do more, not less, at the federal level to make sure our ports are secure and that all cargo entering the U.S. is safe. We've made progress in recent years, but there is still a great deal of work to do. As Ranking Member of the Coast Guard Subcommittee, I will make sure we take all the necessary steps. On Wednesday, I joined Subcommittee Chairwoman Olympia Snowe (R-ME) in a letter asking the Coast Guard to explain its review of the ports deal, which Congress has not yet seen. The Coast Guard is a principal player in efforts to keep our harbors safe--we must know its take on any deal affecting the security of our nation's ports. 
   STANDING OUR GROUND IN THE FIGHT AGAINST METH
   Communities across our state are facing a serious meth epidemic and a rise in meth-related crimes. Local law enforcement officials are doing an excellent job, but they need every penny they can get in federal help. Unfortunately, the president's Fiscal Year 2007 budget proposal calls for an 80 percent cut to the primary federal programs that help local communities combat the spread of meth. I'm extremely disappointed in this lack of commitment to the fight against methamphetamine. It sends the wrong signal to local officials. The proposed cuts would hamper law enforcement's ability to target labs, prosecute meth-related crimes, and crack down on meth trafficking. We simply can't afford to cut off hard-working local law enforcement officers, and I will do everything I can to get them the resources they need. Last week, I joined law enforcement officials in Vancouver and Bremerton to highlight the significant local impact of the planned cuts, which would strip millions of dollars from Washington's counties and communities. I worked with a bipartisan group of colleagues to restore federal meth funding cut by the president's Fiscal Year 2006 budget. I'll do everything I can this year to achieve the same result. America's law enforcement officers deserve nothing less.
   KEEPING ELECTRICITY AFFORDABLE
   Energy prices are already through the roof, and now, just when we can least afford it, the administration is trying to squeeze extra dollars out of Northwest consumers. If you'd like to join my petition to stop the Bush budget from raising Northwest electricity rates, please go to my website at http://cantwell.senate.gov/petition/bpa.cfm. Add your name and address to the petition, then forward to family and friends. Almost 8,000 citizens have already signed on.
 
 