SEN. CANTWELL-BACKED BILL TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM SEX OFFENDERS BECOMES LAW
  Thursday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the president's signing of a tough new law to protect children against sex offenders. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, backed by Cantwell and passed by Congress last week, will link state tracking systems and improve the national sex offender database to prevent sex offenders from escaping tracking systems through a move to another state. The new law will also put in place stronger, nationwide registration standards, and provide additional tools to law enforcement.  
   "This new law will make our communities safer, stop heinous crimes against our children, and help parents and local law enforcement keep track of where these sex offenders are at all times," said Cantwell. "The law we passed will close the loopholes in the current patchwork of state tracking systems, give our communities better information about sex offenders in our neighborhoods, and help make parents and police aware of every known sex offender that moves to their community." 
   In remarks delivered on the Senate floor last Thursday prior to the bill's passage, Cantwell highlighted the local Spokane-area tragedy of the Groene family and the crimes committed against them by a known sex offender who escaped lax state tracking systems. The law signed today will help prevent this kind of tragedy from happening again. 
   The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act will expand the scope and duration of sex offender registration and notification requirements, and, through a comprehensive zip code-based searchable internet database, make sure citizens always have access to accurate and up-to-date information about sex offenders in or near their community. Current databases operate on a state-by-state basis, which can hinder coordination and prevents information on all sex offenders from appearing in one place. In addition, many states currently have inadequate measures in place to ensure up-to-date and accurate information. The new database will track all sex offenders' addresses, employment, vehicles, and criminal history, as well as photos and identification information.
   The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act also increases penalties for violent sex crimes committed against children, and requires that sex offenders register prior to release from prison or supervised programs. Current federal law requires registration after release. The new law requires level III sex offenders to register in person every three months and remain on the registry for life. Level two offenders will have to register in person every six months and remain on the registry for 25 years. Level I offenders will have to register in person once each year and remain on the registry for 15 years. Any offender who fails to register or update information will face 10 years in prison.
 
 