WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  ENERGY BILL PASSING THIS WEEK: NOT PERFECT, BUT A GOOD START
   The Senate on Tuesday is expected to vote on its energy bill. As a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resource Committee, I have been working hard on this legislation and am pleased that it contains a number of important provisions for Washington state. For example, it would protect consumer interests against the greed of companies like Enron, safeguard the Northwest's historic system of cost-based power, and expand federal support for biofuels so our farmers can produce a clean and affordable alternative to foreign oil. It also has a number of additional provisions that will increase renewable electricity production in our region, support research and development efforts at our universities and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, provide incentives to update our energy grid with new technologies to make it more reliable, and make the American economy more energy efficient. 
   That does not mean I agree with all of the elements of the Senate bill. For example, it contains a provision that would require an "inventory" of oil and natural gas resources on the Outer Continental Shelf. I think this is a bad idea that could someday open the door to coastal drilling in fragile marine ecosystems that have been protected since President George H.W. Bush put in place drilling moratoria in these areas, and I will continue to fight this provision as the bill moves toward conference with the House of Representatives. In addition, I believe this bill does not go nearly far enough to address America's increasing dependence on foreign oil and the emerging threat posed by global climate change.
   But despite its flaws, I believe the Senate's energy bill - as a whole - is a modest start toward curing our nation's energy woes, and it's a whole lot better than the version passed by the House of Representatives. It does not contain the special interest deals and environmental rollbacks that have become the hallmark of the House bill, which would let groundwater polluters off the hook for clean-up, grant later-day Enrons a license to steal, and provide certain energy interests exemptions from the Clean Water Act, Clean Air Act and Safe Drinking Water Act. When the Senate passes its energy legislation this week, it's clear we will still have a lot of work to do to put our nation on the right path, away from overdependence on foreign oil and toward an energy future that will power our economy into the next century.
   AIR SAFETY A 24-HOUR-A-DAY JOB
   Meeting homeland security and airplane safety challenges is not a part-time job; it requires a full-time commitment. Unfortunately, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is considering closing the Spokane International Airport Control Tower between midnight and 5 a.m. This ill-advised plan would severely hamper air ambulance services and emergency jet landings, and remove an important asset for nearby Fairchild Air Force Base.
   Last week I sent a letter to the FAA with Rep. Cathy McMorris and members of the Idaho congressional delegation, urging the agency to abandon the illogical plan. We need to be prepared 24-hours-a-day to safely mobilize and land our military planes and not jeopardize the safety of air travelers.
   FIGHTING FOR LOCAL COAST GUARD FUNDING
   Washington state's coastal areas depend on Coast Guard services. While the Coast Guard has embraced new responsibilities related to Homeland Security, its brave men and women are also on the front lines of the economic security and environmental safety of our state's coastal waters.
   As the senior Democrat on the Senate's Coast Guard Subcommittee, I joined with Sen. Olympia Snowe of Maine to introduce the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2005. This legislation, which passed the Senate's Commerce Committee last week, authorizes important funding for the Coast Guard to tackle its many responsibilities. Several provisions in this bill are especially important to Washington state, including an urgently-needed $10 million to upgrade the Puget Sound Vessel Traffic System. This system helps guide all large maritime traffic, from Bellingham south to Olympia, and as far west as the Strait of Juan de Fuca, and it should not be running on outdated technology.
   The legislation strongly supports the Coast Guard's Seattle-based Polar Icebreaker fleet, which employs about 300 Washington state residents, and includes $3 million to complete repairs and upgrades for the Coast Guard's main command center in Seattle, which was badly damaged by an earthquake four years ago. The bill also includes a rule to make sure all large vessels prepare oil spill emergency response plans, and requires the Coast Guard to consider powering their Puget Sound vessels and vehicles with biodiesel fuel. I'll keep you updated as this important legislation is considered by the Senate.
   ICE AGE FLOOD TRAIL RECEIVES SENATE HEARING
   On Tuesday, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will hold a hearing on my bipartisan legislation to establish an Ice Age Floods National Geological Trail through portions of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and Montana. As a member of that committee, I arranged for Kennewick resident Gary Kleinknecht, the president of the Ice Age Floods Institute, to testify at the hearing.
   The Ice Age Floods fundamentally changed the geography and way of life in the Pacific Northwest, leaving coulees, buttes, boulder fields, lakes, ridges and gravel bars that define the landscape today. My legislation would create a trail that that includes interpretive centers, signs and markers, exhibits, waysides and roadside pullouts to tell the story of the floods.
   The trail has strong local support, and would provide hands-on educational opportunities, spur tourism and economic development, and create jobs for Washingtonians. I'll keep you updated as the legislation moves through the Senate.
   VISITING WASHINGTON, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I welcome the opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, June 30, at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my web site at http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html.
   For more information, please visit my web site: http://cantwell.senate.gov.
 
 