SENS. CANTWELL, COLLINS INTRODUCE AMENDMENT TO POSTPONE IMPLEMENTATION OF REAL ID ACT
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME) in introducing an amendment to postpone implementation of the Real ID Act - a 2005 law mandating strict national standards for state-issued driver's licenses and identification cards. The 2005 Real ID law directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to issue final recommendations for states to follow, but with the May 11, 2008 implementation deadline little more than a year away, DHS has yet to issue final requirements. The Collins-Cantwell amendment would extend the implementation deadline by at least a year to give Congress, states, and citizens a chance to address the many concerns surrounding Real ID - from implementation costs to technology requirements to privacy issues.  
   "We need to make sure we get this right, and that means giving states more time to boost homeland security without breaking their budgets," said Cantwell. "Implementing Real ID in Washington state alone has a $200 million price tag, and we don't even know what all the requirements are yet. Extending the deadline is a first step to make sure we don't trample on individual privacy and don't hand states an unmanageable, multimillion dollar task with little help from the federal government." 
   More secure drivers licenses would meet one of the 9/11 Commission's main recommendations. However, the current timeline gives states too little time to comply in a cost-effective way. The Collins-Cantwell amendment would move the implementation deadline to two years from the date DHS issues final Real ID rules. It would also give DHS greater authority to waive specific requirements for states unable to comply for justifiable reasons, and would revive a committee charged with reviewing and recommending revisions to the rules proposed by DHS. The committee, proposed in 2004 but eliminated in the final 2005 law, would give states, privacy advocates, technology experts, and Congress an opportunity to address serious concerns surrounding Real ID and help make sure states are able to meet requirements. 
   Congress passed the Real ID Act as part of an emergency supplemental spending bill on May 11, 2005. Under the law, the features of state-issued driver's licenses, as well as driver's license issuing procedures, must adhere to a set of national standards by May 11, 2008. Collins and Cantwell offered their proposal as amendment to Senate Bill 4, which is cosponsored by Cantwell and aimed at implementing the remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations. The Collins-Cantwell proposal is backed by the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 
 