SEN. CANTWELL RESPONDS TO STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Following President Bush's State of the Union address this evening, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) issued the following response:
   On the Economy:
   "For months, the housing crisis, persistently high energy prices, and volatility in the stock market have left millions of Americans feeling uncertain about their own economic future and the economic future of our country. It is during these times that Congress and the President need to address both short-term challenges and long-term needs for our economy and job growth.
   "I am pleased that we are setting aside partisanship and working together toward a plan that will immediately stimulate the economy, put money back in consumers' pockets, and get people working and businesses back on track.
   "While it's important to focus on the here and now, we also have an opportunity to invest in stimulus measures that can alleviate some of the underlying problems. With oil prices hovering near $100 a barrel, and natural gas prices at historic highs, family budgets are being stretched thin every time they fill up their car at the pump or attempt to pay their heating bills. 
   "Only by accelerating our investment in clean sources of energy and energy-saving technologies can we get people and businesses real relief from crushing energy costs. Now is the opportunity to include in the stimulus package incentives that both dramatically boost economic activity in 2008 and take an important step towards reducing energy costs.
   "I believe we should include extension of the clean energy tax incentives in any stimulus package. They meet the definition of short term stimulus package- targeted and timely. They have the desirable benefit of getting immediate short-term results- that is- significant economic activity and new jobs in 2008. And they also result in long term benefits. This is the ideal type of stimulus expenditure for us to make.
   "These tax incentives supported $20 billion in renewable energy investment last year and will expire at the end of this year without Congressional action. Waiting a few months to extend these expiring tax incentives is almost as bad as not extending them at all. Congress should act on these important incentives in order to avoid choking off critical investment spending in 2008 that could have tremendous long-term economic benefits."
   On Energy:
   "Just a few weeks ago, Congress passed, and the President signed in to law, a landmark energy bill that promotes higher fuel efficiency standards and biofuels, and develops greener technologies. However, there is much much more that needs to be done.
   "If we want to get beyond petroleum, we have to stop subsidizing it. It is time to get to the heart of the matter. We have to level the playing field by taking away embedded subsidies for mature and profitable industries and lending a hand to emerging new alternative technologies and provide competition in the marketplace.
   "We have to begin now to develop new alternative energy technologies. In order to make a sizable shift in our energy production and consumption we need to get infrastructure up and running. These alternative technologies need to be commercialized to get costs to a competitive level.
   "We have to increase our investment in renewable and energy efficiency, protect consumers from price gouging and market manipulation, and make real steps toward increasing our energy independence instead of enabling our dependence. I look forward to working with my colleagues and a new Administration on moving our country forward toward energy independence."
   On Global Competitiveness:
   "For decades, our country has been a leader in innovation, research and development, and technology. In order for us to reinforce our country's place as a global leader, we have to invest in a skilled, trained workforce, and strengthen basics like math and science education. With the right investments and incentives for innovation, education programs, and entrepreneurship, we can create jobs throughout the country and help stimulate our economy.
   "Job training should be a top priority, not an afterthought. In tough economic times, we should help workers learn new skills to transition into a new economy. Our nation's economic recovery will be driven by our ability to compete in the global marketplace. We need to make a downpayment on American workers and ensure they have the tools and skills they need to lift our economy."
   "Finally, we need to renew and expand Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). It must be a top priority in our trade agenda. Movement on Free Trade Agreements, such as those with South Korea and Colombia, will be very difficult until TAA is renewed and expanded to help American workers."
   On Health Care:
   "Health care in this country must be reformed. Costs are rising and the strain being put on federal, state, and family budgets cannot be sustained much longer.
   "Each year we spend more than $2 trillion on health care without thinking about what we get in return. Consider that so much of our money is wasted on unnecessary treatments, or simply reading a report or test incorrectly. To ensure the long term health of critical programs like Medicare and Medicaid, I will be working in the coming year to advance responsible policies that reward providers for quality, efficient health care.
   "While we work to enact long-term reform to reduce the cost of care, we must also work to get immediate relief for our nation's uninsured. With nearly 47 million Americans living without health care coverage - 9 million of which are children - we cannot continue to sit by the side lines hoping the problem will go away.
   "Last year, Congress took real steps to guarantee health care for millions of children across the country through the State Children's Health Insurance Program. But, President Bush chose to play politics instead of providing children with critical health care, and vetoed the children's health bill twice.
   "I hope that the President will be willing to reconsider his actions and pass the necessary changes needed to a program that gives millions of low-income children access to care."
   On Iraq:
   "While security has improved in some parts of Iraq over the last few months, there still has not been sufficient political progress to resolve the disputes that must be overcome in order to bring stability to Iraq.
   "There is no new Iraqi oil law, no amendments to the Iraqi Constitution, and provincial elections have been postponed indefinitely. By the end of 2007, Iraqis control only nine of Iraq's 18 provinces.
   "At the same time, the U.S. continues to spend $10 billion a month in Iraq. U.S. troops continue to die or are wounded (nearly 4,000 deaths total and almost 30,000 wounded to date).
   "The President must get Congressional approval for any long term security agreement he negotiates with Iraq. He can not extend the U.S. military commitments in Iraq without Congressional approval or tie the hands of the next administration.
   "Even though President Bush is in the last year of his second term, Congress must still hold this Administration accountable for the war in Iraq and develop a strategy that implements a phased withdrawal of U.S. forces, ensures the Iraqi government takes responsibility for their country's security, and does not leave a permanent U.S. presence such as military bases."
 
 