SEN. CANTWELL VOTES AGAINST TELECOMMUNICATIONS BILL BASED ON CONSUMER CONCERNS
  On Wednesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) voted against the Senate Commerce Committee's sweeping revision of U.S. communications laws. Cantwell faulted the committee's failure to pass a net neutrality amendment that would have established a principle of nondiscrimination when it comes to Internet content. Cantwell voted against final committee passage of the bill citing concerns over net neutrality, the lack of build-out provisions for new video service providers, and the elimination of numerous consumer protections. The committee passed the legislation on a 15-7 vote. 
   "Overall, consumers are the big losers with this bill. Protecting consumer rights should have been the first priority, but sadly, this bill doesn't meet the mark," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee. "We a system that looks out for ordinary Americans, fosters innovation, and keeps our marketplace of ideas open to a broad range of diverse voices. We can't risk allowing discriminatory practices that may stifle competition and restrict access. I'm going to continue fighting for a better bill that looks out for the interests of all Americans."  
   Along with Senators Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), John Kerry (D-MA), and Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Cantwell cosponsored an amendment to the telecom bill that is based on the Snowe-Dorgan Internet Freedom Preservation Act (S. 2917) and would have ensured net neutrality. Today, they offered a narrower version of the legislation, which failed on a tie vote. 
   In a win for media diversity, the committee did accept a measure introduced by Senators Cantwell and John McCain (R-AZ) based on their Local Community Radio Act (S.312). This legislation would implement the recommendations of an FCC report on low-power FM radio stations. These stations, with a broadcast range of about 3.5 miles, provide an affordable alternative to community groups unable to obtain expensive full-power radio station licenses on very scarce broadcast spectrum. The FCC created this new classification of stations in 2000, but Congress later rolled back the Commission's ruling with a rider to an appropriations bill. The McCain-Cantwell amendment would repeal this rider, allowing local community stations to flourish. 
   "Right now, Washington has about 15 licensed low-power FM licensed stations," said Cantwell. "With about 18 in Oregon and ten in Alaska, these stations provide a valuable, independent voice to schools, community groups, and others during a time of mass media consolidation and concentrated media markets. We need to make it easier for these stations to thrive. Originally, 68 groups in Washington state applied for low-power stations, but most of these were denied because of a law we don't need." 
   The committee also accepted a Cantwell-cosponsored measure related to the Federal Communications Commission's controversial media ownership rules. The amendment, also sponsored by Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Trent Lott (R-MS), requires the FCC to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking for public comment before it proceeds with a broad rewrite of media ownership rules. Last week, the FCC announced its intention to reopen these contentious rules, although some commissioners have already raised concerns about whether the process outlined by Chairman Martin will provide for sufficient public input. The FCC last rewrote media ownership guidelines in 2003, but the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals overturned key parts. In 2004, Cantwell joined with a bipartisan group of senators in opposition to the FCC's rules, which would have allowed large media conglomerates to control a greater number of newspapers and radio and television stations. The Cantwell-backed amendment approved Wednesday will help ensure a fully informed, transparent process, and will help make sure citizens across the United States can participate in the process.
 
 