CONTINUING TO UNRAVEL THE WEB OF ENRON'S LIES
  Last week, I released more evidence detailing the incredible extent of Enron's market manipulation. The evidence, including numerous audiotapes, shows that Enron continued to manipulate energy markets until its bankruptcy in December 2001 - well after the time that company executives said they had stopped such practices. This directly contradicts the sworn testimony before Congress of five Enron executives and lawyers in May 2002. 
  What Enron lawyers said and what Enron traders did were two very different things. Congress needs to get to the bottom of this since federal regulators continue to sit on their hands. That's why I have requested that the Senate Commerce and Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committees hold hearings on the new evidence. It's absurd that this evidence has come to light only because of the heroic efforts of one David - the Snohomish County Public Utility District - to get back its ratepayers money ripped off by a greedy Goliath. Enron's outrageous behavior helped put an entire region's economy in to a tailspin; it's time Congress conducts a complete and thorough investigation.
  Addressing the Critical Shortage of Allied Health Professionals
  Recently I introduced legislation to address the critical shortage of workers in the allied health professions, a broad range of health care occupations that require significant training and education. Allied health professions include professionals in the areas of dental hygiene, emergency medical services, health information management, physical therapy, to name a few. Unfilled jobs in these professions have a real effect on Washington's hospitals. When I meet with hospital officials, they always tell me how the lack of technicians affects the care that patients receive. Creating greater opportunities in the allied health professions will not only improve patient care, it will spur job growth and help boost our economy. Training people to fill these openings could create more than 40,000 jobs. My bill will help prepare Washingtonians to fill these jobs by providing grants to teach allied health skills, retain these workers, and improve access to these professionals in rural areas.
  Looking Out for Washington's Regional Airports
   In today's turbulent world, improving aviation security must continue to be a national priority. However, I'm concerned that a recent proposal to hike taxes on the airline industry by $435 million to cover these costs will have a negative impact on many of our country's regional airports. Increases in security fees and security burdens have already had a negative impact on passengers - not only by increasing prices per ticket, since the all the fees are being passed on by the airlines to passengers - but also by decreasing flight options for regional airports that depend on limited airlines feeding into major airports. Improving aviation security must continue to be a national priority, but we can't pay for it by grounding business at our regional airports. For cities like Spokane and the Tri-Cities, regional airports are economic gateways to their communities. Increasing taxes on airlines and their passengers amounts to slamming the door on economic opportunity. The federal government must shoulder greater responsibility for these critical investments in our national transportation infrastructure.
  Standing Up For Hanford Workers
   Last week I met with Department of Energy Assistant Secretary Jessie Roberson to discuss my objections to DOE's proposal to change the pension plan for more than 10,000 Hanford workers. DOE's plan calls for a new, two-tiered pension system that requires companies that win contracts to contribute to the current pension plan for only the first five years of the contract. After that, the system changes to a market-based plan under which the contractor has no obligation to continue contributing to the workers' pensions. I'm concerned that these changes will leave long-time Hanford employees out in the cold. I'll continue to work with DOE to find a solution that's fair for Hanford workers.
  Visiting Washington, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the opportunity to meet you. Next week, on Thursday, July 8 at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my web site at http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html.
 
 