SEN. CANTWELL LEADS EFFORT TO HELP LOCAL COMMUNITIES DEAL WITH BORDER SECURITY COSTS
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) plans to introduce an amendment this week to establish a program to reimburse communities along America's northern border for the cost of prosecuting border crimes and detaining individuals suspected of border violations.  
   "Right now, we're forcing local jurisdictions along our northern border to pick up the tab for an unfair share of America's border security costs," said Cantwell, a member of the Northern Border Coalition. "We're talking about investigations and arrests initiated by federal authorities that get dumped onto counties and cities, with no offer from the federal government to cover the cost. America's border communities shouldn't have to shortchange important local projects to subsidize our nation's security." 
   In Whatcom County, for example, more than 85 percent of criminal apprehensions made by federal law enforcement officers at or near the border in 2004 were turned over to the county for prosecution, costing the county more than $2.5 million. 
   Cantwell plans to introduce the Northern Border Prosecution Initiative Reimbursement Act this week as an amendment to immigration legislation currently under consideration in the Senate. Modeled on an existing program for the southern border, Cantwell's bill would authorize almost $30 million annually to reimburse communities for the cost of prosecuting cases, detaining suspects, and constructing holding spaces. Reimbursements would cover investigations and arrests initiated by federal law enforcement officers, as well as any case involving a violation of federal law referred to state or local authorities for prosecution. The bill, cosponsored by 11 other senators from northern border states, including Larry Craig (R-ID), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Mike DeWine (R-OH), and Patty Murray (D-WA), would cap reimbursements at $2,500 for cases concluded in less than two weeks, $5,000 for cases disposed of within a month, and $10,000 for cases taking longer than 90 days.
 
 