WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  REDUCING MEDICAL ERRORS WITH BETTER TECHNOLOGY
   With the Senate's approval of the Wired for Health Care Quality Act earlier this month, we took a big step toward getting hospitals and clinics, especially those in rural and underserved areas, the tools they need to serve patients faster and more effectively. This vital legislation will reduce medical errors, save lives, and cut costs by coordinating and improving health information technology nationwide through the development of an interoperable technology infrastructure. A study by the Institute of Medicine estimates that 98,000 lives are lost and $300 billion are spent every year due to medical errors. With more accessible information, health care professionals will run fewer tests and have a more accurate understanding of each patient they treat. Many Washington state hospitals are leaders in this field, but all of our health care professionals ought to have access to the highest level of quality patient care. Right now, many small health care facilities don't have the information technology they need. Now that this important legislation has cleared the Senate, I'm calling for quick action in the House so that America's hospitals can get the technology--and our communities can get the care--they need.  
   PROTECTING THE PENSIONS OF HARD WORKING AMERICANS
   Too often, current pension system rules just don't work. That's why I worked to pass the Pension Security and Transparency Act, which cleared the Senate earlier this month. The bill would protect pensions and encourage companies to live up to their obligations. Workers ought to be able to count on the retirement benefits their employers promised. The Senate bill rewrites pension rules to better help companies with defined-benefits plans make good on their obligations. Unlike the House bill or the Bush Administration's proposal, the Senate bill also includes important provisions to protect the pensions of current and retired airline employees. The bill would extend from 14 to 20 years the time allowed for airlines to stabilize their pension plans, and would expand the number of airlines that qualify for pension payment relief. This will give airlines a longer timeframe for funding their pension plans, and is one way to dissuade companies from terminating pensions. Airline workers, like workers at so many other companies, have worked with pride for decades to make their companies successful, and they deserve the benefits they were promised. 
   COMMEMORATING WORLD AIDS DAY
   This Thursday, December 1st, we will take time to observe World AIDS Day. As we reflect on those fighting this ravaging disease and their families, friends, and caregivers, we must remain resolute and redouble our efforts. More than 3 million people, including half a million children, have died from the disease just this year. Of the nearly one million Americans living with HIV/AIDS, 15,000 are Washingtonians. Meanwhile, about two-thirds--an estimated 25 million--of the world's HIV/AIDS infected people live in Sub-Saharan Africa. Without access to the necessary medications, individuals living with HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa have an average lifespan as low as 32 years, and more than 1,000 newborn babies are infected during childbirth or by their mothers' milk every day. We must fully support efforts that combat HIV/AIDS both at home and abroad. Although there is still no cure for the disease, treatment, education, and prevention programs can limit the number of future victims significantly while ameliorating the damage caused by HIV/AIDS. We are fortunate to have strong domestic programs that we must continue to support. Specifically, the Ryan White Care Act needs to be reauthorized to reflect the changing face of AIDS. The AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) must also be fully funded to eliminate waiting lists and ensure that life-saving medications are available to all who are living with this disease.
   WELCOMING THE HOLIDAY SEASON
   Thanksgiving has just passed and with the holiday season upon us, we have a lot to look forward to. We can cherish time spent with family and friends, and reflect on a year well-lived. But we must also remember the many who have sacrificed so that we may celebrate, and the many who continue to struggle today. So many of our young men and women are standing and fighting for America abroad in Iraq and Afghanistan. We should recognize their efforts and honor their sacrifice. This season, let's pause and take notice of how fortunate we truly are. We must work together to help one another face the great challenges ahead and prosper in the New Year.
 
 