SENS. MURRAY, CANTWELL ANNOUNCE MILLIONS FOR WASHINGTON STATE INTERIOR PRIORITIES
  Today Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell announced millions of dollars in funding for Washington state land acquisition, preservation and restoration projects. The funding was included in the Senate's FY 2007 Interior Appropriations bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee today. Next, the bill will be considered by the full Senate. 
   The funding includes land acquisition for Ebey's Landing, Lewis & Clark Station Camp, Stampede Pass, and the Columbia River Gorge. Also funded are improvements to Vancouver's National Historic Area Visitor's Center, Spartina grass control in Willapa Bay, family forest management plans, clean drinking water and wastewater projects, and tribal healthcare, fisheries and management projects.  
   "These federal dollars will help protect and preserve our state's natural treasures while supporting economic growth and quality of life for Washington state residents," Murray said. 
   Cantwell said "Washington state boasts a tremendous natural and cultural heritage. This funding will help preserve places like Station Camp and Ebey's landing, and the scenic beauty of the Columbia Gorge. It will also ensure that local communities and citizens can support their basic needs, and provide for the effective management of our state's resources." 
   The funding includes: 
   VANCOUVER NATIONAL HISTORIC AREA VISITOR'S CENTER - $2 MILLION 
   This funding will renovate the visitor's center operated by the National Park Service. The center has not been upgraded since it was built in the 1960s and needs to be improved to accommodate the increasing number of visitors. 
   Senator Murray said, "This is a great example of a joint federal/local project. The Vancouver National Historic Reserve Trust has committed to raising 50% in matching funds and is dedicated to telling the story of Fort Vancouver. Once finished the renovated visitor's center will better serve the increasing number of visitors including families, tour groups and particularly the 20,000 students that visit annually." 
   WILLAPA BAY / SPARTINA GRASS CONTROL - $1.2 MILLION 
   This funding will help control invasive Spartina grass in the Willapa Bay National Wildlife Refuge to preserve the refuge and protect the jobs of local shellfish growers. 
   "This investment will help keep Willapa Bay healthy and will protect the jobs of local shellfish growers," Murray said. 
   EBEY'S LANDING FERRY HOUSE: $500,000 
   This funding will allow the National Park Service to acquire the 35 acre Ferry House farm parcel of Ebey's Landing National Historical Reserve. 
   David Weekes, director of The Nature Conservancy's Washington state chapter said, "I'm very grateful to Senator Murray and Senator Cantwell for their ongoing leadership in helping to secure funding for Ebey's Landing. This appropriation will create a permanent endowment for the reserve's stewardship, and will help to ensure that one of Washington's most popular areas will remain a treasure for years to come." 
   LEWIS AND CLARK STATION CAMP - $500,000 
   This funding will purchase non-development easements for the Station Camp unit of the Lewis and Clark National Historic Park. 
   "By securing funding to protect Station Camp, Senator Cantwell and Senator Murray are conserving one of American's most historic places related to the Lewis and Clark Corps of Discovery and the Chinook Indian people," said Mark Elsbree, Vice President of The Conservation Fund's Northwest Regional Office. "The Washington delegation's leadership will help safeguard the cultural heritage of the Pacific Northwest and the nation for future generations, while expanding opportunities for tourism and outdoor recreation." 
   COLUMBIA BASIN GROUND WATER MANAGEMENT AREA (GWMA) - $500,000 
   This funding will continue the work of GWMA as a resource and a clearinghouse for local communities and citizens to address nitrate and other ground water issues. 
   WASHINGTON STATE FAMILY FOREST MANAGEMENT PLANS - $1 MILLION 
   These funds will assist family foresters with the necessary science and technical analysis in developing forest management plans. 
   CASCADE CHECKERBOARD- $978,000 
   This funding will go to land acquisitions of the Stampede Pass. 
   COLUMBIA RIVER GORGE - $500,000 
   This funding will continue land acquisition of high priority parcels. 
   "Thanks to the remarkable work of Senators Murray and Cantwell, this bill includes a wide array of critical protections for some of Washington State's most vital natural resources," said Alan Front, Senior Vice President of the nonprofit Trust for Public Land. "In particular, we are thrilled that their efforts - including Senator Murray's characteristically effective advocacy as an Appropriations Committee member - are securing the funds needed for public acquisition of threatened properties at Stampede Pass in the Cascades, in the Columbia Gorge, and elsewhere across the state before it's too late. Especially given the tough fiscal climate and the severe budget constraints this year, the good news in this legislation for Washington State is nothing short of miraculous." 
   URBAN INDIAN HEALTH PROGRAM - $32,744,000 
   The bill restores funding to the thirty-four Urban Indian Health Centers across the nation, which provide culturally appropriate health services to Native Americans living in urban areas. Washington state has two urban Indian health clinics: the Seattle Indian Board in Seattle and the NATIVE project in Spokane. The President's budget proposed terminating this vital program. 
   UPPER COLUMBIA UNITED TRIBES (UCUT) - $400,000 
   UCUT was formed in the late 1980s by the Colville Confederated, Kalispel, Spokane, Coeur d'Alene, and Kootenai Tribes to facilitate intertribal efforts in fish and wildlife management. This funding will ensure that UCUT can continue its efforts toward ESA recovery, federal hydropower operations, and Clean Water Act compliance, among others. 
   WASHINGTON STATE TIMBER-FISH-WILDLIFE PROJECT - $1,000,000 
   This funding supports the ongoing work of the Northwest Indian Fisheries Commission and its member tribes in implementing the Forest and Fish Report. 
   LAKE ROOSEVELT MANAGEMENT FUNDS - $400,000 
   This funding enables both the Colville and Spokane Tribes to carry out their governmental responsibilities under a five party Cooperative Management Agreement executed in 1990 between the tribes, the Bureau of Reclamation, the National Park Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Specifically, the funding supports tribal enforcement along Lake Roosevelt and its shoreline of federal laws and regulations, search and rescue services, park facilities construction, and protection of archeological and cultural sites. 
   * City of Warden, wastewater treatment facility - $600,000 
   * City of Rock Island, wastewater treatment facility - $600,000 
   * Chelan County Clean Drinking Water Project - $600,000
 
 