SEN. CANTWELL: COUNTIES TO RECEIVE PAYMENT BOOST
  The U.S. Senate passed legislation today that will boost funding for a program that brings millions of dollars total each year to Washington state counties, and will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) supported an increase to the "payments in lieu of taxes" (PILT) program that compensates counties hosting a large number of federal employees and federal lands.  
   "Local taxpayers should not bear the heavy tax burden caused by nearby federal lands," Cantwell said. "This funding will ease that strain, and help support our schools, fix our roads, and take care of our firefighters." 
   The payments will help counties that have tax-exempt federal lands within their boundaries by offsetting the costs of providing services to federal employees and users of the public lands. Without the payments, local taxpayers would have to bear the financial burden alone for those services, including education, solid waste disposal, law enforcement, search and rescue, health care, environmental compliance, firefighting, housing, social services, and transportation.
   Funding for the PILT program in 2006 will jump $9.2 million over last year's level, to $236 million. This exceeds the funding level requested by the National Association of Counties by $1 million, and represents an increase of $36 million over the President's budget. 
   The funds were included in the final version of the fiscal year 2006 Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, which passed the Senate on Friday. The House of Representatives approved the measure on Thursday.
   A chart follows below with PILT payment amounts to Washington state's counties during fiscal year 2004. Fiscal year 2005 payment numbers are not yet available. With the funding increase included in the final spending bill, most Washington state counties could expect a significant increase in 2006 over their 2004 and 2005 payments.
   View county-by-county funding data at: http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/releases/2005_07_29_pilt_approps.html
 
 