SEN. CANTWELL, SENATE VOTE TO BRING TROOPS HOME
  Thursday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the Senate's approval of the Iraq Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill, which includes more than $121 billion for U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, health care for returning soldiers and veterans, homeland security initiatives, and disaster relief efforts. The measure, which passed on a 51 to 47 vote with Cantwell's support, also calls for a phased redeployment of troops beginning no later than 120 days after the bill's enactment, and sets a firm goal of withdrawing all U.S. combat troops from Iraq by March 31, 2008.  
   "The conflict in Iraq requires a political solution. The Iraqis must make the difficult compromises needed to lessen sectarian violence and stabilize Iraq." said Cantwell. "It's time to transition U.S. troops out of a regular combat role. We can't have an open-ended commitment to Iraq and we can't keep U.S. combat troops there to patrol the streets indefinitely. The future of Iraq must be determined by the Iraqi people." 
   Cantwell has long called for an increased emphasis on diplomacy, a transition of U.S. forces out of a combat role, and Iraqi forces to take charge of their own security so U.S. troops can come home. Similar legislation passed the House earlier this month. The House version sets an August 2008 goal for bringing American combat troops home. Members of the House and Senate will now meet in a Conference Committee to work out differences between the two bills. 
   The Senate Iraq Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill also includes $20 million to repair Walter Reed, prohibits the closure of Walter Reed unless the military can ensure continuity of care, and contains $100 million for brain trauma injury and post-traumatic stress disorder treatment and research. The legislation includes $454 million for veterans medical services, $595 million for veterans medical facilities, an additional $1 billion to address Army National Guard equipment shortfalls, and $1.5 million for 2,500 more mine resistant ambush protected vehicles.
 
 