SEN. CANTWELL PUSHES FEDS TO PROBE LINK BETWEEN ID THEFT, METH CRIMES
  Sen. Maria Cantwell today called on the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to conduct a comprehensive, national investigation of the link between identity theft and methamphetamine crimes. In Seattle today, Sen. Cantwell met with local law enforcement officials to discuss the emerging trend.  
   "All over Washington state, local law enforcement is struggling to find the resources to fight the meth problem," Cantwell said. "Meanwhile, the meth epidemic is creating a wave of identity theft, which is one of fastest growing crimes in the nation. Having nationwide information and a better understanding of the growing problem will help lay the groundwork for a comprehensive solution. If we're going to be successful in curbing these crimes and keeping communities safe, we need a strategy to attack them at their roots." 
   Today, no national data exists to document the emerging meth/identity theft connection, and there is no comprehensive strategy to deal with these dual crimes. Cantwell wants the Department of Justice to conduct a national investigation of the issue, including a statistical analysis of the correlation between meth and identity theft crimes. She also said the Justice Department should recommend whether tougher federal sentences for criminals that commit both are necessary as a deterrent. DOJ has an entire division-the Bureau of Justice Statistics-devoted to researching the prevalence of crimes across the nation. 
   Cantwell said a national investigation of the connection between identity theft and meth would serve a number of important purposes. First, it would focus attention on these related federal crimes, helping build the case for more resources to fight them. In addition, it would help move the burden for assessing trends in federal crimes off local law enforcement-particularly since meth and identity theft crimes are often perpetrated across state lines and prey on federal services and programs such as the U.S. mail and Social Security identification. A national assessment would also potentially lay the groundwork for harsher federal penalties for individuals who engage in ID theft as a means of financing their meth-related activities. 
   Cantwell's stop in Seattle today was the second in a three-part tour around the state this week. Yesterday, she met with law enforcement, business leaders and an ID theft victim in Spokane where, according to the county sheriff, 100 percent of the area's 2004 identity theft crimes had ties to meth. Tomorrow, Cantwell's fact-finding tour will head to Vancouver . 
   Cantwell has been a leader in the Senate to both protect consumers from identity theft and combat methamphetamine abuse. Most recently, a Cantwell-cosponsored amendment added to the Senate's Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Resolution restored $160 million in federal funds to help local law enforcement clean up meth labs. The budget amendment is consistent with legislation Cantwell introduced in February, the "Arrest Methamphetamine Act of 2005," which would authorize $800 million in federal funds over 5 years to combat the meth problem. 
   Also last month, Cantwell added a provision to bankruptcy reform legislation that will prevent identity thieves from trolling court filings for personal information such as Social Security Numbers. Also in December 2003, President Bush signed into law Cantwell's legislation to speed up law enforcement investigations of ID theft, as part of the Fair Credit Reporting Act. By giving victims and those they "deputize" in law enforcement easier access to important records, the law-which just took effect last June- also enhances the ability of authorities to solve cases of identity theft across state lines. 
   In 2004, Washington state ranked eighth in the nation for identity theft crimes- up from tenth the year before. The number of victims in Washington state climbed about 20 percent in just one year. Meanwhile, meth accounted for almost 50 percent, or 47.8 percent, of all the drug seizures in Washington state.
 
 