WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  CELEBRATING MEMORIAL DAY
   This Memorial Day, we, as a nation, paused to remember the sacrifices made by the courageous men and women who have fought to keep our nation safe. During this difficult time in America's history, we honor the men and women who have given our nation so much, serving, fighting, and dying to defend our freedom and protect our liberty. On Memorial Day, we celebrate that devotion by remembering their stories. Washington state has a proud and longstanding history of service in our nation's Armed Forces, and we celebrate the men and women from Washington who have given so much to our nation. All of them serve voluntarily, with the knowledge that they could one day have to pay the ultimate price to protect their country. On Memorial Day, and every day, we remember those who made that sacrifice. As we pay homage to their memories, let us also remember their families and all who served in the armed forces. 
   PROTECTING PRISTINE PUBLIC FORESTS 
   Last week, I reintroduced my bipartisan legislation to protect almost 60 million acres of roadless national forests, including two million acres in Washington state. Congressman Jay Inslee introduced similar legislation in the House. Our bill would protect the nation's few remaining non-wilderness roadless forests from commercial development. These roadless areas make up more than 20 percent of our National Forest in Washington state, and it's irresponsible to let logging, road-building, and mining degrade these sensitive lands. With so few truly wild and pristine places left in our country, its time to strike a responsible balance and make the roadless rule law. The U.S. Forest Service should be addressing the $8.6 billion maintenance and reconstruction backlog on existing roads to strengthen public safety and access to public lands. The construction of more roads, in addition to degrading untouched lands, would only exacerbate the existing backlog. To learn more about where these non-wilderness roadless forests are, visit http://roadless.fs.fed.us/.
   A BUSY WEEK IN THE ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES COMMITTEE
   Two bills I introduced, and a third I'm cosponsoring along with Senator Patty Murray, passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee last week. I'm a member of this committee and I'm very pleased we were able to finish our work on these bills and send them on to the full Senate. The first would improve accountability in wildland firefighter safety training programs. It would require federal firefighting agencies to review the implementation and efficacy of these programs, and require a system to track the money spent on wildland firefighter safety and training. We must learn from past mistakes and make sure nobody's life is put at risk because they don't have the comprehensive training they need. 
   The second piece of legislation would preserve the Eagledale ferry dock site on Bainbridge Island as part of our National Parks system. This site served as the point of departure for the first Japanese Americans forced into internment camps during World War II. Adding the site to our National Parks system will honor the strength of those sent to these camps, and recognize the sacrifices so many were forced to make.
   The third bill, which I joined Senator Murray to introduce, would create a new wilderness area in eastern Snohomish County just north of Highway 2. The 106,000-acre Wild Sky Wilderness would be our state's first new wilderness area in more than two decades, and would protect higher elevations as well as lowland forest. Earlier this year, the legislation passed the House for the first time.
 
 