WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  Investing in Washington's Farmers
   Last week, the 2007 Farm Bill was approved by the Senate Agriculture Committee-a bill that includes strong provisions to benefit Washington state farmers. Our state's farmers grow more than 250 varieties of fruits, vegetables, and specialty crops such as apples, cherries, and asparagus. Washington state is ranked first in the nation in the production of these specialty crops which are huge economic drivers for our state, providing for over 50 percent of our agriculture economy. My top priority in this year's Farm Bill was working through the Finance Committee to make sure that our local farmers got the help they need. 
   Along with Senator Patty Murray, we were able to save the highly targeted Specialty Crop Block Grant Program, which has been incredibly successful in our state, so Washington's small farmers can compete in an increasingly competitive global market. The bill also includes key nutrition and conservation provisions encouraging healthy consumption of fruits and vegetables by expanding the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program to all 50 states. In addition, the bill works to better protect our fruit and vegetable growers from the sometimes devastating effects of natural disasters. This bill will help our state, and I'm particularly pleased by the gains we made for our specialty crop growers. I expect the Farm Bill to be considered on the Senate Floor in the coming weeks and look forward to passing a comprehensive bill that will address many of Washington state's critical agriculture economy needs.
   Congress Working to Insure More Kids
   Congress continues working to make sure America's kids have the health care they need for healthy futures. Last week, the House passed a compromise bill that would address White House concerns that the Children's Health Insurance program is not covering low-income children first. Among many changes, the new bill would cap enrollment at 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Level and require each state to implement measures that would address impacts on private coverage. The new bill would cover roughly 10 million kids. Democrats and Republicans have negotiated and compromised - again - to clarify and strengthen this bill. The Senate is scheduled to consider this bill in the coming days. I hope the President will recognize these bipartisan efforts and sign the bill into law.
 
 