SEN. CANTWELL PLAN TO BRING NEW JOBS TO PIERCE COUNTY GETS BOOST IN SENATE COMMITTEE
  Today a Senate Committee approved Sen. Maria Cantwell's (D-WA) legislation that would allow the Port of Tacoma to expand its Evergreen Shipping Terminal, potentially bringing more than $450 million in economic investments to the region and creating nearly 6,000 permanent jobs and 4,000 construction jobs in Pierce County. 
   "South Puget Sound would benefit from thousands of new jobs in the near future with this legislation," Cantwell said. "This is a win-win-win situation for the Port, Pierce communities, and the Puyallup tribe." 
   After Cantwell's legislation becomes law, the Puyallup Tribe and the Port will work together to relocate the Tribe's Emerald Queen Casino to allow for construction of the new container terminal and compensate for the closure of an access road to the casino. 
   Cantwell's legislation will put tribal-owned land within the Puyallup Indian Reservation into trust status. This Congressional action fulfills a critical component of the joint economic development agreement reached earlier this year between the Puyallup Tribe, the State of Washington, the Port of Tacoma, Pierce County, the Cities of Fife, Puyallup, and Tacoma, that will allow them to move forward with expansion of the Port. 
   Port Commissioner Jack Fabulich said, "The Port of Tacoma appreciates the work of Senator Maria Cantwell to ensure the joint efforts of the Puyallup Tribe and the Port to create high-paying maritime jobs for our community - both now and in the future - can move forward." 
   Pierce County Executive John Ladenburg added, "The Port of Tacoma is the largest employer in Pierce County. Senator Cantwell's efforts to help the Puyallup Tribe move their casino will give the Port the room it needs to create even more jobs." 
   The joint economic agreement also commits the Port to invest $5 million towards a salmon restoration mitigation project and work collaboratively to dredge and widen the Blair Waterway. 
   The agreement continues in the footsteps of the Puyallup Indian Land Claims Settlement of 1988. 
   Puyallup Tribe Chairman Herman Dillon said, " The Puyallup Tribe is very appreciative of the efforts of our Congressional delegation to put the Tribal owned Fife Executive Inn site into Trust allowing the Tribe's interest in the $450 million Cooperative Economic Development Agreement to be protected. Putting this land in Trust allows the Tribe to relocate the Emerald Queen Casino and the Port to expand the Evergreen shipping terminal. 
   The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, of which Cantwell is a member, unanimously approved Cantwell's provision (Section 11 of the Native American Technical Corrections Act of 2004 -- S. 2834) this morning. Cantwell expects the bill to be approved by the full Senate soon.
 
 