SEN. CANTWELL CALLS GUARD AND RESERVE EQUIPMENT SHORTFALLS INEXCUSABLE
  Friday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) released the following statement in response to a new report detailing equipment and budget shortfalls and describing how the National Guard is excluded from important decisions-making processes:  
   "We've known about equipment shortfalls and the strain on our Guard and Reserves for years. That's why I worked with General Lowenberg on legislation, signed into law last October, to help make sure our National Guard isn't forced to leave their equipment behind for good when they return from serving overseas. This is the same equipment they need to train and stay prepared to help out during emergencies here at home. But as this new report confirms, we still have more work to do and we need to move faster. This requires our immediate and continued attention. 
   "I've joined Senator Bond and 22 other senators in backing a new plan to give our National Guard more input on key Guard-related policy and budget decisions within the Pentagon. This bill would give the National Guard a seat at the table and a central role in solving problems that could hinder preparedness. Standing by our National Guard must be a top priority." 
   In October 2006, the president signed into law Cantwell's National Guard Equipment Accountability Act as part of the Defense Department Authorization Act for 2007. The new law requires a system to track equipment left overseas and transferred to other units, and mandates the development of plans to replace the equipment. For the next five years, the Department of Defense will be required to submit quarterly reports to Congress detailing all National Guard equipment diverted to other units as well as an equipment replacement plan. 
   The National Guard Empowerment Act, introduced By Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Christopher Bond (R-MO) and cosponsored by Cantwell, would give the National Guard Bureau Chief a seat on the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the rank of general, and make the National Guard Commander the Deputy Commander of the United States Northern Command. The Northern Command oversees the domestic military support mission.
 
 