SEN. CANTWELL NAMED TO FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEES ON TAXES, HEALTH CARE, ENERGY
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, has secured seats on the panel's Health Care, Taxation, and Energy subcommittees. The assignments reinforce her central role in formulating legislation this year to extend middle class tax cuts, protect social security, cover more uninsured children, lower health care and prescription drug costs, and enhance renewable energy incentives.  
   "Getting a permanent sales tax deduction, covering more uninsured kids, and passing aggressive new energy independence incentives are some the issues most important to Washingtonians," said Cantwell. "I will use these subcommittees to help me pass legislation to improve affordability for families in our state, move our economy forward, and reign in sky-high education and health care costs." 
   Cantwell was named to the subcommittees on Health Care; Taxation, IRS Oversight, and Long-Term Growth; and Energy, Natural Resources, and Infrastructure late Wednesday evening. These three panels have jurisdiction over many of her top policy goals for Washington state. 
   Cantwell is working to make permanent the state sales tax deduction, the research and development tax credit, and key credits and deductions that help students and families save and pay for college. Earlier this year, Cantwell reintroduced her legislation to increase by an average of $3,000 the tax benefits for families saving money for their children's education. Her Education for Students Act would increase the maximum contribution to Coverdell Education Savings Accounts to $5,000 per year--up from its current level of $2,000. Cantwell is also working to increase the Pell Grant award. 
   Cantwell has worked to increase Medicare reimbursement rates to improve health care access for seniors, and to improve prescription drug coverage under Medicare. She is also the author of a proposal, reintroduced earlier this year, to provide health care coverage to as many as 70,000 Washington children who are currently uninsured. By freeing up additional State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) dollars, Cantwell's plan would help Washington expand coverage to more children in need. SCHIP is a federal program that helps states cover uninsured low-income children from families with incomes above Medicaid eligibility levels. However, due to SCHIP rules that needlessly punish states leading the way in covering uninsured children, Washington state has been forced to turn back $191 million in federal funds over the past 10 years. 
   The Finance Committee oversees all tax issues, trade, welfare, and the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. The committee also has jurisdiction over Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP. Cantwell is also a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, the Indian Affairs Committee, and the Small Business Committee. She is chair of the Commerce Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Fisheries.
 
 