WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  WORKING TOWARD A CHANGE OF COURSE IN IRAQ
   Last week, I voted with a majority of my Senate colleagues to pass the Iraq Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill and send this legislation to the president. This bill provides a clear path forward. It delivers much-needed resources and support to our troops on the ground in both Iraq and Afghanistan, and to our veterans and wounded soldiers here at home. It also makes clear that the United States should no longer maintain an open-ended commitment in Iraq-setting a goal of redeploying most U.S. combat troops from Iraq by the end of March 2008. Our troops can't patrol Iraqi streets forever. This conflict requires a political solution, with our combat troops coming home as Iraqis take control of their own security and their own future. Iraq's future is in the hands of the Iraqi people and they must make the difficult political compromises needed to stabilize their country.
   RESTORING PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 
   Attorney General Alberto Gonzales testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on the firings of eight U.S. Attorneys. His failure to recall many key facts about the firings was troubling and his treatment of John McKay has been appalling. As the chief U.S. law enforcement officer, the Attorney General holds a special place in our government. He has many serious responsibilities including dealing with our country's growing gang threat, fighting illegal drugs like meth, and combating terrorism; but Gonzales has appeared more committed to the pursuit of a political agenda than the rule of law. I do not believe that he has the independence needed to be effective and he should resign.
   KEEPING OUR FOOD SUPPLY SAFE 
   The pet food recall began on March 16, and the more information we receive, the worse it gets. Following news that contaminated food was fed to thousands of hogs, it's highly likely that these contaminants have entered the human food supply as well. Also troubling are reports that the imported animal food ingredients were purposefully contaminated with melamine overseas for economic purposes. Melamine is a chemical used to make plastic and fertilizer that increases apparent protein content but has no nutritional value, and can be extremely harmful to animals. We clearly must do more to ensure food safety, and that starts with more accountability and better inspections of these imports. 
   Last week, Senator Richard Durbin joined me in calling on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to reveal the names of all companies that received potentially contaminated ingredients, encourage a broader recall, and begin comprehensive testing of all potentially contaminated animal food imported from China and other countries. Over 70 percent of Washingtonians and two thirds of all Americans own either a cat or a dog, and the same ingredients that go into pet food are sometimes fed to animals that enter the human food supply. We need a more aggressive, more proactive strategy to prevent future contamination and quicken our reaction time to contain any contamination that does occur. 
   IMPROVE THE EFFICIENCY OF OUR OUTDATED POWER GRID
   I'm working on new legislation to help develop and put in place a more efficient, smarter nationwide power grid. Our current grid relies on old technology-much of it dating from as far back as the 1930s-that causes congestion and makes the grid unreliable. It also requires inefficiency in power plant use because utilities build additional plants to meet periods of peak demand. These "peaking plants" may operate as many as a few hours per day or as little as a few hours per year, but the construction, operation, and maintenance costs of these peaking plants are passed on to ratepayers in the form of larger power bills. Using smart technologies to spread power use more evenly and cut demand during peak times of the day will lower costs by improving reliability and reducing the need for power from the most expensive sources-saving as much as $100 billion over the next 20 years. We already have the tools to get more from our energy grid; my bill will help put these tools to work for consumers and accelerate the drive for energy independence.
   FIXING THE COAST GUARD'S FAULTY FLEET REPLACEMENT PROGRAM
   A few weeks ago, I told you about my work to help fix the Coast Guard's troubled, $24 billion fleet replacement program-known as the Deepwater program. Deepwater is plagued by cost overruns, design flaws that literally prevent completed ships from staying afloat, ships and technology that fail to meet basic contract requirements, and a contract structure that gives primary decision-making authority and oversight to contractors Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman. I've introduced comprehensive legislation to fix this program-legislation the Commerce Committee passed last week. My bill would improve internal Coast Guard management of Deepwater, require open competition for contracts, enhance transparency, and initiate an analysis of all alternatives for proposed Deepwater assets not currently under contract to determine the best way forward. Earlier this month, the Coast Guard also announced several changes to Deepwater similar to some of the steps called for in my legislation. This is solid progress, and I will continue working to pass my legislation to get all of its steps implemented, codify all of its provisions into law, and further improve transparency and oversight so taxpayers get a fair deal and Coast Guard personnel get the assets they need.
 
 