WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  Keeping America Competitive 
   To stay competitive in today's changing global economy, we need an aggressive national strategy that invests in the industries of the future, strengthens math and science education, and creates good, family-wage jobs right here in the Pacific Northwest. To boost our economy , I've joined a bipartisan coalition of senators to call for increased investment in research, development, and education to help America maintain its competitive edge. The Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Acts would increase America 's talent pool through higher education investments , incentives for innovation, and scholarships and fellowships for future scientists and teachers. The legislation would also increase federal research spending and make permanent a n important tax credit for research and development. Based on recommendations made by the National Academies, the three PACE Act bills - one focusing on education, another on energy, and a third on tax incentives - represent a comprehensive and coordinated federal policy aimed at fostering innovation and creating high-quality jobs for Americans. 
   Investing in Alternative Energy to Break America's Dependence on Foreign Oil 
   It's time for America to get serious about energy independence. Our over-reliance on fossil fuels poses a threat to our economy, our international competitiveness, our national security, and our climate system. That's why I've joined Senator Hillary Clinton to call for a latter-day "Manhattan Project" aimed at accelerating the development of advanced energy technologies that will provide clean, reliable fuel sources and good, family-wage jobs. The Advanced Research Projects Energy (ARPA-E) Act would fund the groundbreaking research and development needed to move toward a 21 st century energy system, and would create a new office within the Department of Energy charged with leading the way toward energy independence. With an authorized funding level of $9 billion for fiscal years 2007 to 2011, the office would take on high-risk, high pay-off research to move cutting-edge energy technologies into the marketplace. With vision and focus, we can capitalize on American ingenuity, put Washington farmers in the fuel business, and break our dependence on foreign oil. 
   Enhancing Security Without Slowing Commerce or Travel 
   A proposal to strengthen security along our border with Canada could cut off border communities, slow tourism, and deliver a damaging blow to our economy. Considering the important role of international trade in driving our regional economy, and the fact that the 2010 Winter Olympics are coming to Vancouver , we need to find a way to enhance security without bringing our border to a standstill. To make sure our border crossings stay both secure and manageable, I've joined Congressman Rick Larsen and the rest of Washington state's Congressional delegation to make sure the administration minimizes any negative consequences brought on by the proposed Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. The initiative would require American and Canadian citizens to present a passport or other secure federal identification before crossing into the United States , which could slow legitimate travel and commerce between the United States and Canada and bring busy border crossings to a grinding halt. I'm calling on the Departments of State and Homeland Security to hold local public forums on the proposed changes, and consider accepting alternative forms of identification that are both secure and more affordable. Our economy depends on trade, tourism, and a border open to legitimate travel. We need to make sure we secure our border without unnecessarily harming Washington state commerce or impeding travel. 
   Putting Money Back into the Pockets of Washington Taxpayers 
   As Washingtonians begin receiving their W-2 forms, I want to make sure everyone remembers to take advantage of the sales tax deduction. Taxpayers across our state are facing the strain of sky-high energy, education, and health care costs. The sales tax deduction is a good way for them to get hard-earned money back into their wallets. In most states, taxpayers are allowed to deduct state income tax from their federal taxes. However, residents of states with a higher sales tax in place of state income taxes have not been allowed a sales tax deduction since changes to the tax code were made in 1986. In 2004, I worked to pass provisions to promote tax fairness and allow Washington state taxpayers to deduct state and local sales taxes from their annual federal income tax returns. Last year, Washingtonians used the deduction to claim $2 billion on their tax returns. Taxpayers who took advantage of the cut saved an average of over $500 each. This is about tax fairness. Without this deduction, Washingtonians get taxed twice - once when they make a purchase and again when they file their tax returns. With the sales tax deduction expiring after the 2005 tax season, I'm leading the fight to make it permanent.
   The IRS has posted tables and instructions at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/i1040sa.pdf . See page 11 for the Washington state table. There is a fact sheet on the sales tax deduction at http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=152316,00.html.
 
 