SEN. CANTWELL HELPS SOLVE TRAIN BORDER CROSSING DELAYS BETWEEN SEATTLE AND VANCOUVER
  Tuesday, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell's (D-WA) amendment to remedy train border crossing delays passed as part of the Amtrak Reauthorization bill. Currently passenger trains traveling from Canada to the U.S. are forced to switch tracks before reaching Blaine, WA, and wait for long periods of time while U.S government agents review all passenger credentials. This adds significant time to the trip. Pre-clearing travelers in Vancouver where they board would shorten travel time and make the rail service more efficient and competitive with other modes of transportation. 
  "With the 2010 Olympics coming to our region, we have to do more to avoid enormous border crossing delays while ensuring safe and efficient travel," said Cantwell, a member of the Commerce Committee. "Thousands of Washingtonians cross the U.S-Canada border every day for work and recreation and that number will go up dramatically for the Olympics. We need to keep border crossings secure and minimize any unnecessary delays."
  Specifically, Cantwell's amendment directs the U.S. Department of Transportation to work with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and its Canadian counterparts to create procedures and a facility at the Vancouver, BC Amtrak station to pre-clear passengers traveling from Canada to the U.S.
  Currently, Immigration and Customs Enforcement operates out of the Vancouver Amtrak station, and the Customs and Border Protection performs its clearance of passengers prior to the train arriving at the Blaine station. Pulling the train over on a side track and examining all passenger credentials to clear the train is responsible for a majority of the three hours it takes to get to Seattle from Vancouver by train. Both the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver, BC and the second Amtrak Cascades train beginning service next summer mean that this delay will only grow more cumbersome.
  The Amtrak Reauthorization bill, which passed the Senate Tuesday by a vote of 70 to 22 with Cantwell's amendment attached, reauthorizes Amtrak through 2012 and requires new initiatives aimed at improving Amtrak's management, transparency, and efficiency. The bill also includes improvements to the nation's intercity railway system.
 
 