CONGRESS GIVES FINAL APPROVAL TO SEN. CANTWELL BACKED PORT SECURITY PACKAGE
  Early Saturday morning, the Senate gave final approval to legislation backed by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) that will significantly improve security at America's ports. The package includes Cantwell-sponsored provisions to strengthen ferry security in Washington state, scan cargo loaded directly onto rail cars for radiation and implement a pilot program to test an Integrated Container Inspection System at three foreign ports that ship cargo to the U.S. The comprehensive port security package, spearheaded by Sens. Susan Collins (R-ME) and Patty Murray (D-WA), given final approval by Congress on Friday, would establish minimum cargo container security standards, provide incentives to encourage shippers and importers to improve security beyond minimum standards, and authorize $400 million in port security improvement grants. The president is expected to sign the legislation in the next few days.  
   "Washington's ports are indispensable gateways that drive our economy and help get our local products around the globe," said Cantwell. "By making them more secure, we're protecting jobs, protecting our economy, and protecting the millions of Washingtonians who live near our harbors. A real commitment to improving security at our ports will make our nation safer and our economy stronger. Our work to make our ports 100-percent safe is still not over, but the comprehensive package we sent to the president today takes significant steps to close security gaps, safeguard countless jobs, and enhance the safety of all Americans. " 
   One of the amendments offered by Cantwell and included in the final version of the legislation would improve security at ports that load containers directly onto and off of rail cars. Currently, U.S. customs officials do not scan these containers. Cantwell's amendment would establish a test center at a U.S. port that moves a majority of its cargo containers to and from ships on on-dock rail to test technologies that can scan rail containers for radiation. Many container ports and transport companies are moving to on-dock rail systems to reduce costs, improve efficiency, and lessen the environmental impact of using trucks. The Port of Tacoma helped lead the way in this transition as the first port in the U.S. to develop an on-dock intermodal rail yard. Today, approximately 72 percent of the cargo arriving at the Port of Tacoma is transported by rail directly from the terminal area. 
   Also included in the final version of the bill is language authored by Cantwell to improve security on Washington State Ferries. The legislation directs the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security to work with their Canadian counterparts and ferry operators to develop a plan to conduct explosive inspections of passengers and vehicles on each U.S.-bound ferry before the ferry departs from Canada. At present, explosives screenings take place when passengers and vehicles traveling from Canada disembark at ports in the U.S. For example, explosive screenings of passengers and vehicles traveling from Sidney, B.C. to Anacortes, Washington occur in Anacortes, even though ferries stop in Friday Harbor, Washington and international and domestic passengers are commingled along the way. 
   The House and Senate Both passed separate version of the legislation earlier this month. The Senate version, approved on September 14, also included a Cantwell proposal that directed the Coast Guard to accelerate inspection of ports in other countries that trade with the U.S. to ensure their compliance with international port and maritime security standards. Specifically, Cantwell's amendment would have authorized the Coast Guard to add the personnel needed to complete the inspection of foreign ports by the end of 2008 and maintain a two-year cycle for re-inspection. At present, there are only 34 Coast Guard inspectors who review security in 140 countries with ports that ship cargo to the U.S. To date, the Coast Guard has only been able to inspect ports in 59 out of the 140 countries and the agency currently maintains a re-inspection cycle of 4 to 5 years. Unfortunately, Cantwell's proposal was not included in the final version of the legislation by a conference committee called to work out differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation. A modified version of Cantwell's legislation was included. This language authorizes inspection of foreign ports participating in the Container Security Initiative (CSI) program every three years. 
   An additional provision included in the bill and cosponsored by Cantwell as an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill was also included in this legislation. It would create a pilot program at three foreign ports to test an Integrated Container Inspection System to scan cargo containers before shipping them to the U.S. The ICIS system is currently being tested by the Port of Hong Kong and represents the best available technology for achieving 100 percent container screening.
 
 