SEN. CANTWELL RELEASES NEW REPORT SHOWING BROAD IMPACT OF SKY-HIGH GAS PRICES
  Thursday, alongside seniors, medical transport volunteers, and local Meals on Wheels workers, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) highlighted the toll high gas prices are taking on Washington's economy, and released a new report showing the real impact of these prices. Families, businesses, and social services providers are feeling the strain of soaring fuel costs that have reached record levels. Legislation introduced by Cantwell would make gas price gouging a federal crime, give federal regulators the tools they need to look into oil markets, and help make sure consumers can have confidence that the prices they pay are fair and market-based. Cantwell's anti price gouging legislation is part of a comprehensive energy package she's backing to improve vehicle efficiency and invest in homegrown sources of renewable fuel.
   "These gas prices mean every business and family feels the pinch," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "Right here in Seattle, these prices are forcing cutbacks to critical social services for seniors and needy families. We need solid consumer protections and a bigger push for energy independence to get real relief to families, seniors, and businesses." 
   This spring and summer, high gas prices will cost drivers statewide about half a billion dollars more per month than they paid just four years ago. At the same time, oil industry profits have risen from $57 billion in 2003 to $129 billion in 2006. First quarter profits for Exxon Mobil, whose $40 billion windfall last year was the highest for any company ever recorded, rose 10 percent over last year. Energy prices also contributed to increases in the Consumer Price Index this year. During the first four months of 2007, consumer prices have risen 4.8 percent, and every time oil prices increase by 10 percent for a sustained period of time, we lose between $26 billion and $142 billion in economic growth. 75 percent of small businesses have said that increasing energy costs impacted their businesses. To view the full Cantwell report, visit: http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/Cantwell_Gas_Prices_Report.doc 
   At Wednesday's event, Cantwell joined Senior Services Meals on Wheels Program Manager Judy Ruehlman, Vice President of King County Senior Services Margaret Strachan, and Senior Services Volunteer Transportation Program Coordinator Joanne Leahy. Volunteers at Meals on Wheels in Seattle may have to cut back deliveries from two meals a day to one if they do not raise additional funds soon. High fuel costs are also hurting transport services that help seniors get to medical appointments. Many volunteers can no longer afford to cover the cost of gas on their own, and Senior Services cannot afford to reimburse them. Virginia Storm, a 76-year-old Volunteer Transportation Program client and SeaTac resident who relies on the program for weekly medical appointments in Seattle, also attended the event.
   Cantwell also joined Mark Lins, facility manager for a DaVita Kidney Dialysis Center in Kent. Kidney dialysis patients are having trouble getting in for treatment because they simply cannot afford the trip. That means kidney centers are focusing on how to transport patients to treatment instead of other services, and it means more people are calling cash-strapped transport services, like the Senior Services program, for help. 
   Cantwell's bipartisan gas price gouging bill (S. 1263), included in fuel economy legislation (S. 357) passed by the Senate Energy Committee in mid-May, is based on her measures to ban Enron-style manipulation schemes in the electricity industry. Her legislation would give the president the authority to declare national energy emergencies during which proven price gougers would be subject to new fines and criminal penalties. It would also outlaw efforts to manipulate oil and gasoline markets.
   Under the legislation, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)-an independent regulatory agency-could conduct investigations and fine companies for price gouging. The Department of Justice would enforce criminal penalties for gas price gouging during energy emergencies declared by the President. At present, there are no federal laws on the books that address price gouging for oil and gas, though 30 states have laws similar to Cantwell's proposal, which is modeled on a New York statute that has withstood court scrutiny. The House approved a similar measure earlier this month.
   According to AAA, the current average nationwide price of gasoline is $3.19 for a gallon of regular, close to the record high of $3.23 set on May 24, 2007. The previous inflation-adjusted record was $3.22, set in March 1981. The average price in Washington state is now $3.39 per gallon, with the average Washington household paying nearly $3,000 more in gas each year than it did just six years ago. In Seattle, a gallon of regular gasoline now averages $3.38. The record high for the area is $3.47, set on May 14, 2007.
   Cantwell report on the impact of high gas prices available at: http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/Cantwell_Gas_Prices_Report.doc
 
 