COMMEMORATING MEMORIAL DAY
  Commemorating Memorial Day
   Today, we mark Memorial Day, an important opportunity for our nation to pause and remember the ultimate sacrifice made by courageous men and women to keep our nation safe. This year, we have much to be grateful for: the ongoing service of the armed forces, National Guard, and Reserve in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as the upcoming 60 th anniversary of D-Day.  
   With nations from around the world about to commemorate the historic Allied landings at Normandy, it's fitting that the National World War II Memorial on the Mall in Washington, D.C., is now open to the public. Although this monument is long overdue, it is a moving tribute to those who gave their lives in World War II and the veterans who served alongside them. 
   These brave men and women helped America battle back from one of our darkest hours and lead the free world to triumph over totalitarianism. Their accomplishments recall Winston Churchill's memorable eulogy to members of the Royal Air Force who gave their lives in the Battle of Britain, "Never in the history of mankind have so many owed so much to so few." 
   Veterans like Glenn Lane of Oak Harbor, who was recently awarded the Purple Heart for his service at Pearl Harbor - more than six decades after he fought and bled for his country - personify the service of the "greatest generation." Although he knew he was eligible to receive this high honor, Glenn never filled out the necessary paperwork. As he put it recently, "We had jobs to do, and decorations were the least of our worries." 
   It's important to remember that those who made the ultimate sacrifice include not just active duty soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines, but the many citizen soldiers who serve in the National Guard and Reserve. Earlier this month, we received a sad reminder of this fact when Specialist Jeffrey Shaver of Maple Valley died when his convoy vehicle struck an improvised explosive device in Iraq. Specialist Shaver, who served with the 1 st Battalion, 161 st Infantry of the Army National Guard, based in Spokane, was the first Guardsman from Washington state to die in combat since World War II. His loss reminds us that these men and women are every bit as important to our national security as their colleagues on active duty, and they stand ready to make the same sacrifice. 
   While Memorial Day is chiefly about remembering those who gave their lives, let us also honor the commitment of those who continue to serve in uniform. These men and women include people like Lorna Lindert, a native of Spokane who is about to retire from the Navy after 24 years of service. Lorna represents the fourth generation of women in her family who have worn their country's uniform. Together, she and her family members have served not just in the Navy, but in the Army, Air Force, and Marines. Our national security depends on the contributions of the men and women who volunteer to serve in the armed forces, and Lorna's three decades of commitment to the Navy and her family's long history of service embody that principle. 
   On Memorial Day, as we remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our nation, let us also remember those who served, and those wear our country's uniform today. To all of them, we say thank you.
 
 