SEN. CANTWELL, LOCAL MILITARY WIDOWS CALL ON CONGRESS TO IMPROVE BENEFITS FOR SPOUSES OF SOLDIERS KILLED IN ACTION
  Monday in Federal Way, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined local military widows to call on Congress to improve the benefits for the spouses of American soldiers killed while serving their country. With Debbie Bridges and other local military widows, Cantwell discussed bipartisan legislation she's backing to make sure survivors receive the full federal benefits to which they are entitled. 
   "Our current survivor benefits system should do as much as possible for these families who have already sacrificed so much," said Cantwell. "We can't forget about the husbands, wives, and children of the brave men and women who have given their lives for our county. They need to know our government will be there for them and stand by them in their time of need."  
   Currently, there are two main programs that are supposed to provide benefits to military widows and widowers following the active duty death of a spouse: the Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) program and the Survivors Benefit Plan (SBP). Under the present system, any payment received through DIC leads to a dollar-for-dollar reduction in SBP benefits - meaning that DIC does little to increase the actual benefits spouses receive. For instance, Bridges should receive $1062 a month from the Survivors Benefit Plan, which is considered her husband's retirement benefit. Instead, after her DIC funds are deducted, she receives only $29 a month from SBP, and it is considered taxable income. The legislation Cantwell is backing would provide Bridges with an additional $1033 a month, ensuring that she receives the full SBP benefit of $1062. 
   To correct the problem, Cantwell signed onto the Military Retiree Survivor Benefit Equity Act in 2005 after hearing from Debbie Bridges, the current president of the Gold Star Wives local chapter. Bridges contacted Cantwell after she had difficulties getting the benefits she was promised and asked her to help get the bill passed to correct the situation she and other widows face at the very worst time. 
   The Military Retiree Survivor Benefit Equity Act, included in the Senate version of the 2007 Defense Authorization bill, would end the policy of subtracting DIC payments from SBP benefits, ensuring that spouses received full benefits from both programs. In mid-June of this year, the Senate passed the bipartisan bill, sponsored by Cantwell and 35 other senators, as part of legislation to fund the Defense Department in 2007, but it is not in the House version of the bill. 
   To help make sure this measure remains in the final version of the broader bill, Cantwell wrote to members of a Conference Committee called to work out differences between House and Senate versions of the Defense Authorization bill. In her letter, sent Monday, Cantwell underscored the importance of improved benefits and urged conferees to approve the Senate-passed language. 
   "Our brave men and women serving at home and around the world continue to demonstrate their willingness to give so much for our nation," Cantwell wrote. "When our servicemen and servicewomen make the ultimate sacrifice for our country, their loved ones deserve to know that their nation is providing them the assistance necessary to cope with the tremendous loss and provide for their families." 
   The Military Retiree Survivor Benefit Equity Act is supported by the Gold Star Wives and numerous veterans groups. The Gold Star Wives, founded in 1945, serves the survivors of service members who died while on active duty or from service-related disabilities. Debbie Bridges' husband, 33-year-old Army Staff Sergeant Steven Bridges, was killed on December 8, 2003 when his Stryker combat vehicle overturned in Iraq. 
   [The full text of Cantwell's letter follows below] 
   July 3, 2006 
   Dear Chairman Warner and Hunter and Ranking Members Levin and Skelton, 
   I want to thank you for your continued efforts to support the men and women who serve in our United States military and the families that sacrifice with them. Our brave men and women serving at home and around the world continue to demonstrate their willingness to give so much for our nation. When our servicemen and servicewomen make the ultimate sacrifice for our country, their loved ones deserve to know that their nation is providing them the assistance necessary to cope with the tremendous loss and provide for their families. 
   I am a cosponsor of legislation currently before the Senate, the Military Retiree Survivor Benefit Equity Act, which would end the current reduction in payments provided to military widows under Survivors Benefit Plan (SBP) by the level of benefits granted to widows under the Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC). In anticipation of the conference negotiations on the FY 2007 Defense Authorization Act, I ask that you retain language included in the Senate version (Sec. 642) to eliminate the offset related to the benefits provided under the Survivors Benefit Plan and Dependency and Indemnity Compensation. The financial crisis facing many widows already suffering under the tremendous weight of losing a loved one can together represent a nearly unbearable burden. Widows who lost a loved one through service to our nation should be given every opportunity from the federal government to continue providing for themselves and their families. 
   I was proud to support the fiscal year 2007 Defense Authorization Bill that passed the Senate without opposition last month. I know similar provisions aimed at ending the SBP/DIC offset were included in the Senate version of the FY 2006 Defense Authorization Bill. I was proud to be an original cosponsor of the amendment that added this language. Unfortunately, despite overwhelming support in the Senate, these provisions were dropped during conference negotiations with the House of Representatives last year. 
   I know all of you understand the sacrifice that our military men and women and their dedicated, patriotic families make in service to our nation. I look forward to working with you to support the Senate proposal aimed at assisting families already dealing with the tremendous loss of their heroic loved ones. 
   Sincerely, 
   Maria Cantwell 
  United States Senator
 
 