WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  ADVANCING TSUNAMI SAFETY LEGISLATION
   The latest tsunami scare in the Indian Ocean is a reminder that the Senate needs to move the Tsunami Preparedness Act to the top of our agenda and quickly pass it. I co-sponsored this bill, which will formalize our nation's role in creating a global tsunami warning system and start getting federal resources into the hands of vulnerable communities in our state.  
   Our bill is important to Washington state because of the similarities between the Cascadia fault off our coast and the fault in the Indian Ocean that's creating the tsunami threat there. Some 45,000 Washingtonians live within a mile of the Pacific coastline. Our state is vulnerable to near-shore tsunamis generated by the Cascadia subduction zone. This huge fault lies right off the coast and is disturbingly similar to the zone off Sumatra. It hasn't caused a major earthquake and tsunami event in 300 years, but during a hearing earlier this year, an expert told me there is a ten to fourteen percent change of another major Cascadia quake within the next 50 years. We must act now to help local communities prepare for this contingency.
   PROTECTING CONSUMERS AND CATTLEMEN FROM MAD COW
   On Friday I asked the Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee to begin consideration my bill to help prevent the spread of Mad Cow disease, by banning the riskiest material from the nation's supply of animal feed. My legislation, the Animal Feed Protection Act of 2005, would strengthen current Food and Drug Administration rules by putting in place a comprehensive ban on the use of "specific risk materials" (SRM) in all U.S. animal feed, and banning the import of feed that may contain SRM. 
   SRM is already outlawed in cattle feed, but federal regulators have failed to eliminate SRM from all animal feed-despite the February 2004 recommendations of an international review team commissioned by the U.S. Department of Agriculture after the discovery of a Mad Cow case in Mabton. Since then, many foreign markets, including Japan, have been closed to American beef. My bill provides will ensure that our domestic cattle are not fed materials that could spread Mad Cow disease to our cattle and beef, protecting American consumers and restoring international confidence in American beef. Listening to You on Social Security
   Last week, four of my fellow Senators - Patty Murray, Barbara Mikulski, Mary Landrieu, and Barbara Boxer - joined me to lead a town hall forum on Social Security. I appreciate the fact that so many of you took time out of your day to come share your thoughts on this important issue. As Congress debates the future of Social Security, I will be guided by three principles. First, any adjustments to the program should start from the premise of "doing no harm." Second, we must return to fiscal discipline and repay the Social Security Trust Fund. Third, Congress should focus on ways to give Americans new, creative incentives to save outside of Social Security. This program is particularly important to women seniors, but it's an important lifeline to all elderly Americans. That's why whatever we do, we must protect and strengthen Social Security. 
   CALLING ATTENTION TO THE CONNECTION BETWEEN ID THEFT AND METH CRIMES
   Last week I met with local law enforcement officials in Spokane, Seattle, and Vancouver to discuss the link between identity theft and methamphetamine crimes. For example, I received an email from a police officer in Lakewood who told me "this is the number one issue" he faces on patrol. He's not alone - all over Washington state, cops are struggling to find the resources to fight the meth problem. Meanwhile, the meth epidemic is creating a wave of identity theft, which is one the fastest growing crime in the nation. Yet no national data exists to document the emerging connection, and there is no comprehensive strategy to deal with these dual crimes. That's why I want the Department of Justice to conduct a national investigation of the issue, including a statistical analysis of the correlation between meth and identity theft crimes. Our local police need help - now. 
   VISITING WASHINGTON, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, April 7, at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my website at http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html. For more information, please visit my website: http://cantwell.senate.gov.
 
 