SENS. LAUTENBERG, CANTWELL STUDY ON OCEAN ACIDIFICATION FROM GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PASSES COMMERCE COMMITTEE
  Wednesday, the Senate Commerce Committee approved a bill by U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) to study and address ocean acidification. The bill would create a comprehensive national ocean acidification research and monitoring program to coordinate federal strategies addressing this little understood, but potentially devastating, consequence of global climate change. Senators Ted Stevens (R-AK), John Kerry (D-MA), and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) are also cosponsors. 
  "We can no longer ignore the impact carbon dioxide has on our oceans," said Cantwell, Chair of the Senate Subcommittee on Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries and the Coast Guard. "We're already seeing the impact of climate change in the Pacific Northwest and off our coasts in the Pacific Ocean. More acidic oceans will threaten the very foundation of our local marine ecosystems. If we fail to address climate change and increased acidification, we'll be jeopardizing all of our hard-fought conservation gains and put thousands of local jobs at risk. Puget Sound, our coasts, and our Northwest salmon runs depend on confronting this problem. With our scientific expertise, Washington is well-poised to lead the way." 
  Cantwell's subcommittee held a hearing in May 2007 on the effects of climate change and ocean acidification on living marine resources. Testimony at that hearing indicated that ocean acidification has the potential to adversely impact ecosystems and the food chain for many fish and marine mammals, as well as the economies of coastal states that rely upon the seafood industry or coastal and ocean tourism. 
  Atmospheric carbon dioxide, which is driving climate change, is responsible for ocean acidification. Emissions of carbon dioxide have increased the global atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration by 35 percent. Over half a trillion tons of carbon dioxide--or one third of all CO2 emissions since the start of the industrial revolution--have been absorbed by our oceans. Carbon dioxide reacts with seawater to form carbonic acid, and in excess, causes oceans to become more acidic. This hinders the ability of reefs to rebuild and can dissolve the shells of animals such as plankton, scallops, clams, lobsters, and others forming the base of the food chain.
 
 