AT PORT OF TACOMA, SEN. CANTWELL ANNOUNCES APPROVAL OF LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE CARGO CONTAINER INSPECTIONS
  Wednesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) toured the Port of Tacoma for a first-hand look at current security measures and received a briefing on the challenges the port faces in scanning rail cargo containers for radiation. Legislation sponsored by Cantwell and given final approval by Congress late Friday night directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish a center to test technologies to scan cargo loaded directly onto rail cars. At present, U.S. customs officials do not scan these containers.  
 Cantwell's proposal was included in comprehensive port security legislation that the president is expected to sign into law in the coming days. "As we talk about securing our borders and communities, our ports must be a top priority, not an afterthought," said Cantwell. "With the new center, we'll test technologies that will strengthen security at our ports, especially ports like Tacoma that depend on on-dock rail. Today, rail carries almost three quarters of the port's cargo to and from shipping terminals. Millions of cargo containers pass through our ports each year and more than 100,000 workers in our state depend on these key hubs to support their families. Identifying and deploying cutting-edge technologies to scan more cargo will not only make our ports more secure, but will also help protect our communities and our economy." At present, U.S. customs officials do not scan containers loaded from container ships directly onto rail cars at our ports. Cantwell's amendment to the port security bill will establish a test center at a U.S. port that moves a majority of its cargo containers to and from ships using on-dock rail. Today, approximately 72 percent of the cargo arriving at the Port of Tacoma is transported on rail. The center, which could be located at the Port of Tacoma, will test technologies that can scan rail containers for radiation. Scanning containers that are moved by rail involves significant logistical challenges. Many trains moving in and out of a port can carry hundreds of containers double-stacked on 50 or more cars. At present, the only way to scan a container on rail is to stop the entire train and transport each container of interest through a Radiation Portal Monitor on a separate vehicle, resulting in significant delays and compromising the competitive edge of ports using on-dock rail. Many container ports and transport companies are moving to on-dock rail systems to reduce costs, improve efficiency, and lessen the environmental impact of using trucks. 20 to 25 rail cars - about 1.5 miles' worth - equal 250 to 300 containers or trucks off the road. The Port of Tacoma helped lead the way in this transition as the first port in the U.S. to develop an on-dock intermodal rail yard. The comprehensive port security package, given final approval by Congress last Friday, establishes minimum cargo container security standards, provides incentives to encourage shippers and importers to improve security beyond minimum standards, and authorizes $400 million in port security improvement grants. The measure also contains Cantwell-sponsored provisions to strengthen ferry security in Washington state, increase inspection of security regimes at foreign ports, and implement a pilot program to test an Integrated Container Inspection System at three foreign ports that ship cargo to the U.S. Cantwell has also worked to secure funding for grant programs to make our ports safer. This year, Congress provided $168 million in Port Security Grants, including $2.5 million for the Port of Tacoma. Since the Port Security Grant program's inception in 2002, the Port of Tacoma has received $4,226,748 in grant funding.
 
 