SEN. CANTWELL LEADS 39 OTHER SENATORS IN FIGHT TO STOP WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT CUTS
  Wednesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) called on Congress to stop an administration proposal to slash funding for Workforce Investment Act (WIA) programs. Cantwell is leading a bipartisan coalition of senators calling for full funding of WIA initiatives, which boost employment and workforce skill levels, and help ensure that local workers meet the needs of area businesses.  
   "Workforce development programs are critical to keeping America competitive in today's fast-paced global economy," said Cantwell. "Washington is the most trade-dependent state in the nation. Our jobs and our economic success depend on our ability to provide highly skilled, adaptable workers. America needs a strong workforce development system. We simply can't afford to cut this successful program if we want our economy to grow." 
   Estimates released Wednesday by Cantwell show that proposed cuts would strip a total of $15.4 million from communities throughout Washington state. The hardest hit counties - Chelan, Douglas, Grant, Kittitas, Klickitat, Yakima, Adams, and Okanogan - would lose 29 percent of their WIA funds. Yakima, Spokane, Clark, Pierce, and Snohomish Counties stand to lose up to $1.8 million each, while King County could take a $3.2 million hit. 
   In a letter to Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Tom Harkin (D-IA), chairman and ranking member of the Senate Budget Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, Cantwell led a bipartisan coalition of 39 senators to request full funding for Workforce Investment Act programs. 
   Washington's Workforce Development Councils, funded by WIA, coordinate the state's workforce development system to meet the specific needs of local businesses. The councils develop new training initiatives, coordinate existing programs, and provide recruitment and retention services to help businesses find workers with the specific skills and attributes they need. The statewide network of WorkSource Centers helps more than 12,000 people enter employment each month. Each year the federal government holds the WIA system accountable for 17 specific performance outcomes, which Washington state consistently meets or exceeds. 
   As the first in her family to graduate from college - with the help of federal student aid - Cantwell has long championed Workforce Investment Act programs and other federal investments in America's economic future. 
   To view county-by-county WIA funding estimates, visit: 
  http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/04_05_06_Impact_of_FY07_Proposed_Budget_on_WIA.doc
   To view Cantwell's letter to the Senate Budget Committee leaders, visit: 
  http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/04_05_06_WIA_FY07_Appropriations.pdf.
 
 