WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  PROTECTING PUGET SOUND FROM OIL SPILLS
   The Puget Sound is at the heart of our economy, tourism, and quality of life. A major oil spill would be devastating to Washington businesses, consumers, fisheries, and families. While we've thankfully avoided a major spill so far, we've still had over 80 significant spills in Washington state waters over the past two decades. To strengthen our oil spill prevention safety net, I'm introducing legislation that will provide financial support for Washington's newly formed Oil Spill Advisory Council, require a permanent rescue tug in Neah Bay near the entrance to the Strait of Juan de Fuca, and direct the Coast Guard to reduce the risks of oil spills from activities that are now largely unregulated such as transfers between vessels and land-based facilities. "The Oil Pollution Prevention and Response Act" would also increase liability caps for parties responsible for an oil spill to bring them more in line with the actual cost of cleaning up a spill, and would require more comprehensive inspections of single-hull oil tankers. It would also require double tug escorts for oil tankers operating in Puget Sound and Prince William Sound, initiate an analysis of oil transportation in the United States to determine if additional safeguards are needed, and require the identification of ecologically or economically important natural resources--such as fisheries, marine sanctuaries, and important estuaries--that could then be protected through routing and other navigational measures. 
   Puget Sound is one of the world's most complex and congested waterways, and the Strait of Juan de Fuca is often plagued with driving wind and rain that reduce visibility. Approximately 600 oil tankers and 3,000 oil barges travel through Puget Sound's fragile ecosystem annually carrying about 15 billion gallons of oil to Washington state's five refineries. We need to put common sense protections in place so we can balance our energy needs with safeguards that protect our environment and preserve Puget Sound. 
   IMPROVING FERRY SECURITY
   Last month, the Senate Commerce Committee approved my legislation to dramatically improve security on Washington state ferries. Currently, some ferries leaving Canada for the U.S. are screened only after they arrive at U.S. ports, presenting a serious risk to passengers and population centers along Washington's shoreline. Almost 50,000 cars and 150,000 passengers entered Washington state unscreened on these ferries last year. We don't let passengers board airplanes without being screened first. It makes no sense to let vehicles, passengers, and cargo from Canada disembark on U.S. soil before being screened just because they arrive by water. My legislation would direct the Departments of Homeland Security and State to develop a plan to inspect passengers and vehicles on each U.S.-bound ferry before it departs from Canada. The current policy of conducting security screenings in the United States presents a serious security gap as ferries are most vulnerable during transit. Failing to screen during loading puts vessels at risk for hijacking and could allow terrorists to use a ferry to deliver weapons of mass destruction to the Port of Seattle or other densely populated areas. We need to do better, and my legislation will initiate an important step in the right direction.
   GIVING PARENTS THE TOOLS THEY NEED TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM SEX OFFENDERS
   Last week, the Justice Department added Washington state to the National Sex Offender Public Registry. Linking Washington to this registry means tangible improvements in protecting children from sex offenders. The Registry, launched in June 2005, now includes 38 states, the District of Columbia, and one territory. The site allows parents and other concerned citizens to search publicly available information on sex offenders and where they live through a single, centralized search engine at http://www.nsopr.gov. 
   I have long fought to give citizens better access to information on sex offenders, and have cosponsored legislation to better link state tracking systems, put in place stronger, nationwide registration standards, and provide additional tools to law enforcement officers working to keep our communities safe. "The Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act," which awaits approval by the full Senate, would also make failure to follow registration requirements a felony, punishable up to 10 years for first offenses, and 10 years to life for second offenses. 
   DEMANDING PROGRESS AT HANFORD
   The Department of Energy owes the public a full and complete account of what is happening at Hanford. There are troubling discrepancies between media and congressional accounts of vitrification plant construction costs. The public has a right to know what's going on at one of the largest, most complex nuclear waste cleanup sites in the country, and I'm demanding that DOE release all reports on the Hanford vit plant in un-redacted and complete form. We need to clear up these discrepancies and make public all information on progress at the plant so we can move forward with clean up efforts. We can't shortchange America's nuclear legacy at Hanford, and I will continue pushing for honesty, progress, and full funding of cleanup efforts.
 
 