WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  MAKING BIODIESEL FROM WASHINGTON CROPS
   Last Thursday, the Senate Energy Committee held an all-day biofuels conference featuring testimony from more than 30 experts, alternative energy pioneers, and industry representatives. The conference-an important step in developing new energy independence legislation-also included the testimony of a leading researcher from Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in the Tri-Cities and the president of Imperium Renewables, a Northwest biodiesel producer building the largest biodiesel production facility in the country in Grays Harbor County. In conjunction with the conference, Imperium Renewables announced that this week it received its first shipment of Washington state-grown canola oil, and plans to use Washington-grown canola to produce one million gallons of biodiesel annually. Producing large amounts of fuel in Washington state from Washington state crops is a groundbreaking step and a sign that we can grow our own fuel right here in our own backyards. There's real demand for homegrown fuel and real opportunity for Washington farmers to grow and refine a significant amount of the fuel we need here in our state.
   KEEPING NORTHWEST ELECTRICITY AFFORDABLE 
   The president, once again, is using his annual budget proposal to try and raise Pacific Northwest electricity rates. The Bush Administration's plan, included in its fiscal year 2008 budget proposal, would make an end-run on Congress to reverse the Bonneville Power Administration's (BPA) long-standing system of using revenue from the sale of surplus power to lower electricity rates for Northwest consumers. This backdoor rate hike plan is nearly identical to a proposal defeated last year by all eight senators from Washington, Oregon, Idaho and Montana. As far as I'm concerned, this rehashed plan to squeeze extra dollars out of our state by dismantling a long-standing BPA policy is dead on arrival. I will once again work with my Pacific Northwest colleagues to stop the president's ill-advised proposal and make sure our decades-old system of cost-based rates stays intact. 
   CRACKING DOWN ON VIOLENT GANGS
   We cannot ignore the rise in gang violence affecting too many of our communities. That's why I've joined with Senator Dianne Feinstein in introducing legislation to combat violent gangs, cut gang membership, and keep violent gang members behind bars. Our bill, the Gang Abatement and Prevention Act, would strengthen federal law to help prosecutors and law enforcement fight back against gangs. It would also authorize more than $1 billion over the next five years to help local law enforcement identify areas especially prone to gang violence, target at-risk youth for gang intervention and prevention initiatives, and deliver more resources to law enforcement agencies. 
   CELEBRATING BLACK HISTORY MONTH
   During Black History Month, America looks to its past and honors the great achievements of courageous individuals and strong communities. As a nation, we reflect on the tremendous distance we've come and consider how far we still have to go. With renewed energy and dedication, I am proud to stand up for equality and justice. Everyone deserves a chance at the American dream. In the Senate, I will continue fighting to make that opportunity available for all Americans and to commemorate the legacy of those who struggled and fought to ensure a brighter future for the generations that followed.
   DC OFFICE MOVE
   Over the weekend, my Washington, DC office moved to room 511 in the Dirksen Senate Office Building-a new space closer to the Capitol Building, committee offices, and the Senate floor. All office phone numbers, including the main line, 202-224-3441, will remain unchanged.
 
 