SEN. CANTWELL HONORED FOR STEADFAST SUPPORT OF WASHINGTON STATE AEROSPACE INDUSTRY
  Monday morning in Everett, the Aerospace Futures Alliance (AFA) of Washington honored Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) for her work on behalf of Washington state's aerospace industry. Founded earlier this year, the AFA brings together state aerospace companies of all sizes to support aerospace in Washington and foster better connections throughout the industry. Cantwell received the award for her dedication to the industry's success, and for her work to promote investments in the new technologies needed to secure Washington's place on the cutting edge of technological innovation for years to come.  
   "The thousands of highly skilled Washingtonians working in the aerospace industry today supply our economy with the momentum we need to lead the way in innovation," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee's Aviation Subcommittee and the Senate Small Business Committee. "By capitalizing on our technological expertise and skilled workforce, we can build on our state's proud aerospace history. To help give the industry the support it needs to meet the challenges of the future, I'll continue fighting in Congress to support aerospace in our state." 
   To spur innovation, Cantwell has long championed efforts to make the Research and Development Tax Credit permanent, and succeeded in passing legislation to create a Center of Excellence at the University of Washington for the development of advanced commercial airplane materials - including composites and aluminum alloys. Cantwell also secured funding for a two-year degree program in advanced composite technology at Edmonds Community College to help train area workers in skills that closely match the needs of Boeing's new 787, and has worked to increase funding for math and science education. 
   Cantwell is working with a bipartisan group of Senators to promote fair competition in the aerospace industry by calling on European governments to reject unfair subsidies for Airbus. In particular, Airbus has benefited from a unique subsidy known as "launch aid," which is risk-free, low-cost government funding for the development of new lines of aircraft. The company only needs to repay the loans if the new product succeeds. This means Airbus remains unfettered by marketplace realities, while American companies must assume realistic levels of commercial risk. Cantwell was an original cosponsor of a bipartisan, Senate-passed resolution opposing launch aid and requesting WTO action.
 
 