WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  DEMANDING BETTER CARE FOR OUR WOUNDED SOLDIERS
   Disrepair and neglect at Walter Reed Army Medical Center-the site where many returning U.S. servicemembers receive treatment for severe wounds incurred in the line of duty-is absolutely unacceptable and demands our immediate and close attention. To end intolerable living conditions and deliver our wounded soldiers the respect and high-quality care they deserve, I've joined a coalition of my colleagues in introducing the Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act. This legislation would require cleaner, better facilities and improved inspections. It would also expand counseling services for wounded soldiers and their families, eliminate excessive paperwork, address understaffing, and set up a new oversight panel charged with ensuring first-rate care at America's military medical centers. 
   Since the start of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, at least 126 Washington state servicemembers have received treatment at the facility. It is absolutely inexcusable that these or any other wounded members of our Armed Forces, injured while serving their country, received anything less than the best care available. Our commitment to these brave men and women does not end when they return home or when they leave the military. They sacrificed immeasurably for their country, and deserve far better.  
   FIXING NATIONAL GUARD EQUIPMENT SHORTFALLS
   A new report detailing severe National Guard equipment and budget shortfalls, and describing National Guard exclusion from important decision-making processes, shows the tremendous strain placed on our citizen soldiers. We've known about equipment shortfalls for years. That's why I worked with the Washington State National Guard on legislation, signed into law last year, to help make sure our country's National Guard units aren't forced to leave their equipment behind for good when they return from missions overseas. But as last week's report confirms, we still have more work ahead. That's why I'm backing bipartisan legislation to end the practice of keeping our National Guard on the sidelines when it comes to Guard-related policy and budget decisions. 
   The measure would give the National Guard Bureau Chief a seat on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and make a National Guard officer the Deputy Commander of the United States Northern Command, which oversees our domestic military mission. Standing by our National Guard must be a top priority and I will keep working to make sure they get the equipment they need to train and stay prepared to aid our country abroad and help out here at home during emergencies and natural disasters. 
   IMPROVING HOMELAND SECURITY
   This week, the Senate will continue working on legislation to implement the remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations, and I've introduced two key amendments to improve the bill. The first would help northern border communities cover the cost of detaining and prosecuting suspects charged with federal border crimes. Border counties in Washington pay for and prosecute as many as 85 percent of the border arrests made in our state each year. We're already helping our southern border communities with security costs. It's time we do the same along our northern border.
   My other amendment, introduced Friday, would require the president to create a coordinated strategy-out of the many existing, unfocused policies-to combat extreme poverty around the world. The 9/11 Commission report recommended, as part of a comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy, economic policies that "encourage development, more open societies, and opportunities for people to improve the lives of their families and enhance prospects for their children." If we're going to implement the full recommendations of the commission, we must do it while addressing the security risks posed by extreme poverty, and must implement a real plan to combat poverty on a global scale.
   I'm also backing two other amendments. The first, passed by the Senate last week, would create a Rural Policing Institute to assess the needs of rural and tribal law enforcement and develop new training programs. The second would complement my northern border amendment by setting up a grant program to supply additional resources to local law enforcement officers working along America's borders. Law enforcement agencies could use the funds to hire additional personnel, obtain new equipment, and upgrade technology.
 
 