WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  Cutting Down Border Delays Between Seattle and Vancouver, BC
   Last week my amendment to remedy train border crossing delays passed Congress as part of the Amtrak Reauthorization bill. Thousands of Washingtonians cross the U.S-Canada border every day for work and recreation and that number will go up dramatically for the 2010 Olympics. Currently passenger trains traveling from Canada to the U.S. are forced to switch tracks before reaching Blaine, Wash., while U.S government agents review all passenger credentials, creating unnecessarily long delays. We have to do more to prevent enormous border crossing delays while ensuring safe and efficient travel. My amendment directs the U.S. Department of Transportation to work with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and its Canadian counterparts to create procedures, and a facility at the Vancouver, BC Amtrak station to pre-clear passengers traveling from Canada to the U.S. I believe we need to keep border crossings secure and minimize any unnecessary delays.
   Media Diversity on the Horizon with Low-Power FM 
   In an era of mass media consolidation, helping increase media diversity and access for a broad range of perspectives across America is critical. That's why Senator John McCain and I have worked together for years to advance media diversity starting with lower-power non-commercial community-based FM radio stations. Last week, the Senate Commerce Committee passed our bill, The Local Radio Community Act of 2007. The bill will not only increase the number of low-power FM stations nationwide, but will help local groups and other community-based organizations to provide programming responsive to local community needs and interests. We need to ensure a wide range of voices are heard on the radio in all media markets, large and small.
   Continuing the Fight on Oil Market Transparency
   Americans need to be able to trust the prices they are paying at the gas pump and after the lessons of Enron, I'm particularly concerned that there isn't enough oversight and market transparency in oil and gas markets. Unfortunately bureaucratic turf wars and lack of interagency cooperation have held up effective implementation of key consumer protections and transparency in the energy markets. As energy prices continue to rise dramatically, a jurisdictional battle between the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) will only weaken both Commissions and prevent consumers from paying the burden of uncooperative agencies. Last week, I wrote to the Chairmen of CFTC and FERC to ask them to develop a plan within 45 days to deliver effective oversight for energy markets and implement federal anti-manipulation provisions. We need better consumer protections and the federal government needs better tools to shed more light on what's happening in oil and gas markets.
   Ending Tax Breaks for Mining on Public Land
   Right now, mining companies are using America's public lands for free and their bottom lines are benefiting from the rich mineral deposits they find on those lands. Yet, these companies still receive a large tax break from the government. Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI) and I introduced legislation last week to end this uncalled for tax break. The Elimination of Double Subsidies for Hardrock Mining Industry Act of 2007 will end the "percentage depletion allowance," a concept created nearly a century ago to spur exploration and extraction of natural resources. But America has changed since the 1800s and now because of this allowance, mining companies are given what is equal to a double subsidy for their use of public lands: first, they are allowed to mine on federal lands for free and then, under the percentage depletion allowance, they are allowed to take tax deductions beyond the value of investments they have made. This unnecessary tax subsidy is an open-ended drain on our federal treasury that costs American taxpayers millions. We must do more to restore fairness to the tax code and getting rid of this century-old tax break that punishes taxpayers is a good place to start.
   FCC Needs to Give Public Enough Time to Participate
   On Friday, I wrote to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), along with Congressman Jay Inslee, asking them to give the public four weeks notice of the date of the hearing for media ownership in Seattle. Just hours after the FCC received this letter, FCC Chairman Kevin Martin announced the final public hearing on this issue in Seattle on November 9th,giving the public little time to make plans to participate. Our democracy is strengthened when a vast array of voices have access to the airwaves, print, television and the Internet. No one should be allowed to corner the marketplace for ideas and everyone's voice should be heard. Anyone who wishes to participate in these public hearings must have enough time to do so. This should not be about checking the box. Announcing a public hearing at the last minute is counter-productive and does not permit real public input on this critically important issue. I encourage everyone who has thoughts about this critical issue to attend the hearing and make your voice heard.
   The hearing is scheduled to take place in Seattle on Friday, Nov. 9. Testimony will be heard from 4 p.m. to 11 p.m. at Town Hall, 1119 Eighth Street, Seattle.
   Visiting Washington, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the opportunity to meet you. Most Thursdays at 8:30 a.m., I will host a coffee for constituents in my Washington, D.C. office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441 so we can be sure to hold a spot for you.
 
 