SEN. CANTWELL APPLAUDS USDA DECISION EXTENDING DISASTER RELIEF TO WASHINGTON FARMERS
  Tuesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the Secretary of Agriculture's decision to make disaster assistance grants available to Washington state wheat and tree fruit growers following severe thunder and hail storms in early July that decimated many local crops. In August, Cantwell toured an Okanogan County orchard and met with local apple, cherry, and pear growers to discuss the urgent need for federal disaster relief. In letters sent to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, Cantwell also urged quick federal disaster relief for hard-hit tree fruit and wheat growers.  
   "This announcement is great news for our farmers, their communities, and our state's economy," said Cantwell. "Agriculture is key to our economic health, supporting thousands of jobs and dozens of communities. Disaster relief grants will help get our farmers the support they need to continue growing the signature crops that keep our economy strong." 
   The USDA decision makes farmers in Adams, Benton, Chelan, Douglas, Franklin, Grant, Lincoln, Okanogan, Spokane, Walla Walla, Whitman, and Yakima counties, as well as several contiguous counties, eligible for disaster assistance grants. 
   Between July 4 and 6, thunderstorms with rain and hail caused severe damage to crops across much of central Washington. Chelan, Douglas, and Okanogan counties each lost nearly one-tenth of their total apple crop, Okanogan county lost five percent of its total cherry crop, and Chelan County lost 20 percent of its total pear crop. The July storms, however, had a much more severe impact on individual orchards, leaving many completely destroyed while neighboring orchards were left undamaged. 
   Following the storm, Cantwell backed a request by Governor Christine Gregoire for federal assistance. In a July 18 letter to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, Cantwell asked him to support Gregoire's request to designate several counties as farm disaster areas, which would make them eligible for federal assistance. In mid-August, a local USDA Farm Service Agency (FSA) team from Spokane completed its assessment of the damage and submitted a recommendation to Secretary Johanns that he issue a disaster declaration. In a second letter, Cantwell asked Secretary Johanns to reach his decision and make Washington growers eligible for assistance as soon as possible. 
   To qualify for a disaster declaration, a county must experience an average crop loss of 30 percent. However, if a county's crop loss average is below 30 percent, disaster loans can be made available to producers who are able to show crop losses and prove they cannot obtain financial assistance through a commercial lender. Eligible growers can receive loans up to $500,000 at an interest rate of 3.75 percent. 
   Cantwell will also work to secure disaster assistance grants for local growers in agriculture disaster legislation for the 2006 growing year that will likely come up next year once 2006 loss totals have been assessed in full.
 
 