SEN. CANTWELL ASKS PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL ENERGY SUMMIT ON BREAKING AMERICA'S OIL ADDICTION
  Thursday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, led 52 Members of the House and Senate calling on President Bush to convene a bipartisan energy summit to move America toward greater energy independence and security.  
   "We need strong leadership, decisive action, and a bold long-term plan if we're going to break America's oil addiction and make energy independence a reality," said Cantwell, the Senate Democrats' point person on energy issues. "Our nation needs solutions and a serious discussion among all stakeholders. A national energy summit is a crucial step toward greater national security and economic strength. If we're serious about keeping America competitive and safe, we need to create reliable domestic sources of alternative energy." 
   In a letter sent Thursday, Cantwell and 51 other Members of Congress, including Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), asked President George Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney to convene an emergency energy summit to protect consumers, promote innovation, and spur economic growth through the development of long-term solutions to America's energy needs. Cantwell is calling for an open and transparent summit with oil companies, automakers, alternative fuel producers, consumers, scientists, environmentalists, transportation experts, state and local leaders, and other stakeholders. 
   "Securing our nation's energy future is among the biggest economic and national security challenges faced by our generation," the Members of Congress wrote. "The status quo--in which the security of the United States and the vitality of our domestic economy is left to the whims of foreign regimes and companies that may not have the best interests of our nation at heart - is simply not an option. How your Administration and Congress rise to meet this challenge will be one of the most important tests on which future generations of Americans will come to measure our leadership and resolve." 
   Cantwell is the chair of the Senate Democrats' Energy Independence 2020 national campaign working to break America's overdependence on foreign oil, protect working families from skyrocketing energy costs, stop unfair market manipulation by energy companies, and invest in reliable sources of affordable fuel.
   To view the letter to President Bush, visit http://cantwell.senate.gov/news/04_06_06_energy_summit.pdf.
 
 