FLOODING: SENS. CANTWELL, MURRAY URGE PRESIDENT TO QUICKLY APPROVE GOVERNOR'S REQUEST FOR FEDERAL ASSISTANCE
  Today, U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray sent a joint letter to President Bush urging him to quickly approve the federal assistance that Governor Chris Gregoire has requested. In addition, Cantwell met with Admiral Thad Allen, Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard to discuss the Coast Guard's response to the disaster. The Senators will be touring flood zones on Saturday with Governor Gregoire and Congressman Norm Dicks (D-WA-06). All nine members of the House of Representative's Washington delegation signed on to the letter. 
  [The text of the letter follows below]
   December 6, 2007
  President George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
  Washington, DC 20500
  Dear Mr. President:
  We write to urge you to approve as quickly as possible the federal disaster declaration requested by Governor Chris Gregoire on December 6, 2007.
  As you know, on December 2, 2007, a very strong wind and rain storm swept through Washington state, causing heavy wind and water damage across much of Western Washington. At least four people have lost their lives, and thousands of people must now try to repair the damage to their homes and businesses. Major interstate traffic routes, including Interstate 5, the primary transportation artery between Seattle and Portland,
  have been closed due to widespread flooding.
  The many seriously-impacted counties and communities in Washington are responding well to this disaster, as is the state of Washington. However, a disaster of this magnitude also requires federal assistance to help in the recovery effort. We therefore urge you to approve a federal disaster declaration as soon as possible.
  Thank you in advance for your quick attention to this matter.
  Sincerely,
  Sens. Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray, Reps. Jay Inslee, Rick Larsen, Brian Baird, Doc Hastings, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Norm Dicks, Jim McDermott, David Reichert and Adam Smith
 
 