SEN. CANTWELL REITERATES DEMAND FOR PUBLIC RELEASE OF FULL HANFORD VIT PLANT REPORTS
  Tuesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) called on the Department of Energy (DOE) to release in full a recent report on the Hanford vitrification plant. In response to a letter Cantwell sent Thursday calling for the release of the report, DOE made public a redacted version with large sections blacked out. Given recent discrepancies between media and congressional accounts of cost increases and ongoing construction delays at the Hanford site, Cantwell sent the letter to Secretary of Energy Sam Bodman to underscore the need for DOE to clear up discrepancies by releasing complete reports without delay.  
  "The redacted report we got today doesn't cut it," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "Last week I asked DOE to release an un-redacted and complete report to the public now. We need to clear up discrepancies between media and congressional accounts of vit plant construction costs. It's time to end the political maneuvering so we can get the job at Hanford done right. Once again, I call on DOE to release un-redacted and complete reports to the public now." 
   Cantwell has long advocated for adequate clean up of the Hanford site, and has fought tirelessly for full funding of cleanup efforts. Last month, Cantwell questioned Energy Secretary Sam Bodman on a recent audit that stated the Department of Energy will miss a key cleanup deadline, and fought to boost significantly reduced cleanup funding. The administration's budget for Fiscal Year 2006 cut $297 million from Hanford clean up compared to the previous year's funding levels. Recently, the Bush Administration has proposed cutting an additional $100 million in already appropriated funds for vitrification plant construction. 
   [The text of the letter Cantwell sent last week follows below] 
   December 1, 2005 
   Samuel Bodman Secretary, Department of Energy 1000 Independence Avenue SW Washington, DC 20585 
   Dear Mr. Secretary, 
   I am writing to request that the Department of Energy and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers publicly release any reports provided to select Members of Congress and media outlets related to the Hanford vitrification plant. Disclosing this information to the Congress and the American public is critical for the ongoing efforts to cleanup America's nuclear legacy at the Hanford site. 
   The Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Conference Report cites an Army Corps Report as the source of information confirming a four-year delay in vitrification plant construction and dramatically increasing project costs. I am concerned that while the Department has chosen not to release the Army Corps report publicly, copies of the report have been leaked to media outlets. 
   There are discrepancies between media reports and congressional report language on the construction costs of the vitrification plant - despite the fact that both the media and congressional language cite Corps of Engineers reports as the source for their information. While I understand that the Department wants to present the most accurate and best available information, the differences in cost figures that now exist can only have a negative effect in understanding the funding needs for Hanford cleanup. Full disclosure of this report and other available information would rectify this situation. 
   The Conference Report notes that the Hanford vitrification plant has had a "troubled history" and rightfully asks the Department to provide periodic reports on the management and progress of the vitrification plant. Members of Congress must have the best available information in order to execute their oversight and appropriation functions. The lack of disclosure by the Department continues to negatively affect the credibility of the government, the Department of Energy specifically, and has impacted the Hanford cleanup budget in the appropriations process. Complete and full disclosure of the Army Corps of Engineers reports is critical to achieving the federal government's legal and moral commitments to cleanup America's nuclear legacy at Hanford. 
   I look forward to your prompt response. 
   Sincerely, 
   Maria Cantwell
  United States Senator
 
 