SEN. CANTWELL: DISMAYED BY REPUBLICAN REFUSAL TO CONSIDER FARM BILL
  Responding to Republican leadership attempts to block debate of the Farm Bill, Thursday U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) pledged to continue to fight for Washington farmers in the strongest Farm Bill for the state in recent years. The Farm Bill of 2007 includes critical provisions that will benefit Washington state farmers, who grow more than 250 varieties of fruits, vegetables, as well as wheat and other crops. Washington is ranked first in the nation in the production of numerous several specialty crops, including apples, red raspberries, sweet cherries, pears, and Concord grapes. With $2.2 billion directed towards fruit and vegetable programs, the 2007 Farm Bill is the best in history for specialty crop growers. Additionally, the bill contains strong nutrition and conservation titles--both priorities for Cantwell. 
  "I will continue to fight for our farmers who grow Washington's apples, cherries, wheat and asparagus," Cantwell said. "By refusing to consider the Farm Bill, Republican leadership is taking us in the wrong direction. Washington farmers contribute to our state and national economy; and by not moving forward on this crucial legislation we are leaving them out in the cold. My top priority in this year's Farm Bill was working through the Finance Committee to make sure that our local farmers got the help they need."
  From her seat on the Finance Committee, Cantwell set aside an estimated $850 million for specialty crops in a disaster relief trust fund which will help farmers when disaster strikes, destroying crops. 
  Cantwell also got the Agriculture Committee to accept her amendment refining the Tree Assistance Program (TAP). While other programs provide only for disaster assistance involving apples, cherries, pears or other crops themselves in the event of a disaster, TAP focuses on helping growers replace and replant the actual tree on which their crop is grown-particularly for Washington state. Cantwell's amendment had six co-sponsors, including Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Ron Wyden (D-OR).
 
 