WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  VETERANS DESERVE BETTER ACCESS TO EDUCATIONAL BENEFITS
   A week ago I attended a Memorial Day ceremony at Tahoma National cemetery, honoring the courageous service of the men and women who gave the ultimate sacrifice to keep our nation safe. This week I will introduce legislation that will help veterans obtain the educational and training benefits they were promised.  
   When troops return home from Iraq and Afghanistan, I want them to have increased access to educational and training opportunities afforded by the Montgomery GI Bill. The GI Bill provides America's veterans, active-duty personnel, and Reserve and Guard members with the resources necessary to pursue higher education after, or during, their military service. 
   Unfortunately, these education benefits expire 10 years after an active duty soldier is discharged, and 14 years after Reserve members retire. While almost all soldiers contribute a share of their paycheck to the GI Bill program during their service, only about half end up taking advantage of the benefits before the expiration date. Some soldiers were too injured from their service to attend school right away, some faced a difficult transition to civilian life, and some were forced to postpone school so they could support their families. Regardless of their personal circumstances, we should not stop veterans from going to school because of an arbitrary time limit. 
   My "GI Bill for Life" will ensure that these educational opportunities are lifelong, allowing service members and veterans the flexibility to seek education and job training opportunities when it is the right time for them to do so. We promised our veterans access to educational and training opportunities, and we must deliver. 
   KEEPING ENERGY DEVELOPMENT ON THE FRONT BURNER
   The last few weeks I've written a lot about the exciting potential of biofuels as an alternative energy source, and the role Washington state can play in the technology's advancement. Last week I discussed an amendment I added to the Senate's energy bill that would allow Washington state better access to the biofuel production market, so consumers can access cheaper fuel, and our agricultural sector can create new jobs. 
   In addition, I believe Washington state is poised to play a key role in the transformation of our nation's electricity grid - by educating the next generation of energy innovators, and leading the way when it comes to 21st Century efficiency technologies. That's why I was pleased to also add two additional amendments to the Senate Energy Committee's legislation, which will keep the United States and the Pacific Northwest at the forefront of developing a cleaner, more diverse and efficient "smart grid" of the future. 
   One of my amendments, adopted by the Committee, supports power and transmission engineering programs at America's universities, like those offered at Gonzaga, Washington State University, and the University of Washington. These programs are critical, because the utility industry is bracing for a shortage of engineers, and we need sustained research in this area to prevent blackouts like those experienced on the east coast in 2003. My amendment requires the government to monitor and identify workforce shortages, plus provide grants to enhance training in these fields. We can't let a looming shortage of qualified engineers jeopardize the reliability of our electricity grid or stymie the innovations that will ultimately make our energy system more cost-effective and efficient. 
   I was also successful in adding an amendment to the energy bill that will create a national plan for the development of "smart buildings," which would both conserve energy and provide a healthy environment for those living - and working - inside. Many buildings today have inefficient climate control systems that not only waste energy, but also subject occupants to discomfort or adverse health effects. My amendment develops a plan that allows government and energy-conscious businesses to work together to use new materials, designs, and wireless technologies to conserve energy while monitoring air quality. 
   This energy bill, if done correctly, can do some great things for the American economy and our everyday lives. We need to solve the shortages and needs of today while keeping an eye on those of the future. These two amendments will help us reach that goal. 
   COLLEGE PREP PROGRAMS SHOULD BE SAVED
   I was the first in my family to graduate from college, and couldn't have done it without the help of federal Pell grants, so I know that the transition from high school to college can be tough. Fortunately, thousands of Washington state students have benefited from a group of education programs designed to help students make this transition. 
   The programs, known collectively as TRIO, provide students with mentoring and guidance as they prepare to apply, pay for, and succeed in college. The programs are a great success, with 99 percent of the students graduating from high school, and 69 percent graduating from college. 
   Unfortunately, the President's budget eliminated the TRIO programs, and despite efforts by Democrats and Republicans in the Senate to reinstate the funding, the future of the programs remains in doubt. I sent a letter with a bipartisan group of senators last month urging the Appropriations Committee to increase funding for TRIO, so more students in Washington state can take advantage of the programs' offerings. In this uncertain economy and questionable job market, we need to expand programs that help our students succeed, not cut them. 
   VISITING WASHINGTON, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, June 9, at 8:30 a.m., I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington, D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a reservation form online by visiting my web site at http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html 
   For more information, please visit my web site: http://cantwell.senate.gov
 
 