SEN. CANTWELL HOSTS ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION ON POOR RADAR COVERAGE ON COAST, OFFSHORE WATERS OF WASHINGTON
  Thursday, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) convened a meeting of local, state, and federal officials to discuss Washington's lack of necessary equipment to track weather patterns and what that means for the safety of communities in the state. Next week, Cantwell, Chair of the Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard Subcommittee, will hold a hearing on the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA's), 2009 budget. 
   "Despite having the worst non-tropical storms in the nation, Washington State has the worst weather radar coverage of any U.S. coastline," said Cantwell. "Our nation's weather radar system has a gaping blind spot right over the outer coast of our state, placing our communities at risk and hindering the everyday lives of our citizens. I will continue pushing NOAA for a solution to what is clearly an unacceptable situation."
   Considering that the Washington coast experiences some of the strongest storms in the nation, with frequent hurricane force winds, often accompanied by flooding and landslides, the safety and economic needs of the regional require adequate weather radar coverage. For example, a single radar on the central Washington coast could view storms over a hundred miles offshore. Considering the critical nature of weather for a wide range of Northwest industries like fishing, shipping, and timber the frequent use of coastal waters for military transport and military exercises, weather radar coverage for these areas must be addressed and solved.
   "Those of us in the meteorological community truly appreciate the efforts of Senator Cantwell, who is leading our congressional delegation in filling this important observational gap. The result will be far better forecasts and warnings for Washington State residents and businesses," University of Washington Professor Cliff Mass, a participant at today's meeting.
   In the fiscal year 2008 Omnibus bill, Cantwell secured funding for NOAA to study how best to address the weather radar gap in Washington state.
 
 