WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  PUTTING A STOP TO BORDER TUNNELS
   In July 2005, a Canadian agent discovered a 360-foot smuggling tunnel after seeing a pickup truck take loads of dirt from a small building on the Canadian side of the U.S.-Canada border near Lynden, Washington. The agent contacted U.S. authorities who caught three individuals using the tunnel to smuggle drugs into the U.S. Surprisingly though, there is no law on the books banning the construction or financing of these tunnels, and suspects only face drug conspiracy or illegal immigration charges. To empower law enforcement to punish those who finance, build, and use these tunnels, I've joined Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Jon Kyl (R-AZ) to introduce tough new legislation to make border tunneling a federal crime. Authorities have discovered well over 30 border tunnels since 9/11, and there are likely many more we don't know about.  
 They're usually used to smuggle drugs, but could also become conduits for illegal aliens, terrorists, or weapons. The new law I'm working to pass would punish guilty parties for the actual tunnel construction with a prison term of up to 20 years. In addition, any person convicted of using a tunnel to smuggle aliens, weapons, drugs, terrorists, or illegal goods would be punished with a doubled sentence for the underlying smuggling offense. Our bill would also hold property owners accountable, punishing those who permit others to construct or use an unauthorized tunnel on their land. 
   PROTECTING AMERICA'S LAST PRISTINE FOREST LANDS
   Last May, the Bush Administration overturned the 2001 Roadless Rule, and with it, safeguards that protected 58.5 million acres of America's last remaining pristine federal forests. Pushing roads through America's untouched forests to subsidize short-term logging and mining is bad policy, unfair to future generations, and against the wishes of a majority of Americans. To conserve our treasured natural resources, I've reintroduced commonsense legislation to make the 2001 Roadless Rule law. My bill promotes sensible forest management, allowing for hazardous fuels reduction, forest stewardship projects, and limited economic activities, but would keep roads out of these forests and prevent them from becoming a reckless patchwork of road-building, logging, and mining. The Forest Service already has a maintenance and reconstruction backlog of $8.6 billion dollars on 386,000 miles of existing roads. We need to strike a fiscally and environmentally responsible balance, preserve America's last wild lands, and say no to spending money we don't have to subsidize the logging industry. 
   KEEPING PRIVATE CELL PHONE RECORDS AWAY FROM DATA BROKERS
   Right now, online data brokers openly advertise their ability and willingness to obtain and sell anyone's cell phone records--no questions asked. When these private records are at the fingertips of anyone willing to pay, we have a serious problem. That's why I joined a bipartisan group of senators last January as a co-sponsor of the Consumer Telephone Records Protection Act to put a stop to this practice. Last week, both the House and Senate Judiciary Committees passed our bill, which would replace the current system of vague laws with a comprehensive new standard to punish those who lie, provide false documents, or hack into customer accounts over the internet to obtain cell phone records. Our bill also bars individuals from intentionally selling confidential phone records. Guilty parties would face a $250,000 fine and five years in prison. We need to make sure all sensitive personal information, including cell phone records, stays private. The Senate Judiciary Committee took an important step last week, and I'm going to keep working to make sure we get this legislation passed and signed into law. 
   OBSERVING NATIONAL WOMEN AND GIRLS AIDS AWARENESS DAY
   This Friday, March 10, marks the first National Women and Girls HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, a time when we reflect on the damage caused by AIDS and work to raise awareness of its impact on women. Women make up an ever increasing share of AIDS cases in the U.S., jumping from only 8 percent of new diagnoses in 1985 to over 25 percent today. The AIDS epidemic has hit low-income women and women of color, especially African-American women, particularly hard. While there is still no cure for AIDS, treatment, education, and prevention efforts can limit the number of future victims significantly. We must fully support efforts to combat AIDS, and continue our work to help those living with this disease as well as their families, friends, and caregivers. To this end, we must reauthorize the Ryan White Care Act and address how we deliver care, support and medications to those impacted by this devastating disease.
   HONORING YOUTH FOR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND VOLUNTEERISM
   The Congressional Award is the highest honor given to young Americans by the U.S. Congress. The program is non-competitive and encourages our country's youth to improve and enrich themselves and their communities through volunteer work and personal challenge. This is an honor earned for the achievement of individual goals through hard work in each of four program areas: public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration. To learn more, or to register, visit http://www.congressionalaward.org.
 
 