SEN. CANTWELL SPEAKS AT RALLY TO PROTECT SOCIAL SECURITY, STOP PRIVATIZATION
  Thursday on the steps of the Capitol, Sen. Maria Cantwell joined other members of Congress and hundreds of seniors and concerned citizens for a rally to protect Americans' Social Security from privatization. Cantwell has consistently opposed efforts to privatize Social Security. She has worked to create additional savings accounts to help Americans supplement their savings, but believes converting Social Security accounts to un-guaranteed private accounts is too risky to guarantee Americans the secure retirements they deserve.  
   [Cantwell's remarks as prepared for delivery at Thursday's rally follow below] 
   "Every American deserves the right to do better for their families and to look forward to a secure retirement in their future. 
   "That's why we are here today. 
   "Today in Washington state more than 590,000 retired workers receive Social Security benefits. Their average monthly benefit of $965 brings them just $11,919 each year. 
   "Well, we've had to fight for those seniors-in Spokane and Vancouver, in Seattle and Yakima. 
   "As Democrats, we stood united to stop the Administration trying to privatize Social Security. And we were successful. 
   "But we are here today, because our fight for solid Social Security continues. 
   "President Bush called privatization his top priority last year. And with the Republicans in Congress, he's not giving up this year. 
   "Well if we hadn't stopped the administration last time, their plan would have added hundreds of billions more to our dangerous deficit. It would have caused a devastating 85 percent cut to guaranteed benefits for Washington workers. 
   "Privatizing social security won't fix our nation's safety net; it will stretch thin and tear it apart, at a time when hard-working families and seniors are counting on it most. 
   "We are here today because our top priorities are economic opportunity and genuine affordability. Those are the choices we make. 
   "But instead, this Administration wants to put all of that at risk. 
   "Instead of doing what's right-instead of doing what they ought to-the Republican Congressional leadership keeps making the wrong choices. 
   "Well we won't let them. Democrats will never stop fighting to make sure Washington working families have their shot at the American Dream."
 
 