SEN. CANTWELL COMMENTS ON EXPANDING, MAKING MT. RAINIER MORE ACCESSIBLE ACT
  Statement of Senator Maria Cantwell
  Hearing on the Expanding and Making Mt. Rainier More Accessible Act
   "Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this important hearing today on my bill to expand Mount Rainier National Park, which I introduced along with Senator Murray last February. This is a bipartisan effort, and last week the House passed nearly identical legislation championed by my delegation colleague Representative Jennifer Dunn. 
   "We Washingtonians are incredibly fortunate to live near so many pristine and beautiful public lands. Mount Rainier towers over the Puget Sound region and has a special place in the hearts of Washingtonians. The Park is also an important part of our economy and each year hosts over a million visitors from all over the world.
   "However, without this legislation, access to the Park from Seattle and Tacoma will get more difficult and expensive. That's because the Carbon River keeps washing out the road at the northwest corner of the Park. Unfortunately, the river is now higher than the road, and we are unlikely to be able continue stopgap road repairs much longer.
   "To ensure that visitors will continue to have camping and hiking opportunities - including the only day-hike accessible glacier in the continental United States - this bill authorizes a small, but critical, boundary expansion of Mount Rainier National Park to allow the National Park Service to acquire 800 acres of land from willing sellers.
   "The bill would allow NPS to build a replacement campground and lowland hiking trails, alleviate the need for costly road repairs, and protect additional riparian habitat for endangered salmon, bull trout, spotted owls, and marbled murrelets.
   "I am pleased to report that the private landowners within the proposed expansion area actively participated in the development of this proposal and enthusiastically support this legislation. In fact, they are eager to sell their land to the National Park Service so that these lands will be permanently protected for future generations to be able to enjoy them as much as they did.
   "While this legislation will make Mount Rainier National Park safer and more accessible for families and outdoor enthusiasts, it is important to note that this expansion will also promote the local economy. Outdoor recreation is more than a leisure activity, it is also a key part of our economy.
   "By improving access to the park, this bill will make it easier for visitors to enjoy the park and to purchase goods and services in nearby communities. I'd like to submit for the record a letter I received from business and community leaders - including elected city and county government officials, outdoor industry retailers, and other local tourist-related business owners - that details the economic benefits the Park provides.
   "Mr. Chairman, thank you again for holding this hearing. I look forward to working with you and our Senate colleagues to ensure swift passage of this important legislation."
 
 