SEN. CANTWELL BACKS NOMINATION OF WASHINGTONIAN FOR SLOT AT FERC
  At a Senate Energy and Natural Resources hearing on Thursday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) urged the Senate's swift confirmation of Washington state's Philip D. Moeller for a top job at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the nation's chief energy regulator. Moeller, who was raised in Spokane and served for four years as top energy aide to former Sen. Slade Gorton (R-WA), was nominated by President Bush earlier this year to fill one of five seats at FERC. Moeller would be the first commissioner from the Pacific Northwest since the Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977 created FERC as it exists today.  
   "Throughout his career in both public service and the private sector, Phil has earned a reputation for his in-depth knowledge of complex energy policy issues, and common-sense, proactive, balanced approach to problem-solving," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "When I joined this Committee in 2001 in the midst of the Western energy crisis, it became clear that is was time to add a voice from our region to the Commission. We have never had a FERC Commissioner from the Pacific Northwest, and I am confident that Phil will be an able practitioner of the Northwest tradition of collaboration, consensus and innovation on energy issues. As a FERC commissioner, Phil will be a great asset to our region and American consumers." 
   Moeller has been nominated to fill the term vacated by former FERC Chairman Pat Wood, which would expire in 2010. Cantwell and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) have backed Moeller's candidacy for a slot at the Commission since 2001. While working for Gorton, Moeller helped develop legislation to establish mandatory and enforceable electric reliability standards--initially passed by the Senate three years before the largest blackout in U.S. history struck the Northeast and Midwest in August 2003. The Energy Policy Act of 2005, which became law last summer, included provisions advocated by Cantwell which were based on this original bill. In her introduction today, Cantwell also touted as an example of Northwest innovation Moeller's efforts to help make broadband available to rural communities using the Bonneville Power Administration's fiber optic backbone. Today, many local exchanges in rural areas of Washington state tap into this system, which is crucial for economic development. 
   Cantwell believes that a FERC commissioner from the Northwest will help the agency make sound decisions regarding Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) issues, hydroelectric relicensing, and consumer protection. Cantwell is currently working with her colleagues from the Pacific Northwest to block an administration proposal to raise BPA power rates. Cantwell is also working to stop energy market manipulation, and make sure Northwest ratepayers harmed by Enron during the Western energy crisis receive a fair settlement. Under provisions included in last year's energy bill that were authored by Cantwell, FERC is responsible for determining whether entities like Washington state's Snohomish PUD should be forced to pay Enron for power it never deliver during the Western energy crisis; as well as implementing measures to ban manipulation of electricity and natural gas markets and crack down on unscrupulous energy traders. Last month, as part of this ongoing effort to ensure fair and functional energy markets, Cantwell joined Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) in introducing bipartisan legislation to enhance the transparency of energy commodity trading - up to 80 percent of which takes place beyond the reach of federal regulators, thanks to the "Enron loophole" in U.S. commodity trading laws.
 
 