SEN. CANTWELL'S LEGISLATION TO EXPAND MOUNT RAINIER NATIONAL PARK SAILS SMOOTHLY IN SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE
  This afternoon the Senate Subcommittee on National Parks held a hearing on Sen. Maria Cantwell's legislation that would expand the boundaries of Mt. Rainier National Park by roughly 800 acres. Today's hearing paved the way for the bill to move forward and be considered by the full Energy and Natural Resources Committee and then the U.S. Senate. The bipartisan bill is expected to move through the Senate process easily. 
   Cantwell's legislation would improve access for visitors to the park, allow for a new campsite to be built, and save taxpayers money that will no longer be needed to repair damages to a road that frequently gets washed out.
   "Mount Rainier is a national treasure," Cantwell said. "This expansion is critical to preserving the park's natural environment and improving access for visitors, all while giving a boost to the local economy." 
   In addition to saving taxpayers money, Cantwell's bill will also give a boost to the eastern Pierce County economy. Business and community leaders from throughout the area offered their support to the bill in a letter to Cantwell earlier this year. Mount Rainier National Park is an enormous factor in the economic health of eastern Pierce County. According to a recent study conducted by Michigan State University, visitors to Mount Rainier spent over $24 million in 2001, supporting nearly 800 jobs and $13 million in personal incomes in communities surrounding the Park. In addition, it is estimated that Mount Rainier visitors spent $6.75 million at local restaurants and bars, and $5.5 million at regional lodging facilities. 
   Cantwell's bill, the Expanding and Making Mount Rainier National Park More Accessible Act (S. 2140), will authorize the purchase of a three-mile strip of land along the Carbon River, extending Mount Rainier National Park's northwest boundary and adding approximately 800 acres to the park. It would be the largest expansion of the park in more than 70 years. 
   The area Cantwell's bill would set aside for park protection contains one of the last inland old-growth rainforests in the country. It will also link Mount Rainier National Park to Pierce County's Fairfax Forest, creating a corridor that can be used by migrating elk and other animals. Property owners of the land designated for purchase support Cantwell's bill.
 
 