SEN. CANTWELL APPLAUDS SENATE MOVE TO INCREASE HOME HEATING ASSISTANCE FOR FAMILIES IN NEED
  Wednesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) applauded the Senate's approval of legislation to increase available home heating assistance funds for seniors, families, and the working poor. This winter's record high home heating costs have taken a toll on Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funds. Legislation passed by the Senate late Tuesday night will supply Washington state with an additional $462,000 for the state LIHEAP program, and make an additional $500 million in LIHEAP funds available to the president to help cold weather states meet the needs of their low-income citizens.  
   "The need for energy assistance far outpaces funding currently available, and many Washington households are in dire need of the support we approved last night," said Cantwell, a member of the Senate Energy Committee. "We have a responsibility to help families and seniors struggling with cold weather. The $462,000 just released will deliver real help to hundreds of Washington families struggling with enormous home heating bills." 
   The LIHEAP legislation approved Tuesday makes an additional $462,000 available for immediate use by Washington state. The legislation further increased the funds available this winter by making $1 billion originally appropriated for Fiscal Year 2007 available during Fiscal Year 2006. The president will be able to release $500 million of these emergency funds to states and citizens in need at his discretion. The State of Washington has spent nearly all of its 2006 LIHEAP funds. 
   Cantwell has fought for months to secure additional funds for LIHEAP. In a letter to the president last Wednesday, Cantwell joined Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Jack Reed (D-RI) and others to call on the president to release the remaining $101.5 million in LIHEAP contingency funds. The $101.5 million was included in an appropriations bill passed last year, but can only be released by the Bush Administration, or by a mandate from Congress. Tuesday night's vote will deliver funds directly to states, including the $462,000 for Washington state, and makes more contingency funds available at the discretion of the president. 
   LIHEAP is a federal block grant program that provides states with annual funding to operate home energy assistance programs for low-income households. In addition to helping low-income families and the elderly pay their energy bills, LIHEAP funds energy crisis intervention programs, low-cost residential weatherization, and other energy-related home repairs. There are 300,000 households eligible to receive LIHEAP assistance in Washington state.
 
 