SEN. CANTWELL: ADDRESS NATIONAL GUARD'S EQUIPMENT, TROOP NEEDS
  Wednesday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) called for a review of National Guard needs, including equipment and troops levels, in view of proposed funding cuts, troop restructuring, and today's longer, more frequent deployments. Since September 11, 2001, more than 6,000 members of the Washington Army and Air Guard have been deployed around the world--all but 800 of them to Iraq. 
   "I want to make sure the men and women of our National Guard have the support and equipment they need to respond to natural disasters and safeguard our nation's security safely and effectively," said Cantwell. "When these brave men and women put their lives on the line for us, we have a responsibility to help them in their mission as much as we can."  
   Cantwell's request comes, in part, in response to proposed National Guard funding cuts. In a letter to the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves, Cantwell asked for an examination of how present and proposed troop structures and equipment levels will allow the Guard to respond to current and foreseeable national security needs. The Commission, created by Congress in 2005, is charged with recommending needed changes to ensure that the Guard and Reserves are organized, trained, equipped, compensated, and supported to meet national security requirements. 
   "Given the increased federal utilization of the National Guard, many Governors and Adjutants General have expressed concern about the impacts of proposed troop reductions and shortfalls in the availability of needed equipment," Cantwell wrote. "State military officials want to ensure that the National Guard has the number of troops and equipment necessary to meet federal requirements, homeland security missions, and to provide vital support to domestic civil emergencies and disasters. 
   "Providing adequate equipment for our National Guard continues to be a challenge," Cantwell continued. "Today, Washington's 81st Brigade has 106% of its authorized troop level of 3,807 but only 60% of its equipment." 
   The president's Fiscal Year 2007 budget proposal includes funding for an Army National Guard year-end troop level of 332,900--17,100 fewer troops than in 2006. In addition, the Army plans to convert six National Guard combat brigades to combat support units, which could make it more difficult for the Guard to meet near-term training needs and long-term military requirements. 
   Since 2002, the Washington National Guard has aided federal military missions overseas, responded to local civil emergencies, and supported recovery efforts along the Gulf Coast following Hurricane Katrina. The largest single deployment was the 81st Brigade Combat Team of 3,300 Washington Guardsmen who served in Iraq from March 2004 through March 2005. [The text of Cantwell's letter to the Commission on National Guard and Reserves follows below] 
   March 8, 2006
   Arnold L. Punaro
  Chairman, Commission on the National Guard and Reserves
  2521 South Clark Street, Suite 650
  Arlington, VA 22202
   Dear Chairman Punaro and Members of the Commission, 
   I want to take this opportunity to thank you for your willingness to serve as members of the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves. Like you, I believe our country has a number of important challenges in order to provide for our national security and homeland defense. Your work and recommendations related to the National Guard and reserve components will provide important input for policy makers and the American public. 
   The National Guard has always played a critical role for our nation. Members of the National Guard continue to meet critical military and security needs while serving as the link between our communities and the military embodied in our Constitution. 
   As you know, the roles of the National Guard and reserves have evolved a great deal since the end of the Cold War. The National Guard and reserves can no longer be considered and resourced as solely strategic reserves of the Air Force and Army. Current operations, transnational threats and domestic emergencies will increase the use of the Guard and reserve for both military support to civilian authorities and to execute our nation's military strategy. As such the National Guard and reserves must be adequately resourced and equipped as operational reserves able to quickly and flexibly respond to foreign and domestic missions. 
   Given the increased federal utilization of the National Guard, many Governors and Adjutants General have expressed concern about the impacts of proposed troop reductions and shortfalls in the availability of needed equipment. As you know, the Administration's budget request for fiscal year 2007 includes funding for an Army National Guard year-end troop strength of 332,900, a reduction of 17,100 or 4.8% versus the authorized level of FY '06. State military officials want to ensure that the National Guard has the number of troops and equipment necessary to meet federal requirements, homeland security missions, and to provide vital support to domestic civil emergencies and disasters. 
   The Army is also proposing, against the recommendations of the Governors and the Adjutant General Association of the United States, converting six National Guard combat brigades to combat support units. State officials are concerned that the personnel and equipment turbulence from such a conversion could jeopardize Guard readiness and increase the deployment schedule for future National Guard combat brigades. 
   Providing adequate equipment for our National Guard continues to be a challenge. Last October the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that the Army National Guard has left 64,000 items valued at $1.2 Billion overseas in support of ongoing military operations. I am concerned that the GAO found that the Army could not account for more than half of these items and has not committed to an equipment replacement plan, as Department of Defense (DoD) policy requires. In WA State the 81st Army National Guard Heavy Brigade Combat Team (HBCT) alone was required to leave more than 1,400 pieces of equipment valued at $32.88 Million in theater that has not yet been replaced. Today, the 81st Brigade has 106% of its authorized troop level of 3,807 but only 60% of its equipment. 
   Since 2002, the Washington National Guard has been deployed for federal military missions overseas, responded to civil emergency missions within the State of Washington, and was deployed to the Gulf Coast in response to hurricanes last summer. Like you, I want to ensure that the National Guard is able to effectively and safely meet current and future federal and state missions. In light of the current operational tempo of the US military and particularly the National Guard, I urge the Commission to examine how National Guard force structure and equipment levels will allow the Guard to meet current and foreseeable national security and domestic preparedness requirements. 
   Thank you again for your willingness to serve our great nation. I look forward to the dialogue your efforts will create and will be very interested in your input. 
   Sincerely, 
   Maria Cantwell 
  United States Senator
 
 