WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  DEMANDING ANSWERS FROM OIL EXECUTIVES
   Even before the devastation caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, skyrocketing oil and gasoline prices were taxing American families and burdening our nation's economy--with the notable exception of the oil industry which continued to rack up record profits. Oil companies recently announced they made almost $33 billion in third quarter profits. Exxon/Mobil alone made almost $10 billion--75 percent more than last year. Altogether, oil giants are expected to haul in more than $100 billion during 2005 while our economy continues to suffer and hard working families struggle to make ends meet. With gas prices twice what they were just three years ago, Washington consumers feel the pinch every time they go to the gas pump or pay their heating bill. This Wednesday, top executives from Exxon/Mobil, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, BP, and Shell will appear before a joint hearing of the Senate Energy and Commerce committees. I serve on both committees, and plan to demand that oil companies open their books and prove they are not engaging in price gouging. Our economy depends on it. For months now I've called for an investigation into possible price-gouging and have authored anti price gouging legislation that is cosponsored by 28 of my Senate colleagues. It's time hard working Americans finally got some answers. Skyrocketing energy prices mean families, farmers, and businesses must struggle just to get by.  
 We deserve straight answers, and I'm going to make sure that's exactly what we get from oil executives.
   PUSHING FOR A BETTER ENERGY FUTURE
   Using backdoor tactics to destroy America's last great wild frontier will not solve our nation's energy problems and will do nothing to lower skyrocketing gas prices. That's why I fought last week to remove language from the budget bill that would allow drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Proponents of the plan claim that drilling in the Refuge can be done in an environmentally benign way, but evidence from adjacent Prudhoe Bay indicates otherwise. According to the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, the Prudhoe Bay oil fields and Trans-Alaska Pipeline have caused an average of 504 spills annually on the North Slope since 1996. Through last year, those spills included more than 1.9 million gallons of toxic substances including diesel, crude oil, and hydraulic oil. While my amendment to remove the drilling language from the budget failed narrowly, I will continue the fight for a sensible energy policy that protects our environment and gives Americans more than just a band-aid approach. We need to give our children a future less dependent on fossil fuel, and we need to stop giveaways to big oil companies. This fight is about more than just protecting one of America's last pristine natural treasures. It's about our priorities as a nation. It's about harnessing American ingenuity to confront our dangerous oil addiction by developing affordable, reliable alternatives. 
   SUPPORTING VITAL AGRICULTURE RESEARCH 
   Last week, the Senate passed the final version of the fiscal year 2006 Agriculture Appropriations bill, giving an important boost to Pacific Northwest farmers and expanding vital agriculture research efforts at Washington State University. Agriculture is an indispensable part of our state's economy, and by supporting ground breaking agricultural research and the development of new, cutting-edge technologies, we're keeping Washington competitive and making sure the jobs stay right here at home. Most importantly, the bill restores $179 million in vital Hatch Act funding slated for elimination in the President's Budget Proposal. The Hatch Act provides resources to agriculture research programs at land-grant universities like WSU and is important to our state's continued economic competitiveness. Without this federal support, many current agriculture research programs would not exist, and WSU would have been forced to close one or more of its agricultural research centers. The legislation also includes more than $3.5 million for a new federal agriculture research facility in Pullman. In addition, it will help Washington implement a system to guard against Mad Cow by tracking Canadian cattle imports more effectively, and adds Washington to the list of states eligible for the Simplified Summer Food Service program for children. This program provides access to nutritional meals in the summer for children who receive free or reduced-fee lunches during the school year. In currently participating states, enrollment in summer food programs rose 12 percent as a result of reduced paperwork and increased reimbursements to food sponsor organizations.
   PROTECTING SENIORS FROM INCREASING MEDICARE PREMIUMS
   Instead of balancing our budgets on the backs of seniors, we need to keep Medicare accessible and affordable. Without Congressional action, a 4.3 percent cut in Medicare's physician reimbursement rates would have gone into effect on January 1, 2006. The Senate Finance Committee responded to this problem by replacing scheduled cuts with a 1 percent increase in reimbursements for doctors. However, this increase will still pass $10.8 billion in new costs directly on to seniors, resulting in a 33 percent premium increase at a time when seniors are already burdened with Medicare premium increases, expensive prescription drugs, and rising energy costs. That's why I joined colleagues last week to push the Senate to keep seniors from facing another premium hike. While our amendment failed narrowly, I'll continue fighting to protect Medicare. Currently, 780,000 Washingtonians--13 percent of the state's total population--rely on Medicare, but 57 percent of Washington doctors are already imposing limits or have stopped taking Medicare patients altogether. Additional cuts to reimbursements rates would further decrease the number of doctors willing to take Medicare patients. Cutting safety net programs at a time when more patients are served by fewer doctors is not the answer. I will continue fighting to prevent cuts to Medicare and to make sure seniors can take care of their most basic health care needs.
   HONORING AMERICA'S VETERANS
   On Veterans Day, we honor those who have fought to keep us safe, to defend our freedom, and to protect our liberty. As they have since our first struggle for independence, American soldiers today continue to put their lives on the line. As a nation, we have a distinct and important responsibility to make sure service members, veterans, and their families receive the benefits and recognition they have earned and so greatly deserve. Our state alone is home to 672,000 veterans--one out of every ten Washingtonians. Let us celebrate the service of America's military personnel and remember the many who have given their lives in the line of duty. We do so on Veterans Day, and every day. Their sacrifice is immense and our gratitude is profound.
 
 