SEN. CANTWELL URGES FINAL APPROVAL OF PLAN TO HELP KEEP NATIONAL GUARD EQUIPPED
  Friday, Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) called on Congressional leaders to keep her proposal to address National Guard equipment shortfalls in the final version of legislation authorizing Defense Department spending next year. In June, the Senate decided unanimously to include Cantwell's legislation in its version of the defense authorization bill. Cantwell's "National Guard Equipment Accountability Act," introduced in April, would mandate a system to track and replace equipment left in the theater of operations by National Guard units. This month, Congressional leaders will meet to work out differences between the House and Senate version of the defense authorization bill, and Cantwell is calling on them to preserve her proposal to help make sure the National Guard stays equipped. 
   "Our state's National Guard has left more than $30 million in equipment behind in Iraq, and the Pentagon has no plan to get this equipment replaced," said Cantwell. "We depend on the men and women of our National Guard to get us through emergencies here at home and aid military missions overseas. I'm fighting to make sure they have the equipment they need to train, stay prepared, and do their job safely and effectively."  
   In recent years, the loss of equipment overseas has hindered training capabilities and limited the National Guard's ability to respond to potential civil emergencies and natural disasters. For example, at the Pentagon's direction, the Washington Army National Guard's 81st Heavy Brigade Combat Team left approximately 1,400 items-including weapons, radios, and vehicles worth a total of more than $32 million-in Iraq for other units to use. 
   Cantwell's legislation, supported by Adjutant General Timothy Lowenberg of the Washington State National Guard, would require a system to track transferred equipment and mandate the development of plans to replace the equipment in question. It would also require a Department of Defense report detailing all National Guard equipment diverted to other units as well as an equipment replacement plan. The report would have to be completed within 90 days of the equipment's diversion. The legislation mirrors a current Defense Department policy that, according to a Government Accountability Office report, has not been followed. According to the report, the Army could not account for more than half of all items left behind at the time and has not committed to an equipment replacement plan 
   In a letter sent Friday, Cantwell asked leaders of a conference committee that work out differences between house and Senate version of the legislation to include her Senate-passed proposal in the final version of the pending Defense Department Authorization Act. 
   Since September 11, 2001, more than 6,000 members of the Washington Army and Air Guard have been deployed around the world-all but 800 of them to Iraq. During the past four years, the Washington National Guard has aided federal military missions overseas, responded to local civil emergencies, and supported recovery efforts along the Gulf Coast following Hurricane Katrina. 
   [The text of Cantwell's letter follows below] 
   September 8, 2006 
   Dear Chairmen Warner and Hunter and Ranking Members Levin and Skelton, 
   I want to thank you for your continued efforts to support the men and women who serve in our United States military and the families that sacrifice with them. Our brave men and women serving at home and around the world continue to demonstrate their willingness to give so much for our nation. When our servicemen and servicewomen make the ultimate sacrifice for our country, their loved ones deserve to know that their nation is providing them the assistance necessary to cope with the tremendous loss and provide for their families. 
   I am the sponsor of legislation, the National Guard Equipment Accountability Act, that would increase transparency and provide a clear picture of issues related to equipment refurbishment and replace for our National Guard and Reserve forces. I understand the conference negotiations on the FY 2007 Defense Authorization Act are likely to begin some time during this month. In anticipation of conference negotiations on the Defense Authorization Bill, I ask that you retain language included in Section 355 of the Senate version of the bill (Sec. 355). My legislation would require a report any time equipment is withdrawn from a reserve unit in support of ongoing military operations. The report would include a plan to replace the withdrawn equipment and to provide appropriate equipment for readiness training. Additionally, the report would require a signed memorandum of understanding (MOU) that lays out how the withdrawn equipment will be tracked and a time line for returning the equipment to the original unit. 
   My legislation is based on current Department of Defense Policy. DoD Directive 1225.6, enacted in April 2005 sets forth similar reporting and equipment tracking requirements. According to the Department of Defense, the Army National Guard has left more than 75,000 items valued at $1.7 billion overseas in support of ongoing military operations. However, the Government Accountability Office found last October that at the time the Army could not account for more than half of all items left behind at the time and has not committed to an equipment replacement plan, as 1225.6 requires. 
   I think it is critical to adequately equip both our active duty troops and our reserve forces, including the National Guard. The National Guard plays a critical role in serving multiple roles in providing for our security abroad while helping Americans respond to civil emergency mission requirements. Given those multiple missions, it is vitally important to adequately equip our members of the National Guard. Earlier this year, the Governors of every state and two territories wrote the President saying, "?attention must be paid to reequipping National Guard units with the resources they need to carry out their homeland security and domestic disaster duties?" 
   Additionally, military leaders have expressed concern about equipment shortages. Last month, National Guard Bureau Chief Lt. General H. Steven Blum said that two-thirds of the Army National Guard' s brigades are not combat ready due to equipment shortages. Further, army spokesman said that the issue of equipment shortages is affecting Guard units operating domestically. Of course, this has a negative impact on domestic response capabilities of guard units. 
   Properly equipping our active duty and reserve forces is a critical duty for our national defense. My modest amendment will help provide a more transparent picture of equipment needs and ensure equipment is tracked once left for ongoing military operations. Given the challenges we face at home and abroad, my amendment represents a modest but important approach to addressing this problem. 
   Sincerely, 
   Maria Cantwell United States Senator
 
 