WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  THE WEEK AHEAD: STEM CELLS AND TAX DAY
   Today, the Senate reconvenes with a busy schedule for the month of April. This week, we'll consider legislation to remove restrictions that currently block federal support for stem cell research. The measure also imposes strict ethical rules that are tighter than under current law. Congress passed similar legislation last year, but failed to override a veto by President Bush. We're now going to try again to get this legislation into law to save lives, alleviate suffering, and extend hope to the millions of Americans living with diseases like Parkinson's and diabetes.  
   With Tax Day set for Tuesday, April 17, Washington state taxpayers who itemize should remember to take advantage of the state sales tax deduction, which I helped get signed into law. This deduction allows Washington state taxpayers to deduct state and local sales taxes from their federal tax returns. IRS Publication 600, State and Local General Sales Taxes, which helps taxpayers determine their sales tax deduction amount, is available at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p600.pdf. Without this deduction, which is set to expire at the end of the 2007 tax season, residents of states like ours with a higher sales tax in place of an income tax bear a higher portion of the tax burden. Making this deduction permanent is one of my top priorities. I've introduced legislation to make it permanent, and worked to lay the groundwork for a permanent deduction in recently-passed Senate budget legislation.
   PRESERVING THE EAGLEDALE FERRY DOCK SITE
   I've introduced legislation in the Senate to incorporate the Eagledale ferry dock site on Bainbridge Island into our National Parks system as a National Internment Memorial. The Eagledale site served as the point of departure for 227 members of the local Japanese American community forced into internment camps during World War II. The House has already passed legislation to preserve this powerful landmark, and construction on the memorial began last year with the help of funding from private donors and the State of Washington. I'm working to get this legislation through the Senate and into law so we can preserve the site permanently and make sure this important piece of our history is never lost. My bill, like the House bill, would preserve the Bainbridge memorial as a satellite site of the existing Minidoka Internment National Monument in Jerome County, Idaho. The Minidoka site marks the place where many of those forcibly removed from Bainbridge Island were eventually sent. 
   SUPPORTING WASHINGTON WORKERS
   To support workers and working families in Washington state and across the country, I've joined 46 of my Senate colleagues in introducing the Employee Free Choice Act. This legislation would give more American workers the freedom to organize union representation. It would allow a union in any workplace where the majority of the workers want to unionize, without forcing workers to navigate a confusing bureaucratic maze. To help prevent illegal firings for union organizing, the legislation would also stiffen penalties for firing or discriminate against workers who advocate a union. Currently, employees are fired in as many as one-quarter of private-sector union organizing campaigns. At a time when many middle class families are being left behind, we need to support our workers if we're going to keep our economy and country strong.
 
 