SEN. CANTWELL, WOMEN SENATORS CALL MEDICAID CUTS UNFAIR TO WOMEN
  Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and eight women senators called on the Senate Budget Committee to protect Medicaid funding in the federal budget. In a letter to the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, Sen. Judd Gregg (R-NH), and Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND), the senators pointed out the important role Medicaid plays in providing health care to women, and particularly to low-income women and single mothers.  
   "Women are disproportionately reliant on Medicaid at every stage of their lives," the senators wrote. "Given the importance of providing care to our most vulnerable citizens and the increased economic burden that cuts or caps on Medicaid would put on the states, we urge you to oppose cuts or caps to Medicaid." 
   "Nearly 500,000 Washington women under the age of 65 would be hurt by Medicaid cuts," Cantwell added. 
   The president's budget proposes legislation to reform Medicaid and cut spending by $60 billion over 10 years. These cuts will almost certainly put the squeeze on states that are already struggling to pay their share of Medicaid costs. Those covered by Medicaid include low-income families, children, seniors, and people with disabilities - people who would otherwise have inadequate coverage or no health care coverage at all. 
   The cuts would also disproportionately affect women. Recent data show that more than 19 million nonelderly (those people under age 65) women in the U.S. - 15 percent of all nonelderly women - were enrolled in Medicaid during 2003-2003. About 16.2 million nonelderly men - 13 percent of that population - were enrolled in the program during the same period. 
   In Washington state, more than twenty percent more nonelderly women than men were enrolled in Medicaid. More than 485,000 nonelderly women were enrolled in Medicaid - nearly one in five women of that age group - during 2002-2003. For the same period, about 400,000 nonelderly men - or 15 percent of nonelderly men - were enrolled in the program. 
   The Senators' letter notes several of the ways in which women depend more than men upon Medicaid, for health care, including: 
   * One in ten adult women has health coverage through Medicaid. 
   * For women in their childbearing years, Medicaid provides critical access to family planning services to prevent unintended pregnancies and to preventive services to protect their reproductive health. 
   * Medicaid also provides vital assistance to pregnant women, financing nearly 40 percent of all births in the United States and ensuring that every new mother can give her baby a healthy start in life. 
   * Older women are also more likely to rely on Medicaid for access to prescription drugs, long term care services, and basic health care needs. 
   * Over 3.6 million older women are ensured access to benefits through Medicaid, which also helps cover Medicare payments. 
   * In addition, the Senators noted that any cuts to Medicaid will disproportionately hurt low-income women and their families: 
   * Seventy-one percent of adult Medicaid beneficiaries are low-income women. 
   * Forty percent of all single mothers are covered by Medicaid, which provides a lifeline of health coverage for these most vulnerable families, many of whom are transitioning from dependence on welfare to independent work opportunities. 
   * Medicaid coverage is essential to keeping these women employed and to the health of their children, who are more likely to be enrolled if their parents are also enrolled. 
   In addition to Cantwell, the other Senators who signed the letter are Sens. Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Mary Landrieu (D-LA), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), and Patty Murray (D-WA). 
   The text of the letter follows below: 
    The Honorable Judd Gregg 
  Chairman 
  Senate Committee on the Budget 
  624 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   The Honorable Kent Conrad 
  Ranking Member 
  Senate Committee on the Budget 
  624 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Chairman Gregg and Senator Conrad: 
   As the Senate Budget Committee begins to consider the Fiscal Year 2006 Budget Resolution, we strongly urge you to not make cuts or impose caps to Medicaid spending. 
   Women are disproportionately reliant on Medicaid at every stage of their lives. One in ten adult women has health coverage through Medicaid. For women in their childbearing years, Medicaid provides critical access to family planning services to prevent unintended pregnancies and to preventive services to protect their reproductive health. Medicaid also provides vital assistance to pregnant women, financing nearly 40 percent of all births in the United States and ensuring that every new mother can give her baby a healthy start in life. Older women are also more likely to rely on Medicaid for access to prescription drugs, long term care services, and basic health care needs. Over 3.6 million older women are ensured access to benefits through Medicaid, which also helps cover Medicare payments. 
   Cuts to Medicaid will disproportionately hurt low-income women and their families. Seventy-one percent of adult Medicaid beneficiaries are low-income women. Forty percent of all single mothers are covered by Medicaid, which provides a lifeline of health coverage for these most vulnerable families, many of whom are transitioning from dependence on welfare to independent work opportunities. Medicaid coverage is essential to keeping these women employed and to the health of their children, who are more likely to be enrolled if their parents are also enrolled. 
   Given the importance of providing care to our most vulnerable citizens and the increased economic burden that cuts or caps on Medicaid would put on the states, we urge you to oppose cuts or caps to Medicaid. 
   Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
 
 