WEEKLY REPORT FROM WASHINGTON BY SEN. CANTWELL
  USING LOCAL TECHNOLOGY TO PROTECT OUR TROOPS
   Last Thursday I had the honor of meeting Sergeant Adam Furno of the Washington National Guard. Recently back from Iraq, Furno told me how he and other members of his unit had to attach scrap metal and sandbags to their humvees as makeshift armor to protect themselves. We have asked a lot of our troops since September 11, and the Pentagon has a responsibility to provide them with the equipment they need.  
   Furno joined me in Vancouver, Washington, with local officials and business leaders to talk about the importance of humvee armor, and what Washington state can do to help. A company from Vancouver, Armor Systems International, makes armor out of composite materials that is just as strong as heavier, traditional steel armor. Whereas steel armored vehicles are slower and lack mobility because of the added weight, composite armor is significantly lighter and can be applied without major vehicle modifications. 
   We will vote this week in the Senate to approve a supplemental spending bill to get our troops overseas the equipment they need. Included in this bill is $611 million for the purchase of armor kits, which can be added to humvees in Iraq and Afghanistan. I wrote to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, urging him to use some of this funding to purchase armor made of composites. Troops from Washington state serving overseas can take pride that - along with our good wishes and strong support - we're sending them home-grown technology to keep them safe. 
   SUPPORTING AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SUPPORTS OUR ENTIRE ECONOMY
   Agriculture is the backbone of the economy and jobs in Washington state. Whether you're a farmer from Yakima, a healthcare worker in Spokane, or a port employee in Seattle, your livelihood is influenced by the health of our agricultural community, and the advancements it makes. I'm proud that we're home to Washington State University's impressive agricultural research centers. With nine centers and units located throughout the state, WSU's program has produced some of our state's biggest agricultural developments. 
   Unfortunately, the President's budget called for the elimination of a program that has provided funding for WSU's agricultural research efforts for over 100 years. The Hatch Act is a partnership between the state and federal governments to help get research projects off the ground. 
   Last week in Prosser I was joined by representatives from the state's grape, cherry, and potato growers, all of whom support the Hatch Act, to call on the Senate Appropriations Committee to reject the President's proposal. If these cuts pass through Congress, WSU may have to close one or more of its research centers, seriously jeopardizing continued agricultural advancements that are so vital to our state. Recently, the Hatch Act has funded plant breeding research, and helped identify and develop varieties of crops that produce higher yields and maintain a greater resistance to disease. 
   This agricultural research helps the entire region's economy and keeps jobs where they should be - right here at home. I will fight to restore full funding for the Hatch Act. 
   GUTTING THE ROADLESS RULE IS FISCALLY IRRESPONSIBLE, IGNORING COMMENTS FROM 4 MILLION AMERICANS
   Last Thursday the Bush Administration formally gutted the U.S. Forest Service's 2001 Roadless Area Conservation Rule, endangering over 2 million acres of pristine federal forests in Washington state. The 2001 rule was developed after unprecedented outreach and study, including 45 public meetings in Washington state alone and four million public comments from Americans nation-wide. It represented a balanced and common-sense approach to stewardship of our nation's remaining wild federal forest lands. 
   The Administration's new plan includes a sham state-by-state petition process that defies scientific and economic reason. It will open up previously protected areas of our federal forests to logging, mining, and drilling. We already have a $10 billion forest road repair backlog, and now the Administration wants to build new roads. This is not only fiscally irresponsible, it's environmentally irresponsible. These wild areas should be preserved so that future generations can enjoy clean drinking water, salmon habitats, and outdoor recreation opportunities. 
   That's why I plan to reintroduce my bipartisan legislation that will repeal the new rule, and restore protection for our forests. I'll also use my seat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to keep working on this issue. 
   VISITING WASHINGTON, D.C.?
   Are you planning to visit Washington, D.C.? If so, I would welcome the
  opportunity to meet you. This week, on Thursday, May 12, at 8:30 a.m.,
  I will host one of my regular coffees for constituents in my Washington,
  D.C., office. If you will be in the nation's capital and would like to
  attend, please call my office at (202) 224-3441, or fill out a
  reservation form online by visiting my web site at
  http://cantwell.senate.gov/services/coffee.html
 
 