SEN. BINGAMAN: SENATE APPROVES FORECLOSURE PREVENTION ACT
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today reported that the Senate has approved the Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008 to tackle the nation's mortgage crisis. 
   The bill contains an amendment Bingaman co-sponsored that would give smaller states like New Mexico a greater share of mortgage revenue bonds, which states sell to finance low-interest loans for first-time homebuyers of modest means. With the adoption of the amendment Bingaman cosponsored with Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), an additional $11 billion of Mortgage Revenue Bonds can be sold nationwide, resulting in up to $90 million bonds for New Mexico. Without the amendment New Mexico was slated to receive only $64 million in such bonds.
   "These additional bonds will enable more first-time homebuyers in New Mexico to obtain low-interest mortgages. I'm glad we were able to improve the bill so that it can benefit more New Mexicans," Bingaman said.
   The bill also helps stimulate demand for foreclosed properties by providing a $7,000 tax credit to buyers who purchase a home in foreclosure. It also increases pre-foreclosure counseling funds to expand refinancing-opportunities, and amends the Truth-in-Lending Act to improve loan disclosures during the original loan and refinancing process.
   The Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008 also contains an unrelated proposal that grants a short-term extension to some incentives for "green" energy production and use.
   While Bingaman supported the extension of these tax credits, he said he was disappointed that the nearly $7 billion package isn't paid for. Instead, its cost is added to the already large and growing national debt.
   Last year Bingaman was the lead negotiator on legislation that would have granted multi-year extensions to the tax credits that makes wind production more affordable and that make solar energy more affordable for consumers. The package, which would have been paid for by ending federal subsidies given to the biggest oil and gas companies, failed by just one vote.
   "In the 110th Congress, we have already tried three times - unsuccessfully - to extend these provisions. We cannot afford to wait any longer. Business decisions are not made overnight, and companies that invest in these technologies need to plan with certainty. But because of Congressional inaction, companies are already putting on hold or cancelling plans to create and expand investments that currently benefit from these tax incentives," Bingaman said.
   "It is because of this urgency that I voted for the amendment. But because the extensions are not paid for, I did not cast my vote enthusiastically. This amendment will prop up our unsustainable budget deficits. Already, we send 9 cents of every tax dollar we collect to pay interest on our national debt. There is no justification, other than politics, not to offset this amendment," he added.
   A Senate-House of Representatives panel is expected to convene to finalize housing legislation.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 