SEN. BINGAMAN INTRODUCES BIPARTISAN BILL TO SUPPORT HISPANIC SERVING INSTITUTIONS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today introduced comprehensive legislation aimed at strengthening New Mexico's 18 Hispanic Serving Institutions - colleges and universities that enroll a high percentage of Hispanic students. 
  The Next Generation Hispanic-Serving Institutions Act, which is cosponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), takes several steps designed to encourage Hispanic students to pursue baccalaureate degrees, and for the first time would provide funding to support graduate degrees. It does so by increasing the amount of federal funds available to Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) and by making it easier for qualified colleges and universities to access the funding. 
  "In the 21st century, it is more important than ever for young people to earn college degrees. Their ability to earn a decent wage and have a good quality of life depends on it. Any step we can take to encourage enrollment at Hispanic Serving Institutions will be good for New Mexico and good for our country," Bingaman said.
   "Similar to programs now in existence for Historically Black and Tribal Colleges, this legislation will not only help HSIs attract and retain more graduate students of all races, but also will raise the number of Hispanic graduate students now in our higher education system to more acceptable levels," Hutchison said. 
  Currently, $96 million is set aside annually for Hispanic Serving Institutions. The Next Generation Hispanic-Serving Institutions Act would authorize $175 million for undergraduate programs. Funding could be used for a variety of initiatives, including for improved instructional facilities, purchasing telecommunications materials, and supporting faculty and curriculum development. 
  The measure also reduces the bureaucracy associated with HSIs receiving federal funding. For example, Hispanic Serving Institutions that have received federal grants must currently wait two years before applying for more funding. Bingaman's legislation removes that two-year waiting period. 
  "It's clearly unfair to apply barriers to Hispanic Serving Institutions that aren't applied to other colleges and universities. Yet that's exactly what is happening. It's time to remove the bureaucracy associated with directing federal funds to HSIs," Bingaman said. 
   "Hispanic-Serving Institutions are critical to our communities and should not be bogged down by archaic federal regulations," Hutchison said. "Young Hispanics are ready and willing to learn and be successful. We should do everything we can to make that easier, not harder - and this bill will do just that.
   And for the first time, the bill would set aside federal funding that would help Hispanic Serving Institutions establish and support graduate programs. Under Bingaman's measure, $125 million would be authorized for that purpose.
   Bingaman's bill also provides allowances for stronger linkages to community and local education agencies that support efforts to lower the dropout rate, encourage academic achievement, and increase the number of minority students entering and graduating from institutions of higher learning.
   According to the Census Bureau 40 million Hispanics live in the United States. Estimates show that the Hispanic population will grow by more than 20 million by 2020. Hispanics are fueling the growth of America's workforce, accounting for one out of every three new workers hired and projected to be one out of every two workers by 2025. Yet Hispanics continue to have the lowest level of education attainment of any group in the country. In the 1999-2000 school year, Hispanics earned only 6 percent of the bachelor's degrees, 4 percent of the master's degrees and 3 percent of doctor's degrees. 
   All New Mexico's 18 Hispanic Serving Institutions would qualify. They include: Albuquerque Technical Vocational Institute, University of New Mexico, University of New Mexico-Valencia, Do?a Ana Branch Community College, Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell, New Mexico Junior College (Hobbs), New Mexico State University, New Mexico State University at Carlsbad, New Mexico State University at Grants, Western New Mexico University, Eastern New Mexico University, Luna Community College, New Mexico Highlands University, Mesalands Community College, Northern New Mexico Community College, Santa Fe Community College, University of New Mexico at Los Alamos, University of New Mexico at Taos.
  This legislation is supported by the Hispanic Education Coalition, an ad hoc coalition of national organizations dedicated to improving educational opportunities for more than 40 million Hispanics living in the United States, including groups like National Council of La Raza, HACU, and MALDEF. Senators Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) have joined in as cosponsors.
  Bingaman, a senior member of the Senate Health and Education Committee, will work in the coming months to incorporate his legislation into the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act - legislation that governs all federal higher education funding. 
  Bingaman has a long history supporting Hispanic Serving Institutions. He was one of the authors of the original Hispanic Serving Institutions proposal that provided federal support for schools with high percentages of Hispanic students.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 