N.M. SENATORS CREDIT LOCAL SUPPORT FOR SAVING CANNON AFB
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today personally thanked residents from the Clovis-Portales area for their direct role in supporting Cannon Air Force Base through the base closure process and subsequent search that will give the facility a new Special Operations mission.  
   The Senators were among the congressional delegation members who met with Air Force Special Operations Commander General Michael Wooley and others to discuss the new mission at Cannon and celebrate the fact that the base will not be closed as proposed during the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. The visit included a briefing and review of Special Operations aircraft at the base, as well as a public celebration at the community center. 
   Both lawmakers, who worked closely with the BRAC Commission and Pentagon officials during the BRAC, ultimately gave credit to the public and local leaders in eastern New Mexico for completely standing behind the "Operation Keep Cannon" campaign. 
   "Everyone in the Clovis-Portales area, who put so much effort into saving Cannon Air Force Base, deserves so much gratitude for helping keep Cannon open and set to accept a new and exciting mission. I have no doubt that because you were so vigorous in your support for the base, the Air Force and BRAC commission had to second guess any notion of abandoning this base," Domenici said. "Now we can look forward to a base with a new and exciting mission that will mean good things for our national security and for this area." 
   "A year ago, Clovis and Portales faced an uncertain future. Today, the future for these communities is very bright. Cannon Air Force Base will not only remain open, it will have an extremely important new mission that will play a major role in our national security. I'd like to commend Clovis and Portales residents for getting behind the base and helping make this celebration possible," Bingaman said. 
   On June 20, the Air Force announced that Cannon would be given a new mission that will entail a mix of up to 100 Special Operations aircraft under the command of a new wing--the 16th Special Operations Wing. Special Operations will assume ownership of Cannon and the Melrose Bombing Range by October 2007. The F-16s now at Cannon will be transitioned out over the next few years. 
   The new mission announcement is a 180-degree reversal from the May 2005 decision by the Pentagon to recommend to the BRAC Commission that Cannon be closed. In August, the commission instead decided to create an unprecedented military "enclave" at Cannon. This decision allowed the Air Force to move all F-16 aircraft now at Cannon to other bases, but directed the Secretary of Defense to study the base and find possible new missions for the base by 2009. 
   Domenici and Bingaman have committed to work with the Air Force to ensure congressional approval of assets it may need during the transition, which is likely to include a significant level of new military construction. The lawmakers have already protected funding they secured before the BRAC to construct a new consolidated airmen's center at the base. Following the new mission announcement last week, the Air Force indicated it would proceed with construction of the $9.5 million center.
 
 