SEN. BINGAMAN WORKING TO AID BORDER LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today met with border law enforcement officials to discuss his efforts to secure up to $50 million to help fight crime associated with illegal immigration.  
   Bingaman was able to incorporate his proposal - called the Border Law Enforcement Relief Act - into comprehensive immigration reformed which passed the summit in May. The plan would provide grant funding to border law enforcement agencies within 100 miles of the northern and southern international borders to hire additional personnel, purchase equipment, and/or to cover overtime and transportation costs. 
   "For too long border law enforcement agencies have had to tackle increased crime associated with illegal immigration all on their own. But that's simply not fair. Sheriffs deputies and police departments in the border region need help dealing with this problem, and if Congress enacts my proposal help will soon be on the way," Bingaman said. 
   In May, the Senate passed comprehensive immigration reform legislation that would have to be reconciled with House-passed legislation before it could be signed into law. In addition to winning Senate support for his border law enforcement relief proposal, Bingaman also gained passage of a separate amendment that caps at 650,000 the total number of employment-based immigrants admitted to the country each year. Before the Bingaman amendment was adopted, the bill did not include a cap on the overall number of employment-based immigrants admitted each year. 
   Bingaman also won support for a separate amendment he wrote that sets the cap for the bill's guest worker program at 200,000 per year. The underlying bill had set the cap at 325,000, with an opportunity for that number to grow automatically by 10-15-or 20 percent annually depending on how quickly the visas were used in the previous year. Within six years the number of visas issued under that program could have reached almost 4 million. 
   Later in the day, Bingaman spoke in Las Cruces to members of the Mesilla Valley Economic Development Alliance about his initiatives on the federal level in support of expanding health care and improving public education. 
   Finally, Bingaman discussed efforts underway to improve the health of the Lower Rio Grande. Bingaman met with officials from the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) and the Elephant Butte Irrigation District (EBID) among others to discuss various efforts underway and opportunities to remove invasive, water-absorbing species such as salt cedar.
 
 