SENATE APPROVES LEGISLATION THAT SUPPORTS FUNDING FOR CAREER, TECHNICAL EDUCATION
  The U.S. Senate today approved legislation that sets federal spending levels for career and technical programs at high schools and post-secondary schools in New Mexico and across the country. Sen. Jeff Bingaman, a longtime member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, helped write the bill.  
   "Every high school student should graduate with the skills they need to succeed in a good job, or to attend a two-year or four-year college. This legislation makes a much-needed investment in the career and technical education programs that are preparing thousands of New Mexico's young people for employment and/or continuing education," Bingaman said. 
   The bill increases the academic and technical standards of career and technical programs, aligning them with nationally recognized business and industry standards in order to prepare students for post-secondary education and high skill, high wage employment.
   The measure also ensures that teachers in career and technical programs have adequate skills and knowledge to effectively teach students and incorporate challenging academic content. Also, the bill expands career guidance and academic counseling services to ensure that students have a career plan and career objectives. 
   Bingaman was particularly influential in helping write the provision that links high school career and technical education programs with colleges, area career technical centers, business and industry, local workforce investment boards to address local and regional needs for employment. 
   "There are more than 87,000 New Mexico students who are in career and technical education programs at the high school level, and another 47,000 New Mexicans enrolled at post-high school career and technical programs. We should insist that these students are getting the kind of relevant, rigorous training that will serve them well in their careers. That's what this bill sets out to do," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman pointed out that he is particularly pleased that the bill passed the Senate 99-0. He said the strong support sends a signal to the White House that Congress will not go along with the president's plan to zero-out career and technical education programs in the fiscal year 2006 budget. New Mexico received $10 million in career and technical education programs. 
   Bingaman helped insert a provision in the bill that authorizes $10 million for Tribally Controlled Post-Secondary career and technical institutions. The funding level has been $4 million. New Mexico is the home Crownpoint Institute of Technology - one of two tribally controlled post-secondary institutions.
   "By authorizing an increase in funding for Crownpoint, this bill recognizes how important the institute is to our state and to the Navajo Nation. I am very pleased that this bill takes this important step toward increasing the federal investment in Crownpoint," Bingaman said.
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici strongly supported this provision. "New Mexico is fortunate to have one of the only two schools in the country that qualifies for this tribal vocational funding. Crownpoint Institute of Technology is a wonderful institution that equips Navajos and other students with quality technical and vocational degrees that help establish great footing for future successes. I am very pleased this bill provides funding for this solid institution," Domenici said. 
   The House of Representatives must pass a similar bill before it can be sent to the White House for signature.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 