SENS. BINGAMAN, SMITH, OTHERS PROPOSE INDEPENDENT MEDICAID COMMISSION
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman, Gordon Smith (R-Ore) and several of their colleagues today pressed for a bipartisan commission to study Medicaid. 
   Bingaman and Smith worked together to successfully pass an amendment to the Senate's version of the budget resolution that would have eliminated all proposed cuts to Medicaid - the health care plan that covers low-income Americans. Unfortunately, the House of Representatives passed a budget resolution that contained $20 billion in cuts; the final resolution contained $10 billion in cuts, beginning in 2007. 
   Today the senators and 10 of their colleagues wrote to Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt advocating that there be an independent, bipartisan review of where the cuts could be made while causing the least amount of damage.
   In previous conversations with Leavitt, Bingaman proposed having the National Academy of Sciences' Institute of Medicine appoint a commission to perform the review. In their letter today, a bipartisan group of senators endorsed Bingaman's proposal.
   "We believe that this is the best way to ensure that the Bush administration and Congress receive credible, long-range recommendations on how to improve coverage and access to care, quality and cost-effectiveness of services for low-income and vulnerable populations served by Medicaid," the senators wrote to Leavitt. 
   The Institute of Medicine would perform an initial review and make recommendations on how cuts required in the fiscal year 2006 can be best absorbed without harming Medicaid beneficiaries. 
   A second stage would include a more thorough review of Medicaid, and make recommendations on how to strengthen and support this key health care initiative over the long term. 
   "In New Mexico, where about a quarter of the state's population is uninsured, Medicaid is tremendously important. I opposed the budget that called for cuts, including an estimated $100 million reduction in Medicaid payments to our state," Bingaman said. "But now that the cuts are inevitable, the least we can do is to have an independent analysis on how we can proceed without harming the people who rely on Medicaid for their health care." 
   The other senators who signed the letter are Collins (R-ME), Landrieu (D-LA), Coleman (R-MN), Jeffords (I-VT), Snowe (R-ME), Durbin (D-IL), Dewine (R-OH), Akaka (D-HI), Specter (R-PA), Chafee (R-RI).
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 