KEY LEGISLATION CONTAINS SEN. BINGAMAN'S PLAN TO IMPROVE NAVAJO SCHOOL BUS ROUTES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that a key bill under debate by the Senate contains his measure to improve school bus routes on the Navajo Nation. 
   Bingaman has seen firsthand the poor condition of roads on the Navajo Nation used by buses to take children to school. According to the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), of the 9,800 miles of public roads that serve the Navajo Nation, only about one-fifth are paved; the remaining 7,600 miles are dirt roads. Many of these dirt roads are used to transport Navajo children to and from school. 
   Seven years ago Bingaman was successful in setting aside millions of dollars to improve those dirt roads, but the bill that funded those improvements has expired. This year Bingaman and Rep. Tom Udall launched an effort to secure funds in future years for improvements to the dirt roads. Bingaman today reported that the major highway bill under Senate consideration contains his provision to set aside a total of $3 million over the next five years to be split by San Juan and McKinley counties. 
   "The dirt roads used by schools buses on the Navajo Nation can make for a bumpy ride. Making improvements to these dirt roads will not only to ensure a smoother route to school, but it also will create a safer environment for the buses," Bingaman said 
   Bingaman's plan sets aside a total of $9 million over the next five years for dirt road improvements to roads on the Navajo Nation in New Mexico, Arizona and Utah. New Mexico's share is $3 million between the years 2005-2009 to be shared between McKinley and San Juan counties. 
   The counties are required to use the funding for improvement and maintenance of roads located within or that lead to the reservation, that are on a state or county maintenance system, and that serve as school bus routes.
   Bingaman's measure is contained in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act (SAFE-TEA) of 2005. The House of Representatives has passed its version of the bill; when the Senate approves SAFE-TEA, the two chambers will meet to iron out the differences between the legislation. 
   Bingaman said SAFE-TEA also contains the following: 
   * $1.76 billion for transportation projects on Indian Reservations (about 14% of this comes to New Mexico)
   * $33.5 million for transportation safety projects on Indian Reservations
   * $70.5 million for highway bridges on Indian Reservations
   * $45 million for transit projects in Indian Reservations.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 