REP. BINGAMAN URGES FOREST SERVICE TO SUSPEND OUTSOURCING OF JOBS WHILE GAO STUDIES ITS PRACTICES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today asked the U.S. Forest Service to suspend its job outsourcing program pending a review of its practices by the Government Accountability Office (GAO). 
  In fiscal 2002 and 2003, the agency hired private contractors to take on jobs traditionally performed by Forest Service staff, but Congressional investigators determined that there was no cost savings. The agency is currently putting together a proposal that could lead to the outsourcing of thousands of jobs, including fire, aviation, law enforcement and research positions.
  But Bingaman and two of his Senate colleagues, Senators Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl, have asked Forest Service Chief Dale Bosworth to suspend its plan at least until the GAO completes its study and reports its findings.
  Bingaman and others requested the GAO report in February, asking GAO to closely examine whether the Forest Service has an adequate infrastructure in place to effectively manage its competitive sourcing program, whether it has procedures designed to ensure that all the costs of its outsourcing program are properly accounted for, and whether its program properly considers the agency's long-term ability to fulfill its essential missions, including wildfire management. 
  "We strongly support a vibrant and effective Forest Service, and we understand that the stated goal of the competitive sourcing policy is to assist the Forest Service in becoming more effective in its work. 
  "However, it is no secret that there have long been concerns about the competitive sourcing process at the Forest Service, and we hope the GAO study will be helpful as we consider how to best ensure that the Forest Service remains capable of performing the multiple functions tasked to the agency."
   A 2004 congressional report revealed that Forest Service regional fire management officials are worried that the Forest Service's plan to implement an aggressive new competitive sourcing study schedule will disrupt the agency's fire suppression mission because employees who work in non-fire related jobs but nevertheless interact with and perform needed support for fire management activities would be diverted to support the outsourcing process.
   The 2006 Appropriations bill included an amendment by Bingaman requiring the Forest Service to consider the effect outsourcing would have on the agency's ability to effectively and efficiently fight and manage wildfires.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 