SEN. BINGAMAN BACKS EFFORTS TO SECURE FEDERAL FUNDS FOR AIR SERVICE IN SOUTHEASTERN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today threw his support behind efforts to improve air transportation in southeastern New Mexico.  
   Southeast New Mexico Air Service Coalition, which consists of the cities of Roswell, Artesia, and Carlsbad and Chaves and Eddy Counties and the Chaves County Development Foundation, has submitted an application to the Department of Transportation requesting $1.5 million in grant funding under the Small Community Air Service Development Program to help improve commercial air service at the Roswell International Air Center. 
   In a letter to Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta, Bingaman expressed his support for that project.
   "The Southeast New Mexico Air Service Coalition is requesting federal funds to help improve direct access to the national air transportation system by establishing new commercial air service to Dallas/Ft. Worth and Houston.  The improved air service is vital to efforts to promote economic development throughout southeastern New Mexico. The goal of the effort is to recruit and promote reliable and affordable commercial service from Roswell and to make the new service self-sustaining," Bingaman wrote.  
  "The region has a population of over 130,000 and is a center of the mining, energy and agricultural industries. The area is also home to the International Law Enforcement Training Academy, DOE's Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, Carlsbad Caverns National Park, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and the Roswell Campus of Eastern New Mexico University," the letter states.
  "Your careful evaluation of the Southeast New Mexico Air Service Coalition's application is very much appreciated. I believe federal support from the Small Community Air Service Program could help Roswell expand and sustain reliable air service to major hub airports in the east and boost the economy of southeastern New Mexico," the letter continues. 
   Local and private sources will provide matching funds of $550,000 and the State of New Mexico will contribute $200,000 towards the project.
   Bingaman is one of the original co-sponsors of the Small Community Air Service Development Program, which helps small communities establish and ensure reliable and affordable access to the national air transportation system. Bingaman worked last year to secure the $10 million in FY06 funding needed to continue the program.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 