SEN. BINGAMAN BACKS EFFORTS TO SECURE FEDERAL FUNDS FOR AIR SERVICE IN GALLUP
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today threw his support behind efforts to improve air transportation in Gallup.  
   The City of Gallup has submitted an application to the Department of Transportation requesting $600,000 in grant funding under the Small Community Air Service Development Program to restore commercial air service between Gallup and Phoenix, Arizona.
   In a letter to Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta, Bingaman expressed his support for the grant.
   "Gallup is the center of commerce, mining, and other energy-related industries and is located at a large distance from major urban centers, a disadvantage in the city's efforts to expand existing industries and promote economic development," Bingaman wrote.
  "Gallup is requesting federal funds to help provide direct access to the national air transportation system by establishing new commercial air service to Phoenix. Phoenix represents the financial, medical, and business focal point for Gallup and the surrounding region. The goal of the effort is to recruit and promote reliable and affordable commercial service from Gallup and to make the new service self-sustaining," the letter states. 
   "I believe federal support from the Small Community Air Service Program could help Gallup restore and sustain reliable air service to a major hub airport and boost the economy of western New Mexico," the letter continues.
   Gallup and McKinley County will provide matching funds of $200,000 and the State of New Mexico will contribute $200,000 to the project. The city has already identified a possible air carrier that can move quickly to implement air service the community needs.
   Bingaman is one of the original co-sponsors of the Small Community Air Service Development Program, which helps small communities establish and ensure reliable and affordable access to the national air transportation system. Bingaman worked last year to secure the $10 million in FY06 funding needed to continue the program.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 