SEN. BINGAMAN BILL TO ASSIST WATER MANAGERS IN ARID STATES GETS SENATE HEARING
  A key Senate committee today heard testimony on the importance of enacting legislation U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman wrote to address the nation's water needs. 
   Bingaman's SECURE Water Act - which was the subject today of a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing - aims to assist water managers by helping them gain access to better water-related data and implement water conservation projects.  
   "Water has always been a priority in the West. But the stakes are higher now as the confluence of drought, climate change, population increases, and environmental needs are testing water managers in unprecedented ways. Effectively addressing water issues requires a better understanding of this precious resource, and increasing the efficiency in which it's used. This bill would provide water managers with important information, and resources to do the job," said Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici is cosponsor of the bill. "The more we understand about water, the better we will be able to meet the increasingly difficult problems in ensuring its availability. This is especially true in the West, and the analysis and data collection directives in this bill would give us better tools to make smarter policy decisions related to water availability and use," said Domenici, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   Bingaman's bill requires an expansion of the National Streamflow Information Program and the development of a systematic groundwater monitoring program. The bill also directs the U.S. Geological Survey to formally establish a water use and availability assessment program consistent with recommendations made by the National Research Council. 
   The bill takes into account the impacts of global climate change on water resources by tapping the Secretary of the Interior to establish an intra-governmental panel to link the scientific community and water managers to improve water availability forecasts and to implement adaptation strategies. 
   The bipartisan legislation also requires the Bureau of Reclamation to initiate a climate change adaptation program to develop strategies and conduct feasibility studies to address water shortages, conflicts and other impacts to water users and the environment. In addition, both Reclamation and the Department of Energy are directed to assess the effects of climate change on the water supplies needed for hydropower production, which represents the source of at least 7 percent of the nation's electricity supply. 
   Finally, the bill authorizes the Bureau of Reclamation to provide financial assistance to states, tribes and local entities to construct improvements or take actions to increase water use efficiencies in response to drought, climate change and other water-related crises. 
   Witnesses speaking favorably of Bingaman's legislation included: Honorable Robert W. Johnson, commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation, Robert M. Hirsch, Ph.D., associate director for water at the U.S. Geological Survey; and New Mexico State Engineer John D'Antonio, representing Western States Water Council 
   D'Antonio's testimony stated the following: 
   "The (Western States Water) Council supports enactment of the SECURE Water Act, introduced by the Chairman, Senator Bingaman (and cosponsored by Senators Cantwell, Domenici, Johnson, Salazar and Tester). The stated purposes of S. 2156 are to: (1) increase water use efficiency; (2) expand data acquisition and analysis of the Nation's water; and (3) enhance the understanding of climate change impacts on water availability and energy production in the U.S. 
   "Specifically, we support the financial assistance to non-federal entities for water-use efficiency improvements, enhanced spending authority for USGS streamgaging activities, a ground water monitoring system, brackish water study, new methods to estimate and measure water use, a national water use and availability assessment, establishment of a intra-governmental panel on climate change and water resources, a Reclamation Climate Change Adaptation Program, and a hydroelectric power assessment given the potential effects of climate change." 
   Bingaman said today's hearing is the first step toward building support for passing his legislation. He intends to schedule a vote in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee early next year.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 