SEN. BINGAMAN CONGRATULATES ALAMOGORDO ON ALL AMERICAN CITY AWARD
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today congratulated the city of Alamogordo for doing an outstanding job in the All America City Award competition. It was Alamogordo's first time in the competition and finished in the top 30.  
  The All America City Award, sponsored by the National Civic League (NCL), encourages and recognize civic excellence and honors communities in which community members, government, businesses and non-profit organizations work together to address critical local issues, enhancing the quality of life in those communities. 
  "Those communities that foster an environment where citizens can express their needs and concerns and and look for ways to address them, exemplify democracy at work," Bingaman said. "Alamogordo should take pride in the fact that it fosters this type of environment."
   In a statement submitted to the Congressional Record, which will be presented to city leaders on Wednesday, Bingaman highlighted Alamogordo's efforts on three specific community issues: water conservation, economic development and healthy youth. 
   The city's water conservation efforts helped decrease usage from 6.61 million gallons/day in 2000 to 4.82 million gallons/day in 2003, even while experiencing population growth. The community-wide efforts to develop the local economy, and create jobs have been succesful and are leading not only to new jobs, but to multiplier effects in healthcare, community charitable giving and education. The third area of focusing on healthy youth is exemplified in the skateboard park, which provides safe recreation alternatives for 12,600 kids each year. 
   Additonally, Alamogordo encourages its citizens to take active roles in expressing and resolving community issues by working with local government, local philanthropic and volunteer resources.
  "I congratulate each and every Alamogordo citizen on their efforts to build this model community, and for setting and example that we can all look to for inspiration. I appreciate their efforts in representing New Mexico on the national level as an example of civic pride and partnership in community improvement," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 