SEN. BINGAMAN UNVEILS BIPARTISAN PLAN TO TURN BACK GLOBAL WARMING
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today introduced bipartisan legislation designed to stop the advancement of global warming while protecting the U.S. economy and American consumers. 
   The measure, which is cosponsored by Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Ted Stevens (R-AK), Daniel Akaka (D-HI) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), is an economy-wide mandatory cap-and-trade program that limits the amount of harmful greenhouse gases that can be emitted. 
   Specifically, the bill would set an annual target on the amount of carbon that could be put into the atmosphere, and allow firms to buy, sell and trade carbon credits. It also would provide incentives that promote a gradual but decisive transition to new, lower-carbon technologies. 
   "There is a great desire in our country to address the global warming crisis," said Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "I believe our legislation represents a strong and balanced approach. It will dramatically reduce U.S. greenhouse gas emissions while also spurring new energy technologies, protecting the American economy and engaging developing nations in their efforts to address climate change. It's a bipartisan approach that strikes the right balance and would return the U.S. to a position of global leadership." 
   Bingaman's "Low Carbon Economy Act" would put a cap on greenhouse gases emitted by petroleum refineries, natural gas processing plants, fossil fuel importers, and large coal-consuming facilities. It would require that those entities reach 2006 emissions levels by 2020 and 1990 levels by 2030. 
   At the beginning of the program, a majority of allowances for emitting carbon would be given out for free to the private sector. This amount is gradually reduced each year after the first five years of the program. 
   Some of the carbon credits would be auctioned off by the government with proceeds used to fund research into ways to store carbon, to develop and deploy low- and no-carbon technologies, and to help states address the effects of climate change. 
   The proposal also includes a Technology Accelerator Payment (TAP). Technology payments, at $12 per metric ton of carbon the first year, could be made by regulated entities in the event that it is too difficult to reduce emissions. This would prevent undue shocks to our economy and help industry "tap" into technology resources that need more investment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The cost of the TAP would rise each year thereafter at 5 percent above the rate of inflation to provide business with certainty moving forward. All of the TAP funding would be put toward the development of low- or no-carbon technologies. 
   Conversely, if technology improves as rapidly as expected in response to the caps set in the bill, the Technology Payments would not be necessary. 
   The bill also would require exports to the United States to be subject to rigorous low-carbon standards. 
   Finally, the Low Carbon Economy Act calls for a review process every five years to ensure we are making adequate progress and to adjust targets as needed. 
   The bill was referred to the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 