SEN. BINGAMAN HIGHLIGHTS HIGHER EDUCATION LEGISLATION AT SANTA FE COMMUNITY COLLEGE
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today was at Santa Fe Community College to talk about legislation that will make higher education more affordable and accessible to New Mexicans. As a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, Bingaman helped craft the bill, which has been signed into law.  
   Bingaman said the College Cost Reduction and Access Act increases student aid by more than $20 billion over the next 5 years - including more than $200 million in new grant aid and loan aid for New Mexicans. The new law would substantially increase Pell Grants from $4,310 this year to $5,400 by 2012. Under this proposal, the maximum Pell Grant would increase by $500 next year alone. 
   "The cost of a college education continues to be a barrier for many Americans," Bingaman said. "This bill makes an important investment in our country's future workforce by making it possible for more Americans to pursue a higher education." 
   In addition, the bill simplifies the financial aid process for low-income students by increasing the income level at which a student is automatically eligible for the maximum Pell Grant, and protects working students, increasing the amount of student income that is sheltered from the financial aid process. It also expands eligibility for financial aid so more students will qualify for more financial assistance. 
   Bingaman was on the Senate-House panel that negotiated the final bill. At his urging, the measure includes $10 million to fund and help create a program for Native American Serving Institutions - institutions that serve large Native American student populations, but are not considered tribal colleges. The following schools in New Mexico would benefit from that funding: San Juan College, University of New Mexico Gallup, New Mexico State University-Grants, Eastern New Mexico University-Ruidoso. The bill also contains $60 million in funding to strengthen tribal colleges and universities. 
   The bill also contains $200 million for Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI) to increase the number of students attaining degrees in science, technology, engineering or math and to facilitate transfer for students from two-year to four-year HSIs. 
   The bill also creates scholarships of $4,000 annually for high-achieving undergraduate and graduate students who commit to teaching in such areas as math and science in a high-need district. 
   This bill also would cap federal student loan payments at 15 percent of a borrower's discretionary income, bringing needed relief to students with excessive debt. And it creates incentives for students to purse careers in public service by forgiving for 10 years the debt of borrowers who work in public service careers, such as nursing, teaching, or law enforcement. The bill also cuts student loan interest rates in half to 3.4% for undergraduate students with subsidized student loans, providing much needed relief to middle class families. 
   The bill also contains a provision Bingaman wrote that would prohibit colleges and universities from counting special combat pay received by men and women in the Armed Services against their financial aid.
 
 