SEN. BINGAMAN BILL TAKES STEPS TO ADDRESS WATER RESOURCES
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman has introduced comprehensive legislation to address some of the serious water-related challenges facing New Mexico and the United States.  
   Bingaman's SECURE Water Act aims to improve water management and increase the acquisition and analysis of water-related data to better understand critical water resources, particularly in arid parts of the country. 
   "Water is a precious and scarce resource, especially in the Southwest," Bingaman, chairman of the Energy Committee, said. "Much more needs to be done to ensure that sufficient supplies of quality water are available to meet the basic needs of Americans, as well as for important economic and environmental uses. This bill will help our country begin to address this serious issue." 
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici, ranking member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee is a cosponsor of the bill. "In order to meet our water-related challenges head on, we must have an accurate and current assessment of where our resources stand now. This legislation will help us obtain a clearer picture by providing for better data collection and analysis of water in the west. I look forward to working on this legislation in the Energy Committee and to its eventual passage by the full Senate," Domenici said. 
   Bingaman's bill requires an expansion of the National Streamflow Information Program and the development of a systematic groundwater monitoring program. The bill also directs the U.S. Geological Survey to formally establish a water use and availability assessment program consistent with recommendations made by the National Research Council. 
   The bill also takes into account the impacts of global climate change on water resources. Reports from the last several seasons indicate that increasing temperatures are resulting in less snowpack and more rain in many regions, changing the timing of snow-melt runoff and underscoring the need for more data like the kind prescribed in the bill. Moreover, at a recent hearing on climate change and water held by the Energy Committee, the USGS indicated that current climate models are also projecting a long-term drying trend in the Southwest - the fastest growing region in the country. 
   To help address this issue the bill directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish an intra-governmental panel to link the scientific community and water managers to improve water availability forecasts and to implement adaptation strategies. The bipartisan legislation also requires the Bureau of Reclamation to initiate a climate change adaptation program to develop strategies and conduct feasibility studies to address water shortages, conflicts and other impacts to water users and the environment. In addition, both Reclamation and the Department of Energy are directed to assess the effects of climate change on the water supplies needed for hydropower production, which represents the source of at least 7 percent of the nation's electricity supply. 
   Additionally, the bill authorizes the Bureau of Reclamation to provide financial assistance to states, tribes and local entities to construct improvements or take actions to increase water use efficiencies in response to drought, climate change and other water-related crises.
 
 