SEN. BINGAMAN: DEFENSE SPENDING BILL CLEARS FIRST HURDLE
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman reported that a spending bill that funds defense spending in New Mexico has cleared its first hurdle today. 
   The measure, called the fiscal year 2008 Defense Spending Bill, was approved by the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense and is now ready for full committee consideration. Bingaman worked hard to secure funding for the state. A list of funded items is below. 
   "New Mexico plays a major role in our nation's defense. This bill does a very good job funding defense-related activity in our state," Bingaman said.  
   The bill contains the following: 
   $3 million for New Mexico National Guard Counter Drug funding to continue operations along the border to stem the flow of drugs. 
   $6 million for Joint Directed Energy Test Site, IED Defeat at WSMR to develop instrumentation and combat environment for research, development, test, evaluation and training of joint directed energy systems for detection and defeat of improvised explosive devices. 
   $2.5 million for Joint Tactical Network Test Environment at WSMR. This project would provide resources for configuring the fiber network, establishing the radio networks for a wide array of communications networks at WSMR. 
   $3 million for Satellite Active Imaging National Testbed Program (SAINT), at AFRL Kirtland. SAINT allows the capabilities of the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) to conduct and expand space object identification and capabilities analysis at Low Earth Orbit (LEO) and Geosynchronous Earth Orbit (GEO), work in Albuquerque. 
   $2 million for Field Programmable Gate Array Assurance Center at University of New Mexico to train engineers on developing semiconductor chips which are highly reliable for space applications, this will also help XLINX in ABQ which makes them. 
   $3 million for Long Wave Length Array (LWA) at UNM, The Long Wavelength Array will be a very large (400 km) synthetic aperture radio astronomy telescope designed as a new instrument in the poorly explored region of the electromagnetic spectrum. It will research astrophysics, space physics, space weather, and ionospheric physics. 
   $5 million for Defense Threat Reduction Agency University Strategic Partnerships at UNM. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency University Strategic Partnerships Program seeds projects at universities in cooperation with divisions throughout DTRA. This funding would allow for additional projects to be initiated and would assist in continuing projects past their initial year by sharing funding between operations divisions of DTRA. 
   $4 million for Playas Training and Research Center Joint Training Experiment at NMT Playas training facility. Funding will be used to establish the PTRC as a Joint National Training and Experimentation Site for National Guard Bureau (NGB) active and reserve personnel, as well as for Air National Guard and Army National Guard personnel. Playas is envisioned as becoming an integral portion of the Joint National Training Capability. 
   $5 million for UAV Systems and Operations Validation Program, New Mexico State. USOVP has successfully provided the DoD with the unique UAV operations capability to support testing of UAV platforms and systems in civil airspace on a routine basis alongside manned aircraft. UAVs are a growing component of our nation's defense, accelerated due to the global war against terrorism. 
   $6.5 million for Smart Instrument Development for the Magdalena Ridge Observatory, New Mexico Tech. The United States Office of Naval Research (ONR) and the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) have joined a consortium of research universities, including the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology (New Mexico Tech) and Cambridge University, in a unique teaming arrangement to build a state-of-the-art observatory in the Magdalena Mountains near Socorro, New Mexico. 
   $2.5 million for Close-In Communications and Sensing System, New Mexico Tech. This program will develop an urban communications systems for densely populated cities permitting first responders to communicate in future catastrophic events such as in New Orleans. 
   $2.5 million for Advanced Modular Avionics for Operationally Responsive Space Use, Goodrich Space in Albuquerque. This program will upgrade these previous generation avionics systems to support the specific needs of the new operationally responsive space program at Kirtland Air Force Base to rapidly launch satellites with modular plug and play like components. 
   Other Major items/initiatives funded in the bill. 
   F-22A's are fully funded for 20 at $3.15 billion for Elmdorf AFB in Alaska, thus putting Holloman next in queue. 
   $121.6 million for Joint Technology Office for High Energy Lasers at Kirtland AFB, to fund a wide array of research programs on laser systems, which makes Kirtland and the Air Force Research Office a center of excellence throughout the United States. 
   $87.03 million for Operationally Responsive Space program at Kirtland AFB and the Air Force Research Laboratory to develop a new generation of rapidly fieldable satellites based on common equipment that can be rapidly interchanged in almost a "plug and play" fashion. 
   $453.7 million for CV-22 - 5 new planes to be used by the Air Force Special Operations Command, now standing up at Cannon and at Kirtland Air Force Base, which trains pilots to operate them.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 