SENATE PASSES BILL TO NAME ABQ VETERANS MEDICAL CENTER FOR LATE JERRY MURPHY, MEDAL OF HONOR AWARDEE
  The Senate today passed legislation to name the Albuquerque Veterans Administration Medical Center for Raymond "Jerry" Murphy of Albuquerque, a Korean War veteran who earned the Medal of Honor and dedicated his career to serving military veterans. 
   The legislation (S.229) was passed by unanimous consent Thursday evening following a push by the bill's author and cosponsor, Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, respectively. The Senators gained Senate leadership and Veterans Affairs Committee approval to move the bill directly to the floor for Senate consideration. The bill, which would designate the Albuquerque VA facility as the "Raymond G. Murphy Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center," must now be passed by the House of Representatives.  
  Senate passage comes the eve of Friday's funeral services for Murphy in Albuquerque, followed by burial at the Santa Fe National Cemetery. Murphy died April 6 following a lengthy illness. 
   "Jerry Murphy was a true American hero who in war and peace dedicated himself to others. I am proud to have known Jerry and to have been able to call him my friend. It is a privilege to play a part in bestowing this deserving honor on a great man and a great American," Domenici said. "I will work with our House counterparts to get this bill passed and enacted as soon as possible." 
   "Jerry Murphy bravely served our country. While he was recognized during his life with a much-deserved Medal of Honor, we are now a step closer to ensuring that the memory of his service to our country-and his fellow veterans-will live on," Bingaman said. 
   Murphy retired in 1997 from a 23-year career as director of Veterans Services in the Albuquerque VA Regional Office, and became a volunteer at the VA afterward. 
   Murphy is one of fewer than 3,500 Americans who have ever been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. He was given the honor following his heroic actions Korea in February 1953, when as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps he organized and led-against orders-a daring mission to rescue wounded Marines pinned down by enemy fire on Ungok Hill. He was wounded himself, but refused treatment until all his fellow Marines were accounted for and treated. In addition to the Medal of Honor, Murphy also earned a Silver Star for bravery in 1952. 
   The Domenici-Bingaman bill is supported by the VA Department as well as the New Mexico Department of Veterans' Services, Albuquerque Armed Forces Advisory Association, American Legion, American Veterans, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Military Order of the Purple Heart and the Vietnam Veterans of America. 
   Companion legislation (HR.474) was introduced in the House by Representative Heather Wilson, which is cosponsored by Representatives Tom Udall and Steve Pearce.
 
 