SEN. BINGAMAN CHAIRS HEARING ON TAX PROVISIONS TO ENCOURAGE RENEWABLE ENERGY PRODUCTION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman chaired a Senate Finance Subcommittee hearing today on what steps can be taken to continue encouraging renewable energy production in the United States. Bingaman will be helping write energy tax incentive legislation that could be considered by the full Senate in the coming weeks.  
   Bingaman invited Chet Boortz, vice president of business development for Albuquerque-based Advent Solar, to testify at the hearing in the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Energy, Natural Resources, and Infrastructure. Bingaman is the chairman of that subcommittee. 
   "We took some important steps in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 that are encouraging renewable energy production. As we embark on further energy legislation, I feel that it is important for us to hear testimony on the incentives, and the mandates, that are driving development in these alternative energy markets overseas. It will be helpful for us to know what is working in markets outside our country, so that, as we forge ahead in our efforts to build energy security in an environmentally responsible manner, our efforts can be informed by the global experience," Bingaman said. 
   Boortz recommended two specific policy actions that can be taken: 
   "Expand the existing investment tax credit for the purchase of renewable alternative fuel power systems, such as solar along the lines of S.590 - a bill introduced by Senator Smith and Senator Salazar with broad support on this Committee. Like Japan and Germany before, this demand incentive will provide the stimulus to awaken the largest potential solar market in the world," Boortz testified. 
   "Create some type of manufacturing investment tax credit to assist domestic manufacturers in technologies such as solar products and equipment. This new manufacturing tax credit should be available to U.S. based manufacturers who are located in the United States and pay U.S. income taxes. The demand created above described incentives should be satisfied by U.S.-based companies, and this investment tax credit would help make U.S. manufacturers competitive in a global industry," he said. 
   Bingaman today also chaired a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on his legislation to dramatically expand the use of biofuels.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 