SENS. BINGAMAN, SMITH PUSH MEASURES THAT PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO LOW-INCOME SENIORS RECEIVING MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUGS BENEFIT
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Gordon H. Smith (R-OR) today jointly introduced four measures aimed at improving the assistance available to low-income seniors and other enrolled in the Medicare Prescription Drug benefit. Both senators are members of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare.
   Taken together, the four bills would improve access to prescription drugs for low-income Americans and improve enrollment in the Low Income Subsidy (otherwise know as LIS or "extra help) in Part D. LIS provides assistance to low-income Part D enrollees that are not poor enough or do not otherwise qualify for Medicaid but whose resources are still quite modest. 
   "Medicare Part D is helping seniors, but the recent data indicates that most seniors that are eligible for the low-income subsidies are not receiving this vital assistance. There are steps we can take to strengthen Part D and improve the benefits it offers - particularly to low-income seniors. These bills, which Senator Smith and I are working to advance, will help many more seniors get access to the life-saving prescription drugs to which they are entitled," Bingaman said.  
   "I am proud to join my colleague, Senator Bingaman, in introducing a package of four bills aimed at helping seniors get the help they need with their Medicare prescription drug costs," said Smith. "Millions of seniors now have access to affordable prescription drug therapies through Medicare Part D, and many for the very first time. But several low-income beneficiaries are still experiencing difficulties taking full advantage of the program's benefits. I believe the bipartisan package of legislation we have developed will go a long way to removing programmatic barriers that are limiting seniors from getting the help we intended them to have when we created the Medicare drug benefit." 
   Summaries of the bills follow: 
   BINGAMAN/SMITH BILLS Part D Equity for Low-Income Seniors Act The asset test penalizes low-income retirees who may have very modest savings. For example, approximately half of the people that failed the asset test have excess assets of $35,000 or less. These people tend to be older, female, widowed, and living alone. In addition the asset test is inherently discriminatory against certain categories of people (e.g., people who rent their homes). This bill raises the asset test standards permitting an individual senior with assets of up to $27,500 and a senior couple with assets of $55,000 to qualify for the low-income benefit offered under Part D. It also prohibits certain nominal or inappropriate assets from being counted in determining LIS eligibility including: counting retirement account balances, life-insurance policies and in-kind contributions. Finally, it also permits critical data sharing by the federal government to identify beneficiaries eligible for the LIS. In addition to Senator Smith, this legislation is cosponsored by Finance Committee Members Senators Lincoln (D-AR), Snowe (R-ME), and Kerry (D-MA), as well as the Chairman of the Aging Committee Senator Kohl (D-WI). In the House, similar legislation was introduced by Representative Doggett (D-TX), who worked closely with Senators Bingaman and Smith in developing this legislation. 
   Low-income True Out-Of Pocket (TrOOP) Expense under Part D Assistance Bill This legislation ensures that low-income Americans do not get "stuck" in the Part D coverage gap or "doughnut hole" simply because of where they choose to purchase Part D pharmaceuticals. Unbelievably, under current regulation and guidance, individuals who are in the doughnut hole and receive Part D drugs from commercial pharmacies may be permitted to count waivers or reductions in Part D cost-sharing to count towards their out-of-pocket costs . However, low-income individuals who tend to receive Part D drugs from safety-net pharmacies and other safety-net providers are not permitted to count similar waivers or reductions in Part D cost-sharing by safety-net providers towards their TrOOP. Thus, current law penalizes low-income individuals and makes it easier for them to get stuck in the doughnut hole - never accessing the catastrophic coverage to which they are entitled. This bill would permit waivers and reductions for low-income beneficiaries receiving care from safety-net providers (such as Federally Qualified Health Centers, AIDS Drug Assistance Programs, the Indian Health Service) to count towards beneficiaries TrOOP and, therefore, move them through the Part D interruption in coverage or "doughnut hole" to catastrophic coverage. In addition to Senator Smith, this legislation is cosponsored by Finance Committee Members Senators Snowe(R-ME), and Kerry(D-MA). In the House, similar legislation will soon be introduced by Rep.Holt (D-NJ), who worked closely with Senators Bingaman and Smith in developing this legislation. 
   SMITH/BINGAMAN BILLS The Home and Community Services Co-payment Equity Act of 2007 The measure would create parity in the cost-sharing charged to beneficiaries living in nursing homes and assisted living facilities. Under current law, dual-eligible Medicare beneficiaries, those who qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare coverage, are exempted from all co-payments under Medicare Part D. This benefit is not extended to those who choose a community-based alternative to a nursing home for their long-term care. This measure would amend current law to expand this co-payment exception to dual-eligible beneficiaries choosing alternative long-term care. This measure is sponsored by Senators Smith (R-OR) and Bingaman (D-NM), along with Senators Nelson (D-FL), Clinton (D-NY), Collins (R-ME), Lincoln (D-A R ), Boxer (D-CA) and Kerry (D-MA).
   Part D Outreach and Enrollment Enhancement Act of 2007 The legislation would provide beneficiaries applying for the Low Income Subsidy (LIS) benefit extra time to enroll into Part D if they had not received notification of their eligibility status by the time an open enrollment period ended. Additionally, the bill exempts low-income beneficiaries from Medicare Part D's late enrollment penalty and provides assistance to the beneficiaries to find the plan that best meets their needs. 
   The measure also creates a new authorization to support the work of State Health Insurance Programs (SHIPs) by increases funding in conjunction with growth in enrollment. SHIPs provide a range of services to seniors, such as help choosing a quality prescription drug plan, applying for financial assistance with their drug costs and resolving general problems experienced with the drug benefit. The bill also provides funding for the new National Center of Senior Benefits and Outreach, created in the Older Americans Act last year. The Center is charged with developing ways to assist organizations like SHIPs to better target their efforts so that all seniors are fully aware of the benefits that might be available to them. This measure is sponsored by Senators Smith and Bingaman along Senator s Snowe (R-ME), Lincoln (D-AR) and Kerry (D-MA).
 
 