NEW MEXICO SENATORS OFFER ISLETA LAND SETTLEMENT BILL
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today introduced legislation to authorize a more than $40 million settlement agreement reached between the Isleta Pueblo and the federal government related to claims of mismanagement of pueblo lands.  
   The Pueblo of Isleta Settlement and Natural Resources Restoration Act of 2006 is necessary to enact a settlement related to the pueblo's suit against the government seeking compensation for damages to tribal lands. A final agreement to settle the suit was reached in June among the pueblo, U.S. Department of the Interior and Justice Department. 
   Following the agreement, the Domenici-Bingaman bill would establish a $32.8 million Natural Resources Restoration Fund, which would be funded through the government's Permanent and Indefinite Appropriations for Judgments. The bill would also authorize another $7.2 million in appropriations for Isleta Pueblo to use to restore and reclaim agricultural, range and forest property. 
   "This bill will put in place the final pieces necessary to put the Isleta land mismanagement case to rest. It will provide resources for the Isleta Pueblo to rehabilitate their lands for the betterment of its people," Domenici said. "Pueblo leaders understand that it may take time for the administration to budget for some of these funds, but that we will work with the Interior Department to carry out the settlement agreement." 
   "This legislation would allow Isleta Pueblo to restore ancestral lands that have been improperly managed by the federal government for many decades," Bingaman said. "I hope we can get the Senate to approve this legislation quickly." 
   The Isleta filed suit against the United States under a 1996 law authored by the late Congressman Joe Skeen. The New Mexico Senators offered similar legislation and have since pressured the parties to reach a settlement that could be enacted by Congress. An initial settlement agreement on the suit was reached in July 2005, and an accord on how settlement funds would be provided and how the pueblo may use the funds was finalized June 22. 
   Some of the funds will be used for drainage and remediation of the pueblo's agricultural lands that have been waterlogged. Some of the funds will be spent to rehabilitate and remediate the pueblo forest and range lands. Other funds will be used for the acquisition, restoration, improvement, development, and protection of land, natural resources and cultural resources, as well as the payment and reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with this lawsuit. 
   "Isleta Pueblo, the Department of Interior, and the Department of Justice have worked long and hard to resolve this matter. I believe Congress should act expeditiously to ratify the agreement they have reached," Domenici said. 
   The legislation is expected to be referred to the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, on which Domenici serves. A companion bill is expected to be introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Steve Pearce and Congresswoman Heather Wilson.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521. 
 
 