BILL CONTAINS MILLIONS SECURED BY SEN. BINGAMAN FOR NORTHERN NEW MEXICO
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2008 spending bill that funds the U.S. Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development. The bill contains funding U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman requested for several northern New Mexico initiatives. The bill will now go to the Senate floor for debate. 
   At Bingaman's request the bill contains $2 million for the construction of the West Jemez Bypass in Los Alamos. The new road will allow the public to bypass the Department of Energy's new security station for Los Alamos National Laboratory. The new bypass begins at West Road and proceeds east 3900-feet to the intersection of Diamond Drive (NM 501) and East Jemez Road. Construction is expected to begin in early 2008.  
   "The construction of this bypass road will make it possible for residents and visitors to access the county and other places like Jemez Springs, Bandelier National Monument, and the Valles Caldera National Preserve, while complying with the lab's security needs," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also said he was pleased the bill contains $500,000 he requested for the Las Cumbres Community Services Facility in Espa?ola. Funding will be used for the construction of a new facility to house child and family services, adult services, respite care, and the Early Childhood Mental Health Training Institute. The facility will also include training facilities, and meeting rooms that will be open to the public. 
   "Las Cumbres provides important services to local residents. The funding included in this bill will help them expand their services through the construction on a new facility," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also includes language Bingaman requested that directed the Federal Aviation Administration to work with Santa Fe Airport to improve radar coverage in the area. Bingaman said he has received numerous reports of potentially dangerous situations at the airport because of the lack of radar coverage. 
   The Santa Fe Municipal Airport is located in a mountainous terrain, including the nearby 12,000-feet Sange de Cristo Mountains and 10,000-feet Sandia Crest. The tower now handles a broad range of aircraft, including Santa Fe's commercial air service, which will likely soon be upgraded to 50-passenger Regional Jets. Currently the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) does not consider a radar installation justified at the airport. 
   "The installation of radar at the Santa Fe Airport would help improve safety and efficiency at the airport," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also includes funding for the following northern New Mexico projects: 
   * $2.08 million for Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities
   Funding would be used for 45 buses and bus-related equipment and facilities to be used at the following: Angel Fire, Belen, Carlsbad, Clovis, Grant County, Hobbs, Pueblo of Laguna, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, NCI, Navajo Nation, Portales, Red River, Roswell, Taos, Zia Therapy, Zuni Zee Transit, Rio Arriba County, South Central COG, Grants/Milan/Cibola Transit, Care-A-Van, Sandoval County, and Tucumcari Housing Authority. 
   * $1.5 million RailRunner Commuter Rail 
   Funding will help extend service from Bernalillo to Santa Fe. Bingaman helped secured $500,000 for the project in fiscal year 2006. 
   * $1 million for Santa Fe Trails Bus and Bus Facilities 
   Funds are requested for the new Santa Fe Place Transit Center on Cerrillos Blvd. 
   * $1 million Bus and Bus Facilities in Los Alamos County 
   Funding would be used to buy buses and construct a new transit facility in Los Alamos County. 
   * $500,000 for Buses and an Intermodal Facility to Support the New Mexico Commuter Rail 
   Previously received funding would be used to purchase buses and for an intermodal facility to support phase II of the Rail Runner Express Commuter Rail project between Albuquerque and Santa Fe. 
   Also, for the fifth year in a row the committee included language Bingaman wrote that would ensure communities, such as Hobbs, Carlsbad, Clovis, Alamogordo and Silver City, are not required to pay to maintain their commercial air service.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 