SENS. BINGAMAN, LIEBERMAN OUTLINE SENATE DEMOCRATS' AGENDA FOR HISPANIC FAMILIES
  In a Capitol Hill news conference, Sen. Jeff Bingaman today joined Sen. Joseph Lieberman in highlighting Senate Democrats' agenda for Hispanic families. 
   Bingaman and Lieberman have been named the co-chairs of the Hispanic Task Force for the 109th Congress. Bingaman, a long-time co-chairman of the task force, represents a state where more than 40 percent of the population is Hispanic. 
   "We can no longer point to a region of the nation or an issue as uniquely Hispanic. As the Hispanic population spreads across the nation these issues and priorities must be recognized as national concerns," Bingaman said. 
   "Senate Democrats have outlined an aggressive agenda to improve access to education and health care and to create good, high-paying jobs - the very issues that concern Hispanic communities across the country. I look forward to working with Senator Lieberman and the 24 Senator members of the task force throughout the coming months," he added.
    Bingaman is the author of several pieces of legislation central to the Democrats' agenda. For instance, he wrote the Next Generation Hispanic-Serving Institutions Act (S. 357), which takes several steps designed to encourage Hispanic students to pursue baccalaureate degrees, and for the first time would provide funding to support graduate degrees. It does so by increasing the amount of federal funds available to Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs) and by making it easier for qualified colleges and universities to access the funding. 
   Bingaman also wrote the Start Healthy, Stay Healthy Act, which significantly reduces the number of uninsured children and pregnant women across the country. Hispanic communities have a much higher than average percentage of uninsured. The bill would extend health care to children through the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). SCHIP is a federal-state program that has extended eligibility for children up to 200 percent above poverty. 
   "Pursuing this agenda is the continuation of a process that began years ago and it continues today in our work in the Senate," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 