SEN. BINGAMAN: MCKINLEY, SAN JUAN COUNTIES POISED TO RECEIVE MILLIONS OF DOLLARS FOR TRANSPORTATION, OTHER PROJECTS
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today confirmed that a key spending bill being written in the Senate contains millions of dollars for projects in San Juan and McKinley counties.  
   The Senate Appropriations Committee has given approval to the fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies spending bill, which funds several federal agencies. The measure is now ready for full Senate debate. 
   At Bingaman's urging, the bill contains a total of $1 million for McKinley County - $500,000 for the improvement of bridges and $500,000 for the construction of a juvenile crisis and detention complex. 
   "I am very pleased that this bill sets aside $1 million to fund key projects that are important to McKinley County," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also contains the following for San Juan County: 
   $1.5 million for improvements to Pi?on Hills Blvd East in Farmington: The funding would be used for a four-lane extension that would run from the current intersection on Main Street (NM 516) across the river to county road 3950. 
   $1 million San Juan County Road 3900 construction. Funding will be used to construct 1 mile of County Road 3900 to connect with the Pi?on Hills Boulevard extension from Farmington onto Crouch Mesa. 
   $1 million for a relief route to bypass the City of Aztec. Funding would be used for the construction of a two-lane paved road designed to provide an alternative route for large truck traffic. More than 9,000 vehicles, including heavy industrial traffic, travel through Aztec on a daily basis, creating safety hazards and significantly deteriorating its roads. 
   $500,000 San Juan County, County Road 7500. Funding will be used for upgrades to this road, which is a two lane dirt and gravel road which becomes impassable during inclement weather due to muddy, slick and washboard conditions. CR 7500 is also the major school route for the Bloomfield, Bureau of Indian Affairs school and the Navajo Headstart systems, which combined, transport 1,500 children each day to and from school. 
   "This spending bill would make a $4 million investment in San Juan County roads to make significant improvements that will ensure driver safety," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 