BILL CONTAINS MILLIONS SECURED BY SEN. BINGAMAN FOR SOUTHEASTERN NEW MEXICO
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2008 spending bill that funds the U.S. Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development. The bill contains funding U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman requested for several southeastern New Mexico initiatives. The bill will now go to the Senate floor for debate.  
   At Bingaman's request the bill contains $1 million for the East Bypass Project in Hobbs. The proposed project, known as the Hobbs East Bypass, is a new access controlled roadway designed to complete the bypass loop around Hobbs. The new roadway is proposed to connect with New Mexico Highway 18 south of Hobbs (Eunice Highway) at the intersection with the Hobbs South Bypass. East Bypass would then be constructed to the southeast and east of Hobbs in an arc along a 5.1 mile corridor to the intersection of US Highway 62-180 (Seminole Highway) and the North Bypass. 
   "This planned bypass route would greatly benefit commercial traffic by saving drivers time. It would also help reduce traffic in Hobbs," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman was also pleased the bill contained $400,000 he requested to help the City of Roswell replace five 21-passenger public transit buses and one 15-passenger transit van. The existing vehicles are all more than 14 years old. The cost to maintain these vehicles has risen to an unacceptable level. 
   "Public transportation is a great alternative to today's high gas prices. This funding will benefit many Roswell residents," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also contains $300,000 Bingaman requested for the improvements to West Lea Street in Carlsbad. Funding will be used to make changes needed to improve traffic, safety and flow through the City of Carlsbad. In addition, a 160-acre Sports Complex is planned along this roadway, which will include consolidation of ten sports fields and will significantly add to traffic congestion in the area. The project includes approximately 0.6 miles of roadway from the junction of Standpipe Street east to Cyprus Street. Preliminary engineering is complete. 
   "Carlsbad is growing. This funding will help begin efforts to make improvements to one of its busiest streets," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also includes funding for the following southern New Mexico projects: 
   $2.08 million for Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities 
  Funding would be used for 45 buses and bus-related equipment and facilities to be used at the following: Angel Fire, Belen, Carlsbad, Clovis, Grant County, Hobbs, Pueblo of Laguna, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, NCI, Navajo Nation, Portales, Red River, Roswell, Taos, Zia Therapy, Zuni Zee Transit, Rio Arriba County, South Central COG, Grants/Milan/Cibola Transit, Care-A-Van, Sandoval County, and Tucumcari Housing Authority. 
   Also, for the fifth year in a row the committee included language Bingaman wrote that would ensure communities, such as Hobbs, Carlsbad, Clovis, Alamogordo and Silver City, are not required to pay to maintain their commercial air service.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 