BILL CONTAINS MILLIONS SECURED BY SEN. BINGAMAN FOR SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today approved the fiscal year 2008 spending bill that funds the U.S. Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development. The bill contains funding U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman requested for several key southern New Mexico initiatives. The bill will now go to the Senate floor for debate.  
   At Bingaman's request the bill contains $2 million for the City of Las Cruces' Main Street revitalization project. Funding will help with phase II of the downtown project, which includes construction of a new roadway, sidewalks and streetscape enhancements such as planters and decorative lighting. 
   "Revitalizing the city's downtown will help attract businesses and visitors to the area and hopefully boost tourism and economic growth," Bingaman said. "This funding will be a great investment in Las Cruces." 
   Bingaman said he was also pleased the bill includes $1.5 million he requested for a bus facility in Grant County. Corre Caminos, the county's bus service provider, would use the funding to plan and construct a multi-modal terminal facility. The new building will house administrative and operational staff and a secured facility to perform repairs and house vehicles. Corre Caminos is operating in its sixth year and also provides some services to Hidalgo and Luna counties. 
   "Public transportation is a great alternative to today's high gas prices. This funding will benefit Corre Caminos and those who depend on its services," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also includes funding for the following southern New Mexico projects: 
   * $320,000 for RoadRunner Transit in Las Cruces 
   Funding will be used to purchase four Diesel para-transit buses to replace four aging vans. Replacement of these older vans will improve operation efficiency and provide more suitable transportation options for our patrons. Bingaman secured $1 million in FY 2006 for Las Cruces to purchase buses and $375,000 in FY 2004. 
   * $200,000 for Las Cruces Families and Youth, Inc. Transitional Living Program 
   Funding will help to expand and improve the quantity and quality of services offered by the program, which serves low-income persons, and to expand the number of clients served. 
   * $2.08 million for Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities 
   Funding would be used for 45 buses and bus-related equipment and facilities to be used at the following: Angel Fire, Belen, Carlsbad, Clovis, Grant County, Hobbs, Pueblo of Laguna, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, NCI, Navajo Nation, Portales, Red River, Roswell, Taos, Zia Therapy, Zuni Zee Transit, Rio Arriba County, South Central COG, Grants/Milan/Cibola Transit, Care-A-Van, Sandoval County, and Tucumcari Housing Authority. 
   Also, for the fifth year in a row the committee included language Bingaman wrote that would ensure communities, such as Hobbs, Carlsbad, Clovis, Alamogordo and Silver City, are not required to pay to maintain their commercial air service.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 