NEW MEXICO HONORED AS 'CONGRESSIONAL ANGEL IN ADOPTION'
  Rosemary Zibart of Santa Fe was selected by Sen. Jeff Bingaman and Rep. Tom Udall to be one of 180 Congressional Angels in Adoption for her work to raise Congressional and public awareness about the tens of thousands of foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world. 
   Each year, CCAI invites members of the U.S. Congress to participate in the Angels in Adoption program and recognize individuals from their home state who have improved the lives of foster children and orphans. 
   Zibart, a journalist, has helped increase awareness about adoption through her writing. Her articles have been featured in such publications as USA Today, Parade Magazine, Time Magazine and others. 
   "As the mother of two adopted Russian orphans, Rosemary understands firsthand the importance of this issue," Bingaman said. "I congratulate her for her work in promoting public awareness of foster parenting and adoption."
   "Angels in Adoption helps raise awareness of the gift of adoption. Rosemary has done so much to advance the cause of adoption. Both as an adoptee mother and journalist, Rosemary deserves this recognition," Udall said.
   "I am extremely honored to receive this award. It's been a great privilege to be able to use my skills as a journalist on behalf of children who need homes and to be published in such widely-read and respected magazines as Parade Magazine and Time Magazine. Especially, the article in Parade Magazine last January on Santa Fe's "Heart Gallery" had a ripple effect that turned into a tsunami of interest across the country in creating awareness about adoptable children in the United States." Zibart said.
   Honorees will be recognized at an event hosted by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) at a national ceremony in Washington, DC on Tuesday, September 13, 2005.
   CCAI is a non-partisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to raising congressional and public awareness about the needs of foster children. The Angels in Adoption program was created in 1999 to raise public awareness of the many different ways that individuals can help children and families through adoption. In the United States alone, more than 550,000 children are in the foster care system, with tens of thousands of children available for adoption.
   Contact: Maria Najera, 202/224-0167; Glen Loveland, 202/225-1213.
 
 