SEN. BINGAMAN: SPENDING BILL CONTAINS FUNDING FOR ALBUQUERQUE & SANDOVAL COUNTY
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today reported that a spending bill the Senate passed today contains millions of dollars to support transportation projects in Albuquerque and Sandoval County, including $1.5 million for the RailRunner. 
   By a 88-7 vote, the Senate gave approval to the fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies spending bill, which funds several federal agencies. The measure is now ready for a conference with the House of Representatives.  
   "This bill contains millions to help the Albuquerque metropolitan area make many needed upgrades to its transportation infrastructure and is an investment in public transit," Bingaman said. 
   At Bingaman's urging, the bill contains the following: 
   $1.5 million RailRunner Commuter Rail: Funding will be used to help extend service from Bernalillo to Santa Fe. Bingaman helped secured $500,000 for the project in fiscal year 2006. The first phase of the commuter rail service between Belen and Bernalillo is in place. Work continues on implementing the next phase of service to Santa Fe. 
   $850,000 to rehabilitate the Amtrak Station in Albuquerque: The 100-year old building is part of the Alvarado downtown transit center, which serves city buses, intercity coaches, and commuter rail. The historic building has deteriorated and doesn't present a welcoming face to visitors to central New Mexico. 
   $2 million for Albuquerque International Sunport Aircraft Parking Ramp: Funding would be used to finalize design and begin construction on the ramp projects. 
   $1 million Sandoval County, Northwest Loop Road: The Northwest Loop Access Road will be a two lane gravel road which will bypass the metropolitan Albuquerque area by creating an alternate route from I-40 to I-25 via 550 to the North. The road will alleviate a portion of the local traffic currently using I-25 and I-40. Once the gravel road is constructed, private entities have committed to funding the pavement of a permanent road. Ultimately this 15 mile paved road will provide tremendous relief for traffic congestion at the intersection of I-40 and I-25. There is a timing issue, as the rights of way for the road are due to expire in 2007. 
   The bill gives the City of Albuquerque the authority to use $4.8 million in federal transit funding it had previously received to purchase six additional 60-foot articulated Diesel-hybrid buses for the Rapid Ride and build one additional park-and-ride lot at the intersection of Central and Unser Blvd. 
   Bingaman was also pleased the bill set aside an additional $3 million for New Mexico's highway bridges. The additional funding would supplement the $315 million that the underlying bill already provides to the state for transportation improvement projects, including interstate highways, bridges and major roads on the national highway system. New Mexico would decide how to use the extra money to repair or replace highway bridges. 
   The bill also contains funding for the following: 
   $500,000, Old Town Boys and Girls Club: Renovation of the existing Old Town Boys and Girls Club accompanied by construction of new areas for the club. The facility serves over 3,000 youth each year engaged in various social, educational, and recreational activities. The Boys and Girls Club will use the funding to renovate their current facilities resulting in the prevention of blighting influences and the deterioration of property and neighborhood and community facilities of importance to the welfare of the community, principally persons of low and moderate income. 
   $250,000 for Bernalillo County Metropolitan Assessment & Treatment Services (MATS) Transitional Housing Unit: MATS provides a stable housing environment for recovering substance abuse clients and individuals with co-occurring disorders including continued out-patient and case management services. The funds are to be used to expand and improve the quantity and quality of community services, principally for persons of low and moderate income which are essential for sound community development and for the development of viable communities.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 