SEN. BINGAMAN: MCKINLEY, SAN JUAN COUNTIES POISED TO RECEIVE MILLIONS OF DOLLARS FOR TRANSPORTATION & OTHER PROJECTS
  The Senate today approved a key spending bill that contains millions of dollars U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman helped secure for New Mexico transportation projects.  
   At Bingaman's request, the fiscal year 2008 Transportation Appropriations Bill contains $1 million for McKinley County - $500,000 for the improvement of bridges and $500,000 for the construction of a juvenile crisis and detention complex. 
   "The funding in this bill is important to maintaining safety in McKinley County - by through investing in bridge security and in the criminal justice system," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman was also pleased the bill set aside an additional $3 million for New Mexico's highway bridges. The additional funding would supplement the $315 million that the underlying bill already provides to the state for transportation improvement projects, including interstate highways, bridges and major roads on the national highway system. New Mexico would decide how to use the extra money to repair or replace highway bridges. 
   The bill also contains the following for San Juan County: 
   $1.5 million for improvements to Pi?on Hills Blvd East in Farmington: The funding would be used for a four-lane extension that would run from the current intersection on Main Street (NM 516) across the river to county road 3950. 
   $1 million San Juan County Road 3900 construction: Funding will be used to construct 1 mile of County Road 3900 to connect with the Pi?on Hills Boulevard extension from Farmington onto Crouch Mesa. 
   $1 million for a relief route to bypass the City of Aztec: Funding would be used for the construction of a two-lane paved road designed to provide an alternative route for large truck traffic. More than 9,000 vehicles, including heavy industrial traffic, travel through Aztec on a daily basis, creating safety hazards and significantly deteriorating its roads. 
   $500,000 San Juan County, County Road 7500: Funding will be used for upgrades to this road, which is a two-lane dirt and gravel road which becomes impassable during inclement weather due to muddy, slick and washboard conditions. CR 7500 is also the major school route for the Bloomfield, Bureau of Indian Affairs School and the Navajo Head Start systems, which combined, transport 1,500 children each day to and from school. 
   "This bill will make it possible for San Juan County to make many needed road infrastructure improvement that will benefit all who travel through the county," Bingaman said. 
   The bill will now be subject to a House-Senate panel, which will negotiate final legislation that can be signed into law.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 