BILL CONTAINS MILLIONS SEN. BINGAMAN SECURED FOR NORTHERN NEW MEXICO
  The Senate today approved a key spending bill that contains millions of dollars U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman helped secure for northern New Mexico transportation projects. 
   At Bingaman's request, the fiscal year 2008 Transportation Appropriations Bill contains $2 million for the construction of the West Jemez Bypass in Los Alamos. The new road will allow the public to bypass the Department of Energy's new security station for Los Alamos National Laboratory. The new bypass begins at West Road and proceeds east 3900-feet to the intersection of Diamond Drive (NM 501) and East Jemez Road. Construction is expected to begin in early 2008.  
   "The construction of the West Jemez bypass is vital to ensuring area residents have access to Los Alamos while maintaining security at the laboratory," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also said he was pleased the bill contains $500,000 he requested for the Las Cumbres Community Services Facility in Espa?ola. Funding will be used for the construction of a new facility to house child and family services, adult services, respite care, and the Early Childhood Mental Health Training Institute. The facility will also include training facilities, and meeting rooms that will be open to the public. 
   "I recently had the pleasure of visiting Las Cumbres and learning about the important work they do for the community. These funds would be of great benefit to the center and I am pleased there were included in this bill," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also includes language Bingaman requested that directed the Federal Aviation Administration to work with Santa Fe Airport to improve radar coverage in the area. 
   The Santa Fe Municipal Airport is located in a mountainous terrain, including the nearby 12,000-ft Sangre de Cristo Mountains and 10,000-ft Sandia Crest. The tower now handles a broad range of aircraft, including Santa Fe's commercial air service, which will likely soon be upgraded to 50-passenger Regional Jets. Currently the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) does not consider a radar installation justified at the airport. 
   "There have been numerous reports of potentially dangerous situations at the airport because of the lack of radar coverage. This bill would make it possible to improve radar coverage at the Santa Fe Airport," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also said he was pleased the bill set aside an additional $3 million for New Mexico's highway bridges. The additional funding would supplement the $315 million that the underlying bill already provides to the state for transportation improvement projects, including interstate highways, bridges and major roads on the national highway system. New Mexico would decide how to use the extra money to repair or replace highway bridges. 
   The bill also includes funding for the following northern New Mexico projects: 
   $2.08 million for Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities 
  Funding would be used for 45 buses and bus-related equipment and facilities to be used at the following: Angel Fire, Belen, Carlsbad, Clovis, Grant County, Hobbs, Pueblo of Laguna, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, NCI, Navajo Nation, Portales, Red River, Roswell, Taos, Zia Therapy, Zuni Zee Transit, Rio Arriba County, South Central COG, Grants/Milan/Cibola Transit, Care-A-Van, Sandoval County, and Tucumcari Housing Authority. 
   $1.5 million RailRunner Commuter Rail 
  Funding will help extend service from Bernalillo to Santa Fe. Bingaman helped secure $500,000 for the project in fiscal year 2006. 
   $1 million for Santa Fe Trails Bus and Bus Facilities 
  Funds are requested for the new Santa Fe Place Transit Center on Cerrillos Blvd. 
   $1 million Bus and Bus Facilities in Los Alamos County 
  Funding would be used to buy buses and construct a new transit facility in Los Alamos County. 
   $500,000 for Buses and an Intermodal Facility to Support the New Mexico Commuter Rail 
   Previously received funding would be used to purchase buses and for an intermodal facility to support phase II of the Rail Runner Express Commuter Rail project between Albuquerque and Santa Fe. 
   Also, for the fifth year in a row the bill includes language Bingaman wrote that would ensure communities, such as Hobbs, Carlsbad, Clovis, Alamogordo and Silver City, are not required to pay to maintain their commercial air service. 
   The bill will now be subject to a House-Senate panel, which will negotiate final legislation that can be signed into law.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 