SENATORS BACK WIND POWER PROPOSAL INVOLVING NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman have signaled their support for a joint plan to coordinate wind energy research technologies with the Department of Energy and an alliance of universities, including New Mexico State University at Las Cruces.  
   Bingaman and Domenici, the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, have signed onto a bipartisan letter to Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman endorsing a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) between the Lone Star Wind Alliance and the DOE Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, as well as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. 
   NMSU is a member of the Lone Star Wind Alliance, which also includes the University of Houston, Texas A&M University, Texas Tech University, the University of Texas at Austin, West Texas A&M University, as well as Stanford University, Old Dominion University and Montana State University. 
   "The Lone Star Wind Alliance possesses world-leading research centers in the fields of large composite structures, wind engineering, electromechanical controls and power electronics," the Senators wrote Bodman. "Collectively, these institutions have extensive knowledge and experience in wind energy, and they can provide the Department of Energy with a broad, national range of research capabilities." 
   Domenici and Bingaman, who led the development and enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, said a DOE CRADA with the alliance could help find more efficient and affordable means of performing full-scale testing of megawatt-scale wind turbine blades. 
   "Affiliating a new advanced wind turbine blade test facility with the Lone Star Wind Alliance is the best way to achieve this goal, and we encourage you to give their application strong consideration," the letter to Bodman said. 
   Wind power was a major component of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. As a result of that legislation, 2 million new homes will be able to be powered by wind by the end of 2007. The bill spurred $4.5 billion in economic activity related to wind power, which will result in 6,000 megawatts of new wind power by the end of this year. 11 billion pounds of carbon have been offset by new wind power production. 
   Within its College of Engineering, NMSU operates the Institute for Energy and the Environment (IEE) which is partnered with the WERC: A Consortium for Environmental Education and Technology Development, Southwest Technology Development Institute, and Carlsbad Environmental Monitoring and Research Center. 
   The CRADA letter to Bodman was spearheaded by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas).
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 