SEN. BINGAMAN VISITS GALLUP, DISCUSSES WATER & HIGHER EDUCATION
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today visited Gallup to discuss several pieces of legislation he strongly supports: one to construct a pipeline to bring water to the city and two others that would make college more affordable for - and accessible to - New Mexicans.  
   First, Bingaman met with city and state officials to provide an update on his legislation to settle the Navajo Nation's water claims in the San Juan Basin. That settlement includes the construction of a pipeline to Gallup. Bingaman is the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and held a hearing on his bill in June. 
   "I am working very hard to win broad support for this legislation. I am particularly trying to persuade the Bush administration that its opposition to this measure is a mistake, and that this is a very important bill for Gallup and Northwest New Mexico," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman said the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee could vote on his bill, which is cosponsored by Senator Pete Domenici, as soon as next month. 
   After the pipeline meeting, Bingaman visited the University of New Mexico-Gallup to discuss two bills the Senate recently passed. One will increase student aid by more than $17 billion over the next 5 years - including as much as $177 million in new grant aid for New Mexicans. The bill would substantially increase Pell Grants to $5,100 next year and to $5,400 by 2011. Under this proposal, the maximum Pell Grant would increase by $790 next year alone. 
   A separate bill contains a provision Bingaman wrote that provides grant funding to nontribal colleges with a student population that is at least 10 percent Native American. Grants of at least $200,000 would support curriculum development and academic instruction, faculty development, the purchase of books and other educational materials, and support academic tutoring and counseling. Eligible schools in New Mexico include University of New Mexico-Gallup, San Juan College, New Mexico State University-Grants, and Eastern New Mexico University-Ruidoso. 
   To improve students' academic readiness for college, at Bingaman's urging the bill also strengthens the GEAR UP and TRIO programs. For instance, the bill requires GEAR UP partnerships to systemically change the ways schools prepare students for college. It requires states and school districts to encourage more students to enroll in rigorous high school coursework and emphasizes activities that will support the development of college prep curricula, including Advanced Placement. It also strengthens the TRIO programs by establishing outcome criteria for measuring the quality and effectiveness of the programs. 
   "Combined, these bills will help more New Mexicans both prepare for college and pay for it. This is very important legislation and I hope we can get it to the president's desk soon," Bingaman.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 