NEW MEXICO DELEGATION TALKS CANNON AIR FORCE BASE TRANSITION WITH AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS BRASS
  Leaders of the Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) and Cannon Air Force Base today met with Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman, and Reps. Tom Udall and Steve Pearce, to discuss issues relating to the upcoming AFSOC transition at the Curry County military base. 
   The New Mexico lawmakers met with the military leaders to assess the congressional activity needed in the new 110th Congress to facilitate the new Air Force mission outlined for Cannon. These issues included military construction, approval to transfer overseas assets to the United States, and environmental assessment outlook and overall timing for the transition.  
   As a result of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure process, the Air Force announced earlier this year that the 16th Special Operations Wing will assume command of Cannon effective Oct. 1, 2007. 
   "We asked General Wooley and the Cannon commanders to help us set priorities in terms of funding and legislative actions that can help move this transition along smoothly and efficiently. Cannon is in good shape for this new mission, but we need to be able get the Air Force what it needs to complete the transition. We are all on the same page to move forward together to get this done," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "After this briefing, I'm convinced that we're on track for getting our new mission in a timely fashion. The delegation will continue to stay in close contact with AFSOC and Cannon to assist in any way we can to expedite the transition," Bingaman said. 
   "I am very grateful to the AFSOC leadership for briefing us today on the ongoing transition. We will continue to work to assist AFSOC in their transition and help ensure it is as smooth and efficient as possible for them, as well as for the great men and women at Cannon, and the communities of Clovis and Portales. We look forward to AFSOC's arrival at Cannon and we will continue to present a united front during the 110th Congress on the issues necessary to facilitate the transition," Udall said. 
   "Today's meeting confirmed that the Cannon's transition is on track and on target," Pearce said. "The Air Force and New Mexico's congressional delegation are working together to minimize the short-term economic and personnel impact while maximizing this mission's huge potential to benefit the region, our state, and our nation for decades to come." 
   The Pentagon sent AFSOC Commander General Michael Wooley, Cannon Commander Col. Scott West, and others to brief the delegation. They reported, in general, that they continue to work out specific details of the force structure and units to be assigned to Clovis. It is expected that Cannon will eventually house the AC-130 Gunship, MC-130 Combat Talons and Combat Shadow aircraft, and the CV-22 Osprey, as well as other AFSOC assets. 
   The delegation agreed to push for AFSOC needs at Cannon in the 110th Congress and plans to work closely with Wooley and West to ensure a smooth transition to Cannon. 
   Last month, the delegation began pressing the Pentagon to release $13.2 million in FY2006 military construction funding which they secured to build a modern fuel storage and distribution system at Cannon. This push followed their successful effort to have the Defense Department free another $9.5 million in FY2005 funding to construct a consolidated airmen's center at Cannon. This facility will include a dining hall, postal center, a laundry exchange, and troop subsistence issue.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 