SEN. BINGAMAN INTRODUCES BILL TO INCREASE NUMBER OF HISPANICS ENROLLED IN GRADUATE DEGREE PROGRAMS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today introduced legislation aimed at increasing the number of students of Hispanic decent enrolled in post-baccalaureate programs. 
   The Next Generation Hispanic-Serving Institutions Act, which Bingaman introduced with Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) as a cosponsor, for the first time would provide funding to support graduate degrees at Hispanic Serving Institutions - colleges and universities that have a high percentage of Hispanic students. Specifically, the program establishes a competitive grant program to expand post-baccalaureate degree opportunities at HSIs. Current law only provides federal funding for two-year and four-year institutions. 
   "There is no question that the number of Hispanic students graduating from college has increased over the past few years. That is great news, but we can do more," Bingaman said. "Hispanic students are woefully underrepresented in graduate programs. For instance, in 2003, Hispanics only earned 4 percent of all master's degrees and only 3 percent of all doctorates."  
   "This bill would take steps aimed at increasing the number of Hispanics enrolled in graduate programs," Bingaman added. 
   Currently, Hispanics make up about 13 percent of the U.S. labor force. While the overall labor force is projected to slow down over the next decades as an increasing number of workers reach retirement age, the Hispanic labor force is expected to continue growing at a fast pace. It will expand by nearly 10 million workers between now and 2020, through a combination of immigration and native-born youth reaching working age. 
   Bingaman's bill would establish a long-overdue HSI graduate program that would authorize $125 million for FY 2008 and would provide resources for: 
   * Fellowships and support services for graduate students, 
   * Facilities improvement, 
   * Faculty development, 
   * Technology and distance education, and 
   * Collaborative arrangements with other institutions; 
   The bill would also increase the authorization of the current HSI program to $175 million for FY 2008. This funding could be used to expand educational opportunities and improve the academic attainment of Hispanic students across the country. 
   Bingaman has a long history supporting Hispanic Serving Institutions. He was one of the authors of the original Hispanic Serving Institutions proposal that provided federal support for schools with high percentages of Hispanic students. 
   Last year, Congress passed a law Bingaman helped write to reduce the bureaucracy associated with HSIs receiving federal funding. For example, Hispanic Serving Institutions that have received federal grants had to wait two years before applying for more funding. Bingaman's legislation removed that two-year waiting period. 
   Another Bingaman provision enacted last year removed a burdensome and duplicative requirement that required colleges and universities to prove that at least half of their Hispanic student population is low-income. The requirement was duplicative because in order to qualify for federal funding, colleges and universities were already required to show that they serve a high-percentage of needy students. As a result of Bingaman's provisions, colleges and universities, such as the University of New Mexico, now qualify as a Hispanic Serving Institution, and are eligible for additional federal funds. 
   Bingaman, a senior member of the Senate Health and Education Committee, will work in the coming months to incorporate his legislation into the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act - legislation that governs all federal higher education funding. 
   A list of Hispanic Serving Institutions in New Mexico include: Central New Mexico Community College, University of New Mexico, University of New Mexico-Valencia, Do?a Ana Branch Community College, Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell, New Mexico Junior College (Hobbs), New Mexico State University, New Mexico State University at Carlsbad, New Mexico State University at Grants, Western New Mexico University, Eastern New Mexico University, Luna Community College, New Mexico Highlands University, Mesalands Community College, Northern New Mexico Community College, Santa Fe Community College, University of New Mexico at Los Alamos, University of New Mexico at Taos.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 