SENS. BINGAMAN, DORGAN INTRODUCE TWO BILLS TO HELP SENIORS WITH PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS WHEN MEDICARE WON'T PROVIDE ANY COVERAGE
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) joined together to introduce two bills Wednesday to help seniors who are trapped in a prescription drug coverage gap period when most Medicare Part D policies provide no coverage - when a senior's annual drug expenses total between $2,251 and $5,100.  
   Senator Bingaman's bill, the "Helping Fill the Rx Gap Act," will allow costs incurred by federal health programs, safety-net hospitals and pharmaceutical manufacturer-sponsored Patient Assistance Programs to count toward the amount a beneficiary must spend to get out of the coverage gap. 
   "One of the fundamental flaws of the Medicare Modernization Act is the coverage gap, which punishes seniors who rely heavily on prescriptions. Helping them make it through the 'doughnut hole' is the right and necessary thing to do," said Bingaman, a member of the Senate Finance Committee. Senator Dorgan's bill, the "Prescription for Fairness Act," would waive the monthly Medicare Part D premiums for any month a senior is trapped in the coverage gap, which is often referred to as the "doughnut hole." 
   "It is wrong to require seniors to pay a premium for prescription coverage when as a matter of policy they won't be getting any," said Dorgan. 
   Bingaman and Dorgan said their bills are intended to be "short term fixes." They have already introduced legislation to plug the coverage gap. But in the short term, "we need to do something right now to make sure the government is not charging seniors for prescription drug coverage they, by design, won't be getting," Dorgan said. 
   The Congressional Budget Office estimates that more that one-third of all Medicare prescription drug beneficiaries could fall into the coverage gap at some point this year. 
   "There was a big rush to sign up by the May 15 deadline," the two lawmakers noted in a joint statement. "Now, many senior are about to learn what was in the fine print of many of those policies, a gap in coverage even though premium payments are still required."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521. 
 
 