SEN. BINGAMAN: SENATE APPROVES HOMELAND SECURITY SPENDING BILL
  The Senate today approved a major spending bill that contains an amendment authored by Sen. Jeff Bingaman, which would help local law enforcement agencies fight border-related crimes.  
   Bingaman's amendment is contained in the $31.9 billion fiscal year 2007 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations Act, which includes $2.6 million for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 
   The Bingaman amendment would authorize $50 million a year in grant funding to border law enforcement agencies within 100 miles of the northern and southern international borders to hire additional personnel, purchase equipment, and/or to cover overtime and transportation costs. Communities outside the 100 mile radius may also qualify if they are in counties designated by the Secretary of Homeland Security as "High Impact Areas" - or areas that may be greatly affected by the flow of illegal drugs/persons but are not situated directly on the border. 
   "Border related crimes, such as human smuggling, vehicle thefts, drug trafficking, and the destruction of private property, can be especially hard on law enforcement agencies located near an international border. This provision would help ensure border law enforcement agencies have the tools they need," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman won support for the same amendment in May as part of the immigration reform legislation. Unfortunately, that comprehensive legislation appears to be stalled. Bingaman said he hopes attaching his proposal to this key spending bill gives it a greater chance of being signed into law this year. 
   The DHS spending bill also contains an amendment Bingaman cosponsored, which would set aside an additional $350 million to beef up border security. Introduced by Senator Robert Byrd (D-WV), the amendment appropriates $90 million for vehicle barriers and other critical infrastructure, $25 million to purchase 540 replacement vehicles for Border Patrol, and $105 million to purchase helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles. Among other things, it also would set aside $38 million to help U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services enhance its fraud detection initiative. 
   Additionally, the spending bill includes funding to hire 1,000 new border patrol agents. The emergency supplemental bill signed into law last month also included funding for 1,000 new border patrol agents. This bill would bring the total new agents to 2,000 for 2007. 
   The bill also includes a provision authorizing the reorganization of FEMA under DHS. Changes include elevating the FEMA director to an Undersecretary for DHS and changing the organization's name to the United States Emergency Management Authority. 
   The bill must now be reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill before it can be signed into law.
 
 