SEN. BINGAMAN: DEFENSE SPENDING BILL ENACTED; MEASURE ALSO TEMPORARILY FUNDS GOVERNMENT
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman reported that a key spending bill that funds our nation's defense initiatives for next year, and provides near-term funding for New Mexico's laboratories as a final bill to fund them is worked out. 
   The fiscal year 2008 Defense Spending Bill contains $247 million to fund Operation Jumpstart to secure the U.S. border with Mexico. Bingaman secured an additional $3 million for the New Mexico National Guard so it can continue to fund counter-drug efforts in the border region and enhance border security.  
   "This measure will fund important border security initiatives, as well as key defense activities based in our state," Bingaman said. "This is a good bill for New Mexico." 
   Also at Bingaman's urging, the bill also contains the following: 
   $1.6 million for the Field Programmable Gate Array Mission Assurance Center at University of New Mexico to train students on the design and manufacture of sophisticated chips that are used from cell phones to satellites. 
   $1.2 million to Caldera Pharmaceuticals for advanced treatment methods for battlefield wounded soldiers - a spin off of Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
   $800,000 for software development at Rapid Imaging Software Inc. in Albuquerque. 
   $2 million for the development a Robust, Mobile Multispectral Fingerprint Capture Device at Lumidigm in Albuquerque. 
   $4.8 million for Joint Directed Energy Test Site, IED Defeat at WSMR to develop instrumentation and combat environment for research, development, test, evaluation and training of joint directed energy systems for detection and defeat of improvised explosive devices. 
   $2 million for R&D on components for operationally responsive space components at Goodrich Aerospace in Albuquerque 
   $2.5 million for Joint Tactical Network Test Environment at WSMR. This project would provide resources for configuring the fiber network, establishing the radio networks for a wide array of communications networks at WSMR. 
   $3.2 million for Playas Training and Research Center Joint Training Experiment at NMT Playas training facility. Funding will be used to establish the PTRC as a Joint National Training and Experimentation Site for National Guard Bureau (NGB) active and reserve personnel, as well as for Air National Guard and Army National Guard personnel. Playas is envisioned as becoming an integral portion of the Joint National Training Capability. 
   $2.5 million for the Playas Mobile Command and Control facility to permit coordinated training at the New Mexico Tech Playas National Training Facility. 
   $4 million for the University Strategic Partnership Program at the University of New Mexico to integrate basic research into defense systems 
  $2.4 million for the Long Wavelength Array at the University of New Mexico 
   $5 million for high energy conventional energetic materials at Applied Research Associates in Albuquerque 
   $4 million for UAV Systems and Operations Validation Program, New Mexico State. USOVP has successfully provided the DoD with the unique UAV operations capability to support testing of UAV platforms and systems in civil airspace on a routine basis alongside manned aircraft. UAVs are a growing component of our nation's defense, accelerated due to the global war against terrorism. 
   $6.5 million for Smart Instrument Development for the Magdalena Ridge Observatory, New Mexico Tech. The United States Office of Naval Research (ONR) and the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) have joined a consortium of research universities, including the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology (New Mexico Tech) and Cambridge University, in a unique teaming arrangement to build a state-of-the-art observatory in the Magdalena Mountains near Socorro, New Mexico. 
   Other major items/initiatives funded in the bill: 
   F-22A's are fully funded for 20 at $3.15 billion for Elmdorf AFB in Alaska, thus putting Holloman next in queue. 
   Finally, the bill funds New Mexico's national laboratories at FY 2007 levels. 
   "This bill ensures that no cuts will take place while a bill to fund the labs is finalized," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 