BUSH SIGNS BILL WITH ADDED FUNDS FOR HIGH ENERGY LASER SYSTEMS TEST FACILITY
  U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today commended President Bush for signing into law the FY2008 Defense Appropriations Bill that includes added funding to maintain the High Energy Laser Systems Test Facility (HELSTF) at White Sands Missile Range.  
   President Bush signed the $471.1 billion measure into law on Tuesday. Where the Bush administration initially requested only $2.8 million for HELSTF in FY2008, the final bill provides $8.8 million to support the program's very high power test capabilities. The funding increase reflects work by Domenici and Bingaman to add funding for the WSMR-based program. 
   "We expect significant increases in military activity in the WSMR-Fort Bliss region, and we need to ensure we have the capabilities required to support those activities. HELSTF can be important to that equation. We've worked to ensure that this asset remains viable to advance our military technology," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "HELSTF has been an invaluable research facility in the past, and it will remain so under this new law. This is great news for all our armed services," Bingaman said. 
   Last year, the Army requested and Congress provided $16.4 million for HELSTF, but the Army only sought $2.8 million for FY2008--a $13.6 million cut. That level of funding would maintain some HELSTF capabilities and government staff, but would result in the "mothballing" of certain very high power test capabilities. 
   HELSTF hosts developmental and operational laser tests. Domenici and Bingaman reported that the facility, which is a Department of Defense Major Range and Test Base Facility, is used by all branches of the armed services, including the Air Force and Navy. 
   Domenici and Bingaman have both been supportive of U.S. Army plans to conduct research, development, and acquisition of Future Combat Systems (FCS) equipment at Ft. Bliss, Texas, and White Sands Missile Range. The FY2008 Defense Appropriations Bill provides resources to support implementation of FCS from within the $12.1 billion provided for Army Research, Development, Testing and Evaluation activities.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 