SEN. BINGAMAN CALLS ON FEDS TO WORK WITH STATE TO PREVENT PLAGUE DEATHS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman is calling on the federal government to work with New Mexico health officials to prevent against plague fatalities in the state.  
   According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), seven cases of the plague have been reported in New Mexico this year. Two resulted in fatalities. This is the largest number of cases reported in the state in a single year since 1998 and more than three times the average rate since 2000. 
   In the United States nearly all fatal plague cases are associated with delays in diagnosis and treatment. In its early stages, plague is treatable with appropriate antibiotics. 
   In a letter to officials at the CDC, Bingaman said it is vital that the federal agency work with the New Mexico Department of Health to ensure cases are diagnosed and treated in a timely manner. 
   "While the New Mexico Department of Health (NMDOH) and CDC have worked together successfully on past human cases, I would ask that the two again work closely and commit necessary resources and assistance to the State to protect against fatalities. 
   "The past reduction in the number of cases may have had the paradoxical result of making the public, some health care providers, and health insurers unaware of the symptoms of the plague and the need to initiate immediate antibiotic treatment without delay of laboratory confirmation. 
   "According to the New Mexico Department of Health, the two recent fatal cases did not seek medical care until the illness had progressed to the point that even timely diagnosis and appropriate therapy could not save them. Therefore, I request that CDC develop appropriate educational public service announcements (PSAs) and the funding to broadcast them on local television and radio stations to increase knowledge and change behaviors," Bingaman wrote. 
   Bingaman also called on the CDC to provide an analysis, by the end of October, on what steps CDC, Congress, and states, particularly those in the Southwest, should undertake to address the problems of the spike in the number of human plague cases. Plague is an infectious disease caused by a bacterium transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected flea.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 