SEN. BINGAMAN CHAIRS HEARING ON EASTERN N.M. WATER
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today chaired a hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to discuss water issues in Eastern New Mexico. In the past, Bingaman has introduced legislation aimed at constructing a pipeline to the region to ensure the long-term water needs of Eastern New Mexico communities. The following is Bingaman's statement: 
   "Good morning. It's my pleasure to welcome everyone to today's hearing. The purpose of the hearing is to receive testimony on the Bureau of Reclamation's implementation of the Rural Water Supply Act of 2006; and federal, state, and local efforts to plan and develop the Eastern New Mexico Rural Water Supply Project.  
   "Before we get started, I'd like to thank Mayor Lansford and the staff with the City of Clovis for your hospitality, and your help with putting this hearing together. It's always a welcome experience to be here in Eastern New Mexico - and impressive to see and hear about all the new economic development activity. Those efforts, coupled with the fact that Cannon Air Force Base will continue to be part of the economic backbone of the region, has the future of Eastern New Mexico looking very promising. 
   "It's now increasingly critical to address an issue that threatens the vitality of the region - the lack of a long-term supply of water. This is an issue facing all areas of the country, particularly rural communities. According to the USDA, 17% of the U.S. population lives in non-metropolitan areas. In the West, that percentage is higher, including at least 35% in New Mexico. USDA also reports that at least 2.2 million rural Americans live with critical water quality and accessibility problems with their drinking water. To help address this problem, last year Congress enacted the Rural Water Supply Act, which Senator Domenici and I wrote, to make rural water supply a fundamental part of the Bureau of Reclamation's mission. I look forward to getting Reclamation's update on its efforts to implement that law. 
   "Here in Eastern New Mexico, there's been a proactive attempt to address the serious issue of water supply. Sole reliance on the diminishing groundwater supplies available from the Ogallala and Entrada aquifers is not sustainable, Clovis and Portales have therefore led a regional effort to secure a renewable source of water that will sustain current uses, and support future growth and economic development. This effort, of course, is the Eastern New Mexico Rural Water System. 
   "In 2004, I introduced authorizing legislation for the Project as a way to move the planning process forward. I think that effort was helpful to get issues on the table so they could be addressed and resolved. Ultimately, modifications to the scope of the Project were made, and it is now focused on providing water to communities in Curry and Roosevelt counties. Led by the Eastern New Mexico Water Authority, and with funding provided by the State, there's also been a substantial amount of work done to address other issues raised by Reclamation in 2004. 
   "In addition to hearing from Reclamation on its efforts to implement the Rural Water Program, we're here today to assess the status of the Eastern New Mexico Rural Water System; determine what issues have been resolved and which remain; and hear from the affected communities on the need for the Project. It's my hope, of course, that we are in a position to move forward with authorizing legislation again in the very near future."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 