SEN. BINGAMAN APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF ENERGY BILL
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased that the Senate overwhelmingly adopted an energy bill that, while imperfect, takes major steps toward energy efficiency and shifting toward renewable energy sources. The vote was 86-8.  
   Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, was a key author of the package, which does the following: 
   * Reduces the amount of fuel consumed by cars and trucks by increasing corporate average fuel economy to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. 
   * Shifts toward greater dependence on renewable energy by increasing the Renewable Fuels Standard to 36 billion by 2022 from the current level of 9 billion. 
   * Reduces consumption of energy by increasing the efficiency of home appliances. 
   "The passage of this bill is a substantial accomplishment for America," Bingaman said. "It's been three decades since we improved vehicle fuel efficiency standards and passing CAFE alone is a big step forward for our country. The RFS proposal isn't perfect, but it certainly moves us in the right direction towards increasing our use of biofuels in this nation. The energy efficiency standards for appliances, commercial and residential construction, and federal government operation are also very significant." 
   But Bingaman said he is very disappointed that a provision that would have extended important tax incentives for the production of renewable fuels was defeated by one vote. He also was disappointed by the fact that the bill does not contain a provision requiring utilities to generate at least 15 percent of their electricity from renewable sources and efficiency gains. 
   "I'm disappointed that we were not able to move ahead with a renewable energy standard or with provisions to extend and expand the tax incentives for renewable energy production and energy conservation. I hope in the next session of Congress we are able to revisit both of those issues and enact legislation," Bingaman said. 
   The measure will now go back to the House of Representatives. Once it is adopted there, it will be sent to the White House for signature.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 