SEN. BINGAMAN BILL WOULD HELP ADDRESS COUNTRY'S NURSING SHORTAGE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today introduced bipartisan legislation to help address the critical shortage of nurse faculty. 
   Because the average age of the workforce is near retirement, the nationwide nursing shortage is growing rapidly just as the healthcare needs of our nation's aging population is increasing. A 2006 Health Resources and Services Administration report estimated that the national nursing shortage would more than triple - to more than one million nurses - by the year 2020. The report also predicts that all 50 states will experience nursing shortages by 2015. 
   Bingaman's bill, the "Nurse Faculty and Physical Therapist Education Act of 2007", would provide grants to nursing schools to help them increase enrollment and graduation from nursing doctoral programs. 
   "One of the biggest constraints to educating more nurses is a shortage of nursing faculty. Almost three-quarters of nursing programs surveyed cited faculty shortages as a reason for turning away qualified applicants," Bingaman said. "This bill will increase the number of nurses who complete nursing doctoral programs and seek employment as faculty members and nursing leaders in academic institutions. By addressing the faculty shortage, we are addressing the nursing shortage."
   In New Mexico, nursing programs turned down almost half of qualified applicants, even though the Health Resources and Services Administration predicts that New Mexico will only be able to meet 64 percent of its demand for nurses by 2020. In 2004 and 2005, New Mexico nursing schools could only accommodate 55 percent of qualified applicants due to the lack of adequate nursing faculty.
   The bill also does the following:
   * Authorizes funding to train nursing faculty in clinical geriatrics, so that more nursing students will be equipped to care for the country's aging population. 
   * Authorizes a distance education pilot program to improve access to educational opportunities for nursing and physical therapy students. 
   * Calls for a study by the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Sciences which will recommend how to balance education, labor, and immigration policies to meet the demand for qualified nurses and physical therapists.
   The bill is cosponsored by Senators Norm Coleman (R-MN), Blanche Lincoln (D-AK) and Ben Nelson (D-NE).
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 