SEN. BINGAMAN BILL TO REINSTATE ACCES TO PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS CLEARS HURDLE
  A key Senate committee this week approved a bill introduced by Sen. Jeff Bingaman that would repeal President Bush's Executive Order 13233, which bars public access to presidential papers. 
  Almost 30 years ago, Congress passed the Presidential Records Act declaring that presidential papers are the property of the people of the United States, and stating that those papers - except for particularly sensitive documents - must be made public 12 years after a president left office. In 1989, President Ronald Reagan signed Executive Order 12667 that offers further support for the Presidential Records Act, and which gave a former or incumbent president 30 days to declare documents sensitive.
  However, in 2001, President Bush signed Executive Order 13233 nullifying Reagan's order, creating the presumption that documents should not be made public, and imposing new regulations for obtaining presidential documents. Bush's order restricts access by forcing all requests for documents, no matter how innocuous, to be approved by both the former president and current White House. 
   Bush's Executive Order also limits what types of papers are available by expanding the scope of what is considered a sensitive document into new areas - namely communications between the president and his advisors and legal advice given to the president. Additionally, the Executive Order extended executive privilege to vice-presidents for the first time, and allows former presidents to have someone act on their behalf to declare papers sensitive, meaning that presidential papers can be concealed for many years after a president's death. 
  "This bill would continue to protect national security sensitive information, while allowing Americans access to their country's history. I'm pleased it has cleared this hurdle and is now ready to be voted on by the full Senate," Bingaman said.
  Bingaman's legislation would overturn Bush's Executive Order and establish a permanent process that would restore the public's access to presidential papers. The bill mirrors legislation introduced by a bipartisan group of House members led by Henry Waxman (D-Calif.). That bill passed the House overwhelmingly 333 to 93.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 