SEN. BINGAMAN WORKS TO OVERTURN BUSH'S EXECUTIVE ORDER BARRING ACCESS TO PRESIDENTIAL RECORDS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today introduced legislation that would repeal President Bush's Executive Order 13233, which bars public access to presidential papers.  
   Almost 30 years ago, Congress passed the Presidential Records Act declaring that presidential papers are the property of the people of the United States, and stating that those papers - except for particularly sensitive documents - must be made public 12 years after a president left office. In 1989, President Ronald Reagan signed Executive Order 12667 that offers further support for the Presidential Records Act, and which gave a former or incumbent president 30 days to declare documents sensitive. 
   However, in 2001, President Bush signed Executive Order 13233 nullifying Reagan's order, creating the presumption that documents should not be made public, and imposing new regulations for obtaining presidential documents. Bush's order restricts access by forcing all requests for documents, no matter how innocuous, to be approved by both the former president and current White House. 
   Bush's Executive Order also limits what types of papers are available by expanding the scope of what is considered a sensitive document into new areas - namely communications between the president and his advisors and legal advice given to the president. Additionally, the Executive Order extended executive privilege to vice-presidents for the first time, and allows former presidents to have someone act on their behalf to declare papers sensitive, meaning that presidential papers can be concealed for many years after a president's death. 
   "The administration shouldn't fear passage of this bill. Any documents that contain sensitive national security information would remain inaccessible, as would any documents pertaining to law enforcement or the deliberative process of the executive branch. Executive privilege for both former and current Presidents would still apply to any papers the White House designates. With these safeguards in place, there is no reason to further hinder access to documents that are in some cases more than twenty years old," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman's legislation would overturn Bush's Executive Order and establish a permanent process that would restore the public's access to presidential papers. The bill mirrors legislation introduced by a bipartisan group of House members led by Henry Waxman (D-Calif.); that measure passed today.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 