SENATE SENDS ISLETA SETTLEMENT BILL TO WHITE HOUSE
  The Senate has approved and sent to President Bush a bill sponsored by Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman authorizing a $40 million settlement agreement between Isleta Pueblo and the federal government for past mismanagement of pueblo lands.  
   The Pueblo of Isleta Settlement and Natural Resources Restoration Act of 2006 was approved by unanimous consent in the Senate Monday evening. The bill will now be forwarded to the President for his consideration. The legislation (HR.5842/S.3648) enacts a settlement related to the pueblo's suit against the government seeking compensation for damages to tribal lands. A final agreement to settle the suit was reached in June among the pueblo, U.S. Department of the Interior and Justice Department. 
   Following the agreement, the bill establishes a $32.8 million Natural Resources Restoration Fund, which would be funded through the government's Permanent and Indefinite Appropriations for Judgments. The bill authorizes another $7.2 million, subject to administration budgeting for the funding and the annual federal appropriations process, for Isleta Pueblo to use to restore and reclaim agricultural, range and forest property. 
   "The June agreement between the federal government and Isleta Pueblo put everything in place for us to get this bill through Congress. The pueblo deserves this compensation and the President's signature on this bill will allow that to happen," said Domenici, who serves on the Indian Affairs Committee. 
   "This measure will allow Isleta Pueblo to restore lands that had been mismanaged by the Interior Department, and help create new economic opportunities. I'm glad we were able to get this bill through Congress and to the president in short order," Bingaman said. 
   The Isleta Pueblo filed suit against the United States under a 1996 law authored by the late Congressman Joe Skeen. An initial settlement agreement on the suit was reached in July 2005, and an accord on how settlement funds would be provided and how the pueblo may use the funds was finalized June 22, 2006. 
   Some of the funds will be used for drainage and remediation of the pueblo's agricultural lands that have been waterlogged. Funds will also be spent to rehabilitate and remediate the pueblo forest and range lands. Other funds will be used for the acquisition, restoration, improvement, development, and protection of land, natural resources and cultural resources, as well as the payment and reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with this lawsuit. 
   Domenici, who also serves on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Interior Department and BIA, noted that Isleta Pueblo leaders recognized that it may take time for the administration to budget for the $7.2 million authorized funding. 
   A House companion bill was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Steve Pearce, and was cosponsored by Congresswoman Heather Wilson and Congressman Tom Udall.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 