SEN. BINGAMAN: SPENDING BILL CONTAINS MILLIONS FOR SOUTHEASTERN N.M. TRANSPORTATION & OTHER NEEDS
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today reported that the final version of a key spending bill contains millions of dollars to address transportation and other needs in Southeast New Mexico. 
   A House-Senate panel has finalized the fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies spending bill, and it is now poised for a final vote. But Bingaman said the funding is in jeopardy because the White House is threatening to veto the measure.  
   "This spending bill directs millions of dollars to New Mexico. I hope the president changes his mind about vetoing this important bill," Bingaman said. 
   At Bingaman's request, the fiscal year 2008 Transportation Appropriations Bill contains $600,000 for the East Bypass Project in Hobbs. The proposed project, known as the Hobbs East Bypass, is a new access controlled roadway designed to complete the bypass loop around Hobbs. The new roadway is proposed to connect with New Mexico Highway 18 south of Hobbs (Eunice Highway) at the intersection with the Hobbs South Bypass. East Bypass would then be constructed to the southeast and east of Hobbs in an arc along a 5.1 mile corridor to the intersection of US Highway 62-180 (Seminole Highway) and the North Bypass. 
   "This bypass route will help improve safety by reducing commercial traffic through Hobbs and I am pleased funding for the project is included in this bill," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman was also pleased the bill contained $300,000 he requested to help the City of Roswell replace five 21-passenger public transit buses and one 15-passenger transit van. The existing vehicles are all more than 14 years old. The cost to maintain these vehicles has risen to an unacceptable level. 
   "Many Roswell residents depend on public transportation. This funding would ensure safe reliable transportation for local commuters," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also contains $180,000 Bingaman requested for the improvements to West Lea Street in Carlsbad. Funding will be used to make changes needed to improve traffic, safety and flow through the City of Carlsbad. In addition, a 160-acre Sports Complex is planned along this roadway, which will include consolidation of ten sports fields and will significantly add to traffic congestion in the area. The project includes approximately 0.6 miles of roadway from the junction of Standpipe Street east to Cyprus Street. Preliminary engineering is complete. 
   Bingaman also said he was pleased the bill set aside an additional $3 million for New Mexico's highway bridges. The additional funding would supplement the $315 million that the underlying bill already provides to the state for transportation improvement projects, including interstate highways, bridges and major roads on the national highway system. New Mexico would decide how to use the extra money to repair or replace highway bridges. 
   The bill also includes funding for the following southern New Mexico projects: 
   $1.248 million for Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities 
  Funding would be used for 45 buses and bus-related equipment and facilities to be used at the following: Angel Fire, Belen, Carlsbad, Clovis, Grant County, Hobbs, Pueblo of Laguna, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, NCI, Navajo Nation, Portales, Red River, Roswell, Taos, Zia Therapy, Zuni Zee Transit, Rio Arriba County, South Central COG, Grants/Milan/Cibola Transit, Care-A-Van, Sandoval County, and Tucumcari Housing Authority. 
   Also, for the fifth year in a row the bill included language Bingaman wrote that would ensure communities, such as Hobbs, Carlsbad, Clovis, Alamogordo and Silver City, are not required to pay to maintain their commercial air service. 
   The bill also funds other initiatives Bingaman supports, including the following: 
   * $100,000 for the town of Tatum to demolish 10 to 12 abandoned properties for use for new low-income housing.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 