SEN. BINGAMAN: HEAD START LEGISLATION CLEARS FINAL HURDLE
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased that the Senate gave final approval to a very important piece of legislation on early childhood development. Bingaman is a senior member of the Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, and worked to shape the Head Start legislation, which is now ready to be sent to the President for his signature.  
   "Head Start has done a great job preparing young New Mexicans for a lifetime of success," Bingaman said. "I believe the legislation passed today makes several significant improvements to the Head Start program that will ensure more children enter school ready to learn." 
   The "Head Start for School Readiness Act" reauthorizes Head Start funding, which is granted to programs across the country to promote children's cognitive, social and emotional, and physical development to help low-income children enter school prepared to learn. Last year, New Mexico received more than $52.5 million to fund Head Start programs. 
   Currently, Head Start receives about $6.9 billion. The bill raises the authorized level of funding to $7.35 billion for FY2008, $7.65 billion for FY 2009 and $7.99 billion for FY 2010. This bill will help New Mexico serve more children, because it creates a new funding formula that will allow the state to receive an additional $1.1 million. It also will expand Head Start services to more children from families with incomes up to 130 percent of poverty; the current threshold is only 100 percent. 
   At Bingaman's urging, the measure sets aside $100 million for Indian Head Start, and Migrant and Seasonal Head Start. The bill also contains a Bingaman-authored provision aimed at ensuring that Head Start teachers have greater access to higher education at Hispanic Serving Institutions and Tribal Colleges and Universities. 
   Further, the bill strengthens Head Start by dedicating $2 million in FY 08 for local training and improvement efforts, and reserves 40% of new Head Start funds for quality enhancements, like salary increases for Head Start staff. The legislation also guarantees Head Start programs an annual cost-of-living increase. The measure continues to raise the bar on teacher quality by setting new goals for the Head Start teaching workforce. By 2013, half of all Head Start teachers must have at least a bachelor's degree in early childhood education. 
   "The children who attend Head Start deserve teachers of the highest quality, which is why it is necessary to improve the Head Start workforce," Bingaman said. 
   The legislation also expands the Early Head Start program, improves the transition of Head Start children to school, and will ensure that educational standards in Head Start programs are updated and aligned to the latest research in child development through the National Academy of Sciences. 
   Finally, Bingaman said he is pleased that the legislation terminates the use of a flawed standardized test which has been used to test four-year olds enrolled in Head Start. Bingaman led efforts to prevent the Bush Administration from using this test. 
   "Testing four-year olds with this standardized test is simply not an appropriate tool to measure accountability," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 