SEN. BINGAMAN: SPENDING BILL CONTAINS MILLIONS FOR NORTHERN N.M. TRANSPORTATION & OTHER NEEDS
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today reported that the final version of a key spending bill contains millions of dollars to address transportation needs in Northern New Mexico. 
   A House-Senate panel has finalized the fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies spending bill, and it is now poised for a final vote. But Bingaman said the funding is in jeopardy because the White House is threatening to veto the measure.  
   "This spending bill directs millions of dollars to New Mexico. I hope the president changes his mind about vetoing this important bill," Bingaman said. 
   At Bingaman's request, the fiscal year 2008 Transportation Appropriations Bill contains $1.34 million for the construction of the West Jemez Bypass in Los Alamos. The new road will allow the public to bypass the Department of Energy's new security station for Los Alamos National Laboratory. The new bypass begins at West Road and proceeds east 3900-feet to the intersection of Diamond Drive (NM 501) and East Jemez Road. Construction is expected to begin in early 2008. 
   Bingaman also said he was pleased the bill contains $300,000 he requested for the Las Cumbres Community Services Facility in Espa?ola. Funding will be used for the construction of a new facility to house child and family services, adult services, respite care, and the Early Childhood Mental Health Training Institute. The facility will also include training facilities, and meeting rooms that will be open to the public. 
   Bingaman also said he was pleased the bill set aside an additional $3 million for New Mexico's highway bridges. The additional funding would supplement the $315 million that the underlying bill already provides to the state for transportation improvement projects, including interstate highways, bridges and major roads on the national highway system. New Mexico would decide how to use the extra money to repair or replace highway bridges. 
   The bill also includes funding for the following northern New Mexico projects: 
   $1.248 million for Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities 
   Funding would be used for 45 buses and bus-related equipment and facilities to be used at the following: Angel Fire, Belen, Carlsbad, Clovis, Grant County, Hobbs, Pueblo of Laguna, Las Vegas, Los Alamos, NCI, Navajo Nation, Portales, Red River, Roswell, Taos, Zia Therapy, Zuni Zee Transit, Rio Arriba County, South Central COG, Grants/Milan/Cibola Transit, Care-A-Van, Sandoval County, and Tucumcari Housing Authority. 
   $1.10 million RailRunner Commuter Rail 
   Funding will help extend service from Bernalillo to Santa Fe. 
   $900,000 for Santa Fe Trails Bus and Bus Facilities. $600,000 is for the new Santa Fe Place Transit Center on Cerrillos Blvd. The remaining $300,000 is to purchase news buses. 
   $600,000 Bus and Bus Facilities in Los Alamos County
   Funding would be used to buy buses and construct a new transit facility in Los Alamos County. 
   $500,000 for Buses and an Intermodal Facility to Support the New Mexico Commuter Rail 
   Previously received funding would be used to purchase buses and for an intermodal facility to support phase II of the Rail Runner Express Commuter Rail project between Albuquerque and Santa Fe. 
   Also, for the fifth year in a row the bill includes language Bingaman wrote that would ensure communities, such as Hobbs, Carlsbad, Clovis, Alamogordo and Silver City, are not required to pay to maintain their commercial air service. 
   The bill also funds other initiatives Bingaman supports, including the following: 
   * $300,000 for Santa Clara Pueblo to construct a regional adult day care center. 
   * $120,000 for the Village of Angel fire to develop the new Plaza del Sol central plaza. The funds will be used for streets and drainage. 
   * $240,000 fhor Los Pueblos Community Council in Ribera to restore the Old Ribera School building to be used as a community cultural center.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 