SEN. BINGAMAN: PROSPECTS IMPROVING FOR GAINING SUPPORT FOR NAVAJO WATER SETTLEMENT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is more optimistic than he has been in recent years about getting the Bush administration's support for a plan to settle the Navajo Nation's water rights claims in the San Juan River Basin. 
   In 2005, the State of New Mexico and the Navajo Nation signed a settlement agreement that fully resolves the tribe's water rights claims in the basin. Bingaman has written legislation that, if enacted, would not only officially settle the claim but also authorize federal funding to implement the agreement.  
   During the past five years, Bingaman has worked to engage the Bush administration in negotiations. A few years ago he was able to get the then-Secretary of Interior Gale Norton to assign a member of her staff to monitor negotiations between the State of New Mexico, the Navajo Nation and other affected parties. But the administration has stopped short of lending its support. 
   Today, at a Capitol Hill hearing, Bingaman pressed Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne to support his legislation. He said he was concerned that the White House has been willing to support water settlements in Arizona, Idaho and California, but hasn't taken an active interest in settling New Mexico's claims. 
   "I think the administration is applying a double-standard to New Mexico. In 2004, the President signed into law the Arizona Water Settlement which will cost at least $2.2 billion over the next 40 years. As you're well aware, he also signed the Snake River settlement into law, with an estimated cost of $193 million; $130 million of which would be incurred within seven years. The administration was supportive of both settlements and never raised issues having to do with liability, local cost-share, or overall cost," Bingaman said. 
   "Now, your budget is representing that the Administration supports a settlement to restore a salmon fishery in the San Joaquin River in California. This settlement will cost the federal government at least $650 million over the next 20 years, half of which will be through direct spending. While this settlement sounds worthy of consideration, I'm left wondering why New Mexico is treated differently. The Navajo settlement is also worthy given that it will help alleviate the need for water hauling that 40 percent of residents on the reservation must undertake to secure water for their basic everyday needs," he added. 
   Bingaman said he was pleased to hear that Kempthorne wants to be "actively involved" and that he is "dedicated" to seeing this water settlement enacted. 
   Bingaman's legislation, which was introduced in December at the end of the 109th Congress, generally reflects the signed agreement between the state and the Navajo Nation. For example, the bill recognizes approximately 600,000 acre-feet per year of water to the Navajo Nation for agricultural, municipal, industrial, domestic and stock watering purposes. It also authorizes federal funding for the Navajo-Gallup pipeline project. 
   Under the Bingaman proposal the federal government would contribute funding over about two decades to construct the pipeline and perform other activities to implement the agreement. No dollar amount has yet been specified because the federal government is finalizing the cost of the pipeline project. However, the legislation includes language that guarantees that federal funding will be available. 
   Bingaman will reintroduce his legislation in the coming weeks.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 