SEN. BINGAMAN QUESTIONS SAFETY OF SOLDIERS, URGES DEFENSE SECRETARY TO TAKE ACTION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said it is vital that the Bush Administration to take the steps necessary to protect the lives of the American men and women serving in Iraq.  
   According to a 2005 Department of Defense report, many of the fatalities caused by upper body injuries in Iraq could have been prevented if all body armor issued to troops included side armor plates. In response to the report, many in the Senate, including Bingaman, asked then-secretary Donald Rumsfeld to ensure that the best available body armor be delivered to soldiers in harms way as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, little has been done to address this serious problem. 
   In a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, Bingaman joined 16 Senators in expressing their concern over recent report findings that indicate little has been done to protect our troops. The letter reads: 
   "A January 25, 2007 report from the Inspector General, however, found continued shortages in force-protection equipment for our soldiers. The report found shortages of body armor, unarmored vehicles, communications equipment, and electronic countermeasure devices. We have also heard first-hand accounts that many service members being issued body armor are still not receiving side armor plates. 
   "These accounts alone are troubling, but the President's plan to send more than 20,000 additional troops to Baghdad raises further questions about our ability to properly equipped and protect our men and women in uniform. 
   "When asked by the Washington Post about the Presidents surge proposal, Lt. Gen Stephen Speakes, the Army's deputy chief of staff for force development, said: We don't have the [armor] kits, and we don't have the trucks." This statement raises grave concerns about our ability to equip and protect not just our soldier that are currently fighting, but also the new soldiers that the president is planning to send to Baghdad. 
   "In light of these concerns, we respectfully request that you provide us an update of how many troops currently in Iraq and Afghanistan have not been issued body armor with side armor plates. In addition, we would like to know what percentage of troops currently being mobilized in support of the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan are not being issued complete sets of body armor that include side armor plates. We would like to know the number of proportion of troops in each of the services, including figures for both the National Guard and the Reserve, receiving this essential protective equipment. We would like to know what steps the Department of Defense is taking to implement the recommendations made by the Inspector General in its January 25 report on force-protection equipment shortage among deployed units."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 