NEW MEXICO SENATORS RAISE CONCERNS ABOUT BRAC COMMISSION RECUSALS, URGE FAIRNESS
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today asked the Base Realignment and Closure Commission to immediately address their concerns about how recusals by commissioners could unfairly affect Cannon Air Force Base.  
   As it stands now, at least two BRAC commissioners could be required to recuse themselves from voting on whether to remove Cannon from the Pentagon's base closure list because their home states could be affected by the outcome of that vote. Under that scenario, only seven of nine commissioners would be left to vote on Cannon; five votes are needed to remove the base from the closure list.
   In a letter sent today to BRAC Chairman Anthony Principi, the New Mexico Senators said these recusals would require a higher threshold of votes for Cannon. 
   "We do not believe it was the intent of Congress to impose such a high hurdle on removing a base from the list, particularly when other bases are not being subjected to such a high standard for removal," the Senators wrote. 
   Bingaman and Domenici pointed out that the Commission has the authority to make changes to their voting rules to ensure the process for Cannon is fair, and they offered several suggestions. 
   "One approach would be to change the rule that requires a vote of five of nine members to remove a base from the list, and replace it with a requirement of a simple majority of voting members," the Senators wrote.
   Another approach would be to separate closure votes from votes on the specific movement of military aircraft. 
   The New Mexico lawmakers also pointed out that under the law that governs the BRAC process, seven votes are required to add a base to the closure list. If the recusal issue is not resolved, achieving seven votes may be impossible.
   "We strongly believe that the Commission must act on this issue now to allow the BRAC process to function efficiently and in a fair manner," the Senators wrote. 
   The BRAC Commission will meet Monday, July 18 and Tuesday, July 19.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521; Jude McCartin, 202/224-1804; Chris Gallegos, 202/224-7082.
 
 