SEN. BINGAMAN BILL WOULD FIX PROBLEM PREVENTING N.M. CHILDREN FROM RECEIVING HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today introduced legislation that makes changes to a new Health and Human Services (HHS) regulation requiring Americans to show citizenship documentation before signing up for Medicaid benefits and when they re-verify their eligibility for that health program.  
   The new regulation was implemented for most states on July 1, 2006. Recent reports show that tens of thousands of U.S. citizens across the country, in particular children, are unfairly being denied health care because they don't have ready access to the very narrow group of documents accepted by HHS, which include passports and original birth certificates. There has also been considerable difficulty in getting HHS to accept documentation from Native American tribes. 
   Estimates are that as many as 10,000 U.S. citizens in New Mexicans are being denied care because of the new documentation requirement. 
   "The goal of this new requirement is to prevent people who aren't eligible for Medicaid from receiving benefits. The problem, however, is it is hurting American citizens - many of whom are children. This doesn't make sense. We should fix the law by returning flexibility to the states, and my bill does just that," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman's legislation would repeal the law authorizing the federal regulation and instead give states the authority to determine when and to what extent citizenship verification is required. It would permit states to use standards that were no more stringent that those currently used by the Social Security Administration and include Native American tribal documents when needed. It would also allow for ample time to provide the documentation. The bill also protects children born in the United States from being denied coverage because of citizenship verification requirements. It does so by ensuring that Medicaid payment for their birth serves as documentation of these children's citizenship. And it clarifies ambiguities in federal law to ensure that these citizen children, regardless of the immigration status of their parents, are treated like all other low-income children born in the United States and are deemed eligible to receive Medicaid services for one year. 
   Finally, the legislation ensures that the thousands of citizen children and adults, who were erroneously denied Medicaid because of these citizenship verification requirements, may receive retroactive Medicaid eligibility for the coverage they were inappropriately denied. 
   The bill was referred to the Senate Finance Committee. Bingaman is a member of that panel.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 