N.M. SENATORS: HIGH GASOLINE PRICES UNDERSCORE NEED TO PASS ENERGY SAVINGS ACT
  At a Capitol Hill hearing today, Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici said a key component to a long-term solution to high gasoline prices is to increase vehicle fuel economy and dramatically shift to the use of homegrown renewable fuels.  
   The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today examined the summer's energy outlook, including the reasons for rising gas prices. The AAA reported Monday that the average price in New Mexico has soared to $3.21 per gallon. Experts testified at the hearing that, among other problems, there is too little capacity for refining oil while the demand for gasoline remains high. Bingaman and Domenici, the committee's chairman and ranking member respectively, pointed to the need to pass energy legislation they have crafted to increase the use of renewable fuels made from a variety of sources including agriculture waste, woody biomass, native prairie grasses and corn. Their bill, called the Energy Savings Act (S.1321), has cleared the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and is poised for full Senate consideration. "The U.S. economy remains vulnerable to oil and gasoline supply disruptions and associated price increases. The Energy Savings Act will reduce our oil dependence by increasing our use of homegrown biofuels. As we diversify our transportation fuels, we will become less vulnerable to oil prices," Bingaman said. "Unfortunately, the problem of skyrocketing gas prices is becoming predictable and more troubling. When you import over 60 percent of your petroleum--much of it from countries that are not friendly to the U.S.--it is quite obvious that you do not control your own destiny. To take more control of our destiny, we must increase production of domestic sources, including biofuels, and build the infrastructure needed to deliver it to market," Domenici said. The Energy Savings Act requires America's fuel supply to rely on increasingly higher amounts of renewable fuels, from 8.5 billion gallons in 2008 to 36 billion gallons in 2022. It also encourages the development of advanced biofuels by increasing Department of Energy funding for bioenergy research and development by 50 percent over fiscal years 2007 to 2009. When the bill is debated on the floor, it likely will be coupled with legislation that was passed by the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee that increases the fuel efficiency of vehicles to 36 miles per gallon.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 