SEN. BINGAMAN BILL WOULD AID IN DEVELOPMENT OF BIOLOGICAL PARK ALONG RIO GRANDE
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today renewed his efforts to help the City of Albuquerque develop its Biopark. Bingaman won Senate support of the bill last Congress, but it died when the House of Representatives failed to vote on it.  
   Bingaman's legislation, which is cosponsored by Senator Pete Domenici, clears title to several tracks of land and paves the way for the city of Albuquerque to complete its development of a Biological Park along the middle Rio Grande. The Biological Park incorporates the Rio Grande Botanical Garden, Tingley Beach, the Zoo and the Aquarium. 
   In 1997, Albuquerque paid the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District (MRGCD) to acquire two parcels of land - Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park. However three years later, the city's title to the parcels was called into question by the Bureau of Reclamation's assertion that the MRGCD had in 1953 transferred its assets - including Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park - to the United States as part of an easement associated with the construction of the Middle Rio Grande Project. As a result, the city has been hampered in its efforts to create the Biological Park. 
   Bingaman said Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park are surplus to the needs of the Middle Rio Grande Project. Accordingly, his legislation - called the Albuquerque Biological Park Title Clarification Act (S. 213) - directs the Bureau of Reclamation to convey any interest the United States may have in Tingley Beach, San Gabriel Park, and other Biological Park land to the City of Albuquerque, clearing the city's title and paving the way for it to move ahead with its plans. 
   "These parcels of land are of no use to the federal government, yet the City of Albuquerque is in a position to incorporate them into its Biological Park," Bingaman said. "We've already won Senate support for this measure, so I hope we can move this quickly through Congress and get it to the president's desk." 
   "It is time for the federal government to defer the titles of Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park so that the city can make more progress on its goal to preserve and protect the Rio Grande bosque. I have supported this measure in the past, and I am pleased to join Senator Bingaman as we work to help the city and its allies fulfill their vision for the Albuquerque Biopark," said Domenici. 
   The bill will be referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Bingaman chairs that committee and Domenici is the top Republican.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 