SEN. BINGAMAN: FEDERAL FUNDING TO BENEFIT VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today announced that seven New Mexico organizations have been awarded a total of $2.3 million in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) to help tackle domestic violence.  
   "This grant funding will help New Mexico families who have suffered from domestic violence get the legal assistance and counseling they need," Bingaman said. 
   The communities that received funding and the amounts granted are as follows: 
   New Mexico Third Judicial District Attorney's Office $462,048 - The Office of the Third Judicial District Attorney, in collaboration with La Casa, Inc, a private nonprofit, victim's service program, the Las Cruces Police Department, and the Dona Ana County Magistrate's Judge will use the funding to continue with the implementation of a coordinated community response to domestic violence. A victim advocate, a rural outreach coordinator and a secretary to help with current criminal cases will be funded under the grant. Bingaman is seeking an additional $250,000 in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill that funds the DOJ. 
   Eight Northern Indian Pueblos Council $450,000 - Funding will be used to help the Council continue their Peace Keepers (PK) Domestic Violence Program, which provides domestic violence awareness and education to residents of the Eight Northern Pueblos. Services include advocacy, counseling, children's counseling, civil legal assistance, legal advocacy, training, crisis intervention and prosecution. Specifically, funding will make it possible for PK to hire two legal attorneys and one legal secretary and to provide community legal education events. 
   Zuni Tribe $425,000 - Funding will be used for planning, design and construction of correctional facilities on tribal lands for the incarceration of offenders. 
   Legal Facs $382,070 - Funding will help Legal Facs, a nonprofit organization which provides free and low cost legal services to low-income persons with civil legal problems, collaborate with Catholic Charities to provide legal and supportive services to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Specifically, funding will help support two attorneys and two advocate/paralegal positions to provide direct legal representation to victims. Funding will also support training for staff and outreach efforts. 
   Pueblo of Laguna $332,145 - The Pueblo of Laguna will partner with Laguna Family Services, a nonprofit victim services program to hire additional staff to continue providing educational, outreach and intervention services to victims of domestic violence. 
   Tewa Women United $175,000 - Funding will be used to plan and implement an innovative program to improve the ability of American Indian communities to provide direct services to victims of domestic violence. 
   New Mexico Coalition against Domestic Violence $83,041 - Funding will help the coalition continue their work to help prevent and address domestic violence throughout state.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 