SEN. BINGAMAN JOINS IN CELEBRATING ALAMOGORDO DESALINATION FACILITY RIBBON CUTTING
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today joined in celebrating the opening of the new Brackish Groundwater National Desalination Research Facility in Alamogordo.  
   Since 2003, the Bureau of Reclamation has been developing the National Desalination Research Center. The design and construction of the Research Center was done through a partnership between Reclamation, Sandia National Laboratories (SNL), and New Mexico State University. Over the past 5 years, approximately $15 million has been invested in this effort. Bingaman has been a strong advocate of the funding and he secured $1 million in a FY 2006 spending bill for upgrades to LaVelle Road, which is were the desalination facility is located. 
   "I can't emphasize enough how critical it's becoming to develop new approaches to the issue of water supply. Drought, population increases, environmental needs, and climate change are all taxing available water resources, not just in the West but in other areas of the country too. Simply put, we need to balance our use of water with the sustainable supplies in each region--a challenging goal, but one that must be achieved," Bingaman said. 
   "Desalination is certainly a key tool in that effort, and it's important to note that significant progress has been made over the last 20 years in demonstrating its viability from a cost-perspective. The Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee convened a water symposium in April 2005, and the panelists noted that desalination costs had been reduced from over $20 per 1000 gallons in 1980, to less than $4 per 1000 gallons today. That's remarkable. In a follow-up hearing later that year, several witnesses testified that an aggressive federal R&D program could further decrease costs by 20% to 50% - an amount that could make desalination cost-competitive with existing water supplies. 
   "This facility will help provide the federal leadership needed to make desalination a viable option for many communities. I have no doubt that this facility will help New Mexico, and the Nation as a whole, address current and future water-supply challenges," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also said he is pleased the Senate's FY 2008 Energy and Water appropriations bill contains $7 million for maintenance and research at the facility.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 