SEN. BINGAMAN: BILL CONTAINS $3 MILLION TO KEEP BORDER SAFE
  A key Senate panel has approved a spending measure that includes $3 million Sen. Jeff Bingaman requested for border vehicle barriers along the New Mexico-Mexico Border.  
   The funding, contained in the 2006 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill, would be provided to the Deming Border Patrol Station to continue construction of vehicle barriers along the border. The construction of vehicle barriers was one of the primary recommendations made by the Southwest New Mexico Border Security Task Force, which Bingaman created.
   "The construction of these vehicle barriers will help border patrol agents in their efforts to stop drug and human trafficking along the New Mexico-Mexico border. The barriers will also benefit local ranchers by allowing them to attach cattle fencing, which will help prevent cattle from roaming across the border," Bingaman said.
   Barriers are constructed using 7-foot sections of ? inch thick steel pipe. Each piece of pipe is filled with a reinforced steel bar and concrete to prevent cutting, and each post stands four feet high, with three feet buried underground. Bingaman has helped secure over $3 million for vehicle barrier since 1999, which has helped construct over 12 miles of barriers along the border.
   Bingaman said the bill also contains funding for an additional 1,000 border patrol agents and $256 million for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC). A portion of the funding will be used to cover costs associated with training new Customs and Border Protection officers at the Artesia training center. 
   Bingaman has called for increased staffing levels for the Lordsburg, Deming, Santa Teresa and Las Cruces border patrol stations, and earlier this year the Senate approved a provision cosponsored by Senator Robert Byrd (D-WV) and Bingaman, which provides funding to hire an additional 500 Customs and border Patrol Protection officers. The provision was part of the emergency supplemental bill that funds the efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.
   The bill will now be sent to the Senate floor for consideration.
 
 