KEY SPENDING BILL CONTAINS FUNDING SECURED BY SEN. BINGAMAN FOR NEW MEXICO PROJECTS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman said he is pleased that a key spending bill that has been finalized contains millions of dollars he requested for New Mexico projects. 
   The fiscal year 2006 spending bill that funds the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development contains $200,000 Bingaman requested for a veteran's museum outside Alamogordo. Otero County and the non-profit Armed Forces Museum are coming together to build a veterans museum on US Highway 82, east of Alamogordo. A 1.25 acre site has been acquired and $50,000 has already been raised for the project. About 7,000 items have been donated from area veterans for the museum.
   "Last Friday we paid tribute to the many men and women who have served our country - many of them from our state," Bingaman said. "I am pleased the funding included in this bill will make it possible to build this museum honoring New Mexico's veterans."
   The bill also includes $200,000 Bingaman secured to help restore the Portales Yam Movie Palace. The city of Portales has embarked upon the renovation of the movie palace. The theater will provide an important focus for the arts community which is emerging as an essential economic development strategy for the area. After renovation, the theater will be used for movies, concerts, receptions, live theater, meetings, parties catered events, dances, educational presentations, and art exhibits.
   "The funding included in this bill will help begin work to restore the Portales Yam Movie Palace and help kick-off downtown revitalization efforts in Portales," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman also secured funding for the following:
   $350,000 - Sunland Park Community Center: Funds would be used to help the build a centrally located Community Center to provide community services such as after school programs, youth development, education, and general support services.
   "Community centers play an important role in keeping kids busy and out of trouble. I am pleased these funds will help benefit the children and families in the Sunland Park community," Bingaman said.
   $350,000 - Carlsbad Battered Family Shelter: Funds would be used to expand the 8-bedroom Carlsbad Battered Family Shelter. The existing building suffers from overcrowding, safety and privacy issues, and structural deterioration and must be replaced.
   "Domestic violence cases too often go unreported due to fear or lack of places to turn. Shelters offer victims with a safe place to turn for help and protect and this funding will help the Carlsbad Battered Family Shelter provide services and support to those who need it," Bingaman said.
   $250,000 - Deming Helping Hands Food Bank: Funds would be used for the construction of a facility to house the Deming Helpings Hand Emergency Food Bank for Luna County.
   "Deming Helping Hands provides a valuable service to the community, especially around the holidays," Bingaman said. "I am pleased the funds included in this bill will help them build a permanent location."
   $250,000 - Sandoval County, Health Commons: Funds would be used to provide the Health Commons - a public/private partnership that provides family and health services - with dental equipment, prenatal and other medical equipment and new furnishings, structural and to expand services to include prenatal and dental services.
   "I recently saw for myself the many services that the Sandoval County Health Commons provide and was very impressed. I am pleased these funds will help the Health Commons continue its important work," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 