SEN. BINGAMAN: SENATE BILL CONTAINS ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR LAS CRUCES COURTHOUSE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said a spending bill poised for final Congressional passage contains his request for funding needed to construct a new federal courthouse in Las Cruces. 
   The fiscal year 2006 Transportation, Treasury & Related Agencies spending bill contains $67 million to complete several construction projects, including construction of the Las Cruces courthouse. The spending bill funds the maintenance and construction of all federal buildings. It is one of the12 appropriations bills that fund federal government agencies for fiscal year 2006.
   The proposed new building would house the district court, bankruptcy court, probation office, pretrial services office, U.S. Trustee, and Marshals Services. The current facility, the Runnels Federal Building, has serious security and operational problems due to a significant shortage of space. In fact, the Judicial Conference - an organization set up by Congress to serve as the principal policy making body for the administration of U.S. Courts - declared a space emergency in Las Cruces. In the last 16 years, the conference declared only one other such emergency, in Brooklyn, New York.
   "The funding contained in this bill, combined with the $60.6 million we secured last year, will help ensure that construction of a new federal courthouse can be completed," Bingaman said.
   The courthouse is needed to accommodate the significant increase in cases over the last decade and in particular the rise in immigration-related cases. Bingaman also won support of a measure he wrote that calls on the Government Accountability Office to investigate how border security measures are affecting courts in border states. Bingaman said almost 70 percent of all criminal immigration cases come before five federal districts: the District of New Mexico, the District of Arizona, the Southern District of California, and the Southern and Western Districts of Texas.
   Once the new courthouse is constructed, the Runnels building will be used by other federal agencies. Bingaman helped secure $4.11 million in FY 2002 to begin design of the new courthouse, and he helped secure $60.6 million last year. Fiscal year 2006 began Oct. 1. The 12 appropriations bills Congress was supposed to enact by then.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 