SEN. BINGAMAN VOTES AGAINST U.S.-INDIA NUCLEAR PROPOSAL BECAUSE IT LACKS SUFFICIENT NON-PROLIFERATION SAFEGUARDS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today voted to reject legislation that lifts certain bans on exports of nuclear material, equipment and technology to India because it does not contain adequate safeguards to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The measure passed, however. 
   Earlier in the day, Bingaman offered an amendment that would have added safeguards to the legislation that would have ensured that before the United States exported nuclear reactors/components to India the president had to certify that both the United States and India are taking steps to lead a serious international effort to achieve a fissile material cut-off treaty and to certify that India had stopped producing fissile materials for weapons. The amendment was defeated.
   "This legislation abandons the fundamental tenant of our nuclear nonproliferation policy, namely, that nations are required to renounce nuclear weapons in order to get our assistance. This simple bargain has been the cornerstone of our nonproliferation policy since President Eisenhower announced the Atoms for Peace program over a half century ago," Bingaman said.
   "This bill offers U.S. assistance to India without any restraint or limitation on its existing weapons program. Making such an exception for India will, in my view, permanently weaken our nonproliferation policy and our credibility on this issue," he added.
   A separate Bingaman amendment, which was cosponsored by Senator Pete Domenici, was adopted as part of the measure. It authorizes the National Nuclear Security Agency to undertake a joint research and development program between scientists from the United States and India in the area of nuclear non-proliferation with an emphasis on nuclear safeguards.
   "These joint efforts have proven to be an important way to cooperatively engage and build trust in formerly closed programs such as the nuclear cities in Russia," Bingaman said.
   I'm pleased to join Senator Bingaman in this effort to foster great cooperation between American and Indian scientists on non-proliferation matters. This amendment adds to the strengthening strategic relationship our nation has with India, who as the world's largest democracy is a worthy partner," said Domenici.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 