KEY SPENDING BILL CONTAINS MILLIONS OF DOLLARS SEN. BINGAMAN HELPED SECURE FOR NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that a key Senate committee approved legislation that contains millions of dollars to support anti-crime measures in several New Mexico communities. 
   The Senate Appropriations Committee approved legislation contained in the fiscal year 2005 Commerce, Justice, and State Department spending bill for several programs strongly supported by Bingaman. The bill will now go to the full Senate for debate; the measure is subject to change before it reaches the president's desk.
   "This funding would help New Mexico law enforcement and juvenile justice efforts not only get offenders off the streets but also help rehabilitate them so they can become productive members of society when they are released," Bingaman said. "I am pleased the Senate seems willing to support New Mexico communities and I will work hard to ensure the funding remains in the final bill that is sent to the president for signature," Bingaman said.
   Specifically, Bingaman was able to secure $2 million for the New Mexico State Police. Funding would be used to help the New Mexico Department of Public Safety complete the second half of a multi-year project to equip all state police with Satellite Mobile Data Terminals (MDT) and Computer-Aided Dispatch (CAD), which helps ensure more reliable communications with officers in the field, improves response time, and protects law enforcement officers. 
   Bingaman also helped secure funding for the following programs: 
   * $425,000 - New Mexico Police Athletic League
   Funding would be used to implement a statement Law Enforcement Health Program throughout the New Mexico Police Athletic League (NM PAL) that will tackle girls' health issues and domestic violence. Bingaman secured $400,000 in fiscal year 2003.
   * $350,000 - Short-Term Foster Care for Juvenile Offenders Program
   Funding would be used by the New Mexico Department of Children, Youth and Families to provide 500 low-risk youth offenders with short-term placement in trained families or in licensed group homes as an alternative to incarceration. 
   * $300,000 - Lea County Juvenile Correctional Education Program
   Funding would be used to implement a juvenile correctional education program to help reduce high rates of recidivism among juvenile offenders in Lea County. The program provides education, life skills training drug and substance abuse treatment programs, rehabilitation and counseling to juvenile offenders. 
   * $200,000 - Do?a Ana County Command Post Vehicle
   Funding would be used for a Specialty Command Post Vehicle for the Do?a Ana County Sheriff's Department. The vehicle would greatly improve the ability to respond to criminal activity and enhance communication interoperability between law enforcement agencies along the U.S.-Mexico border.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 