NEW MEXICO SENATORS INTRODUCE MEASURE TO USE ENERGY MORE EFFICIENTLY
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to reduce our nation's use of fossil fuels by improving efficiency in vehicles, buildings, home appliances and industrial equipment - saving consumers more than $12 billion annually. Bingaman and Domenici are chairman and ranking member, respectively, of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The legislation, called the Energy Efficiency Promotion Act, would save at least 50 billion kilowatt hours of electricity per year, or enough energy to power 4.8 million U.S. households. It also would save 170 million therms of natural gas per year, or enough to heat about 750,000 U.S. homes.  
   "The Energy Efficiency Promotion Act will reduce consumers' future energy bills by getting more from the energy we produce," Bingaman said. "High energy prices and the threat of global warming are very much on Congress's agenda this year. This bill is an effective step toward addressing both problems." 
   "This bill is part of a broader attempt by our committee to provide incentives that will encourage Americans to embrace more energy efficient homes and businesses," Domenici said. "Our bill will allow consumers to save money by reducing energy usage. We think the federal government can set an example by improving the energy efficiency of its own facilities." 
   A summary of the legislation, which will be the subject of a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on Monday, is below: 
   Sets Energy Efficiency Goals for Vehicles Sets aggressive national goals for reducing gasoline usage by 20 percent by 2017; 35 percent by 2025 and 45 percent by 2030. Authorizes nationwide media campaign to increase energy efficiency. 
   Expedites New Energy Efficiency Standards for Appliances Enacts into law efficiency standards developed by the Department of Energy for residential boilers, dishwashers, clothes washers, refrigerators and dehumidifiers, and electric motors. Provides the Department of Energy with expedited rulemaking authority and increased flexibility to issue new energy efficiency standards in the future. 
   Promotes Advanced Lighting Technologies Accelerates the use of efficient lighting in federal buildings by 2010 Authorizes a $10 million Bright Tomorrow Lighting to replace the 60 watt incandescent light bulb, and a $5 million award for replacing flood lights. Once the advancements in lighting technology are made, the federal government will require the use of these light bulbs in federal buildings. 
   Promotes Federal Leadership in Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Federal and state fleets of civilian vehicles are required to reduce petroleum consumption by 30 percent by 2016. Requires the federal government, including the Capitol Complex, to increase its purchases of renewable electricity to 10 percent by 2010 and 15 percent by 2015. Requires a 30 percent reduction in energy consumption in existing federal buildings by 2015 and requires new and renovated federal buildings to meet standards for reducing fossil fuel consumption, with a goal of eliminating fossil fuel consumption in new buildings by 2030. Permanently authorizes and makes improvements in the federal Energy Savings Performance Contracting program, an initiative that requires all new federal buildings to be built in the most energy efficient way, and energy savings to be applied to improving the efficiency of existing federal buildings. 
   Promotes High Efficiency Vehicles, Advanced Batteries and Energy Storage Authorizes $60 million for the Department of Energy to research and develop light-weight materials such as advanced carbon composites and light-weight steel alloys for the construction of vehicles. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to authorize the Secretary of Energy to issue loan guarantees for facilities for the manufacture of parts for fuel-efficient vehicles. Authorizes federal awards to manufacturers and suppliers for 30 percent of qualified investment for incremental costs incurred to re-equip, expand or establish a manufacturing facility to produce advanced technology vehicles. Authorizes an R&D program for electric drive transportation technology, including "plug-in hybrid electric vehicles". Authorizes $500 million over 10 years for basic research for batteries, and $800 million to transition the basic research to first-of-a-kind batteries the automobile and electric utility industries can use to improve energy storage, and authorizes $1 billion over ten years for four centers to work with the industries to develop advanced manufacturing technologies for batteries to be globally competitive. Currently, China, Japan and Korea dominate the automobile battery market, giving those countries a distinct advantage in hybrid electric technology. Assists State and Local Governments in Energy Efficiency Reauthorizes the Weatherization Assistance Program and State energy program at $750 million, a $50 million increase over the current authorization. Authorizes a grant program for energy efficiency and innovative energy technology projects at colleges and universities. Authorizes a job training program for workers in the energy efficiency and renewable energy industries.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 