SEN. BINGAMAN VISITS NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY TO HIGHLIGHT COMPETITIVENESS LEGISLATION HE HELPED WRITE
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today met with New Mexico State University (NMSU) students and faculty to learn more about how the university's STEM program, which works to increase the numbers of underrepresented students who enter Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) programs at the community college and university, will benefit from legislation he helped write. 
   The America Competes Act, which was signed into law last week, dramatically increases the nation's investment in science and technology, and puts a new, heavy emphasis on mathematics and science education. As chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Bingaman played a key role in helping write the bipartisan competitiveness bill and was instrumental in getting passed through Congress and signed into law.  
   "I applauded New Mexico State University for their efforts to promote and encourage students to pursue careers in science and tech. The America Competes law that I helped write will provide NMSU with important tools and resources to help them advance their STEM program," Bingaman said. 
   The America Competes Act would double the authorized funding for the National Science Foundation in seven years and sets the Department of Energy's Office of Science on a path to double over seven years. 
   It also provides grants of up to $6 million to help states create specialty math and science schools. Department of Energy laboratories will be partners in this effort in several ways, including "adopting" schools to strengthen their math and science capability. It also creates a broad range of programs to strengthen the skills of math and science teacher and encourages mathematicians and scientists to become teachers. And it provides resources to encourage students to enroll in Advanced Placement international baccalaureate programs. 
   The bill also supports other key New Mexico initiatives, including the following: 
   The National Science Foundation science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) program-The New Mexico Alliance for Minority Participation, based at NMSU, is a STEM recipient. Eastern New Mexico University, as well as New Mexico State University-Carlsbad, participates in this New Mexico program. (http://www.nmsu.edu/~nmamp/) 
   NASA's Space Grant College and Fellowship Program-New Mexico participates in this program through a consortium led by NMSU. http://spacegrant.nmsu.edu/; 
   New Mexico MESA (Mathematics, Engineering, and Science Achievement)--A program designed to prepare students, particularly minority youth, for college and careers in technical fields through tutoring, independent studies, academic and career counseling, field trips, competitions, summer programs, scholarship incentives, and teacher professional development. The program involves New Mexico Tech and the DOE national laboratories. (www.nmmesa.org/) 
   The Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research program
   http://www.nmepscor.org/; 
   Develops "Discovery Science and Engineering Innovation Institutes" which will benefit Sandia Laboratories collaborative efforts with New Mexico Universities to train the engineer of the 21st century in such areas as nanoscience and Microsystems. 
   Complements New Mexico's efforts to strengthen K-12 math and science education, by expanding access to the Summer Institutes for teachers at the National Labs so more New Mexico teachers can participate in these very successful programs. Further, the bill would increase access to Advanced Placement programs, ensuring more New Mexico teachers are trained to teach Advanced Placement and more students have access to these critical courses of study.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 