SEN. BINGAMAN TOLD NO STRUCTURAL CHANGES WILL BE MADE TO NPS' OLD SANTA FE TRAIL BUILDING
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased no changes are in store for the National Park Service's Old Santa Fe Trail building.  
   Today, Bingaman toured the historic CCC-era building where historic and cultural artifacts are on public display. Also today, Bingaman received a letter from Mary A. Bomar, director of the National Park Service, who assured him that while security has been heightened in all federal buildings, the Park Service building will still be open to the public for tours and special events. He also has been informed that no structural changes will be made to the building. 
   Bomar's response was to a Monday, January 14th letter Bingaman wrote in which he raised concerns about the future of the Old Santa Fe Trail building. Bomar confirmed NPS has no plans for structural changes or the removal of historic artifacts unless necessary for preservation purposes. Bomar also stated that the NPS is consulting with the New Mexico State Historic Preservation Office and that the public will also have adequate opportunity to be involved in the process. 
   "I'm very glad to hear that the National Park Service has no major changes in store for the Old Santa Fe Trail building. This building is important to New Mexicans, and it should not only remain structurally intact but it should also remain open to the public," Bingaman said, adding that he will continue to monitor the situation. 
   In his Monday letter, Bingaman urged the National Park Service to proceed with caution as it plans to consolidate all NPS employees into the Old Santa Fe Trail building. 
   "There is no doubt of the significance that this building holds for New Mexicans and the general public. For this reason, I urge the National Park Service to proceed with its plans carefully to ensure the cultural and historic integrity of the building is preserved. I appreciate your help in responding to my concerns," Bingaman wrote.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 