SEN. BINGAMAN CALLS ON CBP TO ADDRESS PORT DELAYS IN NON-COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC AT BORDER
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today urged U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to address delays of non-commercial traffic at the Santa Teresa port of entry by building additional lanes.  
   In a letter to CBP Commissioner Ralph Basham, Bingaman expressed his concern about the impact that delays in non-commercial traffic could have on the border region. 
   "Unreasonably long wait times disrupt the flow of commerce, impede future economic growth, and interrupt the personal and work lives of border residents. At the Santa Teresa port of entry recent wait times have exceeded three hours in length, according to reports I have received from government agencies, media sources, and my constituents. There are also fears that delays at Santa Teresa will only continue to grow now that nearly half the lanes on an El Paso bridge have been closed for a lengthy period of construction work," Bingaman wrote. 
   Among the solutions Bingaman recommended was to build additional lanes for non-commercial traffic at Santa Teresa. 
   "Nowhere in the New Mexico-Texas-Chihuahua area can such construction take place as quickly as it can at Santa Teresa where there are no bridges across the Rio Grande to complicate matters. Since Santa Teresa was designed for eight passenger lanes and only two have been constructed to date, additional lanes at this port could be built quickly and with ease. Additional lanes at Santa Teresa would also alleviate major traffic delays at El Paso that have been brought on by construction," the letter continues. 
   Bingaman also said the region would greatly benefit from an experienced El Paso sector port director who understands the needs of the state's ports. The post, which is currently vacant, has jurisdiction over New Mexico's ports. 
   "It is important to ensure that when filling the position of El Paso sector port director that the individual understand the specific needs of New Mexico ports. Growth at El Paso ports has been slow and steady for years. New Mexico's needs are different in that enhancing our ports is a significant part of our State's plans for economic development along the border region. I have repeatedly heard complaints that ports in New Mexico are not being provided the attention they require. It is my hope that these concerns will be addressed by the new El Paso sector port director," Bingaman wrote. 
   Bingaman also applauded the New Mexico Border Authority's announcement yesterday that northbound commercial traffic increased at the Santa Teresa Port of Entry during the month of November 2007, which saw a 33.6% increase over last year. An increase in commercial traffic is attributed to extended hours at the New Mexico port, which Bingaman helped implement last summer.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 