SEN. BINGAMAN CONCERNED ABOUT PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE GAP
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is very concerned about the gap in coverage many Medicare prescription drug beneficiaries are beginning to feel.  
   The prescription drug coverage gap period - also known as the 'doughnut hole' - is when most Medicare Part D policies provide no coverage - when a senior's annual drug expenses total between $2,251 and $5,100. 
   Bingaman has introduced legislation to help seniors get out of the hole quicker by allowing costs incurred by federal health programs, safety-net hospitals and pharmaceutical manufacturer-sponsored Patient Assistance Programs to count toward the amount a beneficiary must spend to get out of the coverage gap. That measure is called the Helping Fill the Rx Gap Act. 
   Bingaman is also the cosponsor of legislation introduced by Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) the "Prescription for Fairness Act," which would waive the monthly Medicare Part D premiums for any month a senior is trapped in the coverage gap. 
   At a hearing called by the Democratic Policy Committee, Bingaman said the coverage gap is one of the reasons he voted against the prescription drug measure. 
   "While supporters of the Medicare prescription drug benefit continue to tout that it is providing relief for millions of seniors, the fact of the matter is that the federal government is paying billions of dollars for a benefit that leaves too many beneficiaries worse off. When spending this much money, it is incomprehensible that the benefit is not more comprehensive. 
   "Just this morning, I got a call from a Medicare beneficiary in Southern New Mexico who has just learned about the coverage gap. She just found out that she will be responsible to pay thousands of dollars out of pocket to get the medications she needs. And she is just learning that if she purchases the drugs she needs that are not on her plan's formulary, these costs will not count toward catastrophic coverage. She is elderly and ill and she reported that when seeking relief from the CMS Helpline they refer her back to her insurer. 
   "This beneficiary has turned to the government for help to get the drugs she needs and to navigate the Part D system and the government has failed her. We can do better. We should do better especially given the amount of federal dollars we are spending. I look forward to hearing from the witnesses today and I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that seniors are able to get the medications they need."
 
 