SEN. BINGAMAN: BUDGET RESOLUTION SETS WRONG PRIORITIES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today voted against the fiscal year 2006 Budget Resolution saying it significantly underfunds schools, veterans and health care, among other priorities. The measure passed 51-49. 
  While the budget resolution adopted today sets spending levels at $2.6 trillion for the next fiscal year, the measure fails to fund many key initiatives. For example, the resolution underfunds by $12 billion the bipartisan No Child Left Behind Act - the landmark education law pushed by President Bush that was designed to significantly improve the quality of public education across the country. 
  "Although we were successful in eliminating proposed cuts to Medicaid, it is unfortunate that other important needs like improving our schools, extending health care to the uninsured, and meeting the needs of our veterans were all shortchanged. For this reason I could not support this budget blueprint," Bingaman said.
  The Senate did approve a plan authored by Bingaman and Senator Gordon Smith (R-OR) that prevented $15 billion in cuts to Medicaid this year. 
  "Unfortunately the Senate rejected attempts to increase funding for veterans' health care and amputee research," Bingaman stated. "With so many soldiers returning from Iraq having suffered the loss of limbs, I believe this resolution fails to meet our nation's responsibility to those who have made deep sacrifices."
  "Additionally, the resolution approved today does not include the costs of the ongoing military efforts in Iraq and does little to help address the needs of the men and women who are returning home from serving their country in Iraq," Bingaman said. 
  The majority party rejected efforts by Democrats to add funding to education, including a Bingaman amendment that would have restored $4.8 billion in education funding. 
  The House of Representatives is expected to pass a separate budget resolution. A House-Senate conference panel will reconcile the differences between the two measures.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 