SEN. BINGAMAN: MEASURES CALLING FOR ENHANCED BORDER SECURITY GAIN SENATE APPROVAL
  The U.S. Senate today approved four amendments cosponsored by Sen. Jeff Bingaman that aim to increase security along the U.S.-Mexico border. The amendments are part of the fiscal year 2006 Budget Resolution. 
   The first amendment passed funds an additional 2,000 Border Patrol agents to be deployed along U.S. borders. The recently-passed intelligence reform bill authorized these 2,000 new agents, but President Bush's fiscal year 2006 budget proposal only included funding for an additional 210 Border Patrol agents. Bingaman said this number does little to address the country's border security needs. The bipartisan amendment approved today calls for $352.4 million for the hiring of these 2,000 new agents. 
   "The New Mexico border is quickly becoming the preferred alternative for drug trafficking and human smuggling and is in dire need of additional resources," Bingaman said. "I am pleased that the Senate has recognized the importance of keeping our borders safe and has agreed to increase the number of border patrol agents," Bingaman.
   The Senate also approved another measure cosponsored by Bingaman that urges Congress to adequately fund the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP). The program, which helps reimburse localities along the southwest border for costs associated with detaining certain criminal aliens, was funded at $305 million in fiscal year 2005. The president's budget called for the elimination of SCAAP. 
   Bingaman said that without the program, the huge financial burden of federal immigration enforcement would be shifted to local border communities. Bingaman is also a cosponsor of legislation to reauthorize SCAAP through 2011. 
   "New Mexico plays a very valuable role in helping keep our country safe. But cities and towns should not have to foot the bill all by themselves. The State Criminal Alien Assistance Program reimburses localities that assist with the detention of illegal immigrants. We cannot let the Administration shut down this initiative," Bingaman said. 
   Also approved today was an amendment urging Congress to restore funding for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program, which helps coordinate local, state, and federal law enforcement efforts to disrupt drug trafficking in the most active areas of the country. The president is seeking to cut HIDTA from $228.3 million in fiscal year 2005 to $100 million for 2006. The amendment seeks to keep funding at the 2005 level. New Mexico HIDTA received approximately $7 million in 2005. 
   "As a border state we work hard to help stop the flow of illegal drugs from coming into the country. But it is the federal government's responsibility to help provide the resources needed to carryout this vital task," Bingaman said.
   Additionally, Bingaman cosponsored an amendment aimed at restoring funding for the COPS Methamphetamine Enforcement and Clean Up Program. The president proposed a 62 percent cut to the program. The amendment, which was approved, calls for a total funding increase of $160 million over the next five years to combat meth. 
   Bingaman is also a cosponsor of the "Combat Meth Act", which provides additional funds under the COPS program to fight meth production, hire and train more federal prosecutors, and promote federal, state, and local collaboration to assist children that have been affected by the production of meth. The bill also restricts the sale of over-the-counter medications containing pseudoephedrine, a primary ingredient in the production of meth, by placing these drugs behind the pharmacy counter. The Act also establishes a Meth Research, Training, and Technical Assistance Center to research effective treatments for meth abuse.
   Over 90 percent of New Mexico's law enforcement departments reported that meth was readily available in their jurisdictions. From 1998 to 2003, the number of labs seized has increased fivefold.
   "New Mexico is making progress in the fight against meth production. But additional resources are needed and I am pleased that the Senate has recognized that this issue is a priority," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 