SEN. BINGAMAN: HIGHWAY BILL EXPECTED TO BENEFIT FOUR CORNERS REGION, MCKINLEY, CIBOLA COUNTIES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today hailed the passage of legislation that will help pay for key highway, road and transit projects throughout the state, including in San Juan and Cibola counties. The measure passed 89-11.  
   "Highway and road improvements are essential for a healthy economy and good standard of living. This legislation makes a significant investment in communities throughout our state," Bingaman said. "I am particularly pleased that the bill contains millions of dollars for road projects in San Juan, McKinley and Cibola counties." 
   The funding is contained in the SAFE-TEA (Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act), a five-year bill that funds transportation projects nationwide. The bill contains $1.77 billion over the next five years for New Mexico; the last highway bill that passed in 1998 contained about $1.63 billion over six years.
   "Many highway improvement projects in our state wouldn't be possible without federal funding," Bingaman said. "This bill will make it possible for New Mexico communities to make much-needed road improvements."
   The funding in the bill will be used to implement New Mexico's Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) - the list of highway and road projects the state has identified as priorities for construction. 
   At this point in the process, SAFE-TEA does not contain earmarks, or special funding identified for specific projects. However, referring to the current STIP, Bingaman has identified projects that are expected to receive federal funding through SAFE-TEA. Those projects identified in the STIP are listed below next to the estimated cost of the project. The federal government typically pays for 80 percent of the projects. 
   San Juan 
   * $760,000 for Animas river pedestrian bridge along N.M. 516 in Aztec
   * $1 million for U.S. 64 reconstruction between Farmington and Bloomfield 
   Cibola $3.2 million for sidewalks and reconstruction of Roosevelt Ave and first and second streets in Grants
   McKINLEY 
   * $3.6 million for the Nizhoni Blvd Extension in Gallup
   * $7 million to replace the NM491 overpass on I40 in Gallup
   * $6.4 million to reconstruct NM491 from Navajo 9 to Tohatchi
   The House of Representatives passed its own highway bill. House and Senate negotiators will soon meet to iron out the differences between the two chambers' measures.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 