SEN. BINGAMAN: NEW MEXICO COMMUNITIES EXPECTED TO BENEFIT FROM SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today announced that a key spending bill contains funding he requested for quality of life improvements in Albuquerque, Los Lunas, Clovis and Kirtland, New Mexico. The measure is ready for consideration by the full Appropriations Committee and after that will go to the Senate floor for debate. The bill is subject to change before it is signed into law. 
   The funding is contained in the Senate Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development spending bill for fiscal year 2005. This bill funds the Environmental Protection Agency, which helps communities make improvements to their water/wastewater systems.
  Among the projects set to receive funding is one for the Albuquerque area. The Subcommittee approved $1.6 million Bingaman requested for the North and South Valleys Regional Water and Wastewater Project. The City of Albuquerque, Bernalillo County and the Village of Los Ranchos have formed a regional wastewater and water management board to help bring water and wastewater infrastructure to unincorporated areas of the North and South Valley. 
   "I was in the South Valley recently and saw the progress being made at this important water/sewer project. I'm convinced that it is having a very positive impact on the quality of life for South Valley residents, and I will continue to support federal funding to complete this project," Bingaman said.
  Bingaman also helped secure funding for the following:
  * $900,000 - Kirtland, San Juan County Sewer System Project
   Funding would be used to build a sewer system to replace existing septic tanks in Kirtland. The project covers the commercial district in downtown Kirtland, 114 homes, a mobile home park and 46 parcels of vacant land.
  "Replacing septic tanks with sewer lines will help ensure the quality of water in Kirtland remains good. Unfortunately, making such improvements is costly, and often too expensive for New Mexico communities to bear on their own. I'm pleased that funding for Kirtland is contained in this spending bill, and I will work to ensure it remains in the legislation we send to the president for signature," Bingaman said. 
   * $500,000 - Village of Los Lunas Wastewater Project
   Funding would be used to help the Village of Los Lunas build a new wastewater interceptor line, a lift station on Morris Road, and a force main to the treatment facility. The main collection lines in the village are severely overloaded. A new interceptor line is needed to divert flows from the existing overloaded lines. Bingaman secured $1 million in 2004 for this project, two EPA STAG grants totaling $765,000 in 2003 and $800,000 in 2001. 
   "This $500,000, combined with the other federal funding that has already been awarded, would be put to good use improving the water treatment facility and that will greatly benefit Los Lunas residents," Bingaman said. 
  * $250,000 - Clovis Wastewater Project 
   Funding would be used to help the City of Clovis with construction of new wastewater treatment plant to handle approximately 2 million gallons per day of effluent from the new cheese plant. The estimated cost of the wastewater treatment plant is $6 million. The state provided $1.5 million in a 2004 capital outlay grant for this project. 
   "The new Clovis cheese plant represents such an important economic development opportunity for Eastern New Mexico. This funding would help the city with construction of a wastewater project to benefit the new plant," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 