SEN. BINGAMAN: NEW MEXICO COMMUNITIES REGAIN COMMERCIAL AIR SERVICES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman has confirmed that New Mexico cities that lost their commercial air service are gaining it back with the selection of a new air service provider. 
   Nebraska-based Westward Airways, Inc. has been chosen to provide commercial air service to Las Cruces, Taos and Gallup. Taos lost its air service this year when their provider, Rio Grande Air, shut down. Las Cruces and Gallup had earlier lost their service.
   "Commercial air service plays an important role in a community's economic development. Businesses strongly consider a city's transportation options when choosing a location. I am pleased Westward Airways had been chosen to provide this vital service for these New Mexico communities, which have recently been without," Bingaman said.
   Westward will benefit from a $1.4 million grant provided through the Department of Transportation's (DOT) Small Community Air Service Development Program, which Bingaman helped create. The communities were awarded the funds last year, but Rio Grande Air shut down before the service could get started.
   Westward will establish its operation base in Las Cruces and will bring 15 new jobs into the area. Las Cruces, Taos and Gallup will fly to Albuquerque and are scheduled to begin in late November. Gallup will also be offering flights to Phoenix, Arizona, which are currently scheduled to begin in late January. Two daily flights will be offered weekdays and Sundays, with one round-trip flight on Saturdays. 
   In addition, Alamogordo has chosen Westward to replace Rio Grande Air for their subsidized Essential Air Service (EAS) to Albuquerque. The Federal Aviation Administration is expected to officially approve the contract in the coming weeks. Service in Alamogordo is scheduled to begin in late November.
   Bingaman is strong supporter of EAS, which ensures that communities that had commercial air service before deregulation continued to receive scheduled service. An amendment authored by Bingaman that would continue making EAS funds available to communities was made part of the fiscal year 2005 Transportation Appropriations Act, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee earlier this week.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 