SENS. BINGAMAN, FRIST INTRODUCE COVERING KIDS ACT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, M.D. (R-TN) have introduced the "Covering Kids Act of 2005." The legislation provides $100 million in funding to states, local communities, schools, faith-based organizations, Indian tribes, safety net providers and others to enroll eligible children under Medicaid and State Children's Health Insurance Programs (SCHIP). 
  "Forty-five million Americans lack health insurance. More than six million of them are children who are eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP, but who aren't receiving health care benefits because their parents simply don't know these programs exist or how to enroll their children in them," Bingaman said. "This legislation shines a spotlight on this serious problem, setting aside $100 million to sign children up for the benefits they need to be healthy." 
  "Covering children is not only the right thing to do, but by ensuring that children have access to preventive care, it is also one of the best ways of reducing long-term strain on America's health care system. I'm proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Senator Bingaman, and look forward to working with my colleagues to strengthen our nation's health care system by ensuring all of our children have access to the affordable quality health care they deserve," Frist said.
   The Covering Kids Act of 2005 empowers the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to organizations that conduct innovative outreach and enrollment programs for uninsured children. To be eligible, organizations will conduct assessments of the effectiveness of their activities, and collect and report enrollment data to the Secretary of HHS.
  Bingaman, a member of the Senate Finance Committee, has written and co-written several bills to address children's health care needs, including the "Start Healthy, Stay Healthy Act," "Children's Dental Health Improvement Act," "Children's Express Lane to Health Coverage Act," and bills related to Hispanic and Native American health care to reduce health disparities.
  Senators Frist and Bingaman are cosponsoring this legislation along with Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS), Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA).
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 