SEN. BINGAMAN BILL TO HELP PREVENT DISEASE, CUT HEALTH CARE COSTS FOR AMERICAN
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman along with Sens. Craig (R-ID), Conrad (D-ND), and Schumer (D-NY) today introduced bipartisan legislation that would bolster disease prevention and treatment and help dramatically reduce health care costs for Americans. 
   Bingaman is the author of the Medical Nutrition Therapy Act of 2007, which would extend Medicare coverage for nutrition therapies provided by a registered dietitian to treat and prevent a range of conditions, such as cancer, heart disease, and diabetes. Medical nutrition therapy (MNT) involves the use of specific nutrition services - such as diet and nutrition counseling and application of nutrition products - to prevent and treat diseases. 
   Currently, Medicare reimburses MNT services for only a small subset of conditions such as diabetes or kidney disease. Bingaman's bill would authorize the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to expand reimbursement for MNT when it is shown cost-effective to treat other wide-spread chronic disease, such as obesity, pre-diabetes and HIV/AIDS. 
   "Medical nutrition therapy is a proven, successful way of controlling or preventing some of the diseases that threaten the quality of life for many Americans," Bingaman said. "This bill is designed to make nutrition therapy accessible to people whose diseases are manageable, but whose treatment now may only consist of expensive prescription drugs, surgery or long stays in the hospital." 
   Bingaman said extending Medicare coverage for medical nutrition therapy services can serve as part of a long-term strategy to keep Medicare solvent and curb rising health care costs. 
   "Because medical nutrition therapy is not currently covered under Medicare, patients are denied access to this simple yet effective treatment. It's a proven fact that medical nutrition services can cut health care costs by speeding recovery and reducing complications," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 