SENS. BINGAMAN, SALAZAR PUSH FOR MEASURE TO PROTECT NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYSTEM
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman and Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO) have introduced legislation to codify the National Landscape Conservation System, the collection of national monuments, national conservation areas, wilderness areas, wild and scenic rivers and other landscapes on public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). 
   The National Landscape Conservation System (NLCS) was by the Department of the Interior in 2000 and consists of all areas the BLM administers for conservation purposes. Because the NLCS was established administratively it does not have the permanence that it would have if enacted by law. 
   Bingaman's bill would establish a law that would group all the areas into one system, which would help increase public awareness of the importance of these lands and would highlight the BLM's conservation of these areas and their cultural, historical, scientific, and ecological significance to the nation. 
   "This bill will highlight the importance of preserving some of our country's most historic and culturally rich areas and will help ensure they remain a high priority within the BLM and the Department of the Interior. It is my hope this bill will be able to move quickly through the Congress and be enacted into law," Bingaman said. 
   "The National Landscape Conservation System has taken a back seat in our country's land conservation efforts, getting shortchanged by the President's budget year in and year out. Places like Canyons of the Ancients National Monument, McInnis Canyons National Conservation Area and Gunnison Gorge National Conservation Area - some of America's most famous landscapes - deserve real protection from vandalism, neglect and other abuses," said Senator Salazar. "This bill simply writes the National Landscape Conservation System into law - without affecting grazing rights, water rights, and public access to the national monuments, wilderness or conservation areas - to make sure National Landscape Conservation System lands are protected always." 
   In New Mexico the New National Landscape Conservation System encompasses several nationally significant areas, including the rugged lava flows of El Malpais National Conservation Area, the unique cone-shaped rock formations of the Kasha-Katuwe Tent Rocks National Monument, the Rio Grande Wild and Scenic River, the Continental Divide National Scenic Trail and the El Camino Real de Tierra Adentro and Old Spanish Trail National Historic Trails, as well as over one million acres of wilderness and wilderness study areas. 
   The bill does not create any new management authority and does not change the authorities for any of the previously designated areas within the system. 
   The bill was referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Bingaman is chairman of the committee.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 