SEN. BINGAMAN MEETS WITH POSTMASTER GENERAL TO DISCUSS SOLUTIONS TO POSTAL SERVICE PROBLEMS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today met with Postmaster General John Potter to discuss a variety of concerns about delivery service in New Mexico. 
  Bingaman requested the meeting after concerns about the U.S. Postal Service were raised by New Mexicans in Albuquerque, Rio Rancho, Las Cruces and Santa Fe.
   The postmaster thanked Bingaman for bringing postal problem in New Mexico to his attention. After being contacted by Bingaman, the USPS began a process of internal review of all postal operations in New Mexico, which confirmed that service in New Mexico did not meet the standards of the USPS. In recent weeks the USPS has been working with area managers to address problems in management, operations, and staffing. 
   "Mr. Potter acknowledged that there are delivery problems in parts of our state and he seems genuinely committed to addressing them," Bingaman said after the meeting in his Washington, DC office.
  Potter told Bingaman that changes will be made in operations and additional staff hired to tackle delivery and processing problems. USPS will continue to closely monitor operations in New Mexico until they are confident that all problems have been addressed and that New Mexico residents are receiving the quality service that they deserve. 
  "No matter how hard mail sorters and carriers in our state work, they cannot get the job done in a timely fashion if the Postal Service is understaffed. I am very glad to hear that new hires can be part of the solution," Bingaman said. 
  Bingaman also pressed for the Postal Service to open a new office in Rio Rancho, whose 70,000 residents are served by just one post office. Potter said barring any local problems, a new storefront post office could be opened before summer. 
   "I'm very encouraged that the postmaster general for the country is focused on the problems we in New Mexico are having. I will continue to monitor the progress being made toward correcting these problems," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 