SEN. BINGAMAN JOINS IN INTRODUCING LEGISLATION TO REDUCE GASOLINE CONSUMPTION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today joined Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) in introducing bipartisan legislation that aims to reduce the United States' gasoline consumption by nearly half a trillion gallons by 2028 and greatly decrease the country's dependence on foreign oil. 
   Bingaman said the "Fuel Economy Reform Act of 2006" seeks to break the decades-long logjam on increasing fuel economy standards by establishing a target of a 4 percent annual increase in Corporate Avenue Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards - a rate which the National Academy of Sciences has assessed is possible. This goal must be met unless the experts at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration justify a deviation in that rate by proving that the increase is technologically unachievable, cannot maintain overall fleet safety, or is not cost-effective when compared to the economic and geopolitical value of a gallon of gasoline saved.  
   "The U.S. passenger fleet alone accounts for 1/10th of world oil consumption," said Bingaman. "With oil and gasoline prices where they are today, it's hard to imagine a genuine discussion of our country's energy future without a significant effort to improve vehicle fuel efficiency." 
   "This moderate proposal to begin raising the standards for fuel economy deserves a serious look from the Senate. There are many good ideas out there and a healthy debate to be had about the best ways to do this. I hope the introduction of this bipartisan bill can spur the Senate to have this long-overdue discussion," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also provides tax incentives to encourage domestic manufacturers to develop advanced-technology vehicles, which would help strengthen the U.S. auto industry by allowing them to compete with foreign hybrid, E-85 and other fuel-efficient vehicles. Additionally, the bill would lift the current 60,000-per-manufacturer cap on buyer tax credits to allow more Americans to buy ultra-efficient vehicles. 
   Bingaman said that if the 4 percent per year improvement is maintained for ten years, this bill would reduce gasoline consumption by 69 billion gallons. If gasoline is just $2.50 per gallon, consumers will save $50 billion at the pump in 2018 alone. By 2028, Americans will have saved a total of 549 billion gallons of gasoline and cut global warming pollution by 6,094 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent gases. 
   The Fuel Economy Reform Act would also provide fairness and flexibility to domestic automakers by establishing different standards for different types of cars. Currently, manufacturers have to meet broad standards over their whole fleet of cars. This disadvantages companies like Ford and General Motors that produce full lines of small and large cars and trucks rather than manufacturers that only sell small cars. 
   America spends $800 million a day, or $300 billion annually, on its 20-million-barrel-a-day oil habit. Passenger vehicles alone burn 8 million gallons of oil each day. Because we import 60 percent of our oil, much of it from the Middle-East, our dependence on oil is also a national security issue. With oil prices hovering near $75 a barrel and total U.S. petroleum estimated to increase 23 percent over the next 20 years, we must act now to prevent a future energy crisis. While it's clear that increasing fuel economy standards is a crucial part of any effort to reduce our consumption of foreign oil, efforts to raise them have been stalled for 20 years. 
   The bill was cosponsored by Richard G. Lugar (R-IN), Joseph Biden (D-DE), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Richard Durbin (D-IL).
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 