KEY WATER BILL CONTAINING SEN. BINGAMAN FLOOD PROVISION CLEARS SENATE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today announced that a bill containing a provision he pushed for that authorizes funding for a key project in Albuquerque's south valley has passed the Senate. The bill must now be reconciled with the House of Representative's version of the bill.  
   The provision, included in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) for 2006, which authorizes projects and programs for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, would authorize $15.6 million in federal funding for the South Valley Flood Damage Reduction Project. Bingaman has continually pressed for the inclusion of this project in WRDA 
   "Flooding in Albuquerque's South Valley has long been a problem for area residents. This project would help reduce the threat of flooding and I am pleased it has been made part of this important water bill," Bingaman said. 
   Flooding control on the Rio Grande over the years has left areas of Albuquerque's South Valley below the level of the river causing frequent flooding when it rains. The proposed project would eliminate flood damage by improving drainage in the area, which contains about 500 homes. The project includes the construction of detention basins and enlarging existing drainage channels in the area from Bridge Blvd. south to Rio Bravo Blvd. and from the Arenal Canal east of Coors to the Armijo Drain, west of Isleta Blvd. Completion of the project will reduce the cost of homeowners' flood insurance in the area. 
   Bingaman said he was pleased the fiscal year 2006 spending bill provided $500,000 for the engineering and design phase of the project. Additionally, the fiscal year 2007 Senate spending bill that funds the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers contains $180,000 to complete the engineering and design and $100,000 to begin the construction of the project. 
   Bingaman also said he was pleased the bill included a provision that authorizes $25 million for the rehabilitate and repair old flood dams. Earlier this month Bingaman met Do?a Ana County Flood Commissioner Gary Esslinger and learned about the need to upgrade some of the county's dams. 
   "This is a valuable program for Do?a Anna County and southern New Mexico were there are a number of small flood control dams," Bingaman 
   WRDA also included the following provisions, which will benefit New Mexico: 
   * Rio Grande Environmental Management Provision: The Bingaman authored provision authorizes the Corps of Engineers to carry-out projects to restore fish & wildlife habitat in the Rio Grande. The program is authorized at $25 million a year. 
   * Middle Rio Grande Restoration Provision - The provision initiates ecosystem restoration and recreational projects in the Middle Rio Grande reach (Cochiti to Elephant Butte). Total program authorization is $25 million.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 