SEN. BINGAMAN: ENERGY BILL WILL GET BIG BOOST FROM TAX INCENTIVES LEGISLATION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is very pleased that a tax incentives package he helped write will significantly ramp up renewable energy production and use in our country.
   For the past week, Bingaman has been managing an energy bill on the Senate floor that improves the energy efficiency of vehicles and buildings, shifts the country toward the use of homegrown biofuels, and provides research and development funding to develop ways to capture and store carbon. But Bingaman said the tax incentives bill, which today passed the Senate Finance Committee, will have an enormous impact on our shift to the use of renewables, such as wind, biomass and solar.  
   "This bill contains billions of dollars in tax incentives for renewable energy, which will help diversify our sources of domestic electricity generation and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions at the same time," Bingaman said. "But it also contains tax incentives that will help Americans pay for the use of energy efficient appliances in their homes and to purchase cleaner burning vehicles. This represents a bold new energy policy for our country." 
   The bill, which builds on provisions in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, contains a 5- year extension of the tax credit for the production of electricity from wind, geothermal, biomass and other green resources. It also extends for additional eight years the investment tax credit for business investments in solar, fuel cells, and microturbine technology, helping to make these technologies more cost-competitive with the more mature renewable technologies. 
   In addition, the bill extends for four years a program that makes affordable financing more readily available to companies investing in renewable energy upgrades. And it creates a new category of tax credit bonds for the construction of clean coal power plants; only plants that will capture and store carbon emissions will qualify. 
   "New Mexico is already a national leader when it comes to using and generating renewable energy. This legislation will help our state continue to make the shift away from fossil fuels and toward green energy," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also will help New Mexico farmers/ranchers and enthanol producers. For instance, it includes a new tax credit that will make it more affordable to use cow and other livestock manure to help generate reneweable power. It does so by providing a tax credit to encourage the use of manure-based gas to power the technology involved with the production of ethanol. Right now, the technologies that make ethanol use non-renewable fuels that are not environmentally friendly. 
   New Mexico is currently the ninth largest dairy state and has a lot to gain from this tax credit. 
   "I strongly support efforts to capture the methane released from cow manure because methane is a clean and renewable fuel, it will help our dairies better manage their waste, and methane is one of the more active greenhouse gasses," Bingaman said. 
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici strongly supported the tax credit. "The Finance Committee did the right thing to recognize that livestock waste can be put to good use to advance the quest for renewable energy. I believe our dairies and livestock producers in New Mexico can take advantage of these tax provisions to support ethanol production and deal with waste in a manner that produces renewable energy and is environmentally beneficial," said Domenici, who wrote the Finance Committee endorsing the creation of a livestock-based renewable energy tax credit. 
   The bill also modifies the list of fuels eligible for a tax credit to include fuels made from animal waste, such as bio-based compressed natural gas. And it provides a new tax credit for the production of advanced biofuels using switchgrass and sorghum. 
   For homeowners, the bill extends tax credits for six years, through 2014, that help defray the cost of shifting to solar electric, solar water heating and fuel cell technologies. And it creates a new tax credit for residents using wind technology. 
   And the bill establishes a new tax credit for Americans wishing to purchase plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles. The base amount of the credit is $2,500, but it can grow as high as $7,500 depending on how efficient the vehicle's battery is. 
   "Everything we've done in this bill is to help make our country more energy independent. In so doing, we will rely less on volatile parts of the world and help our environment at the same time. Both are very important goals for our country," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman reported that the bill represents a $29 billion investment in green energy.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 