SEN. BINGAMAN: SENATE BILL CONTAINS $15 MILLION FOR LAS CRUCES COURTHOUSE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is very pleased that a Senate spending bill contains his request for millions of dollars to help construct a new federal courthouse in Las Cruces.  
   The fiscal year Senate Transportation, Treasury & Related Agencies Subcommittee approved a bill that contains Bingaman's $15 million for construction. That spending bill funds the maintenance and construction of all federal buildings. It is one of the13 appropriations bills that fund federal government agencies for fiscal year 2006. 
   The proposed new building would house the district court, bankruptcy court, probation office, pretrial services office, U.S. Trustee, and Marshals Services. The current facility, the Runnels Federal Building, has serious security and operational problems due to a significant shortage of space. In fact, the Judicial Conference - an organization set up by Congress to serve as the principal policy making body for the administration of U.S. Courts - declared a space emergency in Las Cruces. In the last 16 years, the conference declared only one other such emergency, in Brooklyn, New York. 
   "Last year, Congress approved more than $60 million toward constructing the new courthouse. This $15 million would help cover the total cost of the new building," Bingaman said. "This bill must clear several steps before it is signed into law and I will work to ensure the $15 million for Las Cruces remains in the final legislation that goes to the president for signature." 
   The full Senate Appropriations Committee is expected to approve the spending bill soon, clearing the way for Senate consideration. 
   The courthouse is needed to accommodate the significant increase in cases over the last decade. Additionally, it is expected that bankruptcy court will assign one of two new judgeships anticipated for the district in the near term to Las Cruces.
   Once the new courthouse is constructed, the Runnels building will be used by other federal agencies. Bingaman helped secure $4.11 million in FY 2002 to begin design of the new courthouse. Fiscal year 2006 begins Oct. 1. The 13 appropriations bills Congress will write are supposed to be enacted by then.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 