SEN. BINGAMAN STANDS UP FOR SENATE RESPONSIBILITY TO PROVIDE 'CHECKS AND BALANCES'
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that the Senate has approved 95 percent of Bush's nominees to the federal bench, and said taking the extreme step of breaking the rules of the Senate to eliminate the filibuster would be a mistake.  
   In a speech on the Senate floor, Bingaman said the Senate has confirmed 208 out of President Bush's 218 federal judicial nominees, and that Democrats have offered to approve several more nominees bringing the total approval rate to 98 percent. Majority Leader Bill Frist turned down that proposal. 
   Bingaman also added that the federal courts have the lowest level of vacancy in more than 20 years. 
   Yet, the Senate Majority Leader wants to break the Senate current rules that govern debate that requires 60 votes to end discussion. 
   "The idea that the majority can simply change longstanding Senate rules whenever it believes that it would be politically expedient to do so is deeply troubling. We are a nation of laws and our institutions should reflect this.
   "Some in the majority party have complained that it is necessary to change the rules with respect to use of the filibuster on judicial nominees because they think that that the current 60 votes required to end debate is too high. I have no objection to debating this issue and bringing it up for a vote. Click Here to see the senator's Voting Record on Judicial Nominees http://bingaman.senate.gov/judicial_vote_count/judicial_vo te_count.html
   "Indeed, throughout the Senate's history there have been a variety of proposals to modify the filibuster. For example, in 1975 the Senate reduced the number of votes required to end debate from 67 to 60. And in 1995, I supported a proposal offered by Senator Harkin, which did not pass, that would have revised the procedure. So why isn't the Majority Leader bringing this proposal up for a vote under normal procedures? Simply put, because he doesn't have the votes to pass the measure." 
   Bingaman said he agrees that a President's judicial nominees should be considered in a fair and judicious manner, and as the record demonstrates, that is exactly what the Senate is doing.
   BINGAMAN STANDS UP FOR "CHECKS AND BALANCES" p. 2
   "However," Bingaman said, "I do understand the general frustration surrounding the processing of judicial nominees. During the Clinton Administration the Republicans killed over 60 nominees though a variety of delay tactics, mostly by refusing to give them hearings in the Judiciary Committee.
   "As a result, many of these nominees never got a chance to have a fair and open debate about their qualifications, much less a vote on the Senate floor. I believe we should look for ways to improve the confirmation process so that it is conducted in a more bipartisan and constructive manner. But exercising the so called "nuclear option" is not a step in the right direction.
   Bingaman also pointed out that the ability to filibuster protects the Senate's duty to provide checks and balances.
   "The filibuster is not only an important check on majority power within the Senate, but it is also an essential check on the executive branch. The U.S. Constitution provides that the Senate and the president shall share the power to appoint judicial nominees. The president is granted the authority to nominate individuals, and the Senate is vested with the authority to provide its advice and consent. I take this constitutional duty seriously, and I do not believe that the Senate should be relegated to the role of a glorified rubber stamp. This is not what the American people want, and it is definitely not what the Founders envisioned," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 