N.M. SENATORS SAY CORPS REPORT PUSHES N.M. LEVEE MAINTENANCE NEEDS TO FOREFRONT
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today expressed concern regarding the maintenance of three New Mexico levees have been deemed unsatisfactory by the Army Corps of Engineers under new, reporting requirements that went into effect after Hurricane Katrina.  
   The unsatisfactory rating means that if the deficiencies are left uncorrected and the levees are damaged in a flood, the federal government would not pay for their reconstruction. 
   The Corps today identified scores of levees across the nation that are at-risk of failing due to maintenance deficiencies, including three systems in New Mexico: the Albuquerque Middle Rio Grande levee (near Monta?o Bridge), the Abeytas to Bernardo levee in northern Socorro County, and the Glenwood/Whitewater Creek levee in Catron County. The Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District is the operation and maintenance partner for both Rio Grande structures, and Catron County is the maintenance partner for the Glenwood levee. "The bottom line is that Corps of Engineers inspection shows that maintenance and some major rehabilitation are needed on these levees. That work has not happened yet. It is now very important that the MRGCD develop a plan to restore levee integrity and do so in a manner that is sensitive to preserving the bosque habitat," said Domenici, who is the lead Republican on the Senate appropriations subcommittee that funds the Army Corps' ongoing technical assessment of Rio Grande levees. "Hurricane Katrina demonstrated just how much damage can be done when levees are not properly maintained. I'm glad that the Army Corps of Engineers has adopted stricter standards for levee maintenance, because that means communities across the country will be better protected. But I'm concerned that this was done without giving our state's levee operators enough advanced warning. Nonetheless, it's important that they work towards shoring up these levees," Bingaman said. Anticipating the need for rehabilitation of the Albuquerque levee, the Senators pressed the Corps to perform an extensive study on the levee's deficiencies. That report is expected in May. Domenici and Bingaman, working with the Corps and MRGCD, intend to use this report to determine the appropriate federal response to levee maintenance needs. The Senators also stressed that the Corps of Engineers must be aware of important Endangered Species Act requirements related to the willow flycatcher when it makes maintenance recommendations on the Rio Grande.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 