SEN. BINGAMAN TELLS INTERIOR SECRETARY NORTON OF HIS CONCERN ABOUT FEDERAL COMMITMENT TO RESOLVING WATER DISPUTES
  At an Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing today, Sen. Jeff Bingaman raised serious concerns about the Bush administration's proposed cuts to resolving water conflicts, including the Middle Rio Grande. Sen. Bingaman also said he continues to be troubled by the White House's lack of commitment to the Aamodt and Navajo/San Juan Indian water rights settlements.  
   At the hearing, Interior Secretary Gale Norton testified on President Bush's 2006 Interior Department budget. Bingaman told Norton he is very concerned about the Bush administration's plan to cut the Bureau of Reclamation's overall budget by 6.7 percent, and to cut BOR's water account in particular by 6 percent. The water resources account provides funding for all of BOR's activities in New Mexico, including the Middle Rio Grande, the San Juan River, and Pecos River basins.
   Bingaman also said he is troubled by the White House's plan to cut by $10.2 million to just $19 million the amount of BOR funding for the Middle Rio Grande project. At least $4 million would be cut from funds available for activities to maintain compliance with the Endangered Species Act. 
   Bingaman said the cut stands in stark contrast to the 8 percent increase in funding to $62.9 million the amount BOR is willing to spend on the Klamath Basin in Oregon. 
   "The $10 million proposed cut to the Middle Rio Grande project is very troubling. But what's worse is that the White House seems to be singling New Mexico for a reduction, given that it has proposed a significant increase for the Klamath Basin in Oregon," Bingaman said. "I hope that we can get a stronger commitment from the Bush administration to the Middle Rio Grande." 
   By the Bush administration's own estimate, a 10 year plan to ensure a manageable balance between endangered species and water use in the Middle Rio Grande would cost more than $230 million. Yet, over the last three years, the Bush administration has only proposed investing $19.4 million. 
   With regard to the Aamodt Indian water rights settlement, Bingaman said he was pleased to hear from Norton today that she has responded to his request to put a high level Interior water expert on the case. Norton today said that a senior Interior Department official has been assigned to help negotiate Aamodt - the nearly 40 year-old case. 
   But he voiced his concern about the fact that the Bush administration has been totally unrealistic about committing federal funds to the settlement.
   Earlier this year, the Bush administration said it would be willing to commit just $11 million to settle the Aamodt water dispute. Bingaman has pointed out that, however, that President Bush in December signed into law two bills that settled Western water cases that set aside at least $120 million to settle a water dispute in Idaho and $2.2 billion to settle a water dispute in Arizona. 
   "The state is committing a lot of time and effort to resolve Indian water rights claims. But if we're going to make progress in New Mexico on Indian water rights issues, it's imperative for the federal government step up its role in the negotiations of the Aamodt, Navajo/San Juan and Taos cases," Bingaman said. "We also need the same type of serious commitment of financial resources from the White House that was recently given to settle other Indian water rights claims in the West." 
   Bingaman last month wrote to Norton urging her to exercise leadership in settling Aamodt. "There has long been in place a federal negotiating team in the Aamodt case, but it is my understanding that it has not recently engaged the parties, nor provided any meaningful input on the issues that exist with the settlement proposal," Bingaman wrote. "I am asking once again that you reverse course and develop a responsible approach to Indian water rights settlements in New Mexico."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 