SEN. BINGAMAN CHAIRS HEARING ON HOW TO EXPAND USE OF ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today chaired a hearing to explore what incentives Congress should consider to help expand the availability of advance technology vehicles in our country, and to determine how we can become the world leader in the manufacture of alternative fuel technologies. Bingaman invited Martin Eberhard, CEO of Tesla Motors, to testify.  
   The hearing in the Finance Committee's Subcommittee on Energy, Natural Resources and Infrastructure took a closer look at what incentives are needed to create a larger market for vehicles that use less - or no - fossil fuels, and to encourage more companies like Tesla Motors to manufacture their products here. Bingaman is the chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy, Natural Resources and Infrastructure. 
   "Right now, over 50 percent of the nearly 21 million barrels of oil we use each day in the U.S. is imported. And almost 70 percent of that oil consumption is used in the transportation sector. These numbers suggest that in order to achieve energy security, we need to reduce our use of imported fuels. We can begin this effort by becoming efficient users of transportation fuels," Bingaman said. 
   The U.S. tax code has several incentives aimed at encouraging manufacturers and consumers to build and purchase more fuel efficient vehicles. There are tax penalties that apply to the purchase of the least fuel efficient vehicles. The tax code also features credits, against income or excise tax, for bio-based fuel blends that displace imported fuels. But Bingaman wants to do more. 
   "We have taken steps that allow us to continue providing incentives to all types of advanced technologies that increase our fuel efficiency and reduce polluting emissions. What we learned today is that we also need to provide incentives for manufacturers to produce these technologies in the United States," Bingaman said. 
   On Wednesday, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will meet to vote on legislation to promote the efficient use of energy, expand the use of biofuels and to invest in research and development capture and store carbon.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 