KEY SPENDING BILL CONTAINS SEN. BINGAMAN PROPOSAL TO BOOST SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
  A key spending bill finalized today contains an amendment U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman wrote to bump up by $150 million the amount of funding directed to Social Security Administration offices to improve staffing and address major backlog problems.  
   Social Security benefits are the only means of survival for millions of elderly and disabled Americans. These individuals rely on the Social Security Administration (SSA) to promptly and fairly adjudicate their applications for disabled benefits. Unfortunately, SSA offices have been underfunded for years, and as a result hearings on not taking place in a timely fashion. 
   "There are very serious backlog problems at the Social Security Administration, and Americans are suffering because of it. With the approval of my amendment, we have the opportunity to begin tackling the situation," said Bingaman, whose amendment is contained in an FY 2008 spending package that funds SSA and other federal agencies. 
   "This spending package is doomed to a veto, but our conference work sets the stage for giving the Social Security Administration more resources to process disability claims. The long delays faced by disabled applicants today are completely unacceptable. I will continue to work on ensuring that this funding is retained in any bill that is successfully enacted," said Senator Pete Domenici, who was a conferee on the Labor-HHS spending measure and was a key supporter of Bingaman's amendment. 
   According to SSA, there are currently over 756,000 cases waiting for a hearing, and the average time to get a hearing is 523 days - the longest in SSA history. Additionally, the average processing time for a hearing is projected to increase next year. 
   SSA reports that staffing levels are at their lowest since 1972. Thirty years ago, SSA had more than 82,000 employees. In 2005, SSA had 66,000 employees. In a few months, it will drop below 60,000. Simply put, thousands of employees are leaving SSA field and hearing offices without being replaced. 
   Bingaman said staffing shortages at SSA are particularly problematic give that since 1990, the number of disabled workers drawing disability benefits has more than doubled, from 3 million to 6.8 million. This problem will only worsen as baby boomers file in large numbers for Social Security benefits. 
   "It is my hope that SSA can at last begin filling vacancies, ensuring that field offices in New Mexico and around the country are adequately staffed," Bingaman said. 
   The underlying bill contains a total of $9.87 billion for SSA - about $275 million more than the president had requested. Unfortunately, the president has threatened to veto the bill.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 