SEN. BINGAMAN: DEFENSE BILL SUPPORTS NEW MEXICO MILITARY AND LAB INITIATIVES
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said the U.S. Senate has approved legislation that gives strong support to New Mexico's military installations and the state's two national laboratories. 
   The bill, called the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization Bill, sets funding levels for the Waste Isolation Pilot Project, Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories, and New Mexico's military bases. The authorization bill is required before funding can be appropriated.  
   "This bill does a good job supporting our national labs, our military installations and WIPP," Bingaman said. "And it underscores just how important a role New Mexico plays in our national defense." 
   The bill, which must now be the subject to a Senate-House panel, contains the following: 
   Cannon Air Force Base 
   $1.68 million for a new hanger for AC-130 Air Force Special Operations Command aircraft as part of the transition of Cannon to its new mission on Oct 1 
   $7.5 million for a flight simulator facility for AC-130 aircraft 
   "This bill takes an important step forward in preparing Cannon for the transition to the Air Force Special Operations Command," Bingaman said. 
   Kirtland Air Force Base 
   $1.8 million for a jet fuel handling facility 
  $11.4 million for a Pararescue/Combat Rescue Officer (PJ/CRO) School building 
  $42.7 million for the Space Vehicle Facility. As part of the 2005 BRAC to move to consolidate facilities for the Air Force Research Laboratories Space Vehicles Directorate from Hanscom Air Force Base to Kirtland. 
   "This bill invests tens of millions of dollars in Kirtland, ensuring it has all the facilities in needs," Bingaman said. 
   The bill increases the budget of the Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Program Office to $102 million from $87 million for work on additional launch and space vehicle research as well as satellite sensors.
   Adaptive Optics: The bill directs the Secretary of Defense to develop a report no later than September 1, 2008 on the multi-year funding requirement to ensure a viable domestic manufacturing base to support DOD needs. Albuquerque is a recognized center of excellence in these optical components which have the ability to correct for aberrations as light travels through the atmosphere. 
   White Sands Missile Range 
   $71 million for the construction of buildings for the Combat Engineering Battalion that is coming to WSMR from Fort Sill at the end of 2008. 
   "WSMR is our nation's premier testing facility. This bill would help ensure it grows, along with its importance to the country," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also authorizes a $7.5 million increase for the High Energy Laser Test Facility at WSMR, bringing its operating budget to $10.3 million. And it directs the Secretary of the Army, the Director of the Test Resource Management Center and the Director of the High Energy Laser Joint technology Office to jointly report to Congress on a long-term funding plan to maintain adequate personnel, equipment and facilities to maintain its world class status as a unique Department of Defense asset to test high energy lasers. 
   Bingaman also said he is pleased the bill authorizes funding that will help ensure that Holloman Air Force Base receives the F-22A, or Raptor, in a timely fashion. Specifically, the bill sets the funding level for the purchase of 20 F-22A at $3.737 billion, ensuring that Elmendorf Air Force Base in Alaska receives the Raptors that have been assigned to it. Holloman is next in line to receive the F-22A. 
   "This legislation would help ensure that Raptors bound for Holloman will be delivered on time," Bingaman said. 
   Other Department of Defense issues relevant to New Mexico, and authorized under the Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Agency: 
   $6.472 billion for maintaining the stockpile 
  $1.809 billion for stemming the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 
  $45.5 million for the Chemistry and Metallurgy Replacement Facility construction at LANL 
  $26.7 million for the radioactive liquid waste treatment project to safely treat radioactive wastes for disposal at Waste Isolation Pilot Project 
  $49.5 million in upgrades to safeguards for storing nuclear materials at LANL 
  $13 million for heating system upgrades at Sandia 
  $139.4 million for clean up funding at LANL 
  $219.7 million for WIPP 
   The bill also authorizes $195 million for the Reliable Replacement Warhead and limits funding for design, definition and cost analysis only. The Senate Armed Services Committee expressed concern that RRW was moving forward too quickly and is worried about the effects that moving forward will have on maintenance of the existing stockpile.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 