SEN. BINGAMAN PLEASED CUBAN TEAM WILL BE ALLOWED TO COMPETE IN WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased that the U.S. Treasury Department has overturned its earlier decision to bar Cuban baseball players from competing in the inaugural World Baseball Classic.  
   After learning that the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), under the Department of the Treasury, denied a 2005 application to come to the United States for the tournament, Bingaman last week wrote to Treasury Secretary John Snow urging reconsideration. Treasury today agreed to a modified application that ensures compliance with existing travel and trade restrictions with Cuba, including that the team will not benefit financially from the tournament. 
   "The World Baseball Classic should be a true international competition, inviting the best teams from around the globe to participate. Sports and cultural exchanges should not be dragged into the political realm, and I'm glad the Treasury Department has agreed to allow the Cuban team to compete in this tournament," Bingaman said. 
   The World Baseball Classic will be the first World Cup-style tournament for the sport. The tournament, which was organized by Major League Baseball (MLB) and the Major League Baseball Players Association, will consist of the world's best players from 16 nations. Games are currently scheduled to be held in various cities within the United States, Puerto Rico, and Japan from March 3-20. 
   The text of Bingaman's Jan. 13th letter to Snow, which was signed by Senators Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and John Sununu (R-NH), is as follows: 
   "While there are differing views regarding U.S. policy toward Cuba and the embargo, international athletic competitions are customarily above politics. We believe that - like the Olympics and the World Cup - the Classic should provide the opportunity for American athletes to compete and shine against the world's best. The onus on preventing such competition should not fall on the land of liberty, but on the Cuban regime should it not permit its athletes to participate," the letter stated. 
   "We hope that you will ensure that OFAC continues to work with MLB and the Players Association to address any remaining concerns so that the World Baseball Classic can proceed as planned," the letter continued.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 