SEN. BINGAMAN: HIGHER EDUCATION BILL TO BENEFIT NEW MEXICO STUDENTS
  The Senate today approved legislation U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman helped write to make a college education more affordable and accessible to New Mexicans.  
   Bingaman said the Higher Education Access Act increases student aid by more than $17 billion over the next 5 years - including as much as $177 million in new grant aid for New Mexicans. The bill would substantially increase Pell Grants to $5,100 next year and to $5,400 by 2011. Under this proposal, the maximum Pell Grant would increase by $790 next year alone. 
   In addition, the bill simplifies the financial aid process for low-income students by increasing the income level at which a student is automatically eligible for the maximum Pell Grant, and protects working students, increasing the amount of student income that is sheltered from the financial aid process. 
   "Money can be a barrier for many New Mexicans looking to pursue a higher education. This bill is a major investment in our state's - and our country's - future workforce," Bingaman said. 
   According to estimates, the increase in grant aid for New Mexico could mean: 
   * Almost $41 million for students attending the University of New Mexico; 
   * Almost $44 million for students attending New Mexico State University; 
   * More than $6 million for students attending Western New Mexico University; and 
   * More than $5 million for students attending New Mexico Highlands University. 
   This bill also would cap federal student loan payments at 15 percent of a borrower's discretionary income, bringing needed relief to students with excessive debt. And it creates and incentive for students to purse careers in public service by forgiving for 10 years the debt of borrowers who work in public service careers, such as nursing, teaching, or law enforcement. 
   The bill also contains a provision Bingaman wrote that would prohibit colleges and universities from counting special combat pay received by men and women in the Armed Services against their financial aid. 
   The Senate bill must now be reconciled with the U.S. House of Representative's version before it is ready to be signed into law.
   Listen to Radio Comments at http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/bingaman/bingaman070719.mp3
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 