SEN. BINGAMAN: SENATE PASSES HEAD START LEGISLATION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased that the Senate unanimously approved a very important piece of legislation on early childhood development. Bingaman is a senior member of the HELP Committee, and helped shape the Head Start legislation that was approved by the Senate yesterday. The bill is now ready to be reconciled with the House of Representatives. 
   "Head Start has a great track record of preparing children for high achievement in school. It has changed the lives of thousands of young New Mexicans, putting them on a path to success," Bingaman said.
   The "Head Start for School Readiness Act" reauthorizes Head Start funding, which is granted to programs across the country. Head Start promotes children's cognitive, social and emotional, and physical development, as well as children's health. The proposed legislation would expand access to Head Start services to more children from families with incomes up to 130 percent of poverty; the current threshold is only 100 percent.
   Currently, Head Start receives about $6.8 billion. The bill raises the authorized level of funding to $7.2 billion for fiscal year 2006, $7.5 billion for FY 2007 and $7.8 billion for FY 2008.
   At Bingaman's urging, the measure sets aside millions of dollars for Indian Head Start, and Migrant and Seasonal Head Start. The bill also contains a Bingaman-authored provision aimed at ensuring that Head Start teachers serving Native American children have access to higher education.
   The bill also strengthens Head Start accountability by ensuring that Head Start evaluation systems are objective, well-defined in what they are trying to assess. The measure continues to raise the bar on teacher quality by setting new goals for the Head Start teaching workforce. By 2012, all Head Start teachers must have at least an associate's degree. By 2013, half of all Head Start teachers must have at least a bachelor's degree. And, all Head Start assistant teachers must have at least a child development associate credential by 2012.
   "The children who attend Head Start deserve teachers of the highest quality, which is why it is necessary to improve the Head Start workforce," Bingaman said.
   Finally, Bingaman said he is pleased that the legislation terminates the use of a flawed standardized test which has been used to test four-year olds enrolled in Head Start. Bingaman led efforts to prevent the Bush Administration from using this test.
   "Testing four-year olds with this standardized test is simply not an appropriate tool to measure accountability. This is particularly true of the Spanish language version of the test," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 