SEN. BINGAMAN: DEFENSE SPENDING BILLS CONTAINS FUNDING FOR NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased that two spending bills working their way through the Senate contains millions of dollars for Albuquerque-area defense initiatives.  
   "New Mexico plays an extremely important role in our national defense and these spending bills support that effort," Bingaman said. 
   The fiscal year 2007 Military Construction Appropriations Act contains $11.4 for a new PJ/CRO Rescue and Recovery Training Center and $20 million for a new Armed Forces Reserve Center - both at Kirtland Air Force Base. 
   A separate bill - the FY 2007 Defense Appropriations Act - contains the following: 
   $3.0 million for Tactical AirSentinel made by Albuquerque-based MesoSystems. This initiative protects field operating forces through sensors that detect a biological release in time to take preventative and mediating countermeasures. Tactical AirSentinel will be a mobile, deployable, lightweight, and low power biological detector to detect releases of a variety of biological materials including anthrax, tularemia, viruses, and toxins. AirSentinel sensors operate as part of a network configuration and form the "first tier" of a building air security system being deployed in the Pentagon under the Pentagon Shield program. 
   $2.0 million for Field Programmable Gate Array. These are small, radiation hardened, computer chips put into satellites. Right now there are little if any commercial manufacturers of them. XLINX is one of two in the US, so NM is a natural location to build upon such an activity. The program would be located in the Science Park that is being constructed on Kirtland. 
   $2.5 million to the University of New Mexico for the Long Wavelength Array (LWA). The LWA will be a very large aperture (400 km) instrument designed to meet specific scientific needs such as Cosmic Evolution research, and to build on the highly successful 74 MHz science already being done at the near Very Large Array. 
   The bills both passed the Senate Appropriations Committee and are ready for full Senate consideration.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 