KEY SENATE COMMITTEE INCREASES STUDENT AID, CLEARS HIGHER EDUCATION BILL SEN. BINGAMAN HELPED WRITE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased a key Senate committee has approved legislation he helped write to make higher education more affordable and accessible to New Mexicans. This bill contains the largest increases to student aid the Senate has seen since the GI bill of the 1940s. This action clears the way for the full Senate to consider the measure.
   As a senior member of Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Bingaman was in a key position to influence the bill. The Higher Education package increases student aid by more than $17 billion over the next 5 years. Among a number of provisions that help New Mexico students and their families afford college, the bill increases Pell Grants to $5,100 next year and increasing to $5,400 by 2011. For New Mexico, this increase will mean an additional $177 million over five years. 
   The bill also simplifies the financial aid process for students and their families, helping reduce significant barriers to college for many students in New Mexico and it makes more students eligible for the aid. Further, the bill reforms the student loan system so it works better for students, and not banks.
   Bingaman is also the author of a number of critical provisions that:
   authorize federal funding for graduate programs at Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs);
   provide federal funds to nontribal colleges that serve Native American students;
   improve teacher quality;
   prohibit special combat pay received by our men and women in the Armed Services from counting against their financial aid;
   authorize funding for Navajo Technical College;
   ensure students attending St. John's College are eligible for SMART grants; and
   make college more accessible to students who are the first members of their families to attend college.
   "Our ability to create good, high wage jobs in New Mexico lies largely in our ability to have a deep well of highly educated workers, and that means we must increase access to higher education for families here in New Mexico," Bingaman said. Unfortunately, around the country, each year, there are hundreds of thousands of students who are prepared to attend a 4-year college, but do not do so because they cannot afford tuition and the related expenses of college. "This bill is a major step forward, and will help many students earn the college degree they need to compete."
   In addition to the increases to student aid, the Higher Education Amendments of 2007 contain key provisions from Bingaman's Next Generation Hispanic-Serving Institutions Act - a measure he introduced in February to support colleges that have a high percentage of Hispanic students. One of the provisions sets aside federal funding for the first time to support graduate students enrolled in HSIs. While the percentage of Hispanics attending college has increased significantly over the past few years, Hispanics still earn far fewer bachelor's degrees, master's degrees, and doctorates.
   "Hispanic students are earning bachelor's degrees in greater numbers than ever before," Bingaman said, "but we must keep pace. We must increase the capacity of our colleges and universities to serve the increasing number of Hispanic students who want to go on to graduate school."
   At Bingaman's urging, the bill also creates a new initiative that provides grant funding to nontribal colleges with a student population that is at least 10 percent Native-American. Grants of at least $200,000 would support curriculum development and academic instruction, faculty development, the purchase of books and other educational materials, and support academic tutoring and counseling. Eligible schools in New Mexico include San Juan College, University of New Mexico-Gallup, New Mexico State University-Grants, and Eastern New Mexico University-Ruidoso.
   "The federal government should, and in fact does, lend strong support to colleges serving a high percentage of Hispanic and black students. But it does not do enough to support colleges that serve Native Americans. Under my proposal, nontribal colleges in our state with high Native American enrollment will for the first time be eligible for funding that will help them better serve Indian students," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman also championed provisions that would authorize funding for Navajo Technical College. These provisions will protect Navajo Technical College's funding necessary to help pay the costs of operating the College.
   In addition, Bingaman authored provisions that prohibit financial aid directors at colleges across the country from counting special combat pay in determining financial aid. "As our brave men and women in the Armed Services fight to protect our country, we should make sure that such service does not count against them when they return home and go to college."
   The Higher Education Act also contains provisions from another bill Bingaman wrote last Congress to strengthen GEAR UP (Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs) - a bill aimed at improving students' readiness for college, particularly students who are the first in their families to go to college. The measure requires states and GEAR UP partnerships to do a better job of academically preparing students for college, and requires states and school districts to encourage more students to enroll in rigorous high school coursework. It also emphasizes activities that will support the development of college prep curricula, including Advanced Placement, as well as professional development activities for teachers of college prep curricula.
   Bingaman also wrote into the bill measures that will help colleges prepare students to be more effective teachers. Under Bingaman's proposals, colleges of education must prepare all teachers to identify and tailor instruction to meet the needs of students with disabilities and students who don't speak English as their primary language. His proposal also requires that teachers are prepared to do a better job of working and communicating with parents.
   "All New Mexico students deserve a qualified teacher in their classroom. I am pleased that this bill will help high-need schools, and particularly rural schools, recruit and retain high quality teachers. In order to achieve that goal, we must demand more of colleges and universities that prepare prospective teachers," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 