SEN. BINGAMAN ANNOUNCES $364,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDING TO BENEFIT LAS CRUCES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation is releasing $364,077 in federal funds he helped secure to purchase a new bus and an automatic bus washer system for Las Cruces Roadrunner - the city's transit provider. Bingaman secured the funds in a fiscal year 2004 spending bill.  
   "Public transportation is an affordable and convenient alternative to today's high gas prices. I'm very glad the federal government is making this investment in Las Cruces," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also announced that the fiscal year 2007 spending bill that funds the U.S. Department of Transportation and Department of Housing and Urban Development today cleared another hurdle. The bill today was approved by the full Senate Appropriations Committee and will now go to the Senate floor for debate. 
   The bill includes funding that would benefit the Las Cruces area, including $1.5 million Bingaman helped secure for the widening and reconstruction of I-10 from Las Cruces to the New Mexico/Texas state line. The project will increase this section of the interstate from a 4-lane to a 6-lane facility. Last year, Bingaman secured $7 million to reconstruct the I-25/I-10 interchange. 
   "This section of the I-10 is heavily trafficked and has out grown its size. This funding will help begin efforts to widen this part of the interstate," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also secured funding for the following: 
   * $1.1 million - Las Cruces Roadrunner: Funding will be used for operations and equipment. 
   * $250,000 - South Valley Regional Recreational Center in Do?a Ana County: Funding will be used to plan, design, and conduct site development for an 8,000 square foot regional community center serving the communities of Anthony, Berino, Monta?a Vista, Bosque, and Las Palmeras. 
   Additionally, Las Cruces RoadRunner Transit will receive $250,000 Bingaman help get authorized in the SAFETEA-LU (Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act-Legacy for Users) bill that passed last year.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 