SEN. BINGAMAN URGES BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO TEST AUTOMATIC ENROLLMENT OF DRUG DISCOUNT CARD IN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today urged the Bush administration to set up a pilot project in New Mexico to test the automatic enrollment of low-income seniors in Medicare's new prescription drug discount card program.  
   Bingaman has urged the administration to begin automatically enrolling seniors in the discount program, taking the onus off Medicare recipients who currently have to fill out forms and pick from a wide array of prescription drug discount cards or who don't even know the discount cards exists. After learning that several New Mexicans who applied for a drug discount card were wrongly rejected, Bingaman said New Mexico should be used to test a process for automatically signing up eligible seniors. 
   In a letter today to Dr. Mark McClellan, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Bingaman wrote: "I urge CMS and the State of New Mexico to work together to address the fact that a number of low-income New Mexico seniors and people with disabilities were erroneously denied access to the Medicare drug discount card and the $600 subsidy that is available to people with income below 135 percent of the poverty level. I also urge that CMS make New Mexico a demonstration site for the auto-enrollment of low-income Medicare beneficiaries into the drug card to receive the $600 subsidy."
   Only 1 million of the 7 million eligible seniors have applied for and received a drug discount card. In New Mexico, 45,000 seniors are eligible for a prescription drug discount card. 
   In the absence of administration action on automatic enrollment, Bingaman today reintroduced legislation he wrote to require CMS to automatically enroll low-income seniors. He first introduced the "Medicare Assurance of Rx Transitional Assistance Act of 2004" in May, and it was referred to the Senate Finance Committee, which has not scheduled action. In reintroducing the measure, Bingaman used a procedural maneuver called Rule XIV, which allows bills to move to the floor without prior committee consideration. 
   "Although I believe CMS has the authority to take the step of automatically enrolling seniors, the legislation I reintroduced today would clarify and ensure that low-income seniors and people with disabilities receive the assistance promised them by the Bush administration and Congress. As the Medicare Rights Center asks, "Given their definite eligibility and clear need for help to pay for their prescription drugs, why not save these people and the government the hassle of application and automatically enroll them?" Bingaman said on the Senate floor.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 