SEN. BINGAMAN SECURES MILLIONS FOR NEW MEXICO HEALTH, EDUCATION INITIATIVES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that he has secured $4 million for a variety of health and education initiatives in New Mexico in a bill that is working its way through the Senate. 
   "This bill provides significant funding for very important initiatives in our state," Bingaman said. "I will work hard to ensure the funding remains in the bill that is enacted into law."  
   The fiscal year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education spending bill passed the Senate Appropriations Committee today and is now ready for full Senate debate. Because of Bingaman's efforts, the measure contains the following: 
   $1 million for the McKinley County Dialysis Center. Funding would be used to renovate and expand the current dialysis center in McKinley County at Rehoboth McKinley Christian Hospital that is being overwhelmed by an epidemic of diabetes in McKinley County. The Native American populations in McKinley County, notably Navajo and Zuni, report that 1 out of 3 persons older than 50 years of age will need dialysis services. The project also received $450,000 from the State for the project and these funds would match the State contribution. 
   $200,000 Albuquerque Indian Health Center. The Albuquerque Indian Health Center serves as a comprehensive ambulatory care center to provide services on a regional basis for urban and rural Indians residing in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and surrounding rural areas. The geographic region has experienced a huge increase in its Native American population and now serves over 30,000 Native Americans but has seen its resources decline in recent years and has had to proceed with a reduction in force this past year so have had to severely restrict services that concentrate on diabetic care, behavioral health, and eye care. The funding under this provision would provide AIHC with an ability to upgrade and renovate their health facilities. 
   $1 million St. Vincent Regional Medical Center. Funding would be used to expand and renovate the emergency department of St. Vincent Regional Medical Center in Santa Fe, New Mexico. St. Vincent Regional Medical Center has the 2nd busiest emergency department in the State of New Mexico and is one of only three trauma centers in New Mexico, which accommodated almost 62,000 patient visits in a facility meant to serve 45,000 patient visits. The emergency department expansion and renovation is intended to expand necessary programs, including the establishment of a comprehensive cardiac program, and to enable the hospital to pursue Level II trauma designation. 
   $1,000,000 for the School of Energy at San Juan College. San Juan College serves a region in which energy production is the most significant sector of the economy. The mission of the San Juan College School of Energy is to prepare and provide workers for the energy industry via high quality education and training. Programs at the School of Energy include Industrial Processing Operators, Natural Gas Compression, Well Control, Safety, Lease Operations, Rig Operations, Renewable Energy, and Commercial Driver License. San Juan College requests funds for curriculum development and delivery ($200,000) and equipment purchase ($800,000) for the School of Energy. The School of Energy, in partnership with industry will establish an AAS in Sustainable Energy Technology with emphasis in Natural Gas Compression, Lease Operation, Well Production, and Industrial Plan Operations. 
   $400,000 Southwest Indian Polytechnic Institute. Funds will be used to support various educational programs which benefit their higher education tribal student population. SIPI will use the funds to expand their renewable energy training program and community projects by offering distance education and by offering short courses which lead to industry certification. Funds will also be used to redesign and update technology for their on-line student services administration to create efficiency and improve effectiveness. Instructors will also be hired in the areas of early childhood, renewable energy, and natural resources; technology support staff and instructors for the short course programs will also be hired. Supplies, equipment and technology upgrades will also be funded. 
   $200,000 Southwest Council of Governments for a Grant County non-traditional childcare center. New Mexico South West Council of Governments will design and plan the Grant County Community Child Care Center. The facility will serve up to 160 children from age 6 weeks to 12 years of age, with comprehensive early care and education. In addition, the center will provide before and after school care, a summer program for school-aged children, and a drop-in facility for children who are mildly ill. This funding will enable the Grant County Community Child Care Center to operate a childcare program, and pay salaries and utilities, purchase equipment, supplies and food service, and pay for travel and professional development for staff. 
   $200,000 New Mexico State University. Funds will be used to support efforts to connect area high school students with training to prepare them for manufacturing technology jobs.
 
 