SEN. BINGAMAN-URGED MEDICAID PANEL WILL BE APPOINTED
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is disappointed that the Bush administration did not agree to a bipartisan, or independent panel to study the future of Medicaid. 
   Bingaman is the co-author of legislation that would have created a bipartisan panel to do a comprehensive and thorough review of Medicaid - the health care plan that covers low-income Americans. He and Senator Gordon Smith (R-Ore.) introduced the measure in February in an effort to head off deep cuts to Medicaid proposed by the Bush administration.
   Bingaman and Smith worked together to successfully pass an amendment to the Senate's version of the budget resolution that would have eliminated all proposed cuts to Medicaid. Unfortunately, the House of Representatives passed a budget resolution that contained $20 billion in cuts; the final resolution contained $10 billion in cuts, beginning in 2007. 
   Today, Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt announced that he will appoint a 15-member voting panel to study Medicaid, and to make recommendations to Congress and the White House. The secretary would appoint former or current governors; former or current state Medicaid directors; and health policy experts.
   Other non-voting members of the panel would be nominated by the secretary, and House and Senate leaders. 
   Bingaman said this is not what he had in mind when he first put forth his commission proposal.
   "This is not my idea of a bipartisan, independent commission. We already know the Bush administration supports deep cuts in Medicaid, and it concerns me that the Health and Human Services secretary will be appointing all of the voting members of the panel," Bingaman said. "I had hoped for a commission that could produce a report that both sides of the aisle could buy into. I have serious doubts about whether that will happen under this scenario."
   In a letter to Leavitt earlier this month, Bingaman and a bipartisan group of senators proposed having the National Academy of Sciences' Institute of Medicine appoint a commission to perform a Medicaid review.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 