SEN. BINGAMAN URGES BUSH TO SUPPORT HIS PLAN TO MAKE BORDER REGION SAFER
  As President Bush meets today with his Mexican and Canadian counterparts, U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman is urging support for his plan to make the U.S.-Mexico border region safer. 
   With more than 200 deaths this year alone in the state of Chihuahua, drug-related border violence has become a major concern. Last week, Bingaman introduced legislation to reduce the violence by cracking down on a big part of the problem: the illegal trafficking of arms.
   According to Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) 90 percent of the weapons seized in Mexico are from the United States. Bingaman's Southwest Border Violence Reduction Act of 2008 (S.2867), which is cosponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, seeks to ramp up efforts to prevent gunrunning from the United States into Mexico.
   President Bush has met with Mexican President Calderon in the past and agreed that more needs to be done to target drug and weapons trafficking. While the Bush administration this year is seeking $100 million for a new "Southwest Border Enforcement Initiative" only $948,000 of that funding would go to ATF to crack down on illegally trafficked arms.
   "If we're going to be successful in helping Mexico tackle its drug cartels, we must stop the flow of illegal weapons that ensure drug gangs are better armed than Mexican police departments," Bingaman said. "I urge the Bush administration to step up its efforts to crack down on weapons trafficking."
   Bingaman's bill authorizes $15 million in both fiscal year 2009 and 2010 to expand the U.S. Department of Justice's "Project Gunrunner Initiative" - a successful initiative that targets gun trafficking networks. (Please visit this link for more information: http://www.cnn.com/2008/WORLD/americas/04/03/gun.smuggling/?iref=mpstoryview)
  The funding would enable ATF to hire, train and deploy additional special agents, enough for at least seven more Project Gunrunner Teams in the border region to investigate and help prosecute individuals that traffic weapons into Mexico.
   The bill also authorizes $9.5 million in both fiscal year 2009 and 2010 to enhance cooperation between the United States and Mexico. This funding would allow ATF to assign additional agents to consulates in Mexico to support Mexico's efforts to trace seized weapons and to train Mexican law enforcement officials in anti-trafficking investigative techniques.
   Bingaman has also written to top Senate appropriators seeking FY 2009 funding for his plan.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 