SEN. BINGAMAN CELEBRATES OJITO WILDERNESS AREA DESIGNATION
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman today joined other members of the Congressional delegation in celebrating the designation of the Ojito Wilderness Area in Sandoval County. Bingaman and Sen. Pete Domenici were the authors of the Senate bill that created the wilderness area. 
   The Ojito Wilderness Act, which was signed into law last year, recognizes the 11,000-acre site just south of San Ysidro - known as Ojito as a wilderness area and acknowledges the area's dramatic landforms and rock structures, multicolored badlands, and rare plants are worthy of permanent protection. 
   "This is one of the truly special places in our state -- and in our county -- that ought to be preserved. I was very proud to lead the effort in the Senate to accomplish that important goal," Bingaman said. 
   The measure had broad local support, including the endorsement of the local Sandoval County Commission, the Bernalillo County Commission, the Albuquerque City Council, many of the Pueblos, and several environmental groups. 
   The Ojito area had been preserved as a Wilderness Study Area since 1991, pending congressional action to formally designate the area as wilderness. Enactment of the Ojito Wilderness Act would add these 11,000 acres to the National Wilderness Preservation System, which protects wild areas that have "outstanding opportunities for solitude or a primitive and unconfined type of recreation." The area remains open to hiking, backpacking, horseback riding, and rock climbing, as well as grazing and scenic, scientific, educational, conservation, and historical uses. But it also will remain protected from development, including commercial enterprises, road building, and mining, as well as off road vehicle use. 
   The Ojito Wilderness Act adds protections to lands buffering the proposed Ojito Wilderness that are largely surrounded by the Pueblo of Zia. The Pueblo was allowed to purchase these lands so long as they remain open to the public for continued recreational, scenic, scientific, educational, paleontological, and conservation uses, and so long as their natural characteristics are preserved. In doing so, the Pueblo will be able to unite the two separate parts of its Reservation with aboriginal lands that have important religious, cultural, and historical value to the Pueblo.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 