SEN. BINGAMAN: COMMITTEE APPROVES SPENDING BILL CONTAINING FUNDS FOR NEW MEXICO PROJECTS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased that a key Senate committee has approved a spending bill that contains millions of dollars for New Mexico.
   The Senate Appropriations Committee has given approval to the fiscal year 2008 Interior spending bill, which funds water and wastewater projects and supports public lands initiatives.  
   The bill contains $1 million Bingaman requested to implement the United States-Mexico Transboundary Aquifer Assessment Act, legislation Bingaman wrote. The act, which became law in 2006, established a United States-Mexico transboundary aquifer assessment program to characterize, map, and model groundwater resources along the border. 
   "The U.S.-Mexico Transboundary Aquifer Act will help provide insight into the water shortage along the border. The funding included in this bill will make it possible to put this law into action," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also contains $300,000 Bingaman requested to help the City of Rio Rancho remove arsenic from its drinking water. Fourteen of the city's drinking water wells will be out of compliance if arsenic treatment facilities are not constructed by the exemption deadline of December 2008. The total construction costs for the arsenic treatment facilities for Rio Rancho's wells are estimated at $32.3 million. Bingaman helped secure $6.7 million from the Army Corps of Engineers to treat arsenic in three of the city's wells.
   "Safe and affordable drinking water is vital to a community's quality of life. I'm very glad the federal government is willing to make an investment in this important project," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman is also pleased that bill includes a provision he co-sponsored that would give the Forest Service and Department of Interior the authorization to reimburse temporary wildland fire managers for a portion of their personal liability insurance costs. Fire managers plan how to attack wildfires and make decisions that involve firefighters' safety. This would allow any firefighter with supervisory or decision-making responsibilities to have half of their insurance paid for by agencies. Currently, only some line officers have this benefit.
   "Wildfire managers are faced with making tough decisions during times of emergencies. This provision would help them protect themselves and their families," Bingaman said.
   Also in the bill is $400,000 for a North and South Valley Water and Wastewater Project. The City of Albuquerque, Bernalillo County and the Village of Los Ranchos have formed a regional wastewater and water management board to help bring water and wastewater infrastructure to unincorporated areas of the North and South Valleys. Since 2000, Bingaman has helped secure over $24 million for this project.
   The City of Belen would benefit from $400,000 included in the bill for phase II upgrades to the city's wastewater facilities. Funding would be used for upgrades to sewer lines and the wastewater treatment plant. The total cost of phase II is $5.6 million. Bingaman secured a $1 million earmark for this project in FY06.
   Additionally, $400,000 is included in the bill for upgrades to Aztec's wastewater treatment plant. The treatment plant is undersized for the city's current waste stream and must be expanded to handle existing flows and increased future flows. Upgrades and improvement to the facility will also have the added benefit of substantially reducing overall operating costs, thus providing additional benefit to this low-to-moderate income area.
   The City of Las Cruces would benefit from $400,000 in the bill for water utility improvements in Las Cruces. The funds are for the construction of a water transmission pipeline to connect the West Mesa water well field to the city's central water distribution system. Bingaman secured $1 million for this project in fy06.
   "Water infrastructure projects can be costly. The federal funding included in this bill will help ensure for New Mexicans to have access to adequate water and wastewater services," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman was also pleased the spending bill includes $4 million for the Valles Caldera National Preserve. Funding will provide for administration, contracting, infrastructure, and management support services for the board of trustees. 
   "The Valles Caldera is home to amazing habitat wildlife and offers many opportunities for recreation and hunting, while simultaneously being operated as a working ranch. This funding will help support this important place in our state," Bingaman said.
   The bill also included $2.025 million to purchase the Vallecitos High Country property. Funding will used top purchase 6,000 acres in Rio Arriba County through the Forest Legacy Program. Protection of this property will expand New Mexico's protection of high quality watersheds and forests along the Rio Vallecitos only two miles downstream. 
   "This funding would help protect this beautiful area for generations to come," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman also requested funding for the following projects, which are contained in the bill: 
   $5 million for the Bingaman-created Collaborative Forest Restoration Program (CFRP): The CFRP is designed to foster the creation of community-level programs to engage in economical forest restoration activities and promote the creation of new forest product industries using small-diameter timber, while reducing the threat of large, high intensity wildfires. 
   $2 million to restore funding for Navajo Technical College (NTC): NTC is a Tribal technical college established and chartered by the Navajo Nation and prepares students with a quality technical and vocational education, associate degrees, or community education. The president eliminated all funding for NTC for fiscal year 2008. 
   $1.5 million for the Southwest Center for Environmental Research and Policy - SCERP Funding would be used to support the ongoing work of a consortium of five U.S. universities (New Mexico State, Arizona State, San Diego State, University of Texas at El Paso, and Utah) and four Mexican universities that performs applied research and develop policy issues that are deemed practical for border communities. Bingaman secured $1.5 million in FY2006.
   $350,000 to operate the Southwest Ecological Restoration Institute (SWERI) at New Mexico Highlands University: SWERI was established under a tri-state charter to foster effective and efficient solutions for reducing hazardous fuels and restoring forest health.
   $250,000 to acquire the El Malpais National Conservation Area (NCA): With an estimated 75,000 visitors each year, this 226,000 acre area was established to protect a rare, semi-dessert, volcanic landscape that contains significant geological, archeological, ecological, cultural, scenic and wilderness resources surrounding the Grants Lava Flows. 
   The bill will now go to the floor for full Senate consideration.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 