SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI ANNOUNCE PROPOSAL TO PROVIDE MILLIONS FOR NEW MEXICO COUNTIES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman and Sen. Pete Domenici today joined to unveil a proposal that would provide an increase of millions of dollars in payments to New Mexico counties.  
   The measure takes two steps for New Mexico: it expands and extends the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act this year from about $2.3 million to about $20 million. That program supports counties that rely economically on national forest lands. The bill also fully-funds the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) initiative, which compensates counties that have extensive federal land that cannot be a source of property taxes. Bingaman, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, worked with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and other key Democratic members of the Senate to negotiate the proposal. Domenici, ranking Republican on the Energy Committee, worked with Bingaman on key elements of the plan, which is expected to be offered as part of the FY2007 Supplemental Appropriation Bill being crafted in the Senate. "This proposal would provide a major boost to New Mexico. It would allow more of our state's counties to receive funding for rural schools, roads, and collaborative forest restoration projects, and it would guarantee that PILT - an initiative that has long been shortchanged - would receive full funding," Bingaman said. "This is a great proposal for our state." "I believe this package could take away a lot of the uncertainly faced by many rural counties that rely on PILT to operate, and will for a time extend the forest payment program to help communities transition their economies beyond timbering. The primary challenge to this plan will be in determining how it will be paid for," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Appropriations Committee that will markup the supplemental package Thursday. 
   The proposal would provide about $2.8 billion through 2011 to fund counties with National Forest lands under the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (commonly referred to as the "county payments" program). It is estimated that New Mexico would receive a total of $97 million from 2007-2012 under the program. Currently, New Mexico receives about $2.3 million annually under the program, which expired last year. The proposal also takes PILT out of the annual appropriations process, instead ensuring that full-funding is automatic through 2012. Bingaman has sponsored legislation for several years that would make full funding for PILT mandatory. Full-funding for PILT would provide about a 35 percent increase in total funding for the program. In 2006, New Mexico was the number one beneficiary of the program, receiving $22.8 million. Thirty-two New Mexico counties receive PILT payments.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 