SEN. BINGAMAN IS WORKING TO PREVENT HARMFUL MEDICAID REGULATIONS FROM TAKING EFFECT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is working to prevent a proposed change in Medicaid from taking effect because New Mexico stands to lose more than $100 million per year. 
   The Bush administration, through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, is preparing to limit how states use their own Medicaid funding to pay public hospitals and healthcare providers for services rendered. The regulation change could take effect in September, causing the University of New Mexico Hospital and other institutions to lose millions of dollars for the care they provide.  
   Appearing at a Capitol Hill news conference, Bingaman today said the proposed change is a broad and overreaching. He is working to ensure the rule change never goes into effect. 
   "At a time when our state is working to expand health care coverage to more residents, it would be devastating to lose millions of dollars in Medicaid funding. I will be working very hard to protect our state's Medicaid dollars," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman is also working to change a separate regulation that requires Americans to show citizenship documentation before signing up for Medicaid benefits and when they re-verify their eligibility for that health program. 
   This regulation was implemented for most states on July 1, 2006. Recent reports show that tens of thousands of U.S. citizens across the country, in particular children, are unfairly being denied health care because they don't have ready access to the very narrow group of documents accepted by HHS, which include passports and original birth certificates. There has also been considerable difficulty in getting HHS to accept documentation from Native American tribes. 
   On Tuesday, the administration reversed itself and said American-born children will not have to prove citizenship in order to receive Medicaid coverage for their first year of life. But he continues to press for passage of legislation that takes on the larger problem. 
   "I'm glad the administration has taken this small step to fix a problem it created, but we have a long way to go before the larger issue of citizenship documentation is resolved. In New Mexico, estimates are that nearly 10,000 young Americans are being denied Medicaid coverage because of this tough-to-meet citizen requirement. There is a way to verify citizenship without denying Americans health care, and I hope Congress passes legislation to fix this policy once and for all," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman is the sponsor of Citizenship Documentation legislation, S. 909, which would repeal the law authorizing the federal regulation and instead give states the authority to determine when and to what extent citizenship verification is required. It would permit states to use standards that were no more stringent that those currently used by the Social Security Administration and include Native American tribal documents when needed. It would also allow for ample time to provide the documentation. 
   The bill also protects children born in the United States from being denied coverage because of citizenship verification requirements. It does so by ensuring that Medicaid payment for their birth serves as documentation of these children's citizenship. And it clarifies ambiguities in federal law to ensure that these citizen children, regardless of the immigration status of their parents, are treated like all other low-income children born in the United States and are deemed eligible to receive Medicaid services for one year. 
   Finally, the legislation ensures that the thousands of citizen children and adults, who were erroneously denied Medicaid because of these citizenship verification requirements, may receive retroactive Medicaid eligibility for the coverage they were inappropriately denied. 
   The bill was referred to the Senate Finance Committee. Bingaman is a member of that panel.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 