NEW MEXICO SENATORS SEEK TO AVERT LAB CUTS AS CONGRESS WORKS TO RESOLVE FY2008 FUNDING DILEMMA
  U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today took steps to try to ensure that no layoffs within the nation's nuclear weapons complex are realized, as Congress continues to finalize FY2008 funding bills--including the bill to fund Los Alamos and Sandia national laboratories in New Mexico.  
   In a letter to Majority Leader Harry Reid, the New Mexico lawmakers formally asked that an interim funding measure, or continuing resolution (CR), ensure that FY2007 funding levels are maintained after the Oct. 1 start of the 2008 federal fiscal year. 
   In their letter, Domenici and Bingaman cited the problems that could occur within the nation's nuclear weapons complex if a CR mandates the funding levels in the House-passed FY2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The DOE National Nuclear Security Administration has initiated a workforce restructuring process based on the possibility of having to adhere to the steep House cuts as part of a CR. 
   "NNSA has required the planning to consider a scenario that has these functions funded at the lower level of the House, less another 10 percent. These assumptions would project a cut of more than $600 million throughout our nuclear weapons complex, which would require draconian staff cuts and dramatically reduce the ability of both New Mexico laboratories and the entire NNSA complex to fulfill their responsibilities in maintaining our existing nuclear weapons stockpile. Needless to say, these projections have caused anxiety among laboratory staffs and throughout their respective communities," Domenici and Bingaman wrote Reid. 
   "With the backdrop of this uncertainty, we respectfully request that you support funding the continuing resolution at FY2007 funding levels, providing some stability while the appropriations process plays out. Please also be assured that we are urging leadership and the appropriators of both houses to accept, at the very least, the funding levels and allocation proposed in the Senate bill, when they produce the final Energy and Water Appropriations Bill," the lawmakers wrote. 
   While the House has passed all 12 annual appropriations bills, the Senate continues to work on nine unfinished FY2008 appropriations bills. A short-term CR possibly lasting four to six weeks would give Congress additional time to reach agreements on the FY2008 funding measures. 
   Domenici, as ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, and Bingaman have both had discussions with Reid and subcommittee chairman Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.) about the funding problems facing the nuclear weapons complex under the FY2008 appropriations scenario being played out in Congress this fall. 
   "The House and Senate Energy and Water Appropriations bills are significantly divergent both in terms of policy and funding priorities. The House bill proposes dramatic reductions to the budgets of both labs in New Mexico, while the Senate version provides the necessary funding to maintain our national security mission and supports key investments in our scientific, nonproliferation and security capabilities," the New Mexico Senators pointed out.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 