SEN. BINGAMAN ADDRESSES 7TH ANNUAL HISPANIC LEADERSHIP SUMMIT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today welcomed over 100 local Hispanic community leaders and representatives from national Hispanic advocacy organizations to the 7th Annual Democratic Hispanic Leadership Summit on Capitol Hill.  
   Senate and House Democrats today unveiled the Compromiso Dem?crata con el Pueblo Latino: A New Direction for Latino Families, a legislative initiative aimed at addressing issues of importance to the Hispanic community, such as education and health care. 
   "This report outlines congressional Democrats' comprehensive approach to addressing the issues and concerns of the Hispanic communities in our state and across the country," Bingaman said. Bingaman invited Cynthia Bejarano of Las Cruces to participate in today's summit. Bejarano is an Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice at New Mexico State University and also works at the university's College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP). 
   Additionally, Bejerano is a cofounder of the Amigos de las Mujeres de Juarez, a group which works to bring attention to the murder of more than 400 women in Juarez. Bingaman is the author of a Senate resolution that urges U.S. involvement in helping to solve these murders. 
   The summit was sponsored by the Senate Democratic Hispanic Task Force, which Bingaman founded and is a long time co-chair of. The task force is comprised of twenty-five Democratic Senators and is committed to specifically addressing the needs of the Hispanic community. Each year, the Task Force hosts several events that bring together Democratic Senators and Hispanic Leaders as part of the ongoing efforts by Congressional Democrats to strengthen their partnership with the Hispanic community. 
   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the estimated Hispanic population of the United States is 41.3 million, making people of Hispanic origin the nation's largest race or ethnic minority.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 