SEN. BINGAMAN PRESSES USDA TO HELP NEW MEXICO'S LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today urged the Bush Administration to work with New Mexico's cattle and dairy industry to gain back its bovine tuberculosis (TB) free status. The loss of the status now requires cattle be tested before they are shipped outside the state.  
   New Mexico lost its TB free status in 2003 after several dairy cows were diagnosed with the disease. Between mid 2003 and early 2004 the New Mexico Livestock Board developed a plan which would provide enhanced surveillance and testing in areas where TB has been found but would not require areas which have no symptoms to undergo unnecessary testing. The board submitted their plan to the USDA in April of 2004 but as of now has not been approved. 
   In a letter to Mike Johanns, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), Bingaman called on the department to work with New Mexico officials and get the plan approved. 
   "In the past two years, the New Mexico Livestock Board has worked with the USDA to try to address the situation and to implement a plan which would help limit the economic impacts. I am disappointed to learn that there has been little progress to date. I strongly urge the USDA to provide immediate assistance and support for New Mexico's efforts," Bingaman wrote. 
   Testing for TB is a great cost to cattle producers, who are required to put cattle through a chute twice during the testing procedure. Additionally, they are faced with the cost of labor and feed needed to hold the animal for the three days required. Testing can cost a producer $10-25 per head, depending on the size of the operation. 
   The livestock industry is New Mexico's single most important agricultural commodity, with annual sales in excess of $1.5 billion. There are over 1.5 million beef cattle and calves and 300,000 dairy cows in New Mexico. Though the identification of TB has no impact on the safety of beef or dairy products, it is vital to the state's livestock industry that USDA help implement a plan to restore a TB-free status to New Mexico.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 