SEN. BINGAMAN DELIVERS SPEECH TO N.M. LEGISLATURE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today addressed a joint session of the New Mexico Legislature, discussing his priorities in Congress for improving education, expanding health care coverage, and reversing the effects of global warming. 
   Bingaman told the Legislature that he will make high school reform one of his top education priorities as Congress takes action to reauthorize the No Child Left Behind Act. He said he is developing legislation aimed at significantly increasing high school graduation rates. New Mexico's graduation rate is less than 60 percent - below the national average of 70 percent.  
   "The first step to improving student outcomes is making sure the student comes to school, and is engaged. Further, schools that combine these efforts with high-quality curricular and instructional materials, including offering transitional math and English courses to 9th graders, creating teaching teams, contextual learning, and providing ongoing coaching for teachers, have been very successful in improving student achievement and increasing graduation rates," Bingaman said. 
   "In Washington, I am developing legislation to implement these successful strategies. First, my legislation would provide incentives to states to strengthen state policies, regulations, and laws to substantially raise the high school graduation rate while ensuring rigorous college and work-ready academic standards," he added. "I believe it is firmly within our grasp to tackle this very significant problem. I believe by working together, by 2012, we can significantly raise the graduation rate here in New Mexico, as well as nationally." 
   In the area of health care, Bingaman said he would fight to protect the State Children's Health Insurance Program, Medicare, the Indian Health Service, and funding for public health and preventive services. He also pointed out he has introduced legislation, called the Health Partnership Act, aimed at helping New Mexico and all other states extend health care to those who lack health insurance. 
   "I would like to commend Governor Richardson on his innovative plans to expand healthcare coverage. His plan uses a combination of employer-based and government-sponsored coverage to work toward the shared goal of providing health coverage for all New Mexicans," Bingaman said. 
   "I believe federal support for these important state-based expansion efforts within New Mexico is critical to ensuring we reach our 2012 goal. That is why I am leading bipartisan efforts in Congress to enact the Health Partnership Act, which will authorize direct federal funding to States for health care expansion efforts," he added. 
   Under Bingaman's bill, funds would be available to New Mexico and other states as needed. In order to qualify for funding, states would be required to submit reform proposals to a federal commission. If the proposal met a basic framework that assured meaningful coverage, the Commission could then forward the proposal to Congress for funding. Thus, states would be provided critical resources and enormous flexibility to design programs that met their specific needs and that functioned within the health coverage environments specific to each state. 
   As chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Bingaman said he is making climate change a top priority. Bingaman said the federal government should follow the lead of states, such as New Mexico, that are working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and said that it should take other bold steps. 
   "It is important that the federal government act to reduce emissions that are beyond the control of individual states. We should, for example, implement national vehicle, fuel and appliance standards, because these issues cut across state boundaries. New Mexico and other states, and cities, can be leaders in reducing emissions, but there is definitely a federal role too, and we should hold up our end in Washington," Bingaman said. 
   "On this front, I have been working to ensure that many of these policies receive the attention they deserve and I am hopeful that the new Congress will make some real progress this year. I am supporting serious legislative efforts to increase CAF? standards, implement a new federal requirement to increase renewable electricity nationwide, and continue to work with my colleagues to improve efficiency in appliances," he added. 
   Bingaman is also developing a "cap and trade" system for reducing greenhouse gases. It would work like this: Companies would get a cap and would not be allowed to emit carbon beyond that cap. If companies want to go beyond their cap they would have to buy permits from other companies that found ways to go below their caps. That legislation has not yet been introduced.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 