SEN. BINGAMAN: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT MUST ADDRESS BORDER SECURITY BLUNDER
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today called on the federal government to act quickly to rebuild a new vehicle barrier along the New Mexico-Mexico border to replace one that is slated to be torn down. 
   Bingaman was disappointed to learn that vehicle barrier between monument markers 30 and 31 along the U.S.-Mexico border was unintentionally erected by the U.S. government on the Mexican side of the border and is now scheduled for removal. 
   In a letter to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Commissioner Ralph Basham, Bingaman urged that a new barrier be built before the existing barrier is removed and that cattle fencing be incorporated as part of rebuilding process.
   One of the key recommendations of the Southwest New Mexico Border Security Task Force, which is aimed at ensuring that the federal government addresses the security concerns of border residents, is that vehicle barriers have a cattle component to help stop the theft of cattle fencing and guard against animal diseases. Bingaman created the Border Task Force.
   "I encourage you to make every effort to ensure that such errors do not occur in the future. Having to tear down the newly-constructed barrier is not only a waste of taxpayer money but also hampers our ability to adequately secure our borders.
   "Besides its impact on border security, the loss of this vehicle barrier will also affect New Mexico's cattle ranchers. In an effort to prevent cattle from roaming back and forth over the border and to thwart the spread of livestock diseases, ranchers used their own money to have barb-wire fencing welded to the existing vehicle barrier. This cattle fencing was attached with the consent of Border Patrol. In the past, cattle fencing was repeatedly torn down and stolen by individuals illegally crossing the border, and welding the cattle component to the barrier helped ensure that the fencing is not easily detached. I urge CBP to build a new cattle-proof vehicle barrier before the structure in Mexico is removed," Bingaman wrote to Basham.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 