SEN. BINGAMAN HIGHLIGHTS NEED TO IMPROVE INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE FUNDING
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said the Indian Health Service has been woefully underfunded, and urged Congress to take action to fix that serious problem.  
   At a Senate Finance Committee called to discuss the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which will soon be rewritten. 
   "In spite of notable improvements, shocking health disparities remain for Indian people. National statistics show that Indians live an average of two to three years less than other Americans, but that discrepancy is as high as 11 years for some tribes," Bingaman said. 
   "The Indian Health Service has struggled for years to meet the needs of the Indian population, but continues to face enormous challenges. Aging facilities, staff shortages, and funding shortfalls are emblematic of the challenges facing the Indian Health Service," he added. 
   Bingaman pointed to a graph that compares historic funding levels for the IHS to those for Medicare and Medicaid. It shows that per capita spending has grown steadily over the past decade to nearly $8,000 through Medicare and $4,500 through Medicaid, while IHS funding has remained almost flat at $2,000. 
   "Per capita spending in the Indian Health Service is shockingly low, as is the rate of increase in funding for IHS services. We have an opportunity to correct this disparity when we rewrite the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. We must use every opportunity to increase funding for these vital programs that will reduce these glaring disparities," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman raised concerns about a new Medicaid regulation that states only a select few documents that can be used to prove citizenship for the purposes of receiving health care. A witness confirmed that some tribal members are having a difficult time proving citizenship because they do have a birth certificate. 
   Bingaman is the sponsor of Citizenship Documentation legislation, S. 909, which would repeal the law authorizing the federal regulation and instead give states the authority to determine when and to what extent citizenship verification is required. It would permit states to use standards that were no more stringent that those currently used by the Social Security Administration and include Native American tribal documents when needed Finally, the legislation ensures that the thousands of citizen children and adults, who were erroneously denied Medicaid because of these citizenship verification requirements, may receive retroactive Medicaid eligibility for the coverage they were inappropriately denied.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 