SEN. BINGAMAN SUPPORTS NOMINATION OF JOHN ROBERTS TO BE NEXT CHIEF JUSTICE OF U.S. SUPREME COURT
  Bingaman Statement on John G. Roberts
  Mr. President, I rise today to state my intention to support the nomination of John G. Roberts to be the next Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court.  
   He has the experience, judicial temperament, and qualifications necessary to be Chief Justice, and his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee has given me reason to believe he is not an ideologue and that he will make decisions based on sound legal reasoning that is within the mainstream of judicial thought in this country. I do not believe that he has an agenda to reverse our Nation's historic commitment to civil rights, and I take him at his word when he says that he will take each case on its facts and apply the law regardless of his personal views. It is for these reasons that I intend to vote in favor of Judge Roberts' nomination. 
   Many people have raised legitimate concerns about views that Judge Roberts expressed in the past. As a 26-year-old staff attorney in the Reagan White House Counsel's Office, Roberts wrote a series of memos that raised concerns about his commitment to civil rights. At his confirmation hearing he said that he no longer held certain views and it was important to distinguish between his personal views and those of an advocate seeking to uphold the policies of his client. 
   Due to the limitations the Senate faced in obtaining documents, in making my decision I had to primarily rely on Judge Roberts' testimony before the Judiciary Committee. The assurances he provided in his testimony give me what I believe is a reasonable expectation regarding how he will approach cases if placed on the Court. I would like to take a moment to briefly discuss some of these expectations that I believe are reasonably based on what he said at that set of hearings. 
    First, Judge Roberts repeatedly stressed that he respects the rule of law and recognizes the importance of considering stare decisis in the decision making process. I agree that looking to settled precedent should always be the starting point in this process. It is essential that the decisions of the Supreme Court provide reliable guidance to the American people, Congress, and the executive branch, and I believe that the whimsical reinterpretation of settled law is not in the best interest of our Nation. Based on the answers that Judge Roberts gave, I believe it unlikely that Judge Roberts will chart a new right-wing course for the Court based on his own personal views. His answers indicate that he will apply the law in a fairminded way and that he will afford longstanding precedent adequate deference. 
   Second, when asked about whether the Constitution contains a right to privacy, which provides the legal basis for a woman's right to choose and the use of birth control, Judge Roberts made clear that he believed that it did. He stated clearly that the right to privacy was protected by the ``liberty'' due process clauses of the fifth and fourteenth amendments. More importantly, Judge Roberts asserted that the right to privacy conferred under the Constitution was a substantive and not merely a procedural right. This view is in stark contrast to that of Justice Scalia, who has argued for a strict constructionist interpretation of the Constitution and believes the right to privacy is an artificial construct that lacks any foundation in the Constitution. 
   Third, Judge Roberts also distinguished his views from those who see Constitution as a static document and only recognize recourse to the ``original'' intent when interpreting it. I believe strongly that the Constitution was intended to be a living document, and that we must have a constitution that is able to address the challenges and adversities that we face as a modern society. When our country was founded we were living in very different times, and it is important that our Constitution reflect the new world we are living in. In his testimony, Roberts noted that although it was impermissible to contradict the plain text of the Constitution, where the Constitution uses general terms, such as ``liberty'' or ``equal protection,'' it is acceptable to interpret the text in light of today's notions of liberty and equal justice, not just those concepts as they were contemplated in 1787. 
   Fourth, with regard to recent Supreme Court decisions that have restricted the ability of Congress to enact certain laws pursuant to the commerce clause, Roberts' answers indicated a willingness to interpret these cases in the context of the overwhelming jurisprudence supporting Congressional authority in this area. Further restrictions on the power of Congress to legislate under the commerce clause could have profound implications concerning the ability of Congress to pass laws with respect to the environment, civil rights, and many of the basic advancements we made during the Warren court. 
   In addition, Judge Roberts also specifically rejected the tenets of the Supreme Courts' 1905 decision in Lochner v. New York, which drastically curtailed the ability of Congress to pass critical workers' rights legislation, such as wage and child labor laws. Of course this decision has since been overruled, but some jurists nominated by President Bush, Judge Janice Rogers Brown, have advocated that the decision was correctly decided. 
   here is one other issue that I would like to discuss. Some of the most challenging issues that the Supreme Court will likely face over the next decade will involve how we balance civil liberties with the need to confront terrorism. The President has asserted tremendous authority in this area, including the right to indefinitely detain a U.S. citizen that he unilaterally deems an ``enemy combatant.'' The Court will have to decide issues involving the detention of suspected terrorists, due process rights, constraints regarding the use of torture, and many other questions that will define our commitment to longstanding principles of civil rights and civil liberties. During the hearings, Judge Roberts rejected the Supreme Courts' decision in Korematsu, which upheld the mass detainment of Japanese Americans during World War II. Although this decision is a sad part of our history, in a technical sense it is still legally binding. Judge Roberts' complete rejection of this approach gives me hope that he understands that governmental powers are not without limit in times of war. 
   When asked whether he considers himself in the mold of Justices Scalia or Thomas, Judge Roberts stated clearly that he would be his own man. As I have stated, I expect that Judge Roberts will afford adequate deference to Congress, will follow longstanding precedent, and will apply the law in a fair and straightforward way. It is my hope that Judge Roberts will uphold these expectations.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 