SEN. BINGAMAN, REP. REYES CALL ON U.S. POSTAL SERVICE TO ADDRESS MAIL DELIVERY PROBLEM IN EL PASO/LAS CRUCES
  In response to concerns raised by Las Cruces area residents, Sen. Jeff Bingaman today called on the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) to answer serious questions about its mail processing operation in El Paso. The facility is responsible not only for processing mail in the El Paso area, but also for mail destined for the Las Cruces area. Bingaman and Rep. Silvestre Reyes wrote to Postmaster John Potter, asking for a reevaluation of the decision to move the Las Cruces processing operations to El Paso and called on the USPS to take the steps needed to improve delivery to the area. 
   "We have received complaints regarding late delivery of mail, specifically of bulk items, many of which are time sensitive. The El Paso mail processing facility has been the focus of many mail delivery issues in the area and the United States Postal Service (USPS) has failed to address the problems sufficiently. 
   "We urge you to conduct a study and determine whether transferring the Las Cruces processing operations to El Paso was an appropriate action to take. If USPS determines that the move was necessary, then it is clear that more personnel must be hired to ensure the efficient and timely operation of the El Paso facility. While we commend USPS for its recent hires in the Albuquerque area to address delivery issues, these same steps have not been taken to address the delivery issues in the El Paso/Las Cruces area. "We urge you to work with all diligence to address these problems in the El Paso/Las Cruces area in a manner that will see permanent, continuing improvement rather than fixes that rely on overtime and temporary workers. In addition, our region will be experiencing significant growth as over 20,000 troops will be relocating to Fort Bliss and White Sands Missile Range under the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decision and the Army's overseas rebasing initiative. This unprecedented growth will bring as many as 60,000 military dependants to our area and it is critical that additional USPS resources be allocated to our region in order to meet the demands of this military expansion," the letter states.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 