SEN. BINGAMAN SECURED FUNDS TO BENEFIT NEW MEXICO ANTI-METH CAMPAIGN
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased that nearly a half a million dollars he secured will be used to help educate New Mexico youth on the dangers of methamphetamine.  
   Bingaman secured $493,614 through a U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) appropriations bill for a state-wide, sustained, education program to address meth abuse among high school students. The program will be run by the New Mexico Drug Policy Alliance New Mexico (DPA), which is the co-chair of the New Mexico Methamphetamine Task Force, along with the state's Drug Czar. 
   The Drug Policy Alliance will use the funding to develop a statewide anti-meth social marketing campaign designed for and by youth, under the guidance of media experts, to air on television and radio stations throughout New Mexico. Additionally, DPA will organize a statewide conference of 500 educators, youth, parents, school counselors and nurses to train them in effective prevention initiatives. The conference will be followed by regional training sessions aimed at assisting communities to prevent meth addiction. 
   "Meth is not only the No. 1 crime problem in many communities throughout our state, it is also devastating families and ruining lives," Bingaman said. "The funding I was able to secure will be used in an aggressive anti-meth marketing campaign aimed at preventing young people from ever using this terrible drug. I know it will be put to good use." 
   "A comprehensive, holistic approach is the only way we can solve meth-related problems in our communities. We need prevention, treatment, public health, harm reduction, and public safety initiatives, working in collaboration. That's the only way to help our young people stay safe and healthy," said Reena Szczepanski, Director of Drug Policy Alliance New Mexico, "Senator Bingaman has been a tremendous leader in bringing attention and resources to address meth in New Mexico." 
   According to the New Mexico Department of Health research, between 2003 and 2005 there was a 31 percent increase in the number of New Mexico high school students (grades 9-12) living in urban areas who reported using meth. 
   Additionally, the U.S. Department of Justice National Drug Intelligence Center reports that the number of meth-related treatment admissions more than doubled from 2000 to 2004. DOJ also reported that seventy-five percent of state and local law enforcement agencies in the southwest report meth as the greatest drug threat.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 