SEN. BINGAMAN BACKS BILL THAT PROVIDES FOR IMPROVED TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today joined in introducing a bill that renews the expiring trade adjustment assistance (TAA) act, and improves to the law that will specifically help New Mexico. The bill, introduced today Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT), aims to cushion the economic hardship suffered by workers who face trade-related job losses.  
   "In many smaller communities, when a large employer shuts its doors because of foreign competition people are hard-pressed to find new work. When this happens, it's not just individuals who are struggling, but the communities in which hundreds or thousands of people live," Bingaman said. "We can't let entire communities suffer because of foreign competition. We have a responsibility to give these communities a shot at a new future. The legislation introduced today does just that." 
   The bill contains a Bingaman-authored provision that creates TAA for Communities, which provides $300 million annually for negatively affected communities in the form of planning grants and administrative aid. TAA for Communities benefits most rural communities that are based primarily on one industry. 
   "TAA for Communities is an important addition to this legislation because in New Mexico, when individuals or companies suffer trade-related job losses, the whole community can suffer," Bingaman said. "Communities suffering major job losses are trying desperately to change direction, including several in New Mexico, like Silver City. They have ideas about where they want to go and what they need to do to make things better. They have acted on these ideas, but they need more help and we have a responsibility to provide that help," Bingaman said. 
   The legislation also: 
   Makes TAA available to service sector workers, who currently are ineligible for TAA benefits. 
   Streamlines the certification process for workers applying for TAA benefits. Among the new provisions is one that requires an industry-wide investigation if the Labor Secretary certifies three or more petitions from the same industry within 180 days. 
   Increases the Health Care Tax Credit, which is available to TAA-eligible workers who have lost employer-sponsored coverage, from 65% to 85% of their health insurance premiums. 
   Triples the funding available for the TAA for Firms program, which provides funding for businesses that are adjusting to foreign competition. Several New Mexico businesses, such as Bueno Foods, have benefited from the TAA for Firms program. 
   "International trade plays an important role in growing our nation's economy," Bingaman said. "But we must use a portion of the wealth created to compensate those workers who lose from international trade." 
   The bill was referred to the Senate Finance Committee, of which Bingaman is a member.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 