SEN. BINGAMAN VOTES FOR FISCALLY SOUND BUDGET
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today voted in favor of a fiscal year 2008 Budget Resolution that emphasizes funding for veterans, health care and education, and does so in a fiscally sound way.  
   S. Con. Res. 21, which passed 52-47, will be used as a budget blueprint for the spending bills that must be passed by Oct. 1 to fund governmental agencies next year. 
   "In my view, this Budget Resolution lays out all the right priorities for health care, education, the VA and on a host of other important issues," Bingaman said. 
   With the adoption of a Bingaman amendment, the measure takes a step toward preventing more than $100 million in Medicaid cuts annually to New Mexico. 
   The Bush administration, through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, is preparing to limit how states fund their Medicaid programs and how they pay public hospitals and healthcare providers for services rendered. Many believe aspects of the regulation exceed CMS' administrative authority. The regulation change could take effect in September, causing the University of New Mexico Hospital and other institutions to lose millions of dollars for the care they provide as well as devastate New Mexico's Sole Community Hospital program. Bingaman's amendment seeks to block implementation of the proposed Medicaid regulation. Senator Pete Domenici is a cosponsor of the amendment. 
   A separate Bingaman amendment that was adopted as part of the Budget Resolution closely mirrors funding guidelines set forth in the America Competes Act - legislation the Bingaman and others introduced last month to ensure the nation remains competitive in the global marketplace for years to come. 
   S. Con. Res 21 also boosts funding for the State Childrens Health Improvement Program (SCHIP), making room to add an estimated six million children who are eligible for SCHIP or Medicaid but who are not currently enrolled in the programs. 
   "The Budget Resolution does a very good job funding important health care initiatives that benefit our state," Bingaman said. "It not only prevents deep cuts from taking place, it helps us begin to tackle our nation's serious uninsured problem." 
   S. Con. Res. provides $43.1 billion for veterans in 2008, $3.5 billion more than the president requested. It also rejects the Bush administration's proposal to raise TRICARE co-payments and to impose new fees and higher co-payments on certain veterans which would have resulted in more than 100,000 veterans leaving the Department of Veterans Affairs health care system. 
   And it provides a $6 billion increase in spending for education over the president's proposed budget, all while restoring a pay-as-you-go rule that will not allow the government to go into debt to pay for new spending or tax cuts.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 