SEN. BINGAMAN: LAB EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PROGRAM SHOULD BE MORE 'CLAIMANT FRIENDLY'
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today chaired a Senate hearing to examine how well the program to compensate lab workers made ill by their service during the Cold War is working.  
   The oversight hearing took a close look at the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA). EEOICPA, which Bingaman helped create in 2000, provides a one-time lump sum payment of up to $250,000 and continuing medical benefits to workers exposed to beryllium, radiation and other harmful substances while working in the for Department of Energy's nuclear weapons complex. 
   Bingaman chaired the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee hearing, which heard testimony from the federal agency that administers EEOICPA as well as the chief employees' advocate. 
   "I have been monitoring the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program since it was enacted into law in 2000 and the major restructuring in 2004. The principle issue in formulating the program was to compensate sick nuclear weapons workers as quickly as possible under assumptions most favorable to the claimant - given in many cases exposure data was lacking at these older facilities." Bingaman said. 
   "What we learned today is that the process is not as claimant friendly as it should be. Witnesses who testified today had some good suggestions for streamlining the process. Now we must determine whether those suggestions can be implemented without legislation, or whether we need to make additional improvements to the law," he added. 
   EEOICPA was first administered by the Department of Energy. But when it became clear that DOE was not managing the program efficiently, Bingaman and other members of the Senate worked in 2004 to move the program to the Department of Labor which had a better track record for handling employee claims. 
   Bingaman said he would like the claimants' applicants to be process more quickly, and for DOL to rely more heavily on the word of applicants when DOE paperwork is not available for "dose reconstruction." 
   "There is no doubt there are steps we can take to make this program run more smoothly. We need to take those steps as soon as possible," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 