KEY SPENDING BILL CONTAINS FUNDS SOUGHT BY SEN. BINGAMAN
  The Senate today approved a key spending bill that contains millions of dollars U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman requested for New Mexico health and education initiatives. 
   At Bingaman's request, the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Spending Bill contains $1 million for McKinley County Dialysis Center to construct a new dialysis center in Gallup. There is a growing epidemic of diabetes and renal failure in McKinley County, especially with Native American populations.  
   "A new dialysis center would allow McKinley County and Gallup to better serve and care for diabetic patients," Bingaman said. 
   Also at Bingaman's urging, the bill contains $750,000 to expand and renovate the emergency department, establish a cardiac program, and enable the hospital to pursue Level II trauma designation at St. Vincent Regional Medical Center in Santa Fe. 
   And the bill sets aside $1 million in funding for Hidalgo and Grant County Health Center to construct a comprehensive ambulatory care center to provide services for the Grant County. 
   There is also $750,000 in the bill for upgrades at Sierra Vista Hospital in Truth or Consequences. This geographic region is beginning to experience an increase in its population, which is projected to double in the next 10 years, but the hospital facilities need to be improved to keep up with the growth. 
   "The funding included in this bill would make it possible for the Sierra Vista Hospital to make the upgrades needed to serve a growing population," Bingaman said. 
   In the area of education, Bingaman helped secure $400,000 for Southwest Indian Polytechnic Institute (SIPI) in Albuquerque. SIPI will use the funds to expand their renewable energy training program and community projects by offering distance education and by offering short courses which lead to industry certification. 
   Bingaman also helped secure $400,000 for New Mexico State University (NMSU), Dona Ana Branch Community College and Gadsden High School's Bridge program, which transitions high school students into technical careers to support the local manufacturing industry. This funding will help continue and expand this program to the Las Cruces School District. Bingaman helped get start-up funding for this program. 
   "The Bridge program helps educate and train prospective high school graduates to enter the local workforce," Bingaman said. 
   And Bingaman helped secure $200,000 for the Community Partnership for Children, a non-profit organization working to develop new options for affordable, high quality childcare for children in Grant County. 
   Bingaman also helped include the following in the bill: 
   * $250,000 for the New Mexico Human Services Department to expand psychiatric services for children and youth in rural New Mexico through school-based health centers and telehealth technology. 
   * $100,000 - Zia Tribal Health Clinic is the most important source of healthcare services to the tribal members of Zia Pueblo. The funding will be used to make critical renovations to the clinic as well as purchase new equipment. 
   * $300,000 in funding for Jewish Family Services' New Mexico Naturally Occurring Retirement Communities demonstration project to ensure that senior residents can safely and securely maintain their independence. 
   * $500,000 in funding for the Community Action Agency of Southern New Mexico Access to Care Initiative to address the unmet healthcare needs in Do?a Ana and southern Otero counties through the web-based "iReach" software that provides a uniform screening criteria of patients to help find a payer source for uninsured and underinsured patients and coordinate care. 
   * $1 million to Eddy County to operate the new Legacy Regional Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Center in Carlsbad. The planned 100-bed center will provide multiple levels of substance abuse treatment with a primary focus on methamphetamine addiction. The new center will be the only treatment facility to serve the Southeast New Mexico region of Eddy, Lea, Otero, Lincoln, Curry and Roosevelt Counties. 
   The bill will now be subject to a House-Senate panel, which will negotiate final legislation that can be signed into law.
 
 