SEN. BINGAMAN AMENDMENT AIMS TO IMPROVE STAFFING LEVELS AT SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION OFFICES
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today won support (88-6) for an amendment that bumps up by $150 million the amount of funding directed to Social Security Administration offices to improve staffing and address major backlog problems. The amendment was made part of the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill.  
   Social Security benefits are the only means of survival for millions of elderly and disabled Americans. These individuals rely on the Social Security Administration (SSA) to promptly and fairly adjudicate their applications for disabled benefits. Bingaman pointed out that due to a shortage of SSA staffing, hearings are not taking place in a timely fashion. 
   "This is a very real problem for individuals with disabilities in New Mexico. Currently, the average processing time per case in the Albuquerque Hearing Office is 528 days," Bingaman said. "And this is just the time it takes to get a hearing; it does not include the time it takes for an initial determination or a final determinationAccording to SSA, there are currently over 756,000 cases waiting for a hearing, and the average time to get a hearing is 523 days - the longest in SSA history. Additionally, the average processing time for a hearing is projected to increase next year. 
   SSA reports that staffing levels are at their lowest since 1972. Thirty years ago, SSA had more than 82,000 employees. In 2005, SSA had 66,000 employees. In a few months, it will drop below 60,000. Simply put, thousands of employees are leaving SSA field and hearing offices without being replaced. 
   "Field offices around the country are slashing hours. In Carlsbad for example, due to a reduction in hours of service, seniors and people with disabilities are forced to line up around the building, often waiting hours to get served. Even worse, some field offices are shutting their doors permanently," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman said staffing shortages at SSA are particularly problematic give that since 1990, the number of disabled workers drawing disability benefits has more than doubled, from 3 million to 6.8 million. This problem will only worsen as baby boomers file in large numbers for Social Security. 
   The underlying bill contains $125 million more for SSA than the president had requested. Bingaman's amendment would increase that by an additional $150 million. 
   "Adopting this amendment is a start toward improving staffing levels at Social Security offices across the country," Bingaman said.
 
 