KEY COMMITTEE CONSIDERS SEN. BINGAMAN'S GRADUATION PROMISE ACT
  A bill Sen. Jeff Bingaman wrote to dramatically improve America's public high schools and high school graduation rates was the subject of a congressional hearing today. A hearing is the first step toward gaining support for passage of the bill. 
   Bingaman's bipartisan Graduation Promise Act (GPA) would reform the nation's "dropout factories" - high schools where a high percentage of students never graduate. It would for the first time set aside $2.5 billion each year for the purpose reforming of our nation's high schools. 
   Today, the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee conducted a hearing, and Bingaman's bill was praised by the educators, education researchers and other senators. 
   "Many of our nation's high schools are failing students, either by not preparing them for success after graduation or never seeing to it that they earn diplomas," Bingaman said. "We must take action now to transform these high schools and get a handle on our nation's serious dropout problem." 
   Specifically, GPA authorizes a $2.4 billion High School Improvement and Dropout Reduction Fund to support states in their efforts to turn around high schools with low graduation rates. Funding would be used by states to create the framework for identifying low-performing high schools and directing resources and technical assistance to them. 
   GPA also authorizes $60 million in competitive grants for the development and implementation of successful models geared toward students who are struggling in conventional education settings. And it authorizes $40 million in competitive grants to states for identify statewide barriers holding students back from graduating, and creating new policies that improve graduation rates. 
   Forty years ago, the United States was No. 1 in the world in high school graduation rates. Today, we rank 17th. About one-third of the students who enter 9th grade will not graduate from high school in four years, if at all. 
   The statistics are worse for minority students and students from low income families. Only about 55 percent of African American students and 52 percent of Hispanic students graduate on time, compared to 78 percent of white students. And students from low-income families drop out of school at a rate six times higher than their more affluent peers.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 