SEN. BINGAMAN: BILLS PROTECT NEW MEXICO BEEF
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today joined in introducing two bills aimed at protecting New Mexico's cattle industry. 
   The first bill would implement country-of-origin labeling (COOL) by September 30, 2005 instead of the September 2006 deadline called for under current law. Bingaman separately co-sponsored legislation that would bar the importation of Canadian cattle into the U.S. until country of origin labeling is in place for meat.  
   "New Mexico's cattle industry is very important to the state's economy and we can not let the administration's policies threaten ranchers' livelihoods. Both of these bills would take steps to protect and promote our states beef industry," Bingaman said.
   In 2002, the president signed into law the farm bill which required U.S. Department of Agriculture to implement country-of-origin labeling for food (meat, fish and produce) by September 2004. Unfortunately, at the urging of the Bush Administration and the large meatpackers, Republican leaders inserted language in a 2004 spending bill delaying implementation of COOL for two years - until September 2006. 
   In May 2003, the United States closed the border to Canadian cattle imports due to the detection of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad cow disease) in a Canadian dairy cow. After being convinced that Canada had taken necessary steps to prevent the disease from spreading, the Bush administration last month decided to reopen the border to live cattle on March 7, 2005. 
   Earlier this month, however, Bingaman urged Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman to reconsider that decision reopen the border to Canadian cattle after two more infected cows were discovered.
  In a letter to Veneman, Bingaman pointed out that the dairy, and cattle and calf industries represent New Mexico's single largest agricultural commodities with annual sales of more than $1.3 billion. He told Veneman he did not want the United States to take any action - such as reopening the U.S. Canadian border for live cattle imports - that does not fully protect U.S. producers from what may be a more prevalent problem in Canada than anyone had previously assumed. 
   Bingaman has also asked the Bush administration to work with Mexican President Vicente Fox's administration to open the Mexican border once again to U.S. cattle exports. Mexico has barred U.S. live cattle exports for more than a year after an isolated case of "mad cow" disease was detected in a Canadian-born dairy cow in the state of Washington.
   Most of New Mexico's ranchers and farmers support COOL. Bingaman also opposes efforts to make labeling voluntary.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 