SEN. BINGAMAN ADDRESSES BRAC COMMISSION
  Statement of Sen. Jeff Bingaman to BRAC Commission: 
   I would like to welcome Commissioners Hansen, Turner, Hill, Coyle, Bilbray and Newton to New Mexico. We are glad that all of you, and Chairman Principi, who was here yesterday, could see first hand how important Cannon is, not only to eastern New Mexico but also to the entire country.  
  I want to address an issue that the BRAC Commission must give greater weight to than the Pentagon did when it came up with its base closure list. That important issue is the economic impact that closing Cannon would have on eastern New Mexico.
  As you will hear in greater detail a little later in the presentation, the Defense Department significantly underestimated the impact that closing Cannon would have on Curry, Roosevelt and neighboring counties. 
  The Department said just one in five jobs would be lost, directly or indirectly. According to the in-depth analysis that you'll hear more about momentarily, that number is closer to one in three jobs, and the total loss to the regional economy would exceed $400 million a year. 
   These communities are two hours away from the nearest metropolitan area, and more than 60 miles away from an interstate highway. These very things that make it an ideal place for an unencroached Air Force base, would make it more difficult to attract new alternative commercial activities, if the base were to close. A loss of one-third of our jobs, and $400 million a year would be devastating. 
   In closing, I want to talk briefly about another base closure that took place some years ago in southeastern New Mexico - just 110 miles from here - in Roswell.
  Within three years of the 1967 closure of Walker Air Force Base, Roswell's population of 48,000 had dropped by one-third, far in excess of the number of people directly employed at the base. Nearly 40 years later, Roswell still has not fully recovered from the closure of Walker; and its population has barely climbed back up to 44,000. 
  Closing another base in southeastern New Mexico would strike a terrible blow to this part of our state. 
  The BRAC Commission has an important assignment: to closely scrutinize all the military's bases across the country and determine which ones we can do without. A major part of that decision is figuring out which communities can economically absorb a base closure. We are here today to tell you that as strong and resourceful as the people of Clovis and eastern New Mexico are, a blow like this will have a catastrophic impact on their communities and their lives.
 
 