SEN. BINGAMAN FIGHTS TO KEEP THREE FLIGHTS A DAY IN CARLSBAD
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today urged the Bush administration not to cut the number of commercial air flights coming into Carlsbad every weekday.  
   The Department of Transportation's (DOT) Essential Air Service (EAS) Program, which makes it possible for commercial airlines to provide affordable and reliable service to smaller communities, is currently evaluating proposals to continue Carlsbad's commercial air service for the next two years. Under the EAS program, Carlsbad is guaranteed a minimum of two roundtrip flights per day. However, in 2003 Bingaman pressed DOT to allow Carlsbad to gain an additional round trip flight per day to accommodate a growing need; the number was bumped to three per day. 
   In a letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Norm Mineta, Bingaman pointed to numerous reasons why Carlsbad needs a minimum of three daily roundtrips flights.
   "Reliable and affordable commercial air service is critical to the future economic health and growth of cities like Carlsbad. The city currently has three roundtrips per day to Albuquerque and I believe this level of service must be maintained to help promote the economic vitality of the region. Additionally, Carlsbad is the site of the Department of Energy's Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, the nation's only repository for defense-related transuranic waste. The continued efficient operation of this facility depends on the availability of convenient commercial air service," Bingaman wrote.
   Bingaman also pointed out that in the past two years the level of passenger boarding has grown significantly. Over 27 percent more passengers used the service in 2004 than in 2003. In the first four months of this year alone there has been a 40 percent increase in passengers boarding compared to this same period in 2004. 
   Additionally, Bingaman said reliable passenger air service is vital to local efforts to attract new businesses to the area. 
   "I have long supported the Federal Essential Air Service Program because it is a good way to ensure that all communities have access to high-quality, reliable commercial air service they need. I urge you to work closely with Mayor Bob Forrest and the City of Carlsbad to ensure the city's level of commercial air service continues to be commensurate with the needs of the city, the Department of Energy and the citizens of Southeastern New Mexico," Bingaman wrote.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 