BILL CONTAINING SEN. BINGAMAN-BACKED FLOOD PREVENTION PROVISIONS WILL BE SENT TO PRESIDENT
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today announced that a bill containing a provision he pushed for that authorizes funding for a key project in Albuquerque's Southwest Valley has cleared its final congressional hurdle and can be sent to the president for signature.  
   The Senate has approved the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which authorizes $16.15 million in federal funding for the Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction Project. 
   Bingaman pressed hard for the inclusion of the $16.15 million project in WRDA, which authorizes projects and programs for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Bingaman is simultaneously seeking $1 million in fiscal year 2008 to initiate construction on the project. 
   "Passage of this bill ensures that the Southwest Valley flood control project will be a priority for the Army Corps of Engineers," Bingaman said. "This is very good news for residents of the Southwest Valley whose homes and businesses are in threatened by flooding." 
   Flooding control on the Rio Grande over the years has left some areas of Albuquerque's Southwest Valley below the level of the river causing frequent flooding when it rains. The proposed project would eliminate flood damage by improving drainage in the area, which contains about 500 homes. The project includes the construction of detention basins and enlarging existing drainage channels in the area from Bridge Blvd. south to Rio Bravo Blvd. and from the Arenal Canal east of Coors to the Armijo Drain, west of Isleta Blvd. Completion of the project will reduce the cost of homeowners' flood insurance in the area. 
   WRDA also included the following provisions, which will benefit New Mexico: 
   * Rio Grande Environmental Management Provision: The Bingaman authored provision authorizes the Corps of Engineers to carry-out projects to restore fish & wildlife habitat in the Rio Grande. The program is authorized at $15 million a year. 
   * Middle Rio Grande Restoration Provision - The provision initiates ecosystem restoration and recreational projects in the Middle Rio Grande reach (Cochiti to Elephant Butte). Total program authorization is $25 million. 
   "Both of these initiatives represent a great investment in the restoration of the Rio Grande," Bingaman said.
 
 