SEN. BINGAMAN: SCIENCE IS CLEAR - CLIMATE CHANGE IS FUELING FOREST FIRES
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today chaired a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing to consider how climate change is leading to more severe wildfire seasons.  
   A report released earlier this month by the Government Accountability Office reports that it is "generally agreed that the scientific community has reached consensus that climate change will . . . cause forest fires to grow in size and severity." A number of other studies predict that global warming will increase the number of acres-burned by wildfires in the United States by 25-75 percent by the middle of the century. The Alaska, the Southeast, the Southwest, and the Northern Rockies appear to be at particularly high-risk. 
   "Despite the enormous efforts of our nation's firefighters, wildfires have become larger, more intense, and more expensive to control in recent years. Past wildfire suppression and other land-uses have had in fueling wildfire activity in some areas in recent years. But it is clear from the science that climate change is driving the dramatic growth in wildfire activity, and that it is likely to get worse," said Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   Bingaman said that along with rising temperatures, federal wildland fire spending has more than tripled in less than ten years, rising from less than $800 million in 1996 to $3 billion. 
   Dr. Thomas Swetnam, the director of the Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research & Professor of Dendrochronology at the University of Arizona, testified that management practices and natural climate oscillations have played a role in the recent surge in burning, but climate change is also a factor. 
   "A recent influence of warming climates and increasing drought is apparently manifest in the rising areas burned and occurrences of "megafires" in many places across North America and elsewhere. Under increasing greenhouse gas scenarios, the available evidence points to a likely continuation of rising areas burned, more megafires, greater damages and costs incurred, and additional human lives lost. Not least of the mounting concerns about these trends is the likely effect of releasing more carbon into the atmosphere, and the possibility of shifting temperate and boreal forests from a net carbon sink to a net source," Swetnam said. 
   Bingaman is pressing for passage of his "Low Carbon Economy Act" - legislation that stops the advancement of global warming while protecting the U.S. economy and American consumers. The bipartisan measure would put a cap on greenhouse gases emitted by petroleum refineries, natural gas processing plants, fossil fuel importers, and large coal-consuming facilities. It would require that those entities reach 2006 emissions levels by 2020 and 1990 levels by 2030.
 
 