SENATE COMPLETES WATER RESOURCES BILL WITH KEY PROVISION TO ENGAGE TRIBES IN WATER PROJECTS
  Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced final Senate approval of a major national water resources bill that includes a provision they wrote to engage pueblos in the operation and maintenance of flood control projects in the middle Rio Grande region. 
   By a vote of 81-12, the Senate completed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) and will now send it to President Bush. The administration has indicated it may veto the WRDA bill, which is intended to authorize appropriations for water resource projects and studies for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. The House easily passed the measure by a vote of 381-40 in August. The Senators said it is likely that each house will have the two-thirds vote necessary to override a Presidential veto.
   "A new WRDA bill is long overdue and will allow New Mexico to better manage critical water resources and development projects," said Domenici. "Our provision for the pueblos will help streamline operations by authorizing the Army Corps of Engineers to work directly with individual tribes to efficiently and effectively maintain important civil works programs."
   "This new law will allow the federal government to partner directly with New Mexico pueblos toward the shared goal of improving the health of the Middle Rio Grande," Bingaman said.
   The provision authored by Domenici and Bingaman will make it possible for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to enter into cooperative agreements with New Mexico pueblos, allowing the pueblos to play a greater role in assisting the Corps with operation and maintenance activities on flood control projects.
   At the Senators' urging the WRDA bill also reauthorizes the Corps' Tribal Partnership program, which expired last year. The Tribal Partnership program allows the Corps to perform watershed assessments and study flood damage reduction and environmental restoration projects on tribal lands that will substantially benefit New Mexico's tribes and pueblos.
   WRDA authorizes appropriations for water resource projects, study authorizations and policy modifications for the Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works program. Domenici is the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funding for WRDA-authorized projects.
 
 