N.M. SENATORS INTRODUCE BILL TO EXPAND LASER VISA ZONE TO 100 MILES OF SOUTHWEST BORDER
  Sen. Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to expand by up to 100 miles the zone in which Mexican nationals can travel into the United States for short-term visits. The bill is cosponsored by Sen. Jeff Bingaman.  
   The Laser Visa Extension Act of 2007 would bring equity to an existing laser visa, or Border Crossing Card (BCC), program that now limits such travel within 25 miles of a border crossing in New Mexico, Texas and California, but 75 miles in Arizona. Under the current program, New Mexico border communities experience minimal economic impact because there is no sizable city within the 25 mile limit. 
   "My bill would end a disparity that now exists. New Mexico's border communities are at a disadvantage. But a 100-mile travel zone would allow all four Southwest border states to see the same benefits of short-term visitors who hold a travel document issued by the U.S. government," said Domenici, who serves on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "Extending the geographical limit to 100 miles would increase the flow of visitors to our state - boosting tourism and commerce in southern New Mexico," Bingaman said. 
   Domenici and Bingaman have worked to rally local support for the expanded travel zone along New Mexico's border with Mexico. Both Senators supported similar legislation as part of the derailed border security and immigration reform legislation in the 109th Congress. 
   The laser visa program is administered by the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security's Citizenship and Immigration Services. This program includes an application process in which individuals must demonstrate ties to Mexico that would compel them to return after their visit. The bill would not expand the 30-day limit placed on these visits to the United States by laser visa holders. (http://travel.state.gov/visa/temp/types/types_1266.html) 
   Since 1953, the United States and Mexico have had special travel rules for Mexican nationals who visit the United States for short periods of time. The laser visa is an alternative to a passport and must be obtained from the U.S. government. In 1999, Arizona won the right to extend its zone to 75 miles.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 