OJITO WILDERNESS BILL INTRODUCED: DELEGATION WILL PRESS FOR QUICK PASSAGE
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, and Reps. Tom Udall and Heather Wilson, today introduced legislation in the Senate and House respectively that will create a new wilderness area on Bureau of Land Management Land in Sandoval County. 
   The Ojito Wilderness Act would designate 11,000-acre site just south of San Ysidro - known as Ojito - as a wilderness area, thus recognizing and protecting the area's dramatic landforms and rock structures, multicolored badlands, and rare plants. This proposal, which was first put forth by then-Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr. in 1991, has strong local support and strong bipartisan in Congress. 
   The bill, which was finalized late last year, will be referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and the House Resources Committee. The delegation will work to quickly secure the endorsement of the respective committees, and to gain full Congressional approval. 
   "Designating Ojito as a wilderness area ensures that the beauty of this special place will be protected and enjoyed for years to come. Congress came very close to enacting this legislation last year, and the fact that we are introducing it early this year shows that we are committed to getting this bill to the president's desk as soon as possible," said Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   "During the final days of the last session, I was very pleased to be able to pass the Ojito Wilderness bill out of the Senate. This legislation will protect the natural resources in the area while also making clear that the federal government does not have a right to usurp state water rights. I'm pleased to once again co-sponsor this bill and I pledge my support for quick passage in the Senate," said Domenici, who serves as Chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   "With consensus reached on final language and with both chambers having already passed this bill last year, the Ojito Wilderness Act should be well positioned to move this session," Udall said. "The bill will be sent to the House Resources Committee, on which I serve, and I will petition Chairman Pombo to expedite consideration of this proposal. Thanks to the hard work of so many New Mexicans, this bill is now closer than ever to becoming law."
   "This legislation is locally developed and locally supported, and we plan to aggressively move it forward again," Wilson said. "We are protecting this important wilderness now so that it will be preserved for the next generation, and we're ensuring that the Pueblo has their long-sought ancestral lands."
   The Ojito area has been preserved as a Wilderness Study Area since 1991, pending congressional action to formally designate the area as wilderness. Enactment of the Ojito Wilderness Act would add these 11,000 acres to the National Wilderness Preservation System, which protects wild areas that have "outstanding opportunities for solitude or a primitive and unconfined type of recreation." The area will remain open to hiking, backpacking, horseback riding, and rock climbing, as well as grazing and scenic, scientific, educational, conservation, and historical uses. But it also will remain protected from development, including commercial enterprises, road building, and mining, as well as off road vehicle use. 
   The Ojito Wilderness Act also would add protections to lands buffering the proposed Ojito Wilderness that are largely surrounded by the Pueblo of Zia. The Pueblo will be allowed to purchase these lands for public open space, so long as they remain open to the public for continued recreational, scenic, scientific, educational, and conservation uses, and so long as their natural characteristics are preserved. In doing so, the Pueblo will be able to unite the two separate parts of its Reservation with aboriginal lands that have important religious, cultural, and historical value to the Pueblo. 
   If enacted, Ojito would be the first new wilderness designation in New Mexico in more than15 years, and only the fourth wilderness area in the state to be managed by the Bureau of Land Management.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 