SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN, PARTNERS INTRODUCE 'PROTECTING AMERICA'S COMPETITIVE EDGE' LEGISLATION
  Sens. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.) and Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) today formally launched their bid to ensure American's competitive edge in the world, particularly by encouraging more youth to study math, science and high technology. 
   The New Mexico Senators banded with Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-M.D.) to introduce the Protecting America's Competitive Edge Act (PACE Act), a comprehensive package of legislation focused on maintaining the United States scientific and technological edge.
   The PACE Act, incorporated in three bills, would greatly increase federal investment in math and science education, basic science and energy research, and research and development tax incentives. The bipartisan effort was crafted to implement 20 recommendations outlined in "Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future," a National Academies of Science report issued last October. 
   "It is clear to us that energizing American brainpower must be a priority. Every facet of our lives, from national security to modern medicine to the everyday household goods, relies on technology. There are troubling signs we are not keeping pace with other advancing nations. We must change, and that change is reflected in the PACE Act," Domenici said. 
   "The PACE Act doubles research and development funding, and makes a tremendous investment in education to ensure our country is producing the mathematicians, scientists and engineers who can fill the high-wage jobs of the future. The passage of this farsighted public investment initiative will ensure that the United States is stronger, smarter, and leads the world in scientific and technological innovation well into the future," Bingaman said.
   Domenici is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and Bingaman is the senior ranking member of the panel. Both lawmakers have long records of working to promote science, technology and education in the Senate.
   Domenici, Bingaman and Alexander met with President Bush and White House officials to discuss the competitiveness issue on December 15. Since then, White House Chief of Staff Andy Card and Education Secretary Margaret Spellings have both highlighted the need to improve interest in science and technology.
   Through the Energy Committee, Bingaman and Alexander last May asked the National Academies of Sciences and Engineering and the Institute of Medicine the question: "What are the ten top actions, in priority order, that federal policy makers could take to enhance the science and technology enterprise so the United States can successfully compete, prosper and be secure in the global community of the 21st century?" 
   The National Academies responded by assembling a distinguished panel of business, government, and university leaders headed by Norm Augustine, former CEO of Lockheed Martin. As part of its deliberations, the panel reviewed over 150 proposals and made 20 recommendations in four broad categories: K-12 education, research, higher education, and incentives for innovation.
   A two-page summary of the goals and key provisions of the PACE Act is available from the Domenici and Bingaman press offices.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 