SEN. BINGAMAN SEEKS FDA ENFORCEMENT OF REDUCTION OF LEAD IN CANDY IMPORTED FROM MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today applauded the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for seeking to reduce acceptable levels of lead in candy from 0.5 parts per million to 0.1 ppm, but he said he is very concerned that the FDA has no intention of enforcing the lower level. 
   In a letter to FDA Acting Commissioner Andrew C. von Eschenhach, Bingaman said lowering the acceptable level of lead is meaningless if the agency will not ensure that level is met. 
   The FDA's draft "Lead in Candy Likely To Be Consumed Frequently by Small Children: Recommended Maximum Level of Enforcement Policy" said of the 0.1 level, "The FDA's guidance documents, including this guidance, do not establish legally enforceable responsibilities. Instead guidances describe the Agency's current thinking on a topic and should be viewed only as recommendations, unless specific regulatory or statutory requirements are cited. The use of the word should in Agency guidelines means that something is suggested or recommended, but not required."
   "Health problems caused by lead consumed by children are well documented. Clearly the FDA understands this and has rightly taken steps to lower acceptable levels in candy. But without proper enforcement, children will still be consuming lead and health problems will persist. That is unacceptable," Bingaman said. 
   Some of the health problems in children that have been associated with lead consumption affect the liver, kidney, lung, heart and central nervous system. Lead consumption is also associated with decreased intelligence, impaired behavioral development, student growth and impaired hearing. 
   Bingaman urged the FDA to work in close partnership with the U.S.-Mexico Border Health Commission on this and other issues. Much of the candy that contains lead is imported to the United States from Mexico. 
   In a separate letter to von Eschenhach, Bingaman also asked that the FDA take a closer look at recent studies that raise questions about the safety of the artificial sweetener aspartame.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 