LAS CRUCES NATIVE NOMINATED FOR HIGH LEVEL ADMINISTRATION POST, APPEARS BEFORE SENATE COMMITTEE
  U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today welcomed Kerry Weems to the Senate Finance Committee, where the New Mexico native discussed his pending confirmation to head the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare.  
   President Bush nominated Weems, a Las Cruces native, to the position in May. Bingaman and Domenici introduced Weems at the hearing, which is the first step toward Senate confirmation. 
   "Kerry Weems has spent more than two decades in government helping administer federal health care programs," said Bingaman, a member of the Senate Finance Committee. "New Mexicans rely very heavily on Medicaid and Medicare, and we need a highly competent leader at the top running these two programs." 
   "Kerry Weems's experience developing and executing Health and Human Service policy and strategy makes him immanently qualified to administer and oversee these important health care programs. Kerry has dedicated his career to good public service, and he has now been asked to take on the difficult job of administering Medicare and Medicaid and make them work more effectively. I offer Mr. Weems my fullest confidence and support," said Domenici, the former Budget Committee chairman who has advocated entitlement reforms to extend the longevity of programs like Medicare. 
   Weems earned a master of business administration from the University of New Mexico, and undergraduate degrees in both business administration and philosophy from New Mexico State University. 
   Weems joined the Department of Health and Human Services in 1983 as a junior analyst. Since then, he has served in a variety of senior leadership positions, including acting assistant HHS secretary for budget, technology and finance, and chief financial officer. He currently serves as the deputy chief of staff to HHS Secretary Mike Leavitt. 
   He has received a number of prestigious federal awards including the HHS Senior Management Citation (1993), the Secretary's Distinguished Service award (1995), and the Presidential Rank Award, which President Clinton presented him with in 2000.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 