SEN. BINGAMAN OUTLINES KEY TRANSPORTATION SPENDING PRIORITIES FOR ALBUQEURQUE AREA
  As Congress prepares to begin the process of writing the 12 appropriations bills that fund government agencies, Sen. Jeff Bingaman today outlined his fiscal year 2007 transportation spending priorities for southern New Mexico.  
   In a letter to top Senate appropriators, Bingaman requested $25 million to help extend RailRunner Commuter Rail service from Bernalillo to Santa Fe. Bingaman helped secured $500,000 for the project in fiscal year 2006.
   "New Mexico's commuter rail service will help reduce traffic congestion, improve air quality, and provide many commuters with an alterative to high gas prices. Extending service to Santa Fe is the next step and this funding would help make it possible," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman is also seeking $10 million to help complete reconstruction of the I-40/Coors Interchange. An upgrade to the interchange is currently underway and is expected to be completed later this year. Funding being sought by Bingaman would be used to construct an additional overpass at Coors and Quail, which is needed to accommodate increased traffic through the area.
   "The I-40 and Coors interchange is the second most heavily traveled intersection in New Mexico. This funding will help complete reconstruction of the interchange and alleviate many traffic headaches," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman is also seeking funding for the following projects:
   $13.69 million for improvements to Eubank Boulevard between Academy and Paseo del Norte: The road is currently two lanes and experiences severe congestion during peak hours. The project includes left turn lanes, an additional through lane in each direction and frontage roads. 
   $10.5 million for new buses for Albuquerque: Funding would be used to purchase new buses and associated equipment. Bingaman helped secure $775,000 in FY2006 for buses.
   $10 million to reconstruct the Aircraft Parking Ramp at the Albuquerque International Sunport: Funding would be used to finalize design and begin construction of the parking ramp. Bingaman helped secure $11 million for the project in FY06 and $1.8 million in FY05.
   $5 million for the University Blvd Extension to serve Mesa del Sol: Construction of a 2-lane extension is currently underway and is expected to be completed this summer. Funding being requested would be used to expand the extension to four-lanes. Funding would also be used to build a second bridge over Los Picaros Road and to provide for ramps to permit traffic traveling on Los Picaros to access University Blvd. Bingaman secured $1.75 million in FY2004 for the project. 
   $2.15 million for Bus and Bus Facilities in Sandoval County: The funds would be used to build a new 6,000-square foot transit center near the site of the county Judicial Complex and Health Commons, purchase 8 transit vans and 2 buses, construct 5 bus pullouts on NM 528, and obtain associated equipment. The project will provide coordinated transit services for urban and rural county residents. The total cost of the project is $2.7 million. 
   $3 million for the new Mesa del Sol I-25 Interchange: The new interchange will provide direct access to I-25 for the 9,000-acre Mesa del Sol project. Bingaman secured $2.25 million in FY2005 and $2 million in FY2006.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 