SEN. BINGAMAN HIGHLIGHTS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DIVERTING SOCIAL SECURITY FUNDS TO PRIVATE ACCOUNTS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is concerned about the Bush administration's plans to divert Social Security funds for investment into personal, private accounts - a move that would reduce or eliminate the guaranteed benefit New Mexico workers have earned.  
   At a Senate Finance Committee hearing today, Bingaman said stocks by their nature are risky investments. 
   "It is one thing to invest in stocks in addition to the guaranteed Social Security benefit, but quite another to invest in riskier assets with Social Security funds. This is particularly true if Social Security makes up most, if not all, of a person's retirement income, as is the case with many New Mexicans," Bingaman said. 
   "Social Security was started to provide a guaranteed benefit so that American seniors who worked hard for a living would not have to spend their golden years in poverty. I cannot support a plan that would eliminate the guaranteed benefit," he added. 
   In addition to the risky nature of investing in the stock market, Bingaman cites the huge cost as a reason to reject the White House proposal to privatize Social Security. 
   Estimates are that the cost to privatize Social Security could much as $5 trillion to privatize the program. Bingaman points out that our country is already deep in debt, and the president's plan would require us to borrow trillions more dollars. 
   Furthermore, the President's plan depends on making significant changes to the way benefits are calculated, resulting in cuts of nearly 50 percent.
   "It's true that in about 50 years, Social Security will be required to pay out more than it is collecting. There are steps we can and should take to strengthen Social Security for the future. And there's no question that we should encourage Americans to save for their retirement so that they are not depending solely on Social Security during their golden years," Bingaman said. "But privatizing Social Security is not the answer." 
   In New Mexico it is estimated that Social Security has reduced the poverty of seniors from 45 percent to 12 percent, pulling an about 800,000 seniors above the poverty line. Without Social Security, 48 percent of New Mexico's seniors would be living in poverty. Bingaman also noted that without Social Security, 54 percent of New Mexico Hispanics would be living in poverty.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 