SEN. BINGAMAN PRESSES TOP BUSH ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS ABOUT RELEASE OF $24 MILLION FOR LOSS OF TB INFECTED CATTLE HERD
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today continued his efforts to protect New Mexico's livestock industry by calling on top Bush Administration officials to immediately release funding needed to address the state's latest bovine tuberculosis (TB) outbreak.  
   Last month, a number of dairy cattle in Curry County tested positive for TB. Unless certain requirements are met by mid September, the U.S. Agriculture Department could change New Mexico's TB status to one that requires all ranchers and dairies - not only those in a portion of Roosevelt and Curry counties - to conduct expensive TB tests on any cattle shipped out of state. One requirement is that the one infected herd be destroyed. 
   Bingaman today talked to USDA Secretary Michael Johanns to follow up on a letter requesting the department make $24 million in emergency funding available to help the dairy owner destroy the infected herd. Although the request was accepted by USDA it had not yet been sent to the White House's Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval, which is the final step before the funding can be released. 
   "I am pleased to have Secretary Johann's assurance that his request for funding is now on its way to OMB," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman yesterday also talked to OMB Director Rob Portman and asked him to expedite USDA's request for funds for the indemnity payments for the loss of the infected herd. Portman assured Bingaman that his staff will be on the lookout for the request and will be prepared to expedite their review once it arrives. 
   "New Mexico's $2 billion livestock industry is an important part of the state's economy," Bingaman said. "It is vital that the federal government do what is necessary to ensure that farmers and ranchers are protected from unnecessary expenses, while protecting their herds from TB." Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 