SENATE APPROVES LEGISLATION THAT SUPPORTS FUNDING FOR CAREER, TECHNICAL EDUCATION
  The U.S. Senate today approved legislation that sets federal spending levels for career and technical education programs at high schools, community colleges, and tribal colleges in New Mexico and across the country. Sen. Jeff Bingaman, a longtime member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, helped write the bill. 
   Bingaman inserted a number of provisions in the bill that would help Tribally Controlled Post-Secondary Career and Technical institutions access more federal funding to better serve their students. New Mexico is the home to Crownpoint Institute of Technology - one of two tribally controlled post-secondary institutions that prepare Native American students to compete in the 21st century workforce.  
   As a member of the bipartisan group of legislators that wrote the final version of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, Bingaman was able to put the following in the bill to benefit Crownpoint: 
   * A provision that allows Crownpoint to count fall and spring semester enrollment, instead of just fall enrollment. This more accurate student count could provide Crownpoint with additional federal funds to serve its students. 
   * A provision that allows Crownpoint to file a dispute with the U.S. Department of Education about the level of federal funding it receives, if it believes it is being shortchanged. 
   "Crownpoint does a great job serving its students. This bill will help Crownpoint get adequate federal resources to support its programs and prepare students for a lifetime of success," Bingaman said. 
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici strongly supported Bingaman's efforts on Crownpoint. "I'm pleased that the Senate is reauthorizing the Carl Perkins Vocation Education Act, because that bill allows the Crownpoint Institute of Technology to receive federal funds. Crownpoint helps Native American students obtain valuable technical education, which helps set them up for successful careers. I will continue to support CIT through this legislation and the appropriations process," Domenici said. 
   The overall bill increases the academic and technical standards of career and technical education programs, aligning them with nationally recognized business and industry standards, in order to prepare students for post-secondary education and high skill, high wage employment. 
   The measure also ensures that teachers in career and technical education programs have adequate skills and knowledge to effectively teach students and incorporate challenging academic content. Also, the bill expands career guidance and academic counseling services so that students have a career plan and career objectives. 
   "Every high school student should graduate with the skills they need to succeed in a good job, or to attend a two-year or four-year college. In fact, strong career and technical education is critical if our students are going to be able to compete in a global economy. This legislation makes a much-needed investment in the career and technical education programs that are preparing thousands of New Mexico's young people for employment and continuing education," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman was particularly influential in writing the provisions that support smaller learning communities and career academies. Smaller learning environments and career academies are shown to enhance students' academic achievement and motivation to learn. 
   "There are more than 100,000 students in New Mexico who pursue career and technical education programs, at both the high school and post-secondary level. We should insist that these students are getting the kind of relevant, rigorous training that will serve them well in their careers. That's what this bill sets out to do," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman pointed out that this program has very strong bipartisan support in the United States Congress, and believes it sends a signal to the White House that Congress will not go along with the president's plan to eliminate funding for career and technical education programs, as the President has proposed for the past three years. New Mexico received approximately $10 million in career and technical education programs. The House of Representatives must pass the bill before it can be sent to the White House for signature.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 