SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN WELCOME AIR FORCE INTENT TO SLOW DOWN F-117 PHASE OUT
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today welcomed reports that Air Force officials will slow down the retirement of F-117 Stealth Fighter aircraft from Holloman Air Force Base.  
   Citing concerns by top commanders who feared a capability gap, Air Force Secretary Michael Wynne has publicly stated that the Pentagon will revise its schedule to retire its F-117 aircraft in order to allow for more F-22 Raptor aircraft to come online. 
   Domenici and Bingaman have repeatedly aired concerns that the Air Force would be left without needed airpower if the F-117 was retired too far in advance of F-22As being available. Original plans have called for a full phase-out of the F-117 by FY2008. 
   "I'm very pleased the Pentagon is listening to its commanders and declared its intent to slow down the retirements of the F-117s. Until F-22A Raptor's are online, the F-117 can still be a valuable tool in the war on terror. I look forward to learning more details about the Pentagon's plans, and will do my best to ensure that assets based at Holloman Air Force Base are managed as effectively as possible," said Domenici, a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee which funds DOD programs. 
   "Retiring the F-117s before they could be replaced with the Raptor seemed not only to defy logic, but it didn't appear to be in the best interest of our national security. I'm glad the Air Force wants to make the switch in a slower, more orderly fashion," Bingaman said. 
   Early this week, Domenici and Bingaman are meeting with members of the Alamogordo Committee of 50, who are visiting Washington to discuss Holloman's future. 
   Secretary Wynne made his comments to the Defense Writers Group on Sept. 12. The revised schedule will be released as part of the Defense Department's proposed FY2008 budget, which is an evolving document that will be delivered to Congress next February. Ten aircraft will be retired as year as part of the FY2007 budget process. 
   Domenici and Bingaman are proponents of a multi-year procurement plan for the F-22 which will ensure that the aircraft are built and delivered to Holloman. The plan is included in the FY2007 Defense Appropriations Bill, which is expected pass the Senate this week.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 