SEN. BINGAMAN INTRODUCES THREE BILLS TO STRENGTHEN MEDICARE
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today introduced three separate measures aimed at strengthening Medicare - the health care program that serves older Americans and those with significant disabilities. 
   The first bill, called "Ending the Medicare Disability Waiting Act of 2007," would phase out the two-year period that disabled people currently must wait before they receive Medicare benefits. Currently, a person who is eligible for Medicare because of a disability must wait 24-month before receiving Medicare benefits.  
   Bingaman's legislation phases the 24-month waiting period out over 10 years. As it is phased out, the Secretary of Health and Human Services would be able to waive the waiting period for people with life-threatening illnesses. 
   According to an April 2007 report from the Commonwealth Fund, it is estimated that over 1.5 million disabled beneficiaries are in the Medicare waiting period at any given time, "all of whom are unable to work because of their disability and most of whom have serious health problems, low incomes, and limited access to health insurance." Nearly 39 percent of these individuals do not have health insurance coverage for some point during the waiting period and 26 percent have no health insurance during this period. 
   "Of the estimated 400,000 uninsured disabled Americans in the waiting period at any given time, 16,000 of them will die awaiting Medicare coverage. Why are we denying Medicare coverage to those who need it most? It just doesn't make sense," Bingaman said. 
   While Medicare costs would rise if Bingaman's bill was adopted, Medicaid costs would be decreased. That would, in turn, reduce the state's Medicaid contribution. 
   The second bill Bingaman introduced would provide disable Americans with the mobility devices, such as wheelchairs, they need to live independently. 
   Right now, Medicare only pays for wheelchairs that are for use in the home, preventing individuals who need a wheelchair for mobility - and who depend on Medicare to pay for the wheelchair - from going out into their communities and leading independent lives. 
   Bingaman's "Medicare Independent Living Act of 2007" would ensure that wheelchairs and other mobility devices are covered under Medicare if they are needed by patients either in our out of the home. 
   "Wheelchairs make it possible for otherwise homebound individuals to have the freedom and opportunity to get around outside their homes," Bingaman said. "This bill allows people with disabilities to live independently in their community and I hope my colleagues in the Senate support it." 
   Bingaman's third measure would renew and make important improvements to the "Medicare Savings Programs" or "MSPs", which provide critical financial assistance for poor elderly and disabled Americans to meet their Medicare cost-sharing requirements'. 
   Bingaman's measure would permanently extend the one such program - called Qualified Individual Program (QI-1) - which helps seniors pay for their monthly Medicare Part B premiums. The QI-1 program is set to expire Sunday. 
   "Low-income seniors already have trouble meeting their basic needs of food and housing. Their difficulties are only compounded by the need for basic health care coverage," Bingaman said. "Congress recognized that these seniors need our help, and have been helping them defray the cost of their health care premiums. We must not abandon them by letting this initiative expire." 
   QI-1 pays the monthly Part B Medicare premium, which is currently set at $93.50 but is expected to rise to $109.40 in 2008. Medicare Part B covers outpatient services such as doctor visits, lab work, and preventive care including flu shots and cancer screenings. To qualify for coverage under the program, an individual's monthly income must be between 120 and 135 percent of the federal poverty level. That's approximately $10,000 for single seniors and $ 14,000 for couples. 
   QI-1 was created as a 5-year initiative in 1997. Congress has since extended the program on a yearly basis. Bingaman's bill would make QI-1 permanent. 
   It also would make several improvements to the Medicare Savings Programs application processes that will make these low-income benefits both more efficient to administer and more accessible to the individuals who need them. It would also seek to simplify the process of applying for Medicare Savings Programs and make the Programs more understandable to low-income senior citizens and people with disabilities, as well as State and Federal Government officials. 
   Such improvements are critical as participation rates in the MSPs which range from 33 percent of eligible beneficiaries to as few as 13 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
   All three bills were referred to the Senate Finance Committee, which is expected to take up a large Medicare package in the coming weeks. Bingaman is a member of that panel.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 