SEN. BINGAMAN APPLAUDS MOVEMENT OF KEY BILL IN HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today applauded the House Natural Resources Committee for clearing legislation that expands the Secure Rural Schools program and provides for full-funding of the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program.  
   The legislation passed by the Natural Resources Committee is similar to a bill Bingaman helped write in the Senate. 
   "I congratulate the House Natural Resources Committee for moving ahead with this important legislation. I will continue working on this important issue in the Senate, and hope we can get a bill to the president soon," Bingaman said. 
   In addition to fully funding PILT, the Senate version of the legislation would expand the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in New Mexico from about $2.3 million to about $20 million. That program supports counties that rely economically on National Forest lands. 
   Bingaman, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, worked with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senator Pete Domenici and others in the Senate to negotiate the proposal. It was approved earlier this year as part of an emergency spending package, but was dropped during final negotiations. 
   The proposal would have provided about $2.8 billion through 2011 to fund counties with National Forest lands under the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (commonly referred to as the "county payments" program). It is estimated that New Mexico would receive a total of $97 million from 2007-2012 under the program. Currently, New Mexico receives about $2.3 million annually under the program, which expired last year. 
   The proposal also takes PILT out of the annual appropriations process, instead ensuring that full-funding is automatic through 2012. Bingaman has sponsored legislation for several years that would make full funding for PILT mandatory. Full-funding for PILT would provide about a 35 percent increase in total funding for the program. In 2006, New Mexico was the number one beneficiary of the program, receiving $22.8 million. Thirty-two New Mexico counties receive PILT payments.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 