SEN. BINGAMAN MEETS WITH CHERTOFF TO OUTLINE BORDER SECURITY CONCERNS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today met with Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and called on him to identify border security needs in New Mexico and to outline what resources are needed to secure the border. 
   Bingaman has continuously pressed the Bush administration to craft a comprehensive plan for addressing security concerns along the country's southern border. While the secretary was able to say his department is stepping up enforcement of certain immigration laws, Bingaman was disappointed to learn that DHS had not yet identified specific needs for improve border security in New Mexico. Chertoff said, in fact, that no such proposals will be ready before September. 
   "It's disappointing that DHS hasn't completed its assessment of what tools are needed to better secure our borders," Bingaman said. "We need to know what specific measures must be taken to secure the border so that Congress can get to work on them." 
   Bingaman also urged Chertoff to extend operating hours at the Santa Teresa Port of Entry by four hours. Current staffing levels and hours of operation have created long delays at Santa Teresa and have forced the port to close at times.
   "Increasing operation hours at Santa Teresa would help encourage people and businesses to use New Mexico's ports of entry and would be a big boost to the state's economy," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman today announced he plans to introduce an amendment to the fiscal year 2007 Emergency Supplemental bill currently on the Senate floor that would provide an additional $20 million for the Border Patrol's El Paso Sector for infrastructure, such as roads, vehicle barrier, and lighting. The El Paso Sector covers 125,500 square miles including the entire state of New Mexico.
   Bingaman is also the author of an amendment that was approved as part of the immigration bill the Senate was considering earlier this month that would authorize $50 million in grant funding to border law enforcement agencies within 100 miles of the northern and southern international borders to hire additional personnel, purchase equipment, and/or to cover overtime and transportation costs.
   Bingaman continues to work to help keep America's borders safe, and over the years has secured millions of dollars in funding for additional border patrol agents, vehicle barriers, and programs aimed at combating drug trafficking and illegal immigration. Additionally, in 2003 Bingaman established the Southwest New Mexico Border Security Task Force (BSTF), which brings together border residents, federal agencies, and state and local law enforcement, to discuss concrete ways to improve border security.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 