SEN. BINGAMAN: BILL WOULD IMPROVE CHRONIC DISEASE SCREENING, TREATMENT
  A key Senate committee today endorsed key health care legislation cosponsored by Sen. Jeff Bingaman.
   The Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which Bingaman is member of, today approved legislation that would help reduce barriers to health care for millions of Americans, particularly those in underserved and minority communities.  
   The "Patient Navigator, Outreach, and Chronic Disease Prevention Act of 2005" would establish a pilot program and authorize grants to direct individuals to affordable and accessible prevention, detection and treatment services for cancer and other life-threatening diseases.
   "For those battling chronic illnesses, maneuvering thought the complex and bureaucratic health care system can be overwhelming and frustrating. This bill would help patients overcome many of these barriers and helps them get the information, early diagnosis, and treatment needed to combat their illness," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman said the bill would establish "navigator" programs at health centers, hospitals and non-profits to help patients make their way through the health care system. Trained individuals within the community will also be enlisted to facilitate access to chronic disease care and/or prevention services. The bill will also evaluate programs to determine the most efficient practices as well as provide for the development of a model system by the Health and Human Services Secretary. 
   The legislation builds upon and expands the success of model projects being conducted by the National Cancer Institute at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) on patient navigator programs. The NIH has stated that "patient navigators can make the difference between someone from an underserved population becoming a cancer survivor or a cancer death. If navigators get involved early enough after a person has received a cancer diagnosis, they can help steer patients and their families to appropriate care and treatment that could dramatically improve patients' chances of getting the best care and have an opportunity to live with cancer as a manageable disease."
   The bill can now be considered by the full Senate.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 