SEN. BINGAMAN ADDRESSES NATIONAL CONGRESS OF AMERICAN INDIANS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today addressed the National Congress of American Indians, saying he is concerned about the lack of attention in the White House's 2007 budget gives to Indian Country. NCAI President Gov. Joe Garcia of Ohkay Owingeh asked Bingaman to address the organization, which is met in Washington today to discuss issues of concern.  
   "Potentially disastrous cuts in health and education as well as continuing inadequate funding for housing and community development programs present a significant challenge to Indian communities. This chronic underfunding of these programs is short sighted and threatens to continue the cycle of economic disenfranchisement that has resulted in many Tribal communities being counted among the most vulnerable in the country. It is a cycle we in the Federal Government have a special obligation to help break," Bingaman said. 
   "Real progress was made in Indian Country throughout the 90s, as average income levels rose by a third. However, I believe the current cuts we are seeing to necessary programs threaten to roll back the gains we have made in combating poverty and giving individuals the tools they need to succeed. Per capita income on reservations is half the national average and Indian unemployment is roughly twice that of the rest of the population, so there is much work yet to be done. Budgets are tight and the country has many needs to fund, both here and on foreign soil, but I believe it is wrong to place the heaviest burden on those that can least bear it, as I think this budget does," he added. 
   Bingaman said he is particularly concerned with proposed cuts to health care programs that benefit urban Indians.
   "On the heels of recent Medicaid cuts, the Bush Administration has proposed a budget that will cut additional funding to the Indian Health Service with the added twist of complete elimination of funding to the nation's 34 urban Indian health clinics, including First Nations in New Mexico, which serves the 30,000+ urban Indians in the Albuquerque area," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman said he will join in the fight to turn back deep cuts to initiatives that benefit Indian Country.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 