SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI BEGIN BUILDING CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT FOR NAVAJO WATER SETTLEMENT LEGISLATION
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today said they will press for Senate passage of their legislation to enact a settlement of the Navajo Nation's water claims to San Juan River Basin water - despite the Bush administration's opposition to it.
   Bingaman introduced and Domenici cosponsored the Northwestern New Mexico Rural Water Projects Act (S. 1171), which would codify an April 2005 agreement signed by the State of New Mexico and the Navajo Nation. If enacted into law, the agreement will for the first time provide a sustainable water supply to much of the Navajo Nation, where it is estimated that 40 percent of residents haul water for use in their homes. It also would ensure Gallup has water to meet its future needs, by constructing a pipeline to bring San Juan River water to the city. 
   "This settlement was a long time in the making, and I commend the Navajo Nation and the State of New Mexico for working hard to come to an agreement," said Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "Today's hearing is the first of many steps that need to be taken to get this enacted into law. But we are beginning to build support for our bill in the Senate."
   "The lack of water infrastructure on the Navajo Nation is deplorable. I've long dreamed of bringing a reliable source of water to the Navajo Nation and the city of Gallup. It's a problem that has existed for far too long, and we now have a plan to realistically address this. We must move forward," said Domenici, ranking member of the committee.
   Witnesses testifying in strong support of the legislation included N.M. State Engineer John D'Antonio and Navajo Nation President Joe Shirley.
   But the N.M. Senators were very disappointed to learn that the Bush administration opposes their bill. In their testimony, Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Robert Johnson and Department of Interior Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs Carl Artman alleged that the federal government was not part of the process that led to the settlement agreement.
   The administration also claimed the roughly $900 million it would cost to implement the settlement was too high. Yet, over the past four years, the Bush administration spent almost $2.5 billion to settle water rights claims in other parts of the West, an additional $1.6 billion to address water issues in developing countries, and $2.3 billion on water infrastructure and management in Iraq.
   "I found the Bush administration's testimony very disturbing. Six years ago, I asked the Interior Department to get involved with negotiations and I was told a team was assigned to participate. Now the department is claiming they weren't involved. That just doesn't make sense to me," Bingaman said. "I am equally concerned about the claim that this water settlement is too expensive. Why is it that the Bush administration can find billions of dollars for other water projects, but when it comes to New Mexico there's no funding left?"
   "I am so frustrated with the Office of Management and Budget and its near total stonewalling on our water settlements. This is, I believe, preventing Interior Secretary Kempthorne and his departments from keeping his commitment to make the Navajo settlement a priority--to finally solve the problem. I say we charge ahead and force the administration to be part of the solution," Domenici said.
   At the hearing, President Shirley pointed to Code Talker Navajo Nation resident Frank Chee Willeto, who was in the audience, who has been hauling water his entire life.
   "In times of crisis, brave Navajo men and women have rushed to the country's aide, and fought and died not only for the preservation of the American ideal, but also to preserve the Navajo culture and to secure a Navajo homeland. A homeland for the Navajo People is not merely a piece of land between our four sacred mountains but a place where our culture, our language, our people can grow and live. Without water, viable economic and social communities wither and die," Shirley said in his testimony.
   Bingaman and Domenici said they hope to soon schedule a vote in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 