ENERGY COMMITTEE HOLDS HEARING ON SEN. BINGAMAN MEASURE TO PROTECT FOSSILIZED TRACKS IN DO?A ANA COUNTY
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today heard testimony in strong support of legislation authored by Sen. Jeff Bingaman that would protect fossilized prehistoric animal tracks in the Robledo Mountains. Bingaman is the top Democrat on the Energy Committee. 
   Bingaman's "Prehistoric Trackways National Monument Establishment Act" seeks to create a new national monument out of approximately 5,367 acres of Bureau of Land Management land and preserve it for further scientific investigation. Senator Pete Domenici is a cosponsor of the bill.  
   Bingaman first took an interest in this issue in 1990 with the passage of legislation he wrote to study the significance of the tracks. That study, performed by the New Mexico Museum of Natural History & Science, the University of Colorado, and the Smithsonian Institution, said the site is of immense historic value because of the quality of the tracks and the wide range of prehistoric animals that left their imprint. 
   Bingaman pointed out that the area to be set aside as a monument contains the prints of numerous amphibians, reptiles, and insects, plants and petrified wood dating back 280,000,000 years. 
   "These unique fossils are unlike anything ever discovered in the country and even the world. This legislation would preserve and protect them, making them available for the public and the scientific community. These trackways serve as a "Rosetta stone," enabling the interpretation and understanding of ancient fossils from around the world," Bingaman said. 
   The Prehistoric Trackways National Monument Establishment Act would ensure that this area of the Robledo Mountains is set aside to recognize and preserve for future study these unique fossils. It also requires the Secretary of the Interior to provide public interpretation of the paleontological resources at the site, and prioritize exhibiting and curating the resources in Do?a Ana County. 
   "I am aware of the concerns of the off road vehicle users, but I am committed to protecting these rare tracks and I am comfortable with the parameters in the bill. After a review of the hearing testimony, I believe that we will be better able to authorize all uses in the area that are not inconsistent with the purposes of the bill. I will continue to work with Senator Bingaman to accomplish the objective of protecting the prehistoric trackway sites," said Domenici, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   Adrian P. Hunt, Ph.D. Executive Director of the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science testified before the committee on the uniqueness of the fossilized tracks. 
   "The fossil footprint localities in the Robledo Mountains of Do?a Ana County, New Mexico are the most important Permian (pre-dinosaurian) tracksites in the world. Scientists around the world recognize their importance. The quantity and quality of the tracks of animals of all kinds, from large reptiles to small arthropods, is unmatched. They are one of the most significant fossil resources in the nation. The tracks have tremendous potential, not only for educational purposes, but also for economic development in southern New Mexico. A National Monument would undoubtedly become a national draw for tourists," Hunt said. 
   Chad Calvert, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Land and Minerals Management at the U.S. Department of the Interior endorsed the Bingaman's idea to protect the site. 
   "The legislation before the Committee today would designate 5,367 acres of public land in Do?a Ana County as the Prehistoric Trackways National Monument. The legislation's stated goal is to conserve, protect, and enhance the unique and nationally important paleontological, scientific, educational, scenic, and recreational resources and values of the area. We strongly support those goals and legislation to implement them," Calvert said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 