SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN SAY DOE MUST HELP CLOSE LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY BUDGET GAP
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today said that the Department of Energy and National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) must take immediate action to mitigate planned jobs losses associated with unfunded mandates placed on Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
   Lab Director Dr. Michael Anasasio today reported that LANL will begin reducing contractor employment workers this year to offset new expenditures associated with additional fees, labor costs and gross receipts taxes owed to the state of New Mexico.  
   Domenici and Bingaman predicted the current budget woes in March 2005 when DOE and National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) issued its request for proposals for finding a new contractor for LANL, and pressed the federal agencies to address overhead costs when finalizing the contract. 
   "Director Anastasio has the difficult task of having to close a budget gap rooted in actions beyond his doing. The DOE, NNSA, the lab, and the even the state of New Mexico, must get back to the root causes of these layoffs--higher taxes, larger fees and pension costs. The pain must be shared and we will have to work together to lessen the economic hit on the lab workers, contractors and northern New Mexico," Domenici said. "We are in an extremely difficult budget situation and it isn't even clear what our DOE budget allocation will be for next year. No one should be betting on a congressional bailout now or in the next several years." 
   "We predicted this funding shortfall and asked the DOE to address the root causes. Unfortunately, the DOE dismissed the concerns and today we're learning what the potential impact on the lab will be. For the DOE and NNSA to have failed to plan and budget for the very management changes they were imposing on one of its most important laboratories is almost incomprehensible," said Bingaman. "The department's failure to properly plan for this management change should not have to be borne by workers in our state." 
   The root causes of the funding shortfall were in plain sight for as long as the contact restructuring has been in progress. These causes are linked to: the change in the applicability of the gross receipts tax to Los Alamos, due to its new not-for-profit contractor; the costs of the changes in the pension plan that were dictated by the NNSA and DOE; and the increased management fee that was part of the new contract proposed by NNSA and DOE. 
   In the March 2005 letter to Bodman, Domenici and Bingaman warned that provisions in the contract RFP would significantly increase the overhead costs to operate the lab. "We believe that many of the initiatives proposed by the NNSA to increase competition would significantly add to the overhead cost of the lab by an estimated $100 million per year over current spending. In addition this does not include the costs associated with the mandate of a stand-alone pension plan with retiree health benefits," their letter said. 
   The letter went on to ask Bodman to give full consideration "to the issue of overhead cost and the impact the potential increases will have on stockpile stewardship and scientific research within the Department of Energy and at Los Alamos." 
   The Secretary's March 24, 2005 response asserted that the new LANL contract "will bring about long-term efficiencies in the operation of LANL that will offset any short-term increase in overhead expenses." 
   Today, the Senators called on Bodman to find ways to close the budget gap without laying-off laboratory contractors.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 