N.M. SENATORS BACK BILL TO IMPROVE HOUSING FOR NATIVE AMERICAN COMMUNITIES
  U.S. Senators Pete V. Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today announced their support for legislation to make housing more accessible, safe, and affordable in Native American communities, including New Mexico's tribes and pueblos.  
   Domenici and Bingaman are original cosponsors of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act (NAHASDA), S.2062, which was introduced by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.). The legislation will reauthorize NAHASDA and continue to assist Native communities to provide their citizens with housing that is culturally relevant, adequate, and affordable. 
   The legislation was approved Thursday morning by the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, of which Domenici is a member. It is now ready for consideration by the full Senate. 
   "New Mexico's Indian population stands to benefit greatly from NAHASDA's reauthorization. As a state with a diverse group of tribes and pueblos, this legislation will provide these entities with the resources needed to encourage self-sufficiency through affordable and accessible housing opportunities in their respective areas," said Domenici. 
   "Over the years, NAHASDA has played a significant role in upgrading the quality of homes in Indian Country. This legislation will help ensure this important work continues," Bingaman said. 
   Originally enacted in 1996, NAHASDA sought to provide funds for tribal entities as they looked to create housing unique to residents in their respective areas. Since FY1998, NAHASDA has provided over $5.7 billion to help Indian families secure viable housing, including down payment and rent assistance, home construction, and rehabilitation through programs such as the Indian Housing Block Grant program. 
   New Mexico is home to 22 reservation and tribal areas, which include: Acoma Pueblo, Cochiti Pueblo, Isleta Pueblo, Jemez Pueblo, the Jicarilla Apache Nation, Laguna Pueblo, Mescalero Apache Reservation, Nambe Pueblo, the Navajo Nation, Picuris Pueblo, Pojoaque Pueblo, Sandia Pueblo, San Felipe Pueblo, San Ildefonso Pueblo, San Juan Pueblo, Santa Ana Pueblo, Santa Clara Pueblo, Santo Domingo Pueblo, Taos Pueblo, Tesuque Pueblo, Zia Pueblo, and Zuni Pueblo.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 