SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN INTRODUCE CONSENSUS BILL TO ENSURE AMERICAN COMPETITIVENESS
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today joined Senate leadership to introduce bipartisan, consensus legislation to make America more competitive by investing in education, science and technology.  
   The National Competitiveness Investment Act (NCIA) builds on the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Acts introduced by the Senators earlier this year. The new bill (S.3936), sponsored by Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), combines PACE Act provisions with other competitiveness initiatives to form one large, consensus bill that will face an easier road to passage when Congress reconvenes in November. 
   "This legislation represents an effort to incorporate all the best Senate proposals to help us make America a global leader in science and technology once again. By including the provisions of our PACE Act, it will directly address the concerns raised in the National Academies of Science report. By coming together on a consensus bill, we have an improved chance of achievements this year, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get it done this year," Domenici said. 
   "To remain competitive in the global marketplace, our country must sustain a vibrant science and technology sector, which means we must ensure our young people enter the workforce with a strong math and science foundation. Our legislation will improve math and science education at all levels and expand research and development in those fields, while at the same time providing the means for addressing the country's most pressing environmental, security and health challenges," Bingaman said. 
   NCIA includes portions of bills passed by Domenici and Bingaman's Energy and Natural Resources Committee, as well as legislation approved by the Senate Commerce Committee. The bill increases research investment, strengthens educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering and math for students of all ages, and establishes a Presidential Council on Innovation and Competitiveness. 
   The legislation authorizes doubling the funding for the National Science Foundation in five years and sets the Department of Energy's Office of Science on a path to double over ten years. It creates a Innovation Acceleration Research Program to encourage federal agencies to set aside 8 percent of research and development funding for high risk, high pay-off research. 
   NCIA will provide innovative opportunities by authorizing competitive grants to states that establish state-wide specialty schools in math and science. It will involve our national laboratories, including Los Alamos and Sandia, to teach young people by training math and science teachers and by creating partnerships between labs and local high schools to build centers of excellence where DOE's top scientists can provide hands-on learning for both students and teachers. The NCIA will also expand Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate programs, and develop and implement secondary degree training programs for teachers. 
   The PACE Acts, introduced in March, had 70 cosponsors. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Domenici and Bingaman as original cosponsors 
   The FY2007 Senate Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill contains $1.2 billion for competitiveness activities. In addition, $25 million is included in the Senate's FY2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill for teacher training in conjunction with DOE national labs.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 