SEN. BINGAMAN: SCHIP BILL WILL ALLOW NEW MEXICO TO PROVIDE HEALTH COVERAGE TO MORE CHILDREN
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he is very pleased that the Senate has approved legislation he helped write that will extend health care coverage to four million uninsured children - including thousands of young New Mexicans. 
   But Bingaman said he is very disappointed that President Bush has threatened to veto this vital legislation - which reauthorizes the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). SCHIP is a state/federal health care initiative crated in 1997 that covers millions of children and others who do not qualify for Medicaid but whose families cannot afford health insurance.  
   "Nearly 50 million Americans lack health insurance, and unfortunately many of them are children. This legislation will help us reach out to more young Americans, ensuring they have the care they need to be healthy," Bingaman said. "I think it would be a big mistake for President Bush to veto this bill. I hope he reconsiders his decision." 
   The bill sets aside $35 billion in new federal funding over the next five years to ensure that more than 10 million American children will either maintain health care coverage or receive it for the first time. 
   As a result of this legislation, New Mexico would stand to receive $195 million for SCHIP next year, and that amount could potentially increase in the succeeding four years as the state continues its health expansion proposals. With this funding, tens-of-thousands of additional New Mexico children - and adults - would have access to health care for the first time. 
   Bingaman, as a member of Senate Finance Committee, worked extensively on the bill and had several provisions included in the measure to specifically address New Mexico's needs.
   For instance, Bingaman was influential in requiring SCHIP to provide dental services. Bingaman has been fighting for years to extend dental coverage to young Americans through SCHIP. 
   "Too many young people are suffering because they lack dental care. As a result, they're living with pain. That's unacceptable. I am very glad this legislation will require states to provide basic dental service through SCHIP," Bingaman said. 
   Also at Bingaman's urging, the measure corrects an inequity in the law that has prevented New Mexico from covering a certain category of low-income New Mexico children, and required the state to return more than $180 million to the federal government since 1998. By ensuring that that this category of children could be covered, Bingaman has ensured that New Mexico will be able to utilize most of its SCHIP funding. 
   Bingaman was also successful in protecting the ability of New Mexico to cover parents and other low-income adults through SCHIP and Medicaid. 
   The bill also creates an initiative that Bingaman pushed for many years, which would allow states to automatically enroll children in SCHIP if they have already been deemed eligible for another public program, such as the National School Lunch Program or the Food Stamp Program, with comparable income guidelines. 
   And at Bingaman's urging, the measure would make it easier for Americans to prove their citizenship. Currently, the list of documents that can be used to prove citizenship is so small, as many as 10,000 SCHIP-eligible New Mexicans have been turned down for care. 
   This legislation provides a mechanism to match Social Security numbers for Medicaid and SCHIP patients that should significantly improve the situation. 
   "The way things are now, thousands of eligible Americans are being denied care because they've been unable to prove they are citizens. This bill will help ensure that New Mexicans who qualify for health care actually receive it," Bingaman said. 
   The following provisions are also SCHIP and Medicaid, including: 
   * Ensure that states will offer mental health and substance abuse services on par with the medical benefits covered under SCHIP. 
   * Much improved funding for outreach and enrollment efforts, including critical improvements in outreach and enrollment provisions to Native Americans. These also include recognition and funding for Community Health Workers, such as Promotoras that have played a critical role in outreach and enrollment in New Mexico; 
   * Improved pediatric quality measures for SCHIP and Medicaid.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 