SEN. BINGAMAN CALLS FOR MILITARY PAY INCREASE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today joined in calling for an increase in pay for serving in the country's military. 
   President Bush's fiscal year 2007 budget request includes just a 2.2 percent increase in military pay--the smallest increase since FY1994. As the Senate prepares to begin writing the FY 2007 Defense Authorization Bill, Bingaman joined Senate colleagues in calling for an increase in the proposed pay increase for America's military personnel. 
   In a letter to the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee Senator John Warner (R-VA) and ranking member Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), the senators said such a paltry increase neglects the value of their service and the very real challenges of recruiting and retaining an all-volunteer military in time of war.
   "The men and women of the American military are doing everything we ask of them--and more. They are being deployed at historic rates, many serving on their second, third, or even fourth combat deployments. In Iraq and Afghanistan, they are working with local and coalition partners to increase security so that those nations can stand on their own, free of tyranny. They are fighting terrorists and working with partners to win the War on Terror. We have seen American forces give aid to innocent victims of natural disasters, both here in the United States and around the world. We know they stand ready to defend our country, our allies, and our way of life on a moment's notice," the letter states. 
   "Last year, the Army, the Army National Guard, and the Army Reserve all failed to reach their recruiting targets. The Army, in fact, fell 6,700 recruits short in 2005--its biggest shortfall since 1979. Individuals choose to serve for many reasons: patriotism, a sense of duty, a desire to defend their country and make the world a better place. But we also know that adequate pay is one of the requirements of maintaining a professional, all-volunteer military," the letter continues. 
   The letter points out that increased energy costs are having an economic impact on all Americans, especially military families. 
  "While energy costs soar and their impact on family budgets grows, it is now more important that ever that we work to ensure that the brave men and women who defend our country are able to take care of their families," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 