SEN. BINGAMAN: CASTRO'S RETIREMENT IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR U.S.
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today joined a number of his colleagues in urging the White House recognized Fidel Castro's long-awaited departure an opportunity to open up relations with Cuba and thus promote democracy in the region.  
   Earlier this month, Fidel Castro resigned after serving as Cuba's leader for nearly 50 years. In a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, a bipartisan group of Senators said it was time for the United States to begin reflecting upon and reconsider U.S. policy toward the Caribbean island. 
   "Our current policy of isolation and estrangement has failed. New laws that tightened sanctions in 1992 and 1996 have had no effect. The administration's 2004 sanctions and its comprehensive plan to bring about transition in Cuba have failed in their objective. The absence of Fidel Castro for 20 months has not led to a change in the system. 
   "Instead, our current policy deprives the United States of influence in Cuba, including the opportunity to promote principles that advance democracy, human rights, and the rule of law. By restricting the ability of Americans to travel freely to Cuba, we limit contact and communication on the part of families, civil society, and government. Likewise, by restricting the ability of our farmers, ranchers, and businesses to trade with Cuba, the United States has made itself irrelevant in Cuba's growing economy, allowing Cuba to build economic partnerships elsewhere. 
   "There is no magic U.S. policy that will transform Cuba. But with Cuba facing a period of change, we have a new opportunity to seize. Our policy based on sanctions, passivity, and waiting should end. We need a new approach that defends human rights, is confident about the value of American engagement with Cubans, builds new economic bridges between America and Cuba, and seeks every possible avenue of increasing American influence," the letter states.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 