SEN. BINGAMAN: ENERGY BILL CLEARS SENATE
  U.S. Senate today approved comprehensive energy legislation Sen. Jeff Bingaman helped write, along with Sen. Pete Domenici. Sen. Bingaman is the top Democrat on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.  
   "We have crafted a policy that meets our country's future needs by increasing both energy production and energy efficiency. While we support traditional energy industries like oil and gas, we also give a major boost to renewable energy by investing in these emerging technologies and creating a market for them," he said.
   The bill includes a provision written by Bingaman that calls on electric utilities to generate 10 percent of their power through renewables by 2020; that requirement is called the "renewable portfolio standard." Bingaman's measure allows for a gradual transition into the renewable requirement, beginning with 1 percent of the company's sales base in 2005 and increasing to 10 percent in 2020. 
   "I am glad that the Senate approved my proposal to require utilities to generate 10 percent of their electricity through renewable sources. But I am even more pleased that the Senate is now on record acknowledging that global warming is a serious problem and made a commitment to taking action to address greenhouse gas emissions," Bingaman said.
   One major benefit to Bingaman's amendment is the fact that it likely will spur rural economic development and create tens of thousands of jobs nationwide in the manufacturing and construction of renewable energy facilities. And it sets the United States back on a course to being the world leader in renewable technologies.
   Bingaman pointed out that New Mexico has set its renewable portfolio standard at 10 percent by 2011. The Energy Information Administration estimates that the Bingaman amendment would result in a $22.6 billion savings for consumers. 
   The bill also contains a "sense of the Senate" amendment sponsored by Bingaman that says Congress should take immediate steps to address global warming. The amendment puts the Senate on record recognizing that greenhouse gases are causing a rise in temperatures, which are having a negative affect on our climate. Domenici cosponsored the Bingaman amendment. 
   The bill will now be reconciled with the House of Representatives.
   "This bill is vastly different from the version passed by the House of Representatives. It will be difficult, though not impossible, to iron out our differences. I look forward to working with Senator Domenici as we move the bill forward," Bingaman said.
   Under Bingaman's leadership, the bill contains and Indian energy title that will help will empower tribes to develop individual, long-term energy resource development plans to facilitate the production of energy resources. The title would enhance Indian self-determination, increase the supply of electricity to homes and businesses on Indian land, and provide energy to surrounding regions, thereby creating jobs.
   BINGAMAN: SENATE APPROVES SENATE ENERGY BILL P. 2
   The title allows tribes to draft Tribal Energy Resources Development Plans and gives the Interior Department one year to review and approve them. With approval, tribes can enter into leases and business agreements with private companies for resource development and electricity distribution on their lands.
  Among other things, the Indian energy title makes the Diné Power Authority, a Navajo Nation enterprise, eligible to receive grants and other assistance for activities associated with the development of an electricity transmission line from the Four Corners area to southern Nevada, and grants a five-year extension to the Navajo Nation electrification program. 
  The title also authorizes a $20 million annual grant and low-interest loan program to assist tribes with energy development, including energy-related job creation activities. 
   The Energy Act also includes provisions on Energy Efficiency that would set in place incentives and structures to measurably improve energy conservation, and energy efficiency in consumer and commercial products.
   The much-needed Electricity Title set in place reforms to improve the nation's transmission infrastructure, increase regulatory certainty, and encourage greater investment in the electricity industry.
   The Energy Act contains provisions on coal, hydrogen and research and development. The coal title authorizes $1.6 bill over 8 years to improve clean coal technology and will provide for a competitive grant program for universities that work on the issue.
   Among the provisions of the hydrogen title is a broad-based research program supporting private sector efforts in hydrogen and fuel cell development. The title sets a goal of making fuel cell production hydrogen available for commercial use by 2015. 
   The research and development title supports the development of new technologies that will help reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy and increase energy security. It requires cutting-edge research on renewable energy, including bioenergy, solar power, ocean energy, and hydrogen. It establishes the National Building Performance Initiative to integrate federal, state and voluntary private sector efforts to reduce the costs of building renovations conducted to improve energy efficiency, and explores research related to fossil fuels and nuclear energy. 
   The bill also contains the following tax incentives:
   * An extension and expansion of current tax provisions that encourage the creation of electricity from alternative sources such as solar, wind, biomass, geothermal and fuel cells. 
   * The creation of a new bond to encourage state and local governments, tribes and co-ops to purchase and operate renewable source electricity facilities. 
   * A variety of provisions that will provide tax incentives to create more energy efficient buildings and homes.
   * Provisions that will provide tax credits to purchasers of energy efficient appliances such as dishwashers and refrigerators.
   * A 30% tax credit to encourage the residential purchase of solar, photovoltaic and fuel cells for electrical power.
   *An increase the current 10% tax credit to 30% for businesses who invest in solar or geothermal devices.
  Oil and Gas
   * Provisions that will encourage increased U.S. refining so that we will be better able to meet the needs of consumers as well as provisions to help small refiners deal with the cost of complying with EPA sulfur regulations.
   * Tax breaks to encourage companies to lay more natural gas lines.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 