SEN. BINGAMAN WINS SUPPORT FOR PLAN TO CRACK DOWN ON EMPLOYERS WHO HIRE ILLEGAL WORKERS
  A powerful Senate committee today endorsed a proposal by Sen. Jeff Bingaman that gives the Internal Revenue Service additional funding to crack down on employers who are hiring illegal workers and not paying federal taxes on their behalf. 
   The Senate Finance Committee today approved the "Taxpayer Protection and Assistance Act," legislation Bingaman wrote to protect taxpayers from refund anticipation loans and unscrupulous tax return preparers. Bingaman, as a member of the Finance Committee, also was able to include a provision in the bill that sets aside $2 million for the IRS to specifically enforce the nation's tax laws with regard to payroll taxes. Employers are required to pay taxes on all of their workers.  
   "This administration has done a very poor job of cracking down on employers who hire undocumented workers. In fact, in 2004 just three businesses in the country were fined for breaking the law," Bingaman said. "Clearly we need to do a much better job of enforcing existing laws, and this would be a good place to start." 
   A second Bingaman provision would taxpayers to file their taxes for free through the IRS webpage. Under current law, individuals have to pay a fee to have their return electronically filed if prepared commercially or using tax preparation software. Bingaman's amendment would require that the IRS treat individuals like businesses who already can file through the IRS web portal for no charge. 
   But the overall bill is a bipartisan measure Bingaman wrote to help ensure New Mexico's taxpayers are better able to prepare and file their tax returns each year in a fashion that is fair, reasonable and affordable. 
   First, the bill protects taxpayers from abusive refund anticipation loans (RALs) by authorizing $10 million in funds for free tax preparation clinics such as Tax Help New Mexico. Also, the bill would require the Treasury Department to create standards for commercial tax return preparers, including a minimum competency exam and periodic continuing education classes similar to those required of all other tax professionals. 
   Bingaman has expressed concern over the negative impact RALs are having on low-income Americans. RALs are loans given to individuals who have filed their tax returns and are waiting for refunds. Unfortunately, these loans are often given at unreasonably high interest rates and fees that can exceed by several times the amount of the loan. 
   To ensure low- and moderate-income taxpayers are not needlessly shortchanged, Bingaman's bill would require refund loan facilitators to register with the IRS and to disclose to taxpayers the true cost associated with their RAL. 
   Additionally, the bill creates a grant program for financial institutions that would help taxpayers who do not have a checking or savings account open one in conjunction with the electronic filing of their tax return. Because many taxpayers do not have checking or savings accounts, their refund from the IRS cannot be electronically wired to them making RALs more attractive. 
   Bingaman's bill is co-sponsored by the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Finance Committee - Senators Grassley (R-IA) and Senator Baucus (D-MT) - as well as Senators Smith (R-OR), Talent (R-MO), Akaka (D-HI), Kerry (D-MA) Schumer (D-NY), Pryor (D-AR), Lieberman (D-CT) and Feinstein (D-CA). 
   The bill is now ready for consideration by the full Senate.
 
 