SENATE APPROVES SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI PROPOSAL TO PROVIDE MILLIONS FOR NEW MEXICO COUNTIES
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today announced that the Senate has approved (75-22) a proposal they cosponsored that would bump up payments to New Mexico counties by millions of dollars over the next five years.  
   The measure takes two steps for New Mexico: it expands and extends the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act this year from about $2.3 million to about $20 million. That program supports counties that rely economically on national forest lands. The bill also fully funds the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) initiative, which compensates counties that have extensive federal land that cannot be a source of property taxes. 
   Bingaman, as chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, worked with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and other key Democratic members of the Senate to negotiate the proposal. Domenici, ranking Republican on the Energy Committee, worked with Bingaman on key elements of the plan, which was today made part of the FY2007 Supplemental Appropriation Bill. A Senate-House panel will negotiate a final version of the bill to send to the president. 
   "New Mexico counties rely heavily on PILT and county payment funding, and they stand to gain millions of dollars annually from this proposal. We got a very solid vote of support in the Senate, which will aid us in our fight to keep this funding in the version of the bill that goes to the White House," Bingaman said. 
   "With this fix to the county payments program, our rural counties could face draconian funding cuts come next fall. Instead, the Senate has agreed to extend the program and give our counties more funding and more breathing room to continue transitioning timber-based economies to alternative natural resource-based economies. For New Mexico, I think this is a giant step forward as payments should go from less than $3.0 million to more than $20 million," Domenici said. "In addition, New Mexico should greatly benefit over the next five years as we try to fully fund PILT. This is something many of us have tried to accomplish since 1977 when PILT was first established." 
   The proposal would provide about $2.8 billion through 2011 to fund counties with national forest lands under the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (commonly referred to as the "county payments" program). It is estimated that New Mexico would receive a total of $97 million from 2007-2012 under the program. Currently, New Mexico receives about $2.3 million annually under the program, which expired last year. 
   The proposal also takes PILT out of the annual appropriations process, instead ensuring that full-funding is automatic through 2012. Bingaman has sponsored legislation for several years that would make full funding for PILT mandatory. Full-funding for PILT would provide about a 35 percent increase in total funding for the program. In 2006, New Mexico was the number one beneficiary of the program, receiving $22.8 million. Thirty-two New Mexico counties receive PILT payments.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 