SEN. BINGAMAN: COPS BILL WOULD PROVIDE NEW MEXICO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES WITH ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman this week joined in introducing a bill to provide $1.15 billion to continue the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which helps hire police officers and purchase new crime-fighting equipment for police departments in communities across the country.  
   Bingaman is a cosponsor of legislation to reauthorize the COPS program, which was created through the 1994 Crime Bill. The legislation includes enough resources to hire 50,000 new police officers, assist police departments in purchasing high-tech crime fighting tools such as cameras in patrol cars and DNA analysis equipment, and help local prosecutors' offices hire community prosecutors who interact closely with the people they serve. 
   "The COPS partnership between the federal government and state and local law enforcement has resulted in safer neighborhoods and communities throughout New Mexico. This bill would provide our state's law enforcement agencies with the tools needed to keep our communities safe and I hope Congress gives it its approval," Bingaman said.
   Specifically, the bill provides: 
   * $600 million per year for more police on the street - up to 50,000 more cops over six years. This money can also be used to retain officers hired under the COPS program, backfill officers dedicated to federal task forces, pay overtime, and reimburse officers for training costs; 
   * $350 million per year for law enforcement technology to enhance crime fighting efforts. This means better communications systems so officers in different jurisdictions can talk to each other, state of the art investigative tools like DNA analysis, and the means to target crime hot spots through crime mapping; 
   * $200 million per year for prosecutors - to expand the community policing concept to engage the whole community in preventing and fighting crime;
   * Support for school resource officers in schools and partnerships between schools, law enforcement and the community. 
   In addition to helping communities hire more police officers; this bill would make law enforcement technology grants available for such uses as analyzing real-time crime data to anticipate trends in crime and mapping crime "hot spots." 
   Since the program's creation in 1994, New Mexico has received over $68 million in COPS grants, which has funded 780 additional police officers and sheriff's deputies to engage in community policing activities. Additionally, $9.8 million has been awarded to add 90 school resource officers to improve safety in our state's schools and $4.13 million has been awarded for crime-fighting technologies, which has allowed officers to spend more time on the streets of New Mexico fighting and preventing crime through timesaving technology, information-sharing systems, and improving communication equipment. 
   Bingaman was disappointed that the Bush administration's 2006 budget request proposed drastic cuts to this vital program. The administration has proposed cutting $1.3 billion in funding for law enforcement grants, which would mean a 96 percent cut for the COPS program and a 62 percent cut for the initiatives aimed at combating Meth. 
   In addition, funding for hiring police officers and for the COPS School Resource Officer program, which help keep students and teachers safe, would be completely eliminated. As of 2004 there was a $300 million backlog in applications to fund the hiring of police officers, but in 2005 the administration only requested $5 million for this portion of the program.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 