N.M. DELEGATION WELCOMES 27TH SPECIAL OPS. WING TO CANNON
  The New Mexico congressional delegation, including Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman and Representatives Heather Wilson, Tom Udall, and Steve Pearce, today applauded the decision to designate the new Air Force Special Operations Command wing at Cannon Air Force Base the 27th Special Operations Wing. 
   Air Force Special Operations Command announced on Tuesday Cannon's new wing designation was chosen to honor the long and distinguished history of the 27th. When the decision was made to place an Air Force Special Operations Wing at Cannon, Air Force officials planned on designating the Wing as the 16th Special Operations Wing. However, because of the 27th designation's long history in New Mexico, the decision has been made to keep the 27th designation in the state. 
   Since its inception in 1940, the 27th designation has been assigned to various wings around the world, and has played important roles in World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Desert Storm/Desert Shield, and the Global War on Terror. The 27th was part of the Bataan Death March in New Mexico, and the 27th Tactical Fighter Wing moved to Cannon on Feb. 18, 1958. 
   "Maintaining the historic 27th designation at Cannon Air Force Base is appropriate as we usher in a new era for Cannon's role in our nation's defense," said Domenici. "I have no doubt that the men and women of the new 27th Air Force Special Operations Wing will carry on and extend Cannon's proud legacy of service to our nation." 
   "The 27th Wing has a long and proud history in eastern New Mexico, and it is very fitting that Cannon's new AFSOC unit will carry that name and tradition forward. The relationship dates back to airmen from the 27th fighting side-by-side New Mexican troops in Bataan," Bingaman said. "This action takes us one step further on the road to securing Cannon's vital role in our nation's defense. I join eastern New Mexicans in welcoming the men and women of the new 27th Special Operations Wing to our state." 
   "I'm glad the Air Force is keeping the 27th designation for their new wing," said Wilson, who recently participated in the laying of a wreath at the Manila American Cemetery, where thousands of Americans who died defending the Philippines in World War II are buried. "The 27th Fighter Wing had a legacy of service that the new Special Operations Wing will be proud to carry forward." 
   "The Air Force's plan to carry over the 27th in the new name is one more example of their understanding and appreciation for the unique and special history of the Cannon Community," said Udall, whose district includes Cannon Air Force Base. "Their decision shows great respect for the men and women who have served so dutifully at Cannon over the years and I am proud to represent the future 27th Special Operations Wing." 
   "I would like to extend my gratitude to the Air Force for preserving the proud heritage of Cannon's 27th Special Operations Wing for the people of Clovis and Portales and for the future generations of men and women who serve there. It means a great deal to all of us to maintain that history as Cannon moves forward with a new mission," Pearce said. 
   Earlier this month, the Environmental Impact Statement was signed, setting Cannon on track to begin standup of an Air Force Special Operations Wing beginning Oct. 1 under the command of Col. Tim Leahy. The planned mission expansion will equip Cannon with approximately 100 AFSOC manned and unmanned aircraft. The final active duty population will include between 4,400 and 5,600 Air Force personnel.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 