SEN. BINGAMAN URGES KEY SENATE LEADERS TO ENSURE HIGHWAY PROJECTS & TRANSIT ARE FULLY FUNDED
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman joined with 71 of his colleagues in urging Senate leaders to fund highway projects and transit around the country at the full levels promised in the 2005 Safe Accountable Flexible Efficient Transportation Equity Act-Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU).  
   Because the Senate Republican leadership last year failed to bring up for votes most of the bills that fund the federal government for 2007, the new Democratic leadership has proposed bundling several domestic spending bills together in a single measure - called a Continuing Resolution - at fiscal year 2006 levels. 
   Bingaman and his colleagues are urging Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell to ensure that the Continuing Resolution contains the increases in highway and transit funding promised for FY07 in SAFETEA-LU. 
   SAFETEA-LU is a law that sets aside funding from the Highway Trust Fund for millions of dollars worth of highway projects and transit initiatives in New Mexico. If no specific action is taken to ensure 2007 funding levels, New Mexico stands to lose out on almost $30 million it has been promised. 
   "We write to strongly urge that the upcoming funding resolution for the remainder of fiscal year 2007 supports Congress' commitment to invest in America's transportation infrastructure and ask that the Continuing Resolution include the funding levels consistent with the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU). We fear that if the commitments made in SAFETEA-LU are not honored, our States will face major economic disruption that will cost jobs, delay safety improvements and stifle economic growth," Bingaman and his colleagues wrote. 
   Under SAFETEA-LU, New Mexico is set to receive $291 million for highway projects and $20 million for transit. If SAFETEA-LU is funded at 2006 levels, New Mexico will receive $263 million for highway projects and $19 million for transit. 
   "New Mexico relies very heavily on federal funding to ensure our highways are safe and our public transportation is adequate. It's very important for our state to receive all the funding it has been promised," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 