SEN. BINGAMAN URGES FEMA TO SLOW DOWN PROCESS THAT COULD HURT SOUTHERN N.M. HOMEOWNERS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today urged the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to slow down a process that could force some homeowners in southern New Mexico to have to buy expensive flood protection insurance. 
   FEMA has recently released new draft flood maps, which show that parts of Do?a Ana County are subject to potential flooding - in some areas because levees in the region need structural repairs. FEMA planned to open a 90-day public comment period about those draft maps beginning next week. Shortly after that three month period, the maps could become finalized and, as a result, homeowners who currently do not have to buy costly flood insurance would be required to do so.
   Bingaman said that the federal government is in the process of setting aside funding to make necessary repairs to the levees - operated by the International Boundary Water Commission (IBWC). A key spending bill approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee on Thursday contains $11.7 million to make improvements to the levees. The full Senate will soon take up and pass the measure.
   "Congress is in the process of committing millions of dollars for levee improvements. It doesn't make sense to put ourselves on a path toward finalizing flood maps that will soon be obsolete," Bingaman said. "I'm urging FEMA to slow this process down so homeowners aren't needlessly penalized."
   In his letter to David Paulison, Bingaman also pointed out that the modeling used to generate the flood map may contain flaws. Dona Ana County and the IBWC also have serious concerns about possible mapping errors. Finally, there are concerns that there is not enough time for all property owners to file technical appeals.
   "I recently helped secure almost $12 million in funding from the Senate Appropriations Committee to allow the IBWC to initiate necessary remediation work in FY 2008 to address levee deficiencies. Until that work is done, however, the process in finalizing revised flood maps needs to be as sound as possible. Thank you for consideration of this request," Bingaman wrote.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 