SEN. BINGAMAN INTRODUCES MEASURE TO PROTECT FOSSILIZED TRACKS IN DO?A ANA COUNTY
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today introduced legislation that would protect fossilized prehistoric animal tracks in the Robledo Mountains.  
   Bingaman's "Prehistoric Trackways National Monument Establishment Act" seeks to create a new national monument out of approximately 5,367 acres of Bureau of Land Management land and preserve it for further scientific investigation. 
   Bingaman first took an interest in this issue in 1990 with the passage of legislation he wrote to study the significance of the tracks. That study, performed by the New Mexico Museum of Natural History & Science, the University of Colorado, and the Smithsonian Institution, said the site is of immense historic value because of the quality of the tracks and the wide range of prehistoric animals that left their imprint. 
   Bingaman pointed out that the area to be set aside as a monument contains the prints of numerous amphibians, reptiles, and insects, plants and petrified wood dating back 280,000,000 years. 
   "This site has tremendous scientific value, and provides a window to a time before dinosaurs roamed the earth. These prehistoric fossils should be preserved, and that's exactly what this bill would do," Bingaman said. 
   The Prehistoric Trackways National Monument Establishment Act would ensure that this area of the Robledo Mountains is conserved and protected in a way that enhances the protective resources and values of a national monument of this kind. It also requires the Secretary of the Interior to provide public interpretation of the paleontological resources at the site, and find ways of exhibiting and curating the resources in Do?a Ana County. 
   "Giving this site national monument status will help ensure that the area is preserved, but also that the public has access to it," said Bingaman, who is the top Democrat on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici is a cosponsor of Bingaman's bill. "Prehistoric trackways are remarkable vestiges of the past and should be protected. I share Senator Bingaman's intent to accomplish that goal. I hope that we can tackle this issue as part of a comprehensive approach to federal land management in Do?a Ana County," said Domenici, who chairs the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   This bill will be referred to the Energy Committee.
 
 