SEN. BINGAMAN SEES BRIGHT FUTURE AT LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LAB
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today told Los Alamos National Laboratory employees that the country will continue to rely heavily on the important work they perform everyday.  
   "If you concentrate on the job at hand, whether it is maintaining our nuclear deterrence, stopping the flow of weapons of mass destruction, or performing the most fundamental science on climate change, your work and the laboratory strength will prevail," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman said he believes that LANL will continue to be one of the nation's premier national laboratories for performing science in the national interest. And one way to help ensure that will happen is to strengthen the Department of Energy's Office of Science budget. For fiscal year 2008, that budget is projected to increase by 15 percent. 
   "The NNSA ahs invested heavily to develop world-class science in such areas as nuclear physics, materials science, computational modeling and chemistry. One area where NNSA and the Office of Science have collaborated is the Center for Integrated Nanoscience Technologies," Bingaman said. 
   "The technologies developed from this center should give Los Alamos a unique position in the NNSA for integrating nanoscience into its national security mission, whether it is for making nuclear weapons safe or in areas of nonproliferation to detect the flow of nuclear materials," he said. 
   Bingaman also said LANL is making key contributions in genomics and helping address climate change through its carbon sequestration research. 
   "I'd like to close by emphasizing the important work that you do for the entire country. You work on missions of national importance across a wide range of problems. You have demonstrated to the country for more than 60 years your diverse capability and I believe you will continue to do so. More importantly, the management here at the laboratory believes you can do so in the future and I stand willing to help you, as well," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 