SENS. BINGAMAN, LUGAR INTRODUCE BILL TO ENCOURAGE MULTINATIONAL INVESTMENT IN UNITED STATES
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Richard Lugar (R-IN) have introduced bipartisan legislation encouraging major multinational businesses to create jobs in the United States.  
   The Invest USA Act of 2007 would create an office at the Department of Commerce led by a new undersecretary who would be responsible for attracting more direct investment to our country. 
   "If we're going to stay competitive in the global marketplace, we need to focus the attention and resources of the federal government to bringing the best jobs to our country," Bingaman said. "We have the best workforce in the world, and that is a great reason for multinational businesses to locate in the United States. But assigning a high-level administration appointee to the task of recruiting multinational businesses will give us another boost in the competition for good jobs." 
   "At a time when commerce routinely crosses national borders, the U.S. should be positioned to compete in all arenas. That means not only strengthening the ability of American business to invest and sell their products in foreign markets, but equally important, attracting foreign companies to the American market," said Lugar, ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "Other nations actively recruit and provide incentives for global companies to set up operations and create new jobs within their borders. We must do the same." 
   The proposed office at the Commerce Department, which would be called the United States Direct Investment Administration, would collect data, identify best practices, and formulate strategic policies for recruiting multinational businesses to the United States. 
   It would also lead an interagency, cabinet-level committee to implement its recommendations, acting as a one-stop shop for multinational businesses seeking to enter the U.S. market. Finally, the legislation requires the new office to focus on critical high-technology industries. 
   The bill was referred to the Senate Finance Committee; Bingaman is a member of that panel.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 