SEN. BINGAMAN: NEW MEXICO'S CHILE INDUSTRY VITAL TO STATE'S ECONOMY
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman is lending his support to help New Mexico's chile industry stay competitive in the global marketplace.  
   The New Mexico Chile Association, in partnership with New Mexico State University, is seeking assistance from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to help keep New Mexico's chile industry address two key needs: automation and development of new chile varieties. 
   In a letter to the USDA, Bingaman said addressing the industry's needs is vital to New Mexico's economy and urged the department to help identify sources of discretionary grant funding that would help them do this. 
   "Growing and processing chile peppers is New Mexico's signature industry providing about 5000 jobs and a total value of about $400 million per year. Unfortunately, my state's chile industry is facing increasingly intense global competition. Despite a doubling in domestic consumption in the last decade, and chile passing ketchup as the nation's favorite condiment, New Mexico's chile acreage has declined 50 percent since 1990 while imports have more than tripled. The key factor cited for the decline is that farm costs in the U.S. are significantly higher than our international competitors', especially India, China, and Peru. The chile industry sees its continued lack of automation as a key reason for its higher production costs. 
   "Because of the relatively small size of the nation's chile industry, the development of automation is not a priority for machinery companies. Instead, the industry has been working independently but lacks the resources to develop some of the critical automation solutions. The key components of the required automation include mechanical cleaning, harvesting, de-stemming, and processing. 
   "The chile variety development project is designed to solve complex genetic transfer, micro-propagation, and field establishment problems for chile peppers. Unlike some other agricultural crops, chile still has not commercially benefited from genetic engineering. It is also still very difficult to field-plant tissue culture propagated chiles. The objective of this research is to fund a team of scientist to develop the scientific tools needed to commercialize this process," Bingaman wrote.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 