SEN. BINGAMAN RECOGNIZED FOR HIS LEADERSHIP ON HEALTHCARE
 Sen. Jeff Bingaman today was recognized by the National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems for his leadership on health care issues.  
   The University of New Mexico Hospital is a member of the organization. 
   Public hospitals provide on average 45 percent of the care to the uninsured and underinsured across the country and rely on Medicaid for a significant portion of their revenues. 
   There are three bills in particular that Bingaman has worked on or is working on to assist public hospitals. They are:
   * The Bipartisan Commission on Medicaid Act, which Bingaman introduced last month to create a blue ribbon panel to do a comprehensive and thorough review of what is and is not working about Medicaid and how to improve service delivery and quality in the most cost-effective way possible.
   * The Medicaid Safety Net Act - legislation Bingaman wrote to increase the amount of Medicaid funding to disproportionate share hospitals, such as the hospital at UNM. This provision was put into the Medicare Prescription Drugs law by Bingaman. 
   * And a bill Bingaman is developing legislation that would ensure that disproportionate share hospitals get the same discount prescription drug prices for inpatients who are uninsured as it gets for uninsured outpatients.
   "As a champion of public hospitals, we would like to present you with an award in recognition of your extraordinary work on behalf of our facilities and the many families and communities they support around the country," Executive Director Christine Capito Burch said of Bingaman. 
   At the ceremony, Bingaman said there is important work in the area of health care that needs to be done.
   "Public hospitals across the country, including the University of New Mexico Hospital, are the backbone of our nation's health care delivery system. They offer services that most community hospitals are unable to provide," Bingaman said. 
   "Too often, public hospitals are taken for granted. Yet they are becoming increasingly important, especially as the number of uninsured Americans continues to grow. It's essential that we do what we can to strengthen our nation's public hospitals. I will continue to officer my strong support," he added.
   Tomorrow Bingaman will receive an award from the American Chiropractic Association.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 