SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI GAIN BROAD SUPPORT FOR ENERGY SAVINGS BILL
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today won broad bipartisan support for legislation they wrote to expand the use of alternative fuels, capture carbon to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and use energy more efficiently.
   The bill passed the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee 20-3, and is now ready for a Senate floor debate. Bingaman and Domenici are the committee's chairman and ranking member, respectively. 
   "This legislation is a big step forward in three key areas to three key areas to America's energy future. It will help dramatically reduce our dependence on fossil fuels by requiring the more efficient use of energy and by putting a much greater emphasis on the use of renewable, homegrown fuels," Bingaman said. "It also increases our investment in research on the capture of carbon, so we can cut back on the greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming. I appreciate the help and support that Senator Domenici gave in this effort. This bill is a good start and I look forward to a full Senate debate."
   "Today, the Energy Committee came together on a bipartisan basis and passed a bill that makes significant strides in a number of areas important to our long term energy security. In particular, this bill sets the stage for biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol to greatly expand in our fuel supply, and will also save consumers money by improving efficiency standards. I look forward to an open and vigorous debate on the floor of the Senate that will include these and other measures as we tackle our energy challenges," Domenici said.
   The bill establishes an escalating requirement to reduce America's gasoline consumption, beginning with a 20 percent savings target in 10 years-equivalent to more than 32 billion gallons per day, and enough to reduce world oil prices by more than $2.50/barrel under current EIA assumptions. The bill places a particular focus on the development of advanced biofuels by requiring an increasing portion of renewable fuels to be from unconventional biomass feedstocks beginning in 2016.
   The measure would also promote biofuels infrastructure development in more diverse regions of the country, so producers and consumers alike can benefit from new and better choices at the gas pump. By increasing funding for bioenergy research and development by 50 percent, it invests in the critical science programs that can propel America to the forefront of global research on bioenergy resources.
   In addition, the bill cointains new efficiency benchmarks for appliances - which contribute as much as two-thirds of an average American household's electricity costs - would bring consumers more than $12 billion in benefits. These standards would save more than 50 billion kilowatt-hours per year in electricity, or enough to power 4.8 million typical American households. It would also save 17 trillion BTUs of natural gas per year, and more than 560 million gallons of water per day.
   Given that the federal government itself spends more than $14 billion a year on energy costs, leading the way toward energy security can also save money for American taxpayers. Under the bill's strengthened federal efficiency requirements, the government alone is poised to save another 220 trillion BTUs of energy and 1.2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide.
   Highlights of the bill are below:
   ENERGY EFFICIENCY Sets aggressive national goals for reducing gasoline usage by 20 percent by 2017; 35 percent by 2025 and 45 percent by 2030.
   Enacts into law efficiency standards developed for residential boilers, dishwashers, clothes washers, refrigerators and dehumidifiers, and electric motors.
   Authorizes $60 million for the Department of Energy to research and develop light-weight materials such as advanced carbon composites and light-weight steel alloys for the construction of vehicles.
   Requires a 30 percent reduction in energy consumption in existing federal buildings by 2015 and requires new federal buildings to meet standards for reducing fossil fuel consumption, with a goal of eliminating fossil fuel consumption in new buildings by 2030.
   BIOFUELS Sets annual requirements for the amount of renewable fuels used in motor vehicles, and for home heating oil and boiler fuels. The expanded RFS requires 8.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels in 2008 and progressively increases to 36 billion gallons requirement by 2022. 
   Beginning in 2016, an increasing portion of renewable fuels must be advanced biofuels. Advanced biofuels include cellulosic ethanol, biobutanol and other fuels derived from unconventional biomass feedstocks. The required amount of advanced biofuels begins at 3 billion gallons in 2016 and increases to 21 billion in 2022.
   Fosters the development of a national renewable fuels infrastructure and vehicle fleet by offering:
   * Federal loan guarantees of up to $250 million per renewable fuel facilities;
   * State grants to establish renewable fuels corridors;
   * Grants for infrastructure to transport biomass to local biorefineries; and 
   * And by establishing a Biorefinery Information Center and alternative fuels database to provide information on renewable fuels resources, producers and users.
   CARBON SEQUESTRATION Authorizes research & development spending at $90 million for FY 2007, $105 million for FY 2008, and $120 million for FY 2009. 
   Provides for cooperation between the Department of Energy, the U.S. Geological Survey, State governments, and State surveyors.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 