PRESIDENT VETOES BILL THAT CONTAINS SEN. BINGAMAN-BACKED FLOOD PREVENTION PROVISIONS
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he is extremely disappointed that President Bush has vetoed a bill that would have invested in important flood prevention project in Albuquerque's Southwest Valley. But he remains confident Congress will override the veto.  
   The president today rejected the congressionally approved Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which authorizes $16.15 million in federal funding for the Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction Project. 
   Bingaman pressed hard for the inclusion of the $16.15 million project in WRDA, which authorizes projects and programs for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Bingaman is simultaneously seeking $1 million in fiscal year 2008 to initiate construction on the project. 
   "It's unfortunate that the president has chosen to derail this bill," Bingaman said. "This bill is extremely important to the residents of Albuquerque's South Valley, because it helps protect their homes from flood damage. It's my hope we can override the president's veto and get this bill enacted into law." 
   Flooding control on the Rio Grande over the years has left some areas of Albuquerque's Southwest Valley below the level of the river causing frequent flooding when it rains. The proposed project would eliminate flood damage by improving drainage in the area, which contains about 500 homes. The project includes the construction of detention basins and enlarging existing drainage channels in the area from Bridge Blvd. south to Rio Bravo Blvd. and from the Arenal Canal east of Coors to the Armijo Drain, west of Isleta Blvd. Completion of the project will reduce the cost of homeowners' flood insurance in the area. 
   WRDA also included the following provisions, which would have benefited New Mexico: 
   * Rio Grande Environmental Management Provision: The Bingaman authored provision authorizes the Corps of Engineers to carry-out projects to restore fish & wildlife habitat in the Rio Grande. The program is authorized at $15 million a year. 
   * Middle Rio Grande Restoration Provision - The provision initiates ecosystem restoration and recreational projects in the Middle Rio Grande reach (Cochiti to Elephant Butte). Total program authorization is $25 million.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 