SENATORS FIGHTING TO ALLOW ALBUQUERQUE TO KEEP MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
  U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today rapped the Federal Transit Administration for attempting to take away nearly $5 million in federal funds directed to the City of Albuquerque.  
   Over the years, the Senators secured $4.8 million to support a proposed light-rail project along Albuquerque's Central Avenue. But the city changed course and decided instead to invest the funding in its Rapid Ride bus service. A key spending bill pending in the Senate gives the city the authority to "reprogram" the funding, and purchase six additional 60-foot Diesel-hybrid buses for Rapid Ride and to build one additional park-and-ride lot to supplement and extend the existing Central Avenue service to the West Side. 
   On Friday, however, the FTA decided to "reallocate" the funds - or take them away from Albuquerque - and direct them to another state. In a letter to Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters, Bingaman and Domenici today said such a move would be exceedingly unfair. The city has been working with FTA, an agency within the Department of Transportation, on this issue for over a year. 
   "We are writing to express our strong disapproval of the Federal Transit Administration's recent decision to reallocate three prior-year new start transit earmarks for Albuquerque, New Mexico. We strongly urge you to withdraw the pending reallocation of Albuquerque's unobligated balance of $4.8 million. We are particularly dismayed that FTA would take this action while legislation is pending in Congress directly related to this matter," the letter states. 
   The Senators pointed out to Peters that the Senate-passed FY08 appropriations bill for DOT authorizes the city to use the $4.8 million for bus and bus facilities. That measure must be finalized with one passed by the House of Representatives before being enacted into law. 
   "For over a year the City of Albuquerque has been planning to use these funds for its highly successful Rapid Ride Service. It is essential that you withdraw the decision to reallocate the $4.8 million of Albuquerque's new start funds while we continue to work with Chairman Murray and Senator Bond on the pending legislation allowing the funds to be used for bus and bus facilities," the letter states.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 