SEN. BINGAMAN BILL BOLSTERS COMMERCIAL AIR SERVICE IN NEW MEXICO COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at bolstering a program that helps several New Mexico communities retain commercial air service.  
   Bingaman's legislation, the Essential Air Service Preservation Act of 2007, would guarantee that communities receiving federal Essential Air Service (EAS) funds to defray the cost of commercial airline service will continue to get that subsidy without having to shoulder any of the financial burdens. 
   Bingaman introduced the bill to repeal a controversial provision in the 2003 FAA reauthorization bill that would force some communities for the first time to contribute toward the cost of subsidizing commercial air service. Specifically, the 2003 FAA provision stipulates that EAS communities within 100 miles of a major airport have to contribute as much as $100,000 towards the cost of the subsidy. Bingaman's bill would directly benefit Alamogordo, which is about 87 miles from El Paso airport and Hobbs, which is about 90 miles from the Midland/Odessa airport. 
   Bingaman was successful in including an amendment in every DoT spending bill since 2003 that prevented the cost-sharing plan from going into effect each year. The measure he introduced today would permanently shut down the cost-sharing proposal. 
   "All across America, small communities face ever-increasing hurdles to promoting their economic growth and development. Today, many rural areas lack access to interstate or even four-lane highways, railroads or broadband telecommunications. Business development in rural areas frequently hinges on the availability of scheduled air service. For small communities, commercial air service provides a critical link to the national and international transportation system," Bingaman said. 
   "The Essential Air Service Program currently ensures commercial air service to over 100 communities in thirty-five states. Five communities in New Mexico currently rely on EAS for their commercial air service. And I want to be sure those communities continue to receive our full support," he added. 
   Congress established the Essential Air Service Program in 1978 to ensure that communities that had commercial air service before deregulation continue to receive scheduled service. Without EAS, many rural communities would have no commercial air service at all. New Mexico's five EAS communities and their annually subsidies are as follows: Alamogordo ($717,000), Carlsbad ($599,000), Clovis ($859,000), Hobbs ($519,000) and Silver City ($859,000).
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 