SENATE SUPPORTS CENTRAL AMERICAN TRADE AGREEMENT
  The Senate today approved a trade agreement with the Dominican Republic and Central American countries. Sen. Jeff Bingaman voted for the agreement, but only after securing commitments from the Bush administration to help protect worker rights and to assist subsistence farmers who will be affected by the agreement. 
   Bingaman believes the agreement now will be an advantage to New Mexico, as the state is geographically and economically positioned to benefit from an increase in two-way trade.
   However, two weeks ago, Bingaman voted against the Central America-Dominican Republic Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) in the Senate Finance Committee because it did not do enough to protect the rights of workers in Central American countries and because it did not provide enough assistance to subsistence farmers in the poorest of the countries covered by the agreement. 
   For the past two weeks, Bingaman negotiated with Ambassador Rob Portman, the U.S. trade representative, to secure commitments from the Bush administration to address the agreement's shortfalls. First, at Bingaman's urging the administration agreed to set aside $40 million in each of the next four years for labor and environmental "capacity building." Capacity building refers to assistance given to countries designed to strengthen processes and institutions to implement commitments made in trade agreements, in this case monitoring and enforcing CAFTA country commitments to core labor standards, such as child labor, the right to organize, and the right to bargain collectively. 
   Bingaman also got a commitment that $3 million would be set aside annually for legitimate, independent third party institution, the International Labor Organization, to monitor and report every six months on progress and problems with worker rights.
   Second, Bingaman secured a commitment of $30 million per year for four years to help subsistence farmers in Guatemala, El Salvador, and the Dominican Republic, to transition to commercially-viable crops and mitigate the possibility of increased illegal immigration to the United States. 
   "Increased trade with the international community can advantage our country and those with whom we trade. But our trade agreements must be strongly committed to worker rights," Bingaman said. "I worked hard to get a commitment from the Bush administration on worker protections and to secure assistance for farmers as they transition to new crops. I believe that on balance this agreement will be good both for the United States and Central America."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 