SEN. BINGAMAN COSPONSORS BILL THAT PROVIDES CONSUMER PROTECTION TO IMMIGRANTS WIRING MONEY TO FAMILIES ABROAD
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today joined in introducing legislation that would provide consumer protections to hardworking immigrants who wire some of their paychecks to their families abroad. The "International Remittance Consumer Protection Act of 2004" was written and introduced by Sen. Paul Sarbanes, the top Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee. 
   A recent Inter-Development Bank survey revealed that immigrants to the United States wire transfer approximately $180 billion to countries abroad. About $30 billon of the money is sent to Latin America. This year so far, approximately $100 million was wire transferred abroad from immigrants living in New Mexico. Almost all of those transactions are made at wire transfer firms, not banks or credit unions.
   The goal of the legislation is to provide basic protections to individuals who make these transactions. Right now, individuals who are wiring money to families abroad are not required to be told of the total cost of the transfer, including all fees, in a bottom-line dollar amount which includes the exchange rate fee. The legislation would make the disclosure of such information a requirement in the form of a receipt, which would also include a date of delivery.  
   "This legislation creates guidelines that ensure individuals wiring money to their families would know exactly how much they sent and how much it cost them to send it," Bingaman said. "It simply provides basic consumer protections to individuals who send portions of their hard-earned paychecks to their families abroad."
   The measure also would ensure consumers are made aware of the processes that resolve errors made in transactions, including making refunds when the full amount of the money that was wired did not reach the intended recipient in the foreign country. It would give the consumer 365 days to call the error to the attention of the service provider, and give the provider 90 days to resolve the problem.
   Finally, the bill seeks to encourage banks and credit unions to be more involved in the money transfer market, as it relates to immigrant workers. In so doing, it would attract those who are not within the formal financial system to use these institutions, thereby increasing the chances that an individual would be offered other services such as a mortgage or a car loan.
   "With more than $180 billion a year being sent to families abroad, and with over million transactions annually, it is time that we recognize the importance of these transactions and ensure that consumers have adequate protections," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 