SEN. BINGAMAN ASKS FAA TO STEP UP RELEASE OF FUNDS FOR UPGRADES AT SIERRA BLANCA REGIONAL AIRPORT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman is urging the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to quickly release funding he helped secure in 2001 for new instrument landing equipment at Sierra Blanca Regional Airport. The senator is also asking FAA to find an additional $220,000 to complete the installation of the new equipment. 
   Nearly four years ago, Bingaman helped secure $350,000 toward the cost of purchasing a capture effect glide system - a type of landing equipment that helps guide planes landing during inclement weather. But the FAA now proposes the airport purchase different landing equipment, called the Global Positioning Satellite Navigation system, because it is less expensive.
   But because most planes landing at the airport lack the sophisticated electronic equipment compatible with GPS, the airport manager believes the Global Positioning Satellite Navigation system is not an acceptable alternative to the glide slope system. In a letter this week, Bingaman informed FAA Administrator Marion Blakey of the airport manager's determination, and urged the agency to release the $350,000 so that the new equipment can be purchased. 
   However, because the cost of the glide system has increased from $350,000 to $570,000 since 2001, Bingaman also asked the FAA to find an additional $220,000 from its budget to put toward the purchase price. 
   "I appreciate your commitment to explore all options and possibilities to meet the needs of the flying community for an instrument landing system at the Sierra Blanca Regional Airport. Because this project has now been pending for almost four years, I sincerely hope you can quickly identify the additional federal funding necessary to complete the installation of the glide slope in a timely manner," Bingaman wrote.
   "There is no reason for further delay. It's my hope that the Sierra Blanca Regional Airport can have its new equipment by the end of the year," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 