SEN. BINGAMAN MEASURE TO PROTECT FOSSILIZED TRACKS IN DO?A ANA COUNTY CLEARS FIRST HURDLE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that his bill to protect fossilized prehistoric animal tracks in the Robledo Mountains has cleared the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. The measure can now be sent to the full Senate for consideration.  
   Bingaman's "Prehistoric Trackways National Monument Establishment Act" seeks to create a new national monument out of approximately 5,367 acres of Bureau of Land Management land and preserve it for further scientific investigation. 
   "These trackways date back millions of years, and they deserve to be protected - both to be seen by visitors and for scientific study. I'm very glad this bill has gained the support of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and I will continue to usher this bill through the Senate," said Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   U.S. Senator Pete Domenici is a cosponsor of Bingaman's measure. "The trackways are a unique reminder of prehistoric New Mexico and worthy of protection. I still prefer a broader approach to overall land management in Do?a Ana County, but I am glad to see this legislation move forward," said Domenici, ranking Republican on the Energy Committee. 
   Bingaman first took an interest in the trackways in 1990 with the passage of legislation he wrote to study the significance of the tracks. That study, performed by the New Mexico Museum of Natural History & Science, the University of Colorado, and the Smithsonian Institution, said the site is of immense historic value because of the quality of the tracks and the wide range of prehistoric animals that left their imprint. Bingaman pointed out that the area to be set aside as a monument contains the prints of numerous amphibians, reptiles, and insects, plants and petrified wood dating back 280,000,000 years. 
   The Prehistoric Trackways National Monument Establishment Act would ensure that this area of the Robledo Mountains is conserved and protected in a way that will allow for further scientific study and public enjoyment of the resources. It also requires the Secretary of the Interior to provide public interpretation of the paleontological resources at the site, and find ways of exhibiting and curating the resources in Do?a Ana County.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 