SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI, REP. PEARCE URGE PENTAGON TO DELAY PRIVATIZATION STUDY AT WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici and Rep. Steve Pearce today said a study to privatize some jobs at White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) is premature given ongoing changes at the Army installation and nearby Fort Bliss.  
   The Army recently announced it will be conducting an A-76 study at the WSMR, which would seek to privatize many jobs at the range currently held by military personal. Three hundred and sixty two jobs in the Departments of Public Works and Logistics are up for competition. 
   In a letter to Secretary of the Army Francis Harvey, the New Mexico lawmakers pointed to the many changes happening at WSMR over the next couple of years and stated that now is not the time to conduct an A-76 study at the installation. Additionally, as a result of the recent Base Closure and Realignment Commission process, the 1st Armored Division is moving to Fort Bliss - bringing with it nearly 20,000 service members, their families, and contractor support. 
   "We are writing to express our grave concerns with the recently announced A-76 study at White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) and to respectfully request that this study be delayed for two years, at the minimum," the lawmakers wrote. 
   Bingaman, Domenici and Pearce pointed out that the January 17th announcement that Fort Bliss would be hosting the Future Combat Systems' Experimental Brigade Combat Team (EBCT), the Army stated that the installation was selected "because of its access to White Sands Missile Range, N.M., which provides the requisite land, airspace, and facilities for EBCT Soldiers to fully train, evaluate and test FCS capabilities." 
   "WSMR should expect to handle increased training assignments and potentially host units from the 1st Armored Division as well as the Future Combat Systems' Experimental Brigade Combat Team. This will place an increased demand on WSMR personnel, including government civilian employees, contractors, and uniformed service members," the letter states. 
   The New Mexico lawmakers also said that inaccuracies in the A-76 data collected would result in the completion of an additional A-76 study, which would be a waste of valuable WSMR assets and negatively impact the future of FCS testing at WSMR.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 