BILL THAT CONTAINS SEN. BINGAMAN-BACKED FLOOD PREVENTION PROVISIONS IS FINALIZED
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today announced that a bill containing a provision he pushed for that authorizes funding for a key project in Albuquerque's Southwest Valley is poised for final Congressional passage. 
  A House-Senate panel has completed action on the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which authorizes $16.15 million in federal funding for the Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction Project. Once both chambers of Congress vote on the bill, which could happen in a matter of days, it will be signed into law.
  Bingaman has continually pressed for the inclusion of this $16.15 million project in WRDA, which authorizes projects and programs for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Bingaman is simultaneously seeking $1 million in fiscal year 2008 to initiate construction on the project. 
   "This is very good news for Albuquerque's Southwest Valley. This is the fist major step toward tacking the flooding problem that has threatened homes and businesses," Bingaman said.
  Flooding control on the Rio Grande over the years has left areas of Albuquerque's Southwest Valley below the level of the river causing frequent flooding when it rains. The proposed project would eliminate flood damage by improving drainage in the area, which contains about 500 homes. The project includes the construction of detention basins and enlarging existing drainage channels in the area from Bridge Blvd. south to Rio Bravo Blvd. and from the Arenal Canal east of Coors to the Armijo Drain, west of Isleta Blvd. Completion of the project will reduce the cost of homeowners' flood insurance in the area.
   WRDA also included the following provisions, which will benefit New Mexico:
  Rio Grande Environmental Management Provision: The Bingaman authored provision authorizes the Corps of Engineers to carry-out projects to restore fish & wildlife habitat in the Rio Grande. The program is authorized at $15 million a year. 
  Middle Rio Grande Restoration Provision - The provision initiates ecosystem restoration and recreational projects in the Middle Rio Grande reach (Cochiti to Elephant Butte). Total program authorization is $25 million. 
   "These initiatives represent a great investment in the restoration of the Rio Grande," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 