SEN. BINGAMAN LEADS EFFORT TO IMPROVE SECURITY IN BORDER REGION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today praised new efforts between local, state and federal officials and ranchers to address border security issues along New Mexico's border with Mexico. 
   Bingaman participated in a ceremony with the Do?a Ana County Sheriff's Office and the New Mexico Department of Homeland Security to begin the transfer of radios to border ranchers. The radios will help improve communication between residents and law enforcement, allowing ranchers to report illegal activity. 
   The purchase and distribution of radios was the top priority of a task force Bingaman assembled two years ago to address border security needs. Bingaman's Southwest New Mexico Border Security Task Force is comprised of the New Mexico Border Authority, the U.S. Border Patrol, the Bureau of Land Management, the New Mexico State Police, the Do?a Ana and Luna County Sheriff's Departments, and residents of border counties, among others. 
   "There has been an increase in illegal activity along the border in recent months. The Border Security Task Force pointed out that improved communications between ranchers and law enforcement was needed. The radios that will soon be distributed to ranchers are the first step toward improving avenues of communication," Bingaman said. 
   Currently, conventional communication - mainly walkie talkies - is available in only about 70 percent of the border region. Some areas, such as New Mexico's boot-heel, have no cell phone coverage, which makes it very difficult for residents to report illegal activity or call for assistance in emergency situations. 
   The Border Security Task Force recommended that handheld radios be distributed to residents who live in remote areas to permit seamless communication between law enforcement and residents along the entire New Mexico-Mexico border. The State of New Mexico purchased the radios at a cost of abut $250,000. 
   The radios consist of about 100 base stations (for desks), 100 mobile units (for cars), and about 50 handheld units for ranchers. Customs and Border Patrol has agreed to set up five responders on their existing radio towers. 
   In light of the Bush administration's decision to sign more than 500 new border patrol agents to Arizona, Bingaman said he is concerned that trafficking and other illegal activity will increase along the border New Mexico shares with Mexico. 
   Bingaman on Wednesday wrote to the Bush administration seeking a more comprehensive plan to address security along the U.S.-Mexico border. 
   In addition to helping secure the radios, Bingaman also has been working on a variety of other fronts to improve security along the border. 
   He was the cosponsor of an amendment to the fiscal year 2006 Senate Budget Resolution to make room in the budget for an additional 2,000 Border Patrol agents to be deployed along U.S. borders. The recently-passed intelligence reform bill authorized these 2,000 new agents, but President Bush's fiscal year 2006 budget proposal only included funding for an additional 210 Border Patrol agents. Bingaman said this number does little to address the country's border security needs. The bipartisan amendment approved two weeks ago calls for $352.4 million for the hiring of these 2,000 new agents. 
   Bingaman also cosponsored another measure to the Budget Resolution that urges Congress to adequately fund the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP). The program, which helps reimburse localities along the southwest border for costs associated with detaining certain criminal aliens, was funded at $305 million in fiscal year 2005. The president's budget called for the elimination of SCAAP. 
   Bingaman said that without the program, the huge financial burden of federal immigration enforcement would be shifted to local border communities. Bingaman is also a cosponsor of legislation to reauthorize SCAAP through 2011.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 