SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN TELL USAF TO FREE
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today said the Defense Department has taken inappropriate action by postponing plans to commence with construction of a consolidated airmen's center at Cannon Air Force Base. 
   In a letter to Air Force Secretary Michael W. Wynne, the New Mexico Senators said the action to freeze the $9.5 million project does not follow congressional intent as specified in the FY2006 Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act.
   In that bill, Domenici and Bingaman gained language to ensure that Cannon military construction would not be affected by the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) commission decision that placed the Curry County base into a unique "enclave" status until a new mission is found.
   "We are confident that a new mission will be found for Cannon, so this project is still needed. This week I was assured by Secretary Wynne that it's status quo at the base, which I interpret to mean that activities are not being diminished as the mission search goes on. I believe that should also mean moving forward with this project, particularly because of our confidence in soon identifying that new mission," said Domenici, a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "Knowing that a new mission will be found for Cannon, there's no reason to hold back on releasing this funding. This airmen's center will certainly be needed to accommodate the troops associated with the new mission selected for the base," Bingaman said.
   The $9.5 million for the airmen's center became law in 2004, well before the 2005 BRAC process began. The center will consist of a dining hall, a postal center, a laundry exchange, and a troop subsistence issue.
   In 2004, Domenici and Bingaman gained approval for language assuring that funding for military construction projects at Cannon would remain available. The language built in an exception to handling military construction projects for enclave facilities, namely Cannon Air Force Base. That language addressed Cannon's unique status as an "enclave;" essentially protecting it. In contrast, military construction funding for other bases targeted for closure or realignment in the 2005 BRAC has not been obligated. 
   "It is clear that Cannon Air Force Base has the enclave status required by Section 128 of Public Law 109-114," the Senators' letter to Wynne states. "Thus, we believe it is inappropriate for the Department of Defense to withhold the funds appropriated for military construction at Cannon Air Force Base and respectfully request that the funds be released immediately in accordance with law."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 