SEN. BINGAMAN VISITS VAN BUREN MIDDLE SCHOOL TO DISCUSS HIS CHILDREN'S DENTAL HEALTH INTIATIVE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today visited Van Buren Middle School dental clinic and met with students who receive basic dental care there.  
   Bingaman has long believed good oral health is key to a child's overall health, and for years has tried to improve the quality of dental care offered through the State Children's Health Insurance Program. 
   "Good dental care is essential to a child's overall health. Too often, children who may have access to a doctor when they need it still don't have access to dental care. That must change," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman is the author of the Children's Dental Health Improvement Act of 2007 (S. 739) - a measure he wrote to improve the access to and delivery of dental care to uninsured children through a number of steps, including allowing states flexibility to cover dental services through SCHIP. 
   Bingaman has tried to advance the issue of expanding dental care to uninsured children for several years, introducing legislation in Congress as far back as 1998. The recent death of a 12 year-old Maryland boy who died after an infection in one of his teeth spread to his brain, underscores the need to improve childrens' access to dental care. 
   The Children's Dental Health Improvement Act of 2007 authorizes $40 million for community health centers and public health departments to expand dental services by hiring additional dental health professionals to serve low-income children. 
   The legislation also does the following: 
   Provides $50 million in financial incentives and planning grants to states to improve their Medicaid payments rates to encourage more dentists to participate in the program. 
   Provides the Indian Health Service (IHS) with the authority to offer multi-year retention bonuses to dental providers offering services through the IHS and tribal programs. 
   Authorizes the Oral Health Initiative to coordinate public dental health services and provides $25 million to improve the oral health of low-income people served by the public and private sector. 
   Incentivizes dental programs to train a larger number of dental residences. 
   Bingaman is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, the panel that will consider the Children's Dental Health Improvement Act of 2007.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 