SENS. DOMENICI, BINGAMAN SAY NATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS PUSH OFFERS OPPORTUNITY FOR NEW MEXICO YOUTH, EDUCATORS
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today highlighted the fact that a new national push to improve American competitiveness will open up opportunities for New Mexico students and teachers in the realm of math and science. 
   Domenici and Bingaman today appeared with President Bush at Intel for a panel discussion on the American Competitiveness Initiative he unveiled during his State of the Union address Monday. The New Mexico lawmakers promoted the initiative with Bush in December and last month introduced comprehensive national competitiveness legislation. 
   A major component of their Protecting America's Competitive Edge Act (PACE Act) focuses on encouraging more students to get college degrees in math, science and engineering, as well as improving math and science education for K-12 teachers. The PACE Act legislative package was introduced by Domenici, Bingaman and their partners Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.). 
   "To keep American competitive, we must harness the brainpower of a new generation, and that includes our brightest in New Mexico, too. This will be more than another big national program. We have a ripe environment to have for our own students to excel, particularly considering the national labs and good high-tech companies like Intel we will have as partners," Domenici said. 
   "I'm glad President Bush is focusing the nation's attention on this important issue. We will need the strong backing of the White House if we're going to do what it will take to keep our nation competitive for generations to come," Bingaman said. 
   The PACE Act would fund up to 25,000 four-year competitive scholarships for students to earn a bachelor's degree in science, engineering or math, as well as up to 5,000 graduate-level research fellowships. 
   The legislation includes a major push to bring better trained math and science teachers to K-12 classrooms, offering four-year scholarships to math and science majors to become certified teachers in those fields. It authorizes teacher training programs and summer academies to better prepare educators for math and science instruction. 
   For middle and high school-level children, the bill would pour resources into creating summer internship programs for students at that national laboratories and other technology and scientific research facilities. In addition, the PACE Act would authorize the Department of Energy to assist states in establishing specialty schools in math and science. 
   Visit http://energy.senate.gov/public/ for more specifics on the PACE Act: S.2197-Energy, S.2198-Education, S.2199-Finance.
   Both Domenici and Bingaman have long records of working to promote science, technology and education in the Senate and in New Mexico, such as supporting programs like the New Mexico MESA program (http://www.nmmesa.org/)and the Albuquerque Public Schools Math, Science and Technology Education Partnership (http://www.mstp.org/). 
   Domenici * Bingaman * Alexander * Mikulski
   - Focuses on keeping America's science and technology edge - as much as 85 percent of our per capita growth in incomes since World War II has come from science and technology. 
   - Helps America continue to set the PACE in the competitive world marketplace.
   - Keeps our brainpower edge by strengthening K-12 math and science education, attracting bright college students to the sciences and investing in basic research.
   (S.2198-Education)
   - Improving K-12 Science/Math Education:
   Scholarships for Future Teachers of Math & Science: Each year, up to 10,000 bright students would receive a 4-year scholarship to earn a bachelor's degree in science, engineering or math, while concurrently earning teacher certification. In exchange for these scholarships, they would be expected to serve for at least four years as a math or science teacher. 
  Math & Science Teacher Training Programs: Funds part of the costs for new math and science teacher training programs based in math and science departments at universities across the country. These programs will stress a solid content knowledge of their subject while also providing the training necessary for teacher certification.
  Summer Academies for Teachers: National laboratories and universities across the country would host 1-2 week academies each summer for up to 50,000 math and science teachers so they can get some hands-on experience and take back new, improved ideas for energizing their students. 
  Advanced Placement Courses in Math & Science: The federal government would provide funding to help establish non-profit organizations to promote Advanced Placement (AP) classes in math and science - tripling the number of students who could join these college-preparatory programs that consistently produce the highest achievers. 
   Specialty Math & Science High Schools: States would be eligible to apply for a grant from the federal government to establish a new high school specializing in math and science that students from across each state could attend.
   Internships and Summer Programs for Middle and High School Students: Provides unique internship and program opportunities for middle and high school students at national labs and other technology and scientific research facilities.
  - Increasing the Talent Pool by Improving Higher Education:
   Scholarships and Fellowships for Future Scientists:
   Each year, up to 25,000 bright young Americans would receive a 4-year competitive scholarship to earn a bachelor's degree in science, engineering or math, so that our brightest students pursue studies in these fields which are so critical to our economic growth. Up to 5,000 students who have already earned their bachelor's degree, would compete to receive graduate research fellowships to cover education costs and provide a stipend.
  Attracting the Brightest Foreign Students to our Universities:
   Provides an efficient student visa process for bright foreign students to come here to study math, technology, engineering and science and then to stay here - contributing to our economic growth rather than being forced by an outdated immigration system to go home and produce the best new technology in India or China.
 
 