SEN. BINGAMAN: KEY DEFENSE BILL CLEARS THE SENATE
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman reported that a spending bill that supports key defense programs located in southern New Mexico has advanced in the Senate. 
   "This bill strongly supports the important work at our state's military installations," Bingaman said.
   The fiscal year 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill has been approved by unanimous consent, and the $460 billion measure is now ready to be conferenced with the House of Representatives.
   Bingaman worked to secure funding for several projects in New Mexico, including setting aside $3 million for the New Mexico National Guard so it can continue to fund counter-drug efforts in the border region and enhance border security.
   "For years the New Mexico National Guard has played a very important role stemming the flow of illegal drugs into our country. I am pleased to help support the great work they're doing," said Bingaman, who has secured more than $5 million for the Guard over the past three years.
   Also at Bingaman's urging, the bill also contains the following:
   $6 million for Joint Directed Energy Test Site, IED Defeat at WSMR to develop instrumentation and combat environment for research, development, test, evaluation and training of joint directed energy systems for detection and defeat of improvised explosive devices.
   $2.5 million for Joint Tactical Network Test Environment at WSMR. This project would provide resources for configuring the fiber network, establishing the radio networks for a wide array of communications networks at WSMR.
   $4 million for Playas Training and Research Center Joint Training Experiment at NMT Playas training facility. Funding will be used to establish the PTRC as a Joint National Training and Experimentation Site for National Guard Bureau (NGB) active and reserve personnel, as well as for Air National Guard and Army National Guard personnel. Playas is envisioned as becoming an integral portion of the Joint National Training Capability.
   $5 million for UAV Systems and Operations Validation Program, New Mexico State. USOVP has successfully provided the DoD with the unique UAV operations capability to support testing of UAV platforms and systems in civil airspace on a routine basis alongside manned aircraft. UAVs are a growing component of our nation's defense, accelerated due to the global war against terrorism.
   $6.5 million for Smart Instrument Development for the Magdalena Ridge Observatory, New Mexico Tech. The United States Office of Naval Research (ONR) and the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) have joined a consortium of research universities, including the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology (New Mexico Tech) and Cambridge University, in a unique teaming arrangement to build a state-of-the-art observatory in the Magdalena Mountains near Socorro, New Mexico.
   $2.5 million for Close-In Communications and Sensing System, New Mexico Tech. This program will develop an urban communications systems for densely populated cities permitting first responders to communicate in future catastrophic events such as in New Orleans.
   Other major items/initiatives funded in the bill:
   F-22A's are fully funded for 20 at $3.15 billion for Elmdorf AFB in Alaska, thus putting Holloman next in queue.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 