SEN. BINGAMAN: SENATE APPROVES DEFENSE SPENDING BILL
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased the Senate has approved a defense spending bill that funds the military installations in New Mexico. 
   The fiscal year 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill has been approved by unanimous consent, and the $460 billion measure is now ready to be conferenced with the House of Representatives. Bingaman worked to secure funding for several projects in New Mexico.
   "This bill strongly supports essential research projects, including those at the University of New Mexico," Bingaman said.
   At Bingaman's urging, the bill contains the following:
   $3 million for Satellite Active Imaging National Testbed Program (SAINT), at AFRL Kirtland. SAINT allows the capabilities of the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) to conduct and expand space object identification and capabilities analysis at Low Earth Orbit (LEO) and Geosynchronous Earth Orbit (GEO), work in Albuquerque.
   $3 million for Long Wave Length Array (LWA) at UNM, The Long Wavelength Array will be a very large (400 km) synthetic aperture radio astronomy telescope designed as a new instrument in the poorly explored region of the electromagnetic spectrum. It will research astrophysics, space physics, space weather, and ionospheric physics.
   $2 million for Field Programmable Gate Array Assurance Center at University of New Mexico to train engineers on developing semiconductor chips which are highly reliable for space applications, this will also help XLINX in ABQ which makes them.
   $5 million for Defense Threat Reduction Agency University Strategic Partnerships at UNM. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency University Strategic Partnerships Program seeds projects at universities in cooperation with divisions throughout DTRA. This funding would allow for additional projects to be initiated and would assist in continuing projects past their initial year by sharing funding between operations divisions of DTRA.
   $2.5 million for Advanced Modular Avionics for Operationally Responsive Space Use, Goodrich Space in Albuquerque. This program will upgrade these previous generation avionics systems to support the specific needs of the new operationally responsive space program at Kirtland Air Force Base to rapidly launch satellites with modular plug and play like components.
   $121.6 million for Joint Technology Office for High Energy Lasers at Kirtland AFB, to fund a wide array of research programs on laser systems, which makes Kirtland and the Air Force Research Office a center of excellence throughout the United States.
   $87.03 million for Operationally Responsive Space program at Kirtland and the Air Force Research Laboratory to develop a new generation of rapidly fieldable satellites based on common equipment that can be rapidly interchanged in almost a "plug and play" fashion.
   $453.7 million for CV-22 - 5 new planes to be used by the Air Force Special Operations Command, now standing up at Cannon and at Kirtland Air Force Base, which trains pilots to operate them.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 