SEN. BINGAMAN: CUTS TO AMTRAK WOULD END NEW MEXICO RAIL SERVICES
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today expressed his disappointment in the Bush Administration proposal to cut Amtrak services, which could result in the end of passenger rail service in New Mexico. But he said there is some good news for the state's roads and transit programs. 
   The Bush administration today presented Congress with its fiscal year 2009 budget proposal, which outlines the administration's spending priorities. The proposal makes deep cuts to Amtrak funding to $800 million in 2009 from $1.325 billion for 2008.  
   "Amtrak provided many New Mexico communities with a valuable transportation service. The termination of service would be a great loss to those communities that depend on its service," Bingaman said. 
   Amtrak maintains two lines that run through New Mexico. The Southwest Chief serves Raton, Las Vegas, Lamy, Albuquerque and Gallup and the Sunset Limited serves Deming and Lordsburg. The cut in funding would eliminate both of these rail lines. 
   Bingaman said he was also disappointed that the President's FY 2009 budget cuts funding for the nation's highway projects - from $40.2 billion in FY 2008 to $39.4 billion. The decrease would cut New Mexico's share from an estimated $315 million in 2008 to around $308 million for 2009. 
   "Road and highway maintenance is vital to the safety and well being of our nation's drivers. It's unfortunate that the White House does not see this as a priority," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman was pleased to see that the FY 2009 budget increases transit funds for New Mexico from an estimated $24.6 million in 2008 to $26 million for 2009. Transit funding provides direct grants to Albuquerque ($10.7 million), Santa Fe ($1.9 million), Las Cruces ($1.6 million) and Farmington ($550,000) for transit projects and additional funds to the New Mexico Department of Transportation to be distributed to all other communities. Funding reflects the proposed FY 2009 budget. 
   Additionally, the President's budget provides the full $27.86 million promised to New Mexico in FY 2009 to help build safe highways in support of WIPP. This funding continues through 2011. 
   Bingaman was disappointed that the president once again proposed to eliminate all commercial air service for Alamogordo, Carlsbad, Clovis, Hobbs, and Silver City. These communities depend on the Essential Air Service program for subsidized air service to Albuquerque. Bingaman will again lead efforts in the Senate this year to maintain their commercial air service for communities that helps create jobs and promote economic development. 
   "Many New Mexico communities depend on reliable air service to help attract visitors and businesses to their part of the state. I am committed to working to ensure that the Essential Air Service program continues to assist communities that depend on it," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman was also disappointed in the president's proposal to cut funding for airport construction from $3.5 billion in FY08 to $2.75 billion in FY09, which would eliminate the minimum $150,000 set aside for more than 40 small airports in New Mexico and cut funding for all others airports in the state. 
   The budget request submitted Monday by the White House to Congress is the first step in the annual appropriations process. Over the next several months, the House of Representatives and the Senate will proceed with the actual work of writing the federal budget. But the White House numbers serve as recommendations to Congress that could set the parameters of the budget debate.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 