SEN. BINGAMAN: SCHIP BILL WOULD HAVE ALLOWED NEW MEXICO TO PROVIDE HEALTH COVERAGE TO MORE CHILDREN
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he hopes Congress can make significant improvements to a key health care program for children, despite the fact that the president twice vetoed legislation that would have expanded coverage to millions of young Americans. 
   Bingaman helped write the legislation, which would have reauthorized the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). SCHIP is a state/federal health care initiative crated in 1997 that covers millions of children and others who do not qualify for Medicaid but whose families cannot afford health insurance. President Bush vetoed the bill twice last year, so Congress was forced to pass legislation that merely extended the current program until 2009.  
   "I am extremely disappointed that President Bush has decided to veto health care for children. Approximately 100,000 New Mexico children lack health care coverage, and the bipartisan legislation we passed would have allowed us to reach out to many of them," Bingaman said. "Instead, what we have is an extension of the current SCHIP program, which clearly is not meeting the needs of the young people in our country." 
   The vetoed bill would have set aside $35 billion in new federal funding over the next five years to ensure that more than 10 million American children will either maintain health care coverage or receive it for the first time. 
   As a result of the legislation that was vetoed, New Mexico would have received $195 million for SCHIP this year, an amount that could have potentially increased in the succeeding four years as the state continued its health expansion proposals. With this funding, tens-of-thousands of additional New Mexico children - and adults - would have had access to health care for the first time. 
   Bingaman, as a member of Senate Finance Committee, worked extensively on the vetoed bills and had several provisions included in the measure to specifically address New Mexico's needs. 
   For instance, Bingaman was influential in requiring SCHIP to provide dental services. Bingaman has been fighting for years to extend dental coverage to young Americans through SCHIP. 
   Also at Bingaman's urging, the measure also corrected an inequity in the law that has prevented New Mexico from covering a certain category of low-income New Mexico children, and required the state to return more than $180 million to the federal government since 1998. By ensuring that that this category of children could be covered, Bingaman has ensured that New Mexico will be able to utilize most of its SCHIP funding. 
   Bingaman was also successful in protecting the ability of New Mexico to cover parents and other low-income adults through SCHIP and Medicaid. 
   The bill also created an initiative that Bingaman pushed for many years, which would have allowed states to automatically enroll children in SCHIP if they have already been deemed eligible for another public program, such as the National School Lunch Program or the Food Stamp Program, with comparable income guidelines. 
   And at Bingaman's urging, the measure would have made it easier for Americans to prove their citizenship. Currently, the list of documents that can be used to prove citizenship is so small, as many as 10,000 SCHIP-eligible New Mexicans have been turned down for care. 
   This legislation provides a mechanism to match Social Security numbers for Medicaid and SCHIP patients that should significantly improve the situation. 
   "This was a very good bill for New Mexico, and I wish we could have gotten it enacted. Through Medicare, we provide good health care coverage to older Americans. But we fall short when it comes to young Americans. We need to correct that, and I hope we can do so in the near future," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 