SEN. BINGAMAN'S PLAN FOR BOSQUE REDONDO MEMORIAL COMES TO FRUITION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today participated in the opening of the Bosque Redondo Memorial that he helped make possible.  
   Bingaman authored a provision in the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe Equitable Compensation Act, which was signed into law in 2000, that gave the Department of Defense (DoD) the permission to spend $2 million in federal funds to construct the Bosque Redondo Memorial and visitor center at Fort Sumner State Monument. 
   "I am very pleased that we are here today to celebrate the opening of the Bosque Redondo Memorial. This long-awaited memorial recognizes the terrible injustices that the Apache and Navajo people were subjected to. While it represents a sad chapter in our history, it also honors the survival of thousands of Navajo and Mescalero Apache," Bingaman said. 
   In 1863, the United States detained nearly 9,000 Navajo and forced their migration across nearly 350 miles of land to Bosque Redondo, a journey known as the Long Walk. Mescalero Apache people were also incarcerated at Bosque Redondo. The ordeal ended with the Treaty of 1868, which officially recognized the Navajo Nation. 
   The Navajo and Mescalero Apache people labored to plant crops, dig irrigation ditches and build housing, but drought, cutworms, hail, and alkaline Pecos River water created severe living conditions for the captives. 
   Bingaman had long been a supporter of the memorial project, which prompted him to introduce legislation to provide federal funding for the project. Bingaman also fought to secure the $2 million. In addition, when the Department of Defense dragged its feet in releasing the funds because the state had failed to fund its share of the project, Bingaman urged then-Gov. Gary Johnson to support the project and to approve the state's share of funding. 
   "The suffering and hardships endured by the Navajo and Apache people gave us a new understanding of their strengths as a people, and today, the United States government stands with them to further educate others about this shared, sad place in time," Bingaman said.
 
 