GAO RELEASES COMPREHENSIVE REPORT ON NEW MEXICO COMMUNITY LAND GRANTS
  The General Accounting Office (GAO) has completed a first-ever comprehensive federal study of land grant claims in New Mexico. The report is the result of four years of study and analysis, which incorporates archival research and extensive interviews with New Mexico land grant heirs, historians, scholars, as well as written comments from the public.  
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici, and Rep. Tom Udall, tapped the GAO in 2000 to undertake a study on claims stemming from implementation of the1848 Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo - the pact that ended the Mexican-American War. 
  The GAO, the independent investigative arm of Congress, today released its 220-page report entitled Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo: Findings and Possible Options Regarding Longstanding Community Land Grant Claims in New Mexico (GAO-04-59).
  The report thoroughly examines whether community land grants were lost as a result of failures by the United States to implement provisions of the Treaty fairly, and concludes that the Treaty was, in fact, implemented legally under U.S. law. 
  One of the main tasks of the GAO was to identify whether the federal government set up procedures to implement the Treaty that met the requirements of due process of law under the U.S. Constitution.
  "We found that the procedures did, in fact, meet constitutional due process requirements, as the courts at that time defined them and even under today's standards," the report states. (Page 9.)
  The GAO concluded that using the procedures set up by the federal government to confirm land grants, 63.5 percent (or 5.9 million acres) of the 154 community land grants claims were confirmed by the federal government. The remaining 36.5 percent (or 3.42 million acres) became part of the U.S. public domain available for settlement by the general population. (Page 8.)
  Furthermore, the GAO concluded that land claimants lost substantially more acreage after the confirmation process by voluntary transfer, partitioning suits, and tax foreclosure, than were lost during the confirmation process. (Page 11.)
  The report states that land grant heirs have cited as a concern the fact that different and in some cases less stringent procedures were used to implement the Treaty in California than were used in New Mexico. (Procedures were changed in part to address problems of fraud identified in California.) But the report concludes that the procedures used in New Mexico were nonetheless fair.
  "Congress has discretion in how it implemented the Treaty provisions, however, so long as it did so within constitutional and other U.S. legal limitations (which it did). Thus the fact that Congress established different standards for grant confirmation at different times did not indicate any legal violation or shortcoming," the report states. (Page 9.)
  But the report also says that the procedures, while meeting the legislative and constitutional requirements, did create hardships for some grantees, citing as an example the fact that the federal officials responsible for confirming land claims "lacked the legal, language and analytical skills and financial resources to review grant claims in the most effective and efficient manner," (Page 11.) The GAO also found, however, that there is no legal basis for remedial action by Congress. (Page 12.)
  The delegation has asked the GAO to conduct a forum on its findings this summer in New Mexico.
  "After years of research and public input, I'm glad the GAO has finally released this first-ever federal examination of New Mexico land grants. This is a difficult and complex issue. The GAO's investigation contains a lot of new information, and I'm looking forward to studying it carefully to more fully understand the history of land grants in our state. I hope it helps shed some light on this very important issue," Bingaman said. 
  "The GAO has conducted an exhaustive review of the Hispanic land grant history. Obviously, this is a substantial and important report, and we should carefully and thoughtfully study it. This has been a long journey, and we need to take time to assess all options," Domenici said. 
  "Given the 150-year dispute over community land grant claims in New Mexico, an analysis of the United States' implementation of the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo is long overdue. At this point, I am scrutinizing what the GAO has produced to make certain that it is the thorough report we wanted. We're asking the General Accounting Office to come to New Mexico to answer questions about their findings with interested stakeholders. I look forward to working with the other members of the delegation on this important issue," Udall said. 
  The report is available in English and Spanish on the GAO's website: www.gao.gov.
   Contact: Jude McCartin, 202/224-1804, 202/224-5521; Chris Gallegos, 202/224-7082; Glen Loveland, 202/225-6190.
 
 