SENATE PASSES RESOLUTION ENCOURAGING INCREASED U.S. INVOLVEMENT IN SOLVING JUAREZ MURDERS
  The Senate on Wednesday night approved a resolution introduced by Sen. Jeff Bingaman that urges U.S. involvement in helping to solve cases involving the brutal murders of more than 400 women in the past decade. The same resolution, which was sponsored by Rep. Hilda Solis, passed the House of Representatives on Tuesday.  
   The crimes, which first began in Ciudad Juarez, have spread to the city of Chihuahua. The resolution condemns the abductions and murders of young women in the State of Chihuahua, Mexico; expresses its deepest sympathy to the families of the young women killed; urges the President and Secretary of State to express concern over these abductions and murders; and requests that investigative and preventative efforts become part of the bilateral agenda between the Governments of Mexico and the United States. 
   The resolution also supports continued efforts to obtain independent DNA testing that would allow families to positively identify the remains of the victims, and expresses the solidarity of the people of the United States with the people of Mexico in the face of these tragic and senseless acts.
   "What has happened to these women needs to be thoroughly investigated and their families deserve to see justice served," Bingaman said. "It is my hope that now that Congress is on the record as supporting greater cooperation in stopping these horrific crimes, the Bush administration will now pursue efforts to help the Mexican government prevent and solve these senseless murders."
   Bingaman last year announced that the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) would be providing approximately $290,000 to the Argentine Forensic Anthropology Team (EAAF), which has reached an agreement with the Chihuahua State Attorney General to carry out the forensic testing needed to identify the victims. The EAAF project is currently under way.
   Congressional resolutions do not have to be signed into law.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 