SEN. BINGAMAN: CUTS TO AMTRAK WOULD END NEW MEXICO RAIL SERVICES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today expressed his disappointment in the Bush Administration proposal to cut Amtrak services, which could result in the end of passenger rail service in New Mexico. But he said there is some good news for the state's roads and transit programs.  
   The Bush administration today presented Congress with its fiscal year 2008 budget proposal, which outlines the administration's spending priorities. The proposal makes deep cuts to Amtrak funding to $900 million in 2008 from $1.3 billion estimated for 2007. 
   "Passenger rail service is a crucial element in helping to attract businesses and new jobs to our state. The end of Amtrak services in the state could have a negative economic impact on those communities that depend on its services," Bingaman said. 
   Amtrak maintains two lines that run through New Mexico. The Southwest Chief serves Raton, Las Vegas, Lamy, Albuquerque and Gallup and the Sunset Limited serves Deming and Lordsburg. The cut in funding would eliminate both of these rail lines. 
   Bingaman said he was pleased that the FY 2008 budget includes the full authorized level of $39.6 billion up from $39.1 in FY 2007 for the nation's transportation projects. The increase would boost New Mexico's share from an estimated $291million in 2007 to $295 million for 2008. 
   "New Mexico relies heavily on this funding to properly maintain our roads," Bingaman said. 
   Additionally, the budget increases transit funds for New Mexico from an estimated $20 million in 2007 to $22 million for 2008. Transit funding provides direct formula grants to Albuquerque, Santa Fe, Las Cruces and Farmington for transit projects and additional funds to the New Mexico Department of Transportation to be distributed to all other communities. 
   Bingaman was disappointed in the president's proposal to cut funding for airport construction from $3.4 billion to $2.75 billion, which would eliminate the mandatory $150,000 set aside for more than 40 small airports in New Mexico and cut funding for all others airports in the state. Farmington would go from $1 million to $650,000. 
   "Airports are one of the best economic tools that a community has to offer, but they are costly to maintain. I will work to ensure New Mexico airports get the funding they need to stay in top shape," Bingaman said. 
   The budget request submitted Monday by the White House to Congress is the first step in the annual appropriations process. Over the next several months, the House of Representatives and the Senate will proceed with the actual work of writing the federal budget. But the White House numbers serve as recommendations to Congress that could set the parameters of the budget debate.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 