SEN. BINGAMAN: PRESIDENTS FY 08 BUDGET MIXED BAG FOR INDIAN COUNTRY
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said that while the president's fiscal year 2008 budget requests funding for important Indian Country issues, overall it makes deep cuts to the Bureau of Indian Affairs budget.  
   The White House today unveiled its fiscal year 2008 Budget proposal, which outlines the administration's spending priorities for the following year. 
   The president's budget seeks to eliminate the Urban Indian Health program ($33 million cut) and the Housing Improvement Program ($19 million cut). Additionally, proposes a $24 million cut for Health Care Facilities Construction, $17.5 million cut for Education Construction, and $5 million cut for Post-Secondary Scholarships. 
   "This budget contains deep cuts to Indian County health care programs that benefit Indian communities. I will work to fight these cuts," Bingaman said. The budget also contains some good news, including a $246 million increase for IHS Clinical Services and a $20 million increase for Elementary and Secondary Programs Forward Funded. 
   Bingaman also said he was pleased the budget contained a $16 million increase in funding for the BIA's Safe Indian Communities Initiative, which is aimed at assisting law enforcement combat meth. Under the proposal $5 million would be provided to hire and train additional law enforcement officers; $5 million to increase staff at Indian detention facilities and for training detention officers; and $6 million to provide drug enforcement training for officers and public awareness campaigns to highlight the dangers of methamphetamine use. 
   Unfortunately, the overall proposal cuts $1.25 billion in Department of Justice (DOJ) funding aimed at assisting local, state, and tribal law enforcement fight crime, and eliminates several tribal justice-related initiatives, including programs to fund jails on tribal lands ($12 million FY07, $0 FY08), the Indian Country grant program ($4 million FY07, $0 FY08), and the Tribal courts initiative ($7 million FY07, $08). 
   "While I welcome the additional resources to combat meth in Indian Country and appreciate the Administration's efforts to raise awareness of this important issue, I am deeply concerned about how other cuts in the budget will adversely impact the ability of tribes to fight crime," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman has sponsored legislation, the Native American Methamphetamine Enforcement and Treatment Act of 2007, to provide tribal communities access to over $100 million in DOJ anti-meth grants. Tribes were unintentionally excluded as eligible applicants when the funding was authorized in earlier legislation.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 