SEN. BINGAMAN: BUSH BUDGET CUTS PROGRAMS IMPORTANT TO SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is concerned about a lack of funding for several initiatives that benefit southern New Mexico. For the third consecutive year, Bush's budget eliminates the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), which helps reimburse localities along the southwest border for costs associated with detaining certain criminal aliens. 
   The program is set to receive $661 million for this year. Bingaman has fought against such cuts in the past. The budget also eliminates funding for the Southwest Border Prosecutor Initiative (SWBPI), which provides funding to the four Southwest border states to prosecute federally-initiated drug cases that would otherwise not be pursued because the cases do not meet Federal government thresholds. The program is set to receive $48 million for FY07, but nothing for FY 2008. "If we're serious about securing our borders, it simply doesn't make sense to slash funding border counties need to detain and try criminals," Bingaman said. "I will work to protect the State Criminal Alien Program and the Southwest Border Prosecutor Initiative and to make sure they are adequately funded." But Bingaman said he is encouraged that the president's proposal requests funding for 3,000 new Border Patrol agents and $1 billion for the continued deployment of the Secure Border Initiative (SBInet), a program aimed creating a "Virtual Fence" along the border by utilizing a mix of technology and infrastructure. "Just a few years ago, the president proposed hiring some 200 new border patrol agents. And while Congress has set aside enough funding to hire more than 3,000 during the past two years, it is encouraging that the White House is finally giving border security the attention it deserves," Bingaman said. Bingaman said he is disappointed that the Bush budget proposes slashing funding to help colonias with water and waste water programs to $10 million from and estimated $25 million this year. New Mexico's share would go from about $7.8 million to $3.1 million. Similarly, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's grant program that helps rural communities pay for water and wastewater projects is cut to $346 million from an estimated $465 million this year "Water and wastewater projects are costly, and some border communities could not afford them without federal funds," Bingaman said. Bush's budget also seeks to eliminate Bingaman's program to promote commercial air service for small and rural communities. In addition, Essential Air Service (EAS) stands to lose $59.4 million in funding, going from $109.4 million estimated for FY 2007 to only $50 million in the current proposal. The cuts would jeopardize funding to New Mexico's five EAS communities, which are Alamogordo, Carlsbad, Clovis, Hobbs, and Silver City. The budget request submitted today by the White House to Congress is the first step in the annual appropriations process. Over the next several months, the House of Representatives and the Senate will proceed with the actual work of writing the federal budget. The White House numbers serve as recommendations to Congress that could set the parameters of the budget debate. Finally, Bingaman said he is once again concerned about the Bush administration's proposal to cut PILT by over $42 million in fiscal year 2008. This year, PILT is authorized at about $350 million, but funded at just $232 million. The administration proposes to cut PILT funding for FY 2008 to $190 million. "New Mexico counties rely heavily on PILT payments to make up for the large amounts of non-taxable public lands. In my view, we need to strengthen the PILT program, not cut it," Bingaman said. 
   Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 