SEN. BINGAMAN: OVERALL INCREASES IN DOE BUDGET NOT REFLECTED IN NEW MEXICO
  While the overall budget of the Department of Energy (DOE) would grow slightly in President Bush's new budget request for fiscal year 2008, Sen. Jeff Bingaman said he is disappointed that the proposed DOE budget for New Mexico would actually be cut. 
   Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has jurisdiction over DOE. Bingaman will call the Secretary of Energy, Samuel W. Bodman, to testify on DOE's budget before the Committee on Wednesday, February 7. 
   "Some elements of DOE's new proposed budget, such as funding for research and development of renewable energies, are positive. But others reflect the wrong priorities," Bingaman stated. "We need to have a comprehensive approach to our energy challenges, using all of the department's technology strengths. I am concerned that some of the president's budget choices may undermine our future energy security, and threaten the long-term vitality of the New Mexico DOE laboratories."  
   The president's budget request would result in about $4.1 billion of spending from all DOE programs in New Mexico in FY 2008, down from the $4.2 billion proposed in FY 2007 and the nearly $4.3 billion that was appropriated for the DOE in New Mexico in FY 2006. 
   One of the biggest hits to DOE's New Mexico budget is in defense program spending at Los Alamos National Laboratory (down to $1.55 billion in the FY 2008 request from $1.65 billion in the FY 2007 request) and Sandia National Laboratories (down to $1.15 billion in the FY 2008 request from $1.25 billion in the FY 2007 request), exacerbated by further declines in non-nuclear civilian energy research and development at the two laboratories. 
   Many of DOE's New Mexico funding cuts are in programs that important to the long-term health of the country - namely the president's American Competitiveness Initiative (ACI). ACI is an effort to invest in scientific research and development with an eye toward keeping the country on the cutting edge, and helping generate the jobs of the future. While overall funding for the Office of Science will get a bump of 7.2 percent over the levels proposed for 2007, LANL and Sandia will not see a portion of that. At LANL, Office of Science Funding will be flat, and at Sandia it would decline 6.2 percent. 
   "Senator Lamar Alexander and I garnered 70 cosponsors on our legislation to strengthen America's competitiveness last year. While I am glad to see the Office of Science's budget grow, I am disappointed that our own outstanding labs will not be the beneficiaries," Bingaman said. "Science R&D has always played an important role in attracting the best scientists to our laboratories, and it is troubling to see them left out of DOE's renaissance in basic science funding." 
   Bingaman was also very concerned by trends in DOE's renewable energy spending at Sandia National Laboratories, which are slated to drop 22 percent from the FY 2007 proposed level of $41 million to $32 million. 
   "Sandia is a leader in renewable energy research," Bingaman said. "I am particularly disappointed that the overall energy efficiency and renewables budget for Sandia is declining while overall DOE spending in these areas is increasing by 5 percent." 
   Bingaman took issue with some other notable gaps in the new DOE budget proposal. The Administration's proposal zeroed out all research and development (R&D) relating to oil and gas, and proposed to repeal $50 million in guaranteed funding outside the regular budget for onshore natural gas exploration. This leaves coal as the only fossil fuel; on which DOE proposes to carry out any research. 
   "Even though the price of oil and gas are near record highs, we won't be able tap new oil and gas resources without additional R&D. The key players for natural gas in New Mexico are largely independent producers, and they don't have R&D departments. So, where is the new technology going to come from to keep natural gas flowing in an economic and environmentally responsible manner, if DOE abandons the field? This is a completely wrongheaded decision that I hope the Congresses reverses." Bingaman said. 
   The Administration also failed to fund any R&D on geothermal energy, a significant potential resource in New Mexico. "A recent study by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has highlighted how new drilling technology could revitalize our approach to geothermal energy," Bingaman said. "I don't know why the Administration is giving this promising option short shrift." 
   Bingaman expressed disappointment that Solid State Lighting R&D was funded at the same level as last year's request - $19 million - when lighting accounts for some 20 percent of electricity used in the United States and advanced lighting is seen worldwide as a key technology for the future. 
   "If we don't get the solid-state lighting jump-started, we will forfeit a potential $12 billion annual market to our economic competitors. Thanks to the solid-state lighting program at Sandia, this is one industry of the future where New Mexico can really shine. We need to make sure that it does," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also expressed puzzlement at the enormous increases proposed for reprocessing of nuclear fuel in the new budget. "There has been very little examination of the Administration's Global Nuclear Energy Partnership program here in Congress, yet it is proposed for a one-year increase that is larger than the whole of DOE's solar energy R&D budget. We will need to see if there is a rationale for diverting so much money towards a program whose details are poorly understood." 
   Finally, the budget proposes to cut DOE's support of weatherization activities carried out at the state and local level to $204.9 million from $316.9 million, a decrease of 35 percent. New Mexico's program likewise decreases to $1.2 million from $2.1 million in FY 2006, which represents a 43 percent decrease - more than the overall program. The weatherization program helps working families better insulate their homes to reduce heating and cooling bills, will receive this same percentage cut. 
   "The hardship caused to working families by high heating and cooling costs can be lessened by a strong weatherization program aimed at cutting their energy losses," Bingaman explained. "It makes little sense to be cutting this program now and especially for New Mexico which is experiencing a harsh winter this year. The energy bill signed by the President in 2005 called for an increased funding of weatherization, and I will urge that we stick to the consensus position we forged in the Energy Policy Act of 2005," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 