SEN. BINGAMAN VISITS ARC, SEEKS SUPPORT FOR LEGISLATION THAT ENDS THE TWO-YEAR PERIOD DISABLED PERSONS WAIT TO RECEIVE MEDICARE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today visited ARC, hosting a roundtable discussion to build support for a bipartisan bill he wrote to end the two-year period that disabled people currently must wait before they receive Medicare benefits. 
   Bingaman said that when Congress expanded Medicare from a health care program for older Americans to one that also covers individuals with significant disabilities in 1972, it built in a 24-month waiting period. During that time, disabled persons can receive Social Security Disability Insurance, but not health benefits through Medicare.
   But Bingaman believes that the waiting period does not make sense, and has introduced legislation that phases it out over 10 years. As it is phased out, the Secretary of Health and Human Services would be able to waive the waiting period for people with life-threatening illnesses.
   "Disabled persons often have health complications that may be life threatening. It doesn't make sense to have this arbitrary two-year waiting period," Bingaman said. 
   According to a Commonwealth Fund report, 40 percent of disabled people waiting for Medicare coverage are enrolled in Medicaid - a state/federal health care program for low-income individuals. But Medicaid only covers individuals who meet income requirements and who have assets of less than $2,000; these requirements make many people ineligible. Therefore, Medicare is often the only source of health care available to disabled individuals. 
   While Medicare costs would rise if Bingaman's bill was adopted, Medicaid costs would be decreased. That would, in turn, reduce the state's Medicaid contribution. 
   Bingaman's "Ending the Medicare Disability Waiting Act of 2005" was referred to the Senate Finance Committee, the panel with jurisdiction over Medicare and Medicaid. Bingaman is a member of that committee and in that capacity has worked to increase equity in Medicare and Medicaid payments to New Mexico. He is also working to on several proposals to reduce the number of uninsured Americans.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 