SEN. BINGAMAN DISCUSSES IMPACT CUTTING OF SERVICES AT ALBUQUERQUE INDIAN HEALTH CENTER IS HAVING ON SANTA FE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today toured Santa Fe Indian Hospital to discuss how it is being affected by a reduction of services offered at Albuquerque Indian Health Center. 
   Due to a $5 million budget shortfall, the Albuquerque Indian Health Center (AIHC) earlier this year was forced to significantly cut back on the services it offered to nearly 30,000 urban Indians in the state. The cutback is putting pressure on other hospitals, such as Santa Fe Indian Hospital. 
   Bingaman has strongly urged the Bush administration to take steps to prevent the service reduction at AIHC, but so far the administration has refused to act. In April he introduced legislation aimed at restoring $5 million to the health center, and securing an additional $3 million to bring back services the center lost in recent years.
   "Chronic underfunding of the Indian Health Service has taken a toll on the Albuquerque Indian Health Center, and that is having a ripple effect on Santa Fe Indian hospital. This is unacceptable. The federal government must act on its trust responsibility by setting aside an adequate level of funding to provide health care to Indians in our state," Bingaman said. 
   Due to budget problems, over the past five years the health center has significantly reduced the hours it offers health care services from 24-hours a day, seven days a week to weekdays between 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. 
   Because of further budget cuts, the AIHC was forced in May to downsize its operations once again, forcing the AIHC to close it urgent care unit, which sees an estimated 100-120 Native American patients a day. The move means that 17,000 urban Indians are losing access to healthcare from the AIHC, and are being forced to turn elsewhere.
   "This serious problem will only get worse if we don't bolster support to the Indian Health Service," Bingaman said.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 