SEN. BINGAMAN: NEW DOE PENSION POLICY WOULD HURT NEW MEXICO LAB/WIPP WORKERS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today urged the Bush Administration to halt a new policy that could hurt New Mexico's National Laboratory and WIPP employees. 
   The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) announced late last month that it will require DOE contractors to significantly reduce the cost associated with benefits, such as retirement and health care, offered to its employees. This would undermine DOE contractors by keeping them from making their own determinations as to what types of benefits to offer their workers, especially with respect to employee health care.
   In a letter to President Bush, Bingaman joined Senate colleagues in expressing concern over how the new policy will affect workers.
   "Defined benefit pension plans are the bedrock of retirement security. Over 40 million workers and retirees rely on these plans to provide a guaranteed income for them in their old age. These benefits protect the elderly against poverty, by ensuring that they are not forced to bear the risk of stock market declines or of living longer than they expected. These secure pensions also provide critical protections to widowed spouses, who rely on survivor benefits to sustain them in their old age. 
   "We are equally concerned that this new policy will erode the quality and comprehensiveness of health care benefits for employees, and could unfairly penalize the least healthy workers. The policy imposes arbitrary limitations on health care plans that DOE contractors may offer. 
   "You have assured us that your position is to strengthen the defined benefit pension system, not to dismantle it. Yet your credibility is called into serious question when your Department's stated policy prevents even those employers who want to provide defined benefit plans to their workers from doing so. In a time of rising health costs, an approach which shifts costs to workers and drives up spending system-wide is not the right solution," the letter states.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 