SEN. BINGAMAN: BUSH BUDGET CUTS PROGRAMS VITAL TO SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is disappointed about the levels of funding President Bush has proposed for initiatives vital to New Mexico, particularly for communities in the southern part of the state.  
   The Bush Administration today presented Congress with its fiscal year 2007 budget proposal, which outlines the administration's spending priorities. Bingaman said that while this year's proposal contains some small improvements over last year's proposal, it still falls short of supporting programs important to southern New Mexico.
   For the second year in a row Bush's budget eliminates the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), which helps reimburse localities along the southwest border for costs associated with detaining certain criminal aliens. Last year Bingaman joined an effort to secure $400 million to save the program.
   "Keeping our borders secure is a federal responsibility. Unfortunately, too often border communities get stuck with costs associated with the incarceration of illegal immigrants," Bingaman said. "SCAAP ensures that border communities are compensated and I believe calls to eliminate the program are totally irresponsible." 
   Another program which would suffer significant cuts is the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) program, which coordinates local, state, and federal law enforcement efforts to disrupt drug trafficking in the most active areas of the country. New Mexico HIDTA received approximately $7 million in 2006. The Bush budget reduces overall funding for the program to $207 million from $225 million. 
   "The HIDTA program is key in our fight to keep illegal drugs from flowing over the border. As Congress writes the budget in the coming months, I will work to make HIDTA funding a priority," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman said he is pleased that this year's budget request contains funding for an additional 1,500 border patrol agents and $2.6 million for new construction and other improvements for the Columbus Border Patrol Station. However, Bingaman was disappointed that the budget does not provide funding to complete the construction of vehicle barriers along the New Mexico-Mexico border. 
   "Last year, the White House proposed hiring 210 new border patrol agents, and thankfully Congress increased that number to 1,500. I am glad the president has recognized the need to put more resources along the border," Bingaman said. "But I am still disappointed the president has committed no funds to complete the vehicle barricades."
   The Bush administration also proposes slashing funding to help colonias with water and waste water programs to $10 million from $25 million. New Mexico's share would go from about $7.8 million to $3.1 million. Similarly, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's grant program that helps rural communities pay for water and wastewater projects is cut to $346 million from $465 million.
   "Water and waste water infrastructure projects come with pretty big price tags. Many communities rely on federal grants to funds water projects. It's unfortunate that the president has proposed cuts to a program that helps New Mexican's meet some of their basic needs," Bingaman said. 
   Bush's budget also seeks to eliminate Bingaman's program to promote commercial air service for small and rural communities. In addition, Essential Air Service (EAS) stands to lose $60 million in funding, going from $110 million in FY 2006 to only $50 million in the current proposal, and forcing communities participating in the program to pay anywhere from $50,000 to $150,000 per year to maintain air service. The cuts could jeopardize funding to New Mexico's five EAS communities, which are Alamogordo, Carlsbad, Clovis, Hobbs, and Silver City. 
   The budget request submitted today by the White House to Congress is the first step in the annual appropriations process. Over the next several months, the House of Representatives and the Senate will proceed with the actual work of writing the federal budget. The White House numbers serve as recommendations to Congress that could set the parameters of the budget debate.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 