SEN. BINGAMAN: BUSH BUDGET CUTS FUNDING TO EDUCATION, HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is very concerned about President Bush's budget proposal, which calls for deep cuts in health care and education. 
  President Bush today unveiled his fiscal year 2007 budget proposal, and it contains a devastating $12 billion to Medicaid and the State Childrens Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) over the next five years. SCHIP is the federal-state funded health care program that covers low-income children. The president is poised to sign into law a separate measure that cuts $10 billion to Medicaid. 
  The Bush administration also proposes cutting $36 billion over five years in Medicare payments for health care services such as for home health and some hospital care. It also proposes to eliminate the already underfunded urban Indian health programs, which funds First Nations in Albuquerque. And the president said he wants to cut to $18 million from the amount set aside for the upkeep of IHS facilities; this year Congress approved $89 million for that purpose. 
   "Nearly 50 million Americans lack health insurance, and that number continues to rise. Instead of finding ways to provide the uninsured with health care, the White House is proposing deep cuts to a variety of important health care initiatives. This is very disappointing, and I hope Congress has the will to fight these cuts," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also noted that the Bush administration is proposing to eliminate Community Services Block Grant, which had been funded at $630 million this year. It also proposes deep cuts to the Social Security Block Grant and wants to eliminate the Preventive Health Services Block Grant. New Mexico would lose more than $10 million from these initiatives. 
   One bright spot is the fact that the president wants to commit $69 million for a Cover the Kids initiative, which provides grants to community-based groups tasked with outreach and enrollment efforts to increase the enrollment of children in SCHIP. Bingaman is the cosponsor of legislation in the Senate that supports that initiative. 
   When it comes to education, Bingaman said the White House has proposed far less than is needed to carry out the improvements in the No Child Left Behind Act. The Bush administration is seeking $24 billion - about $15.4 billion below what the law calls for. Further, the president's budget calls for eliminating 42 critical education programs, for a total cut of $3.5 billion. 
   Some of the initiatives to be slashed were created by Bingaman. One example is the smaller learning communities grant program, which helps large schools create smaller learning environments on their campuses. The Bush administration doesn't want to fund the program at all next year. 
   "The White House is proposing very deep cuts in education. Just last week President Bush was in Rio Rancho touting an initiative Senator Domenici and I have been championing to ensure our nation remains competitive in the global economy," Bingaman said. "We simply will not be able to achieve that goal if we allow education funding to be gutted."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 