SEN. BINGAMAN: WHITE HOUSE ONCE AGAIN PROPOSES CUT FOR MIDDLE RIO GRANDE PROJECT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today expressed his concern once again about the Bush administration's budget proposal for the Middle Rio Grande Project because it wants to cut it by 15 percent. 
  The White House's 2007 budget unveiled today requests $23 million in Bureau of Reclamation funds for the Middle Rio Grande Project, down from this year's $28 million budget. 
  Bingaman said he is particularly disappointed in the lack of funding for the Middle Rio Grande because last March, the now deputy secretary for the Department of the Interior endorsed the New Mexico lawmaker's plan for a multi-agency approach to tackling Endangered Species Act issues in the Middle Rio Grande - as the Bush administration has done for Oregon's Klamath River basin.
  "I'm very disappointed with the Bush administration's lack of commitment to the Middle Rio Grande Project," Bingaman said. "Cooperative efforts at the local level have helped avoid significant conflict over the last several years. Nonetheless, federal leadership and resources are needed to ensure that a workable long-term plan is in place to maintain compliance with the Endangered Species Act and protect the interests of water users." 
  In 2003, the Department of the Interior developed a 10 year plan to ensure a manageable balance between endangered species and water use in the Middle Rio Grande. Implementation of that plan, by the department's own estimates, will exceed $230 million. Yet, over the last three years, the Bush administration has only proposed investing $ 19.4 million, a fraction of the amount needed to implement the 2003 plan. This year's Middle Rio Grande budget contains only $11 million more for the ESA program. 
  Bingaman pointed out that this shortfall is particularly alarming because failure to maintain ESA compliance threatens water use in New Mexico's most populous region.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 