SEN. BINGAMAN: NEW ENERGY BUDGET SENDS MIXED MESSAGES TO NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today characterized President Bush's fiscal year (FY) 2007 Department of Energy (DOE) budget request as mixed news for New Mexico. 
   "While there are positive elements to the President's overall budget plans for DOE, some adjustments will have to be made if New Mexico is to fare as well as it deserves," Bingaman said. 
   The White House's FY 2007 budget, unveiled today, is projected by DOE to result in a total of $4.18 billion of spending in New Mexico across all of the Department's programs, virtually the same as is currently slated to be spent in FY 2006. Both DOE National Laboratories are projected to have their budgets decline in FY 2007 - Los Alamos from $1.85 billion to $1.84 billion, and Sandia from $1.40 billion to $1.35 billion. 
   Some major increases in overall DOE programs will not be felt in New Mexico, according to DOE's projections.
   For example, the American Competitiveness Initiative, heralded by President Bush at an event in Rio Rancho last week, will boost basic research funding in DOE's Office of Science by 14.1 percent. Yet, DOE's projections, released today, show that Office of Science programs at Los Alamos will actually decline slightly from their FY 2006 levels (from $55.8 million to $54.4 million), and similar programs at Sandia National Laboratories will grow by only 6 percent (from $49.6 million to $52.5 million). 
   "We need a strong push, both in New Mexico and in Washington, to make sure that the basic science capabilities of the laboratories are strengthened in civilian applications," Bingaman said. "These programs have always played an important role in attracting the best scientists to those laboratories, and it is troubling to see them slated for anemic growth or even stagnation while overall DOE science funding is enjoying a renaissance."
   Similarly, the President's initiatives in renewable energy are also not projected to translate into higher funding at the laboratories. While solar energy research Department-wide is growing by 78.5 percent, to a total of $148.4 million, solar energy research at Sandia is projected by DOE for a cut from $10.4 million to $8.8 million. 
   "Sandia is a leader in renewable energy research," Bingaman said. "It's surprising that DOE is not planning to direct any of its planned budget increase towards utilizing its proven capabilities, and I plan to inquire as to why this is the case when Secretary Bodman testifies before the Energy Committee on the DOE budget later this week." 
   Bingaman said he was satisfied that the Department is requesting $19 million for solid state lighting research, the same level as was appropriated by Congress this year. Sandia is a recognized leader in advancing research in this area and gets a portion of this funding. However, Bingaman said he was disappointed that the there is no dedicated funding for solid state lighting at Sandia funded through the Office of Science budget, despite the fact that the Office of Science will see a 14 percent increase this year. 
   Also under the Bush budget proposal, a number of traditional strengths at Los Alamos and Sandia will enjoy increased funding under the new budget proposal. At Los Alamos, total nuclear weapons activities funding from DOE's National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) will grow from $1.39 billion to $1.48 billion, an increase of 6 percent. This growth will be driven by program increases in NNSA's Advanced Simulation and Computing Campaign, as well as NNSA program to promote readiness in technical base and facilities. At Sandia, NNSA's weapons activities funding is projected to decline by 5 percent, from $1.08 billion to $1.03 billion, while Sandia's work in nuclear nonproliferation will grow by 11 percent, from $176 million to $195 million. 
   Bingaman is concerned about the $50.2 million cut for the cleanup budget at Los Alamos, which will decrease from $140.79 million this year $90.60 million after the binding consent agreement was entered into with the State of New Mexico. This will invariably result in missed deadlines and possible fines under the DOE NMED consent order that was initiated last year. In particular Bingaman is concerned about the planned cuts to the soil and water remediation efforts to $28.3 million from $88.4 million. 
   "The federal government made an agreement with State of New Mexico on plans for cleaning up this site. This budget proposal will make meeting the requirements of that agreement difficult if not impossible," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman expressed deep disappointment at DOE's announcement that, for the second year in a row, it will attempt to dismantle all of its research and development (R&D) programs related to exploration and production of oil and gas. In addition, the White House announced, as part of the budget, that it would seek the repeal of a new program in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to directly fund R&D to explore for oil and gas in unconventional geological formations in areas such as New Mexico and the Rocky Mountains and in ultra-deepwater formations in the Gulf of Mexico. A consortium of universities, independent oil and gas producers, and gas consumers, led by New Mexico Tech, is a leading contender to manage that new program. 
   "Even though the price of oil and gas are near record highs, we won't be able tap new oil and gas resources without additional R&D. The key players for natural gas in New Mexico are largely independent producers, and they don't have R&D departments. So, where is the new technology going to come from to keep natural gas flowing in an economic and environmentally responsible manner, if DOE abandons the field? This is a completely wrongheaded decision that got reversed by Congress last year. I will work to reverse it again this year," Bingaman said.
   Finally, the new DOE budget proposes to cut DOE's support of weatherization activities carried out at the State and local level by $243 million to $164 million, a decrease of 32 percent. New Mexico's program, which helps working families better insulate their homes to reduce heating and cooling bills, will receive this same percentage cut. 
   "The hardship caused to working families by high heating and cooling costs can be lessened by a strong weatherization program aimed at cutting their energy losses," Bingaman explained. "It makes little sense to be cutting this program now. The energy bill signed by the President last year called for an increased funding of weatherization, and I will urge that we stick to the consensus position we forged last year."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 