SEN. BINGAMAN CELEBRATES NEW TECH PARK AT KIRKLAND AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today joined in celebrating the opening of a new high technology park at Kirtland Air Force Base.  
   Bingaman took part in a ceremony celebrating the lease of 185,000 square feet of space in the Kirtland Technology Park to the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology. New Mexico Tech will be the first tenant in the new park.
   "This lease signing ceremony provides an example of the innovative public - private partnerships that can be developed to enhance quality of research at the Air Force Research Lab. New Mexico Tech constructs a research facility on Air Force land and the Air Force Research Lab receives valuable laboratory space at the facility in return," Bingaman said. 
   "I have traveled to China, Taiwan, India and Hong Kong and all of these countries build research parks as a national means to remain competitive. Like the interstate highway system in the 1950's, research parks are the 21st century infrastructure for new technologies and jobs," he said. 
   Bingaman is a strong support of technology parks because they are important economic engines. Last year he introduced the "Science Park Administration Act of 2005", which encourages the formation of science parks across the country and strengthens existing ones through the use of federal loan and loan guarantees. 
   Specifically, Bingaman's bill authorizes over the next five years the U.S. Department of Commerce to award $500,000 grants for the purpose of planning a new science park for a total of $37.5 million, creates a revolving loan program to help existing science parks make upgrades at $300 million, and establishes a $1 billion loan guarantee program for up to $50 million per loan for the construction of approximately 20 new world class science parks. 
   The Science Park Administration Act of 2005 also offers a series of tax incentives to business that want to locate in science parks, including accelerated capital depreciation, and a tax credit for companies that invest in universities and laboratories performing research. The bill has been sent to the Senate Finance Committee; Bingaman is a member of that panel.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 