SEN. BINGAMAN IN NORTHERN NEW MEXICO TO DISCUSS ENERGY, WATER ISSUES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today visited a home that uses solar power to highlight the key renewable provisions he helped put in the energy bill that passed the Senate last month. 
   Bingaman is the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and he worked with Senator Pete Domenici to write a comprehensive energy bill that will now be reconciled with the House of Representatives-passed energy plan. Bingaman is the author of an amendment that would require utilities to produce 10 percent of their electricity by 2020. 
   "Our nation must begin to rely more heavily on renewable sources for our energy, reducing our dependence on imported sources. Requiring utilities to produce 10 percent of their electricity through renewable resources is a major first step toward that goal," Bingaman said. 
   The home Bingaman visited uses solar power and sells the excess its electricity to PNM, which helps the utility meet its goal of using more renewable power.. 
   After visiting the home in Santa Fe, Bingaman went to Chimayo to be briefed by the Greater Chimayo Domestic Water Board. The 3,000 citizens of the unincorporated community of Chimayo rely on individual wells for their potable water and deteriorated septic systems to dispose of waste water. The condition of the water and sewer infrastructure in the basin results in 75 percent of well samples showing significant contamination. 
   Because of the unreliability of the well water, some residents drink free-flowing water from irrigation ditches which also contain high levels of fecal coliform. In 2001, the region was declared an emergency area and received potable water from National Guard tanker trucks.
   Progress was made last year in addressing Chimayo's water needs with the enactment of the Chimayo Water Supply System and Espanola Filtration Facility Act of 2004. Bingaman cosponsored this bill, which was introduced by Senator Pete Domenici.
   The Chimayo Act authorizes a feasibility study to evaluate a range of options to provide a permanent source of water for Chimayo. It also authorizes $3 million over the next five years for the Secretary to provide emergency water assistance to Chimayo. 
   "Congress has set aside $200,000 for Chimayo last year, and the Senate has already approved legislation that provides another $1 million," Bingaman said. "I will continue to strongly support efforts to help Chimayo meet its short-term and long-term water needs." 
   Bingaman then visited Chimayo Youth Conservation Corps (YCC). The group, which seeks to provide young people with alternatives to drugs, gangs, crime and imminent incarceration, discussed crime prevention projects they are currently working on.
   Finally, Bingaman visited the Marcos Trujillo Teen Center and met with Hands Across Cultures board members.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 