SEN. BINGAMAN: CONSUMER PROTECTION BILL BANS TOXIC CHEMICAL FOUND IN CHILDREN'S TOYS
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today voted to approve legislation to protect families from products made from hazardous materials and help restore confidence in the marketplace. The bill includes a provision Bingaman cosponsored that would ban a dangerous chemical found in children's toys. 
   The Consumer Protection Safety Commission Reform Act would provide the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) - the federal agency responsible regulating the sale and manufacture of consumer products - with the resources and authority necessary to protect Americans from unsafe merchandise.
   "The most recent string of high-profile recalls of toys has brought to light the need to strengthen the federal government's ability to protect its citizens form dangerous manufactured products. This bill is an important investment in the safety of the American consumer," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman said he was particularly pleased that the bill contains a provision he cosponsored to ban children's products or child care articles that contain phthalates, a synthetic chemical that recent studies have found may contribute to developmental problems in infants.
   The bill does the following:
   Strengthen CPSC resources and effectiveness by increasing funding by 50 percent over the next seven years, restoring the Board of Commissioners to a five member panel (from the current three member panel), increasing CPSC staff to at least 500 employees by 2013, and streamlining product safety rulemaking procedures;
   Protect children from unsafe products by banning lead in children's products, requiring third-party testing and certification of children's products, and mandating label tracking for children's products;
   Prevent deadly imports by improving information sharing among relevant federal, state, local, and foreign agencies, increasing the numbers of CPSC employees at our nation's ports, requiring safety certification of products, and banning the importation of recalled products;
   Provide greater penalties for violators and resources for law enforcement by increasing civil penalties up to $250,000 per violation, creating criminal penalties of up to five years in jail, authorizing State Attorneys General to pursue injunctive relief, and extending whistleblower protections to manufacturers' employees; and Enhance recall effectiveness by banning the sale of recalled products, requiring manufactures and importers to ensure the funding of recalls, creating an online product safety database, increase public access to recall information, and enhance CPSC authority to order recalls and other corrective actions.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 