SENATE-HOUSE CONFERENCE APPROVES FY08 FUNDS FOR HELSTF
  U.S. Senators Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today reported Senate-House conference approval of $8.8 million to maintain very high power test capabilities at White Sands Missile Range (WSMR).  
   On Tuesday, Senate and House negotiators finalized the FY2008 Defense Appropriations Bill, which included funds requested by Domenici and Bingaman to increase funding for the High Energy Laser Systems Test Facility (HELSTF) at WSMR. The Senators' requests are expected to provide $8.8 million for HELSTF in FY2008--well above the $2.8 million sought in the President's budget request. 
   "Research and technology at HELSTF benefits the entire military. I am pleased that my fellow conferees saw the benefit of HELSTF and approved funding sought by Senator Bingaman and myself. I look forward to witnessing ongoing innovation at WSMR," said Domenici, who is a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and served on the conference committee that approved the spending bill for the Pentagon. 
   "All of our armed forces have benefited from the High Energy Laser Systems Test Facility, and I'm very glad we were able to prevent it from being shut down. With this level of funding, HELSTF will continue to provide valuable services to our military," Bingaman said. 
   The conferees also agreed on a continuing resolution (CR) that will extend FY2007 funding levels for the federal government through Dec. 14. The current CR expires Nov. 16. The overall spending bill now requires final passage in both houses of Congress before it can be sent to President Bush. 
   Last year, the Army requested and Congress provided $16.4 million for HELSTF, but the Army only sought $2.8 million for FY2008 - a $13.6 million cut. That level of funding would maintain some HELSTF capabilities and government staff, but would result in the "mothballing" of certain very high power test capabilities. 
   HELSTF is located at White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) and hosts developmental and operational laser tests. Domenici and Bingaman reported that the facility, which is a Department of Defense Major Range and Test Base Facility, is used by all branches of the armed services, including the Air Force and Navy.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 