SEN. BINGAMAN: WHITE HOUSE SHOULD ORDER REDUCTION OF FUEL BY ALL FEDERAL VEHICLES
  At a Capitol Hill hearing today, Sen. Jeff Bingaman said Congress and the White House must take steps to help reduce the price of gasoline. Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, gave the following statement at the hearing.  
   "We had planned to have this hearing long before Katrina. The occurrence of the hurricane makes the issue even more timely and one that we need to be addressing. 
   "I begin by acknowledging the tremendous suffering and loss of life that our fellow citizens of the Gulf Coast have experienced. Particularly I'd like to mention Senator Landrieu, a member of our committee, who is in her home state of Louisiana as she has been since the hurricane occurred trying to work with her constituents to get through this terrible tragedy. This human tragedy is beyond anything we could have imagined and it deserves our full focus in the days and weeks ahead. I know there will be and should be extensive hearings about failures to protect against a hurricane of this magnitude, and the failures to plan for the aftermath. But this hearing focused on the high and rising prices of gas and other petroleum products. 
   "Hurricane Katrina significantly damaged the petroleum production and refining facilities in the Gulf Coast. While we're now recovering from that damage, there is still some 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity that has been damaged severely enough that it will likely be off line for more than a month. That damage exacerbated the high prices that we were already seeing in gasoline. 
   "The hurricane underscored the fact that our national energy system is particularly vulnerable to losses of refining capacity in the Gulf region. There are some short term issues that Congress and the Bush administration can take to address the supply and demand of refined product in the near term. The situation also presents us with an opportunity to reconsider the current state of our refining industry and the challenges we face going forward.
   "The energy bill we passed this summer contains two measures that have a bearing on the current situation. First the act creates a tax deduction for investment to increase refining capacity. It also creates a new program of technical assistance at the EPA to help states and local governments address applications for new and expanded refineries. 
   "In addition, we owe it to ourselves and our constituents to see if we can get stakeholders involved in refining around a table to put in motion an initiative to increase and diversity U.S. refining capacity. I think all of us are willing to work with the president and the administration on this very important issue.
   "Let me speak briefly about demand, because we all know that price is a result both of supply and of demand. There are three issues in this area that deserve our attention. First is vehicle fuel economy. This is an issue I hope we can revisit. I felt very strongly that the fact we did not address fuel economy was one of the shortcomings of the energy bill. A second step would be encouraging the American public to take common-sense measures to improve the efficiency with which they use gasoline. The third I believe would be to encourage the president to immediately issue instructions to federal agencies to implement fuel economy measures with regard to their own vehicle fleets and their own use of energy. 
   If we're asking the American people to conserve petroleum products, it would be appropriate for those of us in government to make that same commitment themselves."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 