SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI INTRODUCE BILL TO CONTINUE WORK ON RIO PUERCO WATERSHED
  U.S. Senators Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today introduced legislation to continue a project that works to restore the Rio Puerco - one of state's largest tributaries to the Rio Grande.  
   The bill reauthorizes the R?o Puerco Watershed Management Program, which Bingaman first wrote into law in 1996. Over the past decade, it has helped restore much of the 7,000 square-mile degraded watershed. 
   "The R?o Puerco provided water to an area that was once known as New Mexico's breadbasket. Unfortunately, over time, extensive ecological changes have resulted in damage to the watershed that has seriously affected the economic and cultural well-being of its inhabitants," said Bingaman, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "The R?o Puerco Management Program has been instrumental in helping restore and preserve one of our state's most valuable watersheds. It is my hope that we can get this bill passed to help continue that good work." 
   "For a decade, we've worked on targeted restoration on the Rio Puerco watershed to curtail sedimentation from washing down the Rio Puerco to the Rio Grande and Elephant Butte. The job is not complete and this reauthorization will ensure we continue to make the progress we need to improve the Rio Puerco and control the erosion and sediment flow that negatively impacts the Rio Grande," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee that has previously funded Rio Puerco watershed work. 
   The Rio Puerco Watershed Management program authorized the creation of the Rio Puerco Management Committee - a panel comprised of federal and state agencies, Native American Indian tribes, local governments and private entities. Congress has provided the committee with more than $6 million over the past decade to develop and implement proposals for watershed rehabilitation. 
   The R?o Puerco Management Committee has become one of the most effective collaborative land management efforts in the Southwest. Among the committee's accomplishments is a project to return the R?o Puerco to its original streambed, originally altered to accommodate the construction of State Highway 44, now U.S. Highway 550, in the late 1960s. According to the BLM, the channel became a primary contributor of erosion and sediment in the river's main stem, and even began advancing toward U.S. 550, threatening the highway's stability. The large-scale project is one of only three in the entire country like it. 
   The legislation introduced today will authorize funding for the R?o Puerco Management Committee over the next ten years to continue its efforts. 
   According to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), while the R?o Puerco contributes less than ten percent of the total water to the R?o Grande, it represents the primary source of sedimentation entering the Upper R?o Grande. The R?o Puerco contributes the majority of the silt entering Elephant Butte Reservoir about sixty-five miles downstream of its confluence with the R?o Grande. 
   The bill was referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 