SEN. BINGAMAN: SENATE APPROVES BILL THAT EXPANDS HEALTH COVERAGE TO MORE N.M. CHILDREN
  The Senate today adopted legislation U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman helped write to ensure that more New Mexicans could have access to health care. 
   In a 68-31 vote, the Senate approved legislation that reauthorizes the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) - the state/federal health care initiative crated in 1997 that covers millions of children and others who do not qualify for Medicaid but whose families cannot afford health insurance. A Senate-House panel will now negotiate a final bill.  
   Bingaman, as a member of Finance Committee, worked extensively on the bill and had several provisions included in the measure to specifically address New Mexico's needs. The bill sets aside $35 billion in new federal funding over the next five years to ensure that 10 million American children will either maintain health care coverage or receive it for the first time. 
   As a result of this legislation, New Mexico would stand to receive $176.1 million for SCHIP next year, and that amount is expected to increase in the succeeding four years as the state continues its health expansion proposals. With this funding, tens-of-thousands of additional New Mexico children - and adults - would have access to health care for the first time. 
   "Nearly 100,000 children in our state lack health insurance. This bill will help our state provide care to many of them," Bingaman said. "This is a good bill for New Mexico, and I hope we can improve up on in even further when we go into final negotiations with the House of Representatives." 
   At Bingaman's urging, the measure corrects an inequity in the law that has prevented New Mexico from covering a certain category of low-income New Mexico children, and required the state to return more than $180 million to the federal government since 1998. Bingaman was able to ensure that category of children could be covered. 
   Bingaman was also able to secure significant improvements in a federal law that made it very difficult for New Mexicans to prove that they were American citizens and, therefore, eligible for SCHIP. Thousands of U.S. citizen children in New Mexico and throughout the Country have inappropriately lost coverage because of this requirement. The legislation now creates a system by which states can verify Social Security numbers to confirm citizenship. It also allows official tribal documents to be used to be used as proof. 
   "It has been very difficult for many Americans to prove their citizenship under the new guidelines, and this has particularly been a problem for residents of our state. I have fought hard to get this problem fixed," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also creates an initiative that Bingaman pushed for many years, which would allow 10 states to test out a program that would automatically enroll children in SCHIP if they have already been deemed eligible for another public program, such as the National School Lunch Program or the Food Stamp Program, with comparable income guidelines. 
   "One way to reduce the number of uninsured Americans is to make it easier to get rid of needless administrative hurdles. This provision would help states use technology to cut through the bureaucracy that all too often prevents Americans from receiving health benefits," Bingaman said. 
   The bill contains a Bingaman-authored provision that sets aside $200 million in grant funding to states so they can provide dental health care to SCHIP enrollees. Currently, SCHIP does not cover dental care. 
   Bingaman has been fighting for years to require states to provide dental care through SCHIP. While he will continue to pursue that provision, Bingaman said he is pleased that this step is being taken. 
   "It's clear that dental care is an integral part of a child's overall health care, and this bill will help us begin to provide dental services to young people," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also does the following: 
   * Ensures that New Mexico can continue to provide coverage through SCHIP to parents of enrolled children, and other low-income adults. 
   * Gives incentive bonus payments to do outreach and enrollment of young people into Medicaid, and significantly increases outreach to rural and Native American communities. 
   * Gives community health workers and promatoras access to funding for outreach and enrollment in Medicaid and SCHIP 
   * Ensures that children enrolled in SCHIP have access to robust mental health benefits.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 