SEN. BINGAMAN STILL HOPEFUL CONGRESS CAN PASS AN ENERGY BILL
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he will continue working to pass an energy bill that would move the country toward greater reliance on "clean" energies, despite the fact that a House-passed bill failed to receive enough votes today.  
   Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has been working very hard to develop energy legislation that focuses greater efforts on home-grown, renewable energies. Last summer, he helped craft Senate legislation that provided major tax incentives for increased renewable energy production, an increase in vehicle fuel efficiency, and a greater emphasis on renewable transportation fuels. The House has passed its own measure. 
   During the past few weeks, the Senate and House of Representatives tried to negotiate a single bill that could be sent to both chambers for passage. The House ultimately finalized its own version of the bill, which passed that chamber but was blocked today in the Senate. Now, Bingaman will help lead negotiations on a draft of a bill that could garner broad bipartisan support. 
   "This legislation represented an opportunity to make significant steps forward in a number of key areas of energy policy. With its passage, we could have reduced our dependence on foreign oil, increased our consumption of home-grown fuels and provided substantial savings to consumers - all while creating new jobs. For these reasons, I'm disappointed in today's vote. But it is my hope that during the next few weeks we will be able to craft legislation that achieves many of the goals outlined in this bill and get it to the president's desk," Bingaman said. 
   The bill the Senate considered today contains a provision Bingaman pushed for that would have reauthorized the Secure Rural Schools program through 2011 (ensuring a total of nearly $2 billion in payments to states and counties under the program) and fully-funds the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program in 2009 (ensuring approximately $376 million in payments to counties). Bingaman said he will continue to press to make this provision part of the energy bill he will help negotiate.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 