SENATE APPROVES SEN. BINGAMAN'S BORDER WATER BILL, SENDS IT TO HOUSE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today announced that a package of bills that passed the Senate today contains a measure he wrote to evaluate the availability of water in the U.S.-Mexico border region. The House of Representatives has yet to act on the package, but has time to do so before it adjourns for the year. 
   Bingaman's United States-Mexico Trans-boundary Aquifer Assessment Act (S. 1957) is the result of a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee field hearing in Las Cruces Bingaman held almost three years ago on water issues affecting the border area. At that time, it became clear that there was no agreement on how much useable water the aquifers serving the region contain, and how long current and future projected uses could be sustained.
   To address that problem, Bingaman's legislation creates a bi-national scientific program through the U.S. Geological Survey, designed to comprehensively evaluate trans-boundary aquifers. The assessment would be carried out by prioritizing those aquifers needing an in-depth analysis, and consolidating existing data and identifying the need for additional studies. Ultimately, the program would create detailed maps and groundwater flow models of the priority aquifers. The program is to be implemented in cooperation and consultation with the border states, water resources research institutes in those states, and water users in the border area. The information and scientific tools developed are expected to be extremely valuable to state and local water resource managers. Among the aquifers to be reviewed under the program are the Hueco Bolson and Mesilla Bolson in southern New Mexico. 
   "This legislation will make the collection of essential data and development of key water management tools possible," Bingaman said. "If this bill doesn't clear the House of Representatives and get to the president's desk this year, I will work hard to see that it is considered by Congress early next year."
   "Water is quite simply the most important issue to the border area. The availability of water is directly tied to the fortunes of southern New Mexico, El Paso, and Ju?rez. Final Senate passage of this bill is good for the border region, because we finally will be able to receive a comprehensive analysis of the groundwater supply along the border," said co-sponsor Pete Domenici, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The need for an in-depth assessment of border aquifers has been acknowledged by the Good Neighbor Environmental Board, an independent federal advisory committee managed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and by the Center for Strategic and International Studies in a January 2003 report. Both have said an assessment will prove to be an invaluable tool in long-term water management plans. Bingaman's legislation was developed in consultation with a number of stakeholders, including the Paso del Norte Water Task Force, a group of water managers, water users, and other citizens in the New Mexico, Texas, and Juarez, Mexico region.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 