SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI SEEK TO IMPROVE BORDER COMMERCE IN NEW MEXICO
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici today urged the Bush administration to expand the geographical distance certain Mexican nationals can travel into New Mexico for the purpose of commerce.  
   Currently, Mexican nationals can obtain Laser Visas, or border crossing cards, that allow them to travel 25 miles across the border to shop and/or visit family in the United States. While this has had a positive impact on many border cities and towns in other states, in New Mexico the 25-mile limit keeps the state's three largest border cities, Las Cruces, Lordsburg and Deming, from receiving the same economic benefits.
   Arizona, however, was able to get the federal government to expand the 25-mile limit to 75 miles to accommodate visitors to Tucson. Bingaman and Domenici are seeking a similar change for New Mexico. 
   In a letter to Tom Ridge, Secretary of Homeland Security, the senators outlined the need to extend the limit to allow Mexican visitors to travel to cities in southern New Mexico.
   "The three largest cities along the New Mexico border are all outside of the current 25-mile geographical limit and Mexican nationals seeking to visit the cities must acquire additional permits to do so. As a result, New Mexico has not benefited from the Laser Visa to the extent that other states have. Extending the limit to at least 75 miles would increase economic activity in New Mexico and would not impact our ability to secure our borders. The rationale for extending the geographical limit in Arizona is equally applicable to New Mexico," the New Mexican Senators wrote. 
   The Laser Visa was created to allow frequent, low-risk visitors to cross the border to shop or visit with family. The secure biometric border crossing card is only issued to those individuals who have undergone background, fingerprint and security checks. Individuals traveling past the 25-mile limit must pay an additional fee, secure an I-95, and undergo a secondary inspection. Recently the Department of Homeland Security announced that it was extending the length of time visitors holding a laser visa are permitted to remain in the United States from 72 hours to 30 days.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 