SEN. BINGAMAN BLASTS WHITE HOUSE'S PLAN TO ZERO-OUT OIL AND GAS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today decried the Bush administration's plans to zero-out the Department of Energy's budget on the research and development that assists with domestic oil and gas production.  
   DOE's oil and gas programs were funded by Congress in the current fiscal year at a combined total of $78.7 million. But under Bush's budget blueprint unveiled today, the White House intends to cut that amount to zero. 
   "The Bush administration's decision to cut off all technology support to our domestic oil and gas industry is totally wrong-headed. Independent oil and gas producers make up the overwhelming majority of the industry operating onshore in the United States, and they are too small to carry out the type of research and development they need to stay on the cutting edge of technology," Bingaman said.
   In terminating DOE's oil and gas programs, the White House is proposing to zero out funding for the Petroleum Recovery Research Center at New Mexico Tech in Socorro. This move, if accepted by Congress, would be a major setback for domestic oil and gas producers.
   The president's budget also revives an effort turned down by Congress last year to increase fees for lease applications and drilling permits sought by domestic producers on federal lands. Bingaman strongly criticizes this proposal as counterproductive to encouraging increased domestic energy production. 
   "There is a lot of talk in Washington about the need to reduce our dependence on oil imports. I can't imagine how increasing fees associated with domestic drilling will aid in that effort," Bingaman said. "These oil and gas activities put money into the U.S. Treasury. It's not too much to ask that the federal government pay its current fair share of the costs of approving and monitoring these activities on federal lands."
   Bingaman fought hard over the past few years to get more personnel assigned to the Bureau of Land Management offices in New Mexico to handle the paperwork associated with drilling permits to make the applications process more efficient.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 