SEN. BINGAMAN CONCERNED ABOUT BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S PLANS TO CUT 10 STEALTH FIGHTERS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is disappointed that the Bush administration is once again trying to cut 10 stealth fighters from the fleet at Holloman Air Force Base. 
   Bingaman last year teamed up with Senator Pete Domenici to prevent the elimination of the stealth fighters, noting that the F-117s play an important role in the nation's ability to defend itself.
   "When the Bush administration proposed cutting 10 stealth fighters from Holloman last year, we were able to put the breaks on that bad idea. I am surprised and dismayed that this issue would be raised again, but I am prepared to work with the rest of the delegation to fight it," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman said he was dismayed that the president's proposal, for the third year in a row, did not contain funding for continued operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The president has separately requested $80 billion for such costs.
   "I'm concerned that leaving the cost of operations in the Middle East out of the budget obscures the true cost of the war, and prevents the cost from being included in the overall budget deficit," Bingaman said. 
   The budget proposal also contains funding for the following:
   KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE:
   In the fiscal year 2006 White House proposal, the Air Force has requested $1,902.4 million for S&T. Of that amount, $192.5 million is targeted to Kirtland. The requested FY 2006 funding for the Directed Energy and Space Vehicles Directorates is $93.7 million and $98.8million, respectively. In addition, the budget requests the amount for Air Force S&T includes $63.4 million for the High Energy Laser Joint Technology Office also in New Mexico.
   The FY 2006 budget there is also funding to complete the 58th Special Operations Wing's HC-130 P Simulator Facility. The $6.6 million dollar facility will ensure that the Air Force Special Operations pilots receive state of the art training. Last year Bingaman took special interest in this program and urged that funding be increased. As a result of his efforts, the Air Force and Special Operations Command made this program a priority and funded for FY 2006 at a higher level - more than doubling the FY 2005 funding level of $2.5 million. 
   Also in the FY 2006 budget, the Theater Aerospace Command and Control Program was funded at $6.369 million to enhance its Distributed Mission Capabilities. Military personnel around the world can train and rehearse missions in a high tech virtual environment located at Kirtland AFB. 
   CANNON AIR FORCE BASE: 
   At Cannon Air Force Base, the Air Force will invest 13.2 million dollars in FY 2006 to replace the fuel storage and distribution system. This major investment demonstrates the Air Force's commitment to continued operations at Cannon Air Force Base.
   WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE:
   The FY 2006 budget proposal contains $4 million for White Sands Missile Range Privatized Housing.
   VETERANS ADMINISTRATION: 
   Bingaman pointed out that overall funding for veterans is discouraging. For example, he said that the budget increases the prescription drug co-payment from $7 to $15 for middle-income veterans. That would be on top of the increase from $2 to $7 implemented three years ago. The White House proposal also imposes a new $250 annual fee for already enrolled middle-income veterans. These two measures are projected to generate more than $400 million in new revenues for VA, while deterring thousands of veterans from using the system.
   Overall funding levels for VA Healthcare system are flat-lined from this year's level of $69.6 billion, with $70.8 billion for fiscal year 2006 forcing veterans to pay more out of pocket expenses in order to receive the medical care they have earned. This reflects a disturbing trend of chronic under funding by the current administration. For the last four years veterans healthcare has been under funded by an average of $1-1.5 billion dollars annually. 
   "Overall, I'd say the White House's budget toward veterans health care is a disappointment," Bingaman said. "I hope that Congress restores the funding that our veterans deserve," Bingaman said. 
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
   Grants to states and local government has also been slashed from over $1.06 billion in 2005 to $820 million in the president's fiscal year 2006 budget. State and local governments depend upon these funds to support first responder programs throughout the country. 
   Training funds for State and Local governments have also been cut from $195 million in FY 2005 to $83 million in FY 2006. Cuts to this program may have a direct negative impact on programs in New Mexico at places like the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Artesia and New Mexico Tech's Playas Homeland Security Training Center.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 