SEN. BINGAMAN: BUSH BUDGET HURTS SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is disappointed about the levels of funding President Bush has proposed for initiatives vital to New Mexico, particularly for communities in the southern part of the state.  
   The Bush administration today presented Congress with its fiscal year 2006 budget, which outlines the administration's spending priorities. Bingaman said it falls short of supporting programs important to southern New Mexico, including one that helps border counties absorb costs associated with the incarceration of undocumented workers. 
   The president's budget eliminates the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), which helps reimburse localities along the southwest border for costs associated with detaining certain criminal aliens. Without the program, the huge financial burden of federal immigration enforcement would be shifted to local border communities. The program was funded at $305 million in fiscal year 2005. 
   Another program which would suffer drastic cuts is the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA), which coordinates local, state, and federal law enforcement efforts to disrupt drug trafficking in the most active areas of the country. The president is seeking to transfer the program from the Office of National Control Policy to the Department of Justice. New Mexico HIDTA received approximately $7 million in 2005. The Bush budget reduces overall funding for the program to $1 million from $228.3 million. 
   "New Mexico faces many unique challenges associated with being a border state. Illegal immigration and the ongoing illegal drug trade along the Mexican border costs New Mexico millions of dollars every year. Incarceration and drug control programs are vital to in keeping New Mexico's border safe and I am disappointed that the president's budget seeks to cut these programs," Bingaman said. 
   The president's budget also includes $37 million for an additional 210 Border Patrol agents. Unfortunately, this number does little to alleviate the country's border security needs. In the intelligence reform bill passed last into law last year, Congress authorized an additional 2,000 Border Patrol agents to be put along our border. 
   Border security continues to be a top priority for Bingaman and on many occasions he has urged the administration make it a priority as well. Unfortunately, as illegal immigrant apprehensions continue to increase, resources have yet to be made available to the state.
   "Securing our borders while facilitating the lawful movement of goods and persons across U.S. borders is critical to our nation's security and economic wellbeing and it's important that federal government make this a priority. Unfortunately, the White House's budget underestimates the number of border patrol personal needed to maintain security at our countries borders," Bingaman said.
   The administration's budget also proposed eliminating Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) programs as part of a plan to consolidate 18 federal programs relating to economic development within the Department of Commerce. In 2005, CDBG, which helps meet the need of low-income communities, was funded at $4.709 billion. Under the President's plan total funding for all of the 18 consolidated programs would be $3.71 billion. 
   "Since its creation, the Community Development Block Grant program has been effective in helping revitalize neighborhoods. Funding has helped address critical social and economic problems in communities across the United States, including many in southern New Mexico. I pledge to fight to increase funding for this vital program," Bingaman said. 
   The Bush administration also proposes slashing funding to help colonias with water and waste water programs to $11.8 million from $25 million. New Mexico's share would go from about $7.8 million to $3.8 million. Similarly, the grant program that helps rural communities pay for water and wastewater projects is cut to $377 million from $454 million.
   "Water and wastewater projects are needed to meet our state's basic health needs. It is unfortunate that the president proposed to cut funding for these programs which are among the most expensive projects a community can take on," Bingaman said.
   Bush's budget also seeks to eliminate Bingaman's program to promote commercial air service for small and rural communities. In addition, Essential Air Service (EAS) stands to lose $52 million in funding, going from $102 million in FY 2005 to only $50 million in the current proposal, and forcing communities participating in the program to pay anywhere from $130,000 to $240,000 per year to maintain air service. The cuts could jeopardize funding to New Mexico's five EAS communities, which are Alamogordo, Carlsbad, Clovis, Hobbs, and Silver City. 
  "Many communities in southern New Mexico depend on commercial air service to expand economic development opportunities," Bingaman said. "I have in the past worked to ensure that programs such as Essential Air Service help communities continue to meet this vital transportation need and I will continue to work to ensure these communities don't have to go without it." 
   The budget request submitted today by the White House to Congress is the first step in the annual appropriations process. Over the next several months, the House of Representatives and the Senate will proceed with the actual work of writing the federal budget. The White House numbers serve as recommendations to Congress that could set the parameters of the budget debate.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 