SEN. BINGAMAN: WHITE HOUSE BUDGET CONTAINS GOOD NEWS AND BAD NEWS FOR NEW MEXICO LABS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman, the highest ranking Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, today said the Department of Energy budget as it relates to New Mexico's two laboratories contains good news and bad news.
  "While there are some positive elements to this budget proposal, overall New Mexico's labs don't fare as well as I would like them to," Bingaman said.  
  The White House's fiscal year 2006 budget, unveiled today, contains $4.09 billion for the three nuclear weapons facilities - two of which are in New Mexico. That is a slight decrease over this year's level of $4.113 billion. Under this budget, the National Nuclear Security Administration would see a 3 percent cut in spending for Los Alamos and Sandia to $2.83 billion from this year's level of $2.92 billion. 
  On the positive side, several specific initiatives championed by Bingaman are advancing. For instance, the budget proposal contains $55 million for the construction of the Chemical and Metallurgy Research Building at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL). Bingaman's successful intervention during the Clinton administration to focus efforts on replacing this facility spurred this project. This year's budget contains $39 million. 
  Similarly, projects to construct new nanoscience centers at four DOE national laboratories, including LANL and Sandia National Laboratories, are contained in this budget blueprint. DOE continues to plan construction of the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies, a joint LANL-Sandia Laboratories effort by proposing $4.6 million for fiscal year 2006 to finish construction of the facility by next May. 
   Another positive trend was seen in the cleanup budget at Los Alamos, which increased by $25.76 million this year from $116.75 million to $142.21 million. This increase was the result of a successful agreement between the State of New Mexico and the DOE on enforceable timelines and milestones under the current corrective action order. 
  This fiscal year the Department is proposing to transfer environmental management capability from the Office of Environmental Management to the NNSA at $176 million for all NNSA sites. "While I see merit in having the NNSA assume some responsibility for the waste they generate, I am concerned that this will be simply a shedding of costs from the Office of Environmental Management to the NNSA whose primary mission upon creation has been stockpile stewardship and nonproliferation." 
   Bingaman was pleased that the overall nonproliferation budget of the NNSA will increase 15.1 percent from last year's $1.42 billion to $1.64 billion, primarily for increases in radiation detector R&D and to dispose of excess weapons grade plutonium. For New Mexico, this represents an increase of $49 million, or 33 percent from last year's level of $145.84 million, $44 million of that increase will be at Los Alamos. New Mexico will also benefit from an increase in plutonium disposition, or an increase of $87.79 million, which will be managed out of the NNSA service center in Albuquerque. 
   "Events around the world over the last year have underscored the threat of nuclear proliferation. Our nation should be looking to increase its efforts at centers of excellence such as Los Alamos and Sandia to detect clandestine programs and to continue to secure materials that could be diverted to nuclear or so-called dirty weapons. I am pleased that this administration is finally increasing by large amounts the research needed to detect dirty bombs and improvised nuclear devices, while at the same time beginning the process of eliminating excess plutonium from the weapons programs" Bingaman said. 
  On the negative side, Bingaman pointed out that the proposed budget for Sandia's called "engineering campaigns" - programs associated with understanding stockpile engineering problems and developing technologies of the future - decreased 13.1 percent from $173.67 million to $150.94 million. This includes a $70 million for construction of Sandia's MESA complex. 
  Both Sandia and Los Alamos experienced significant reductions in the Advanced Simulation and Computing Campaign, which model the characteristics of our most advanced nuclear weapons without the need for testing. Under the President's proposal, Sandia's simulation and computing budget be $119.984 million - down from this year's level of $168.47 million. Likewise, the computing program at Los Alamos would be cut to $144 million from $191 million experienced a reduction of 46.2 million from $191 million to $144.8 million. 
  "I am concerned about the impacts that these reductions will have on our ability to carry out the life extension programs with our nuclear weapons systems that are so critical to monitoring the safety and reliability or our stockpile," Bingaman said. 
  Bingaman said he was troubled with the proposed $11 million in spending for advanced lighting technologies - a slight decrease over this year's $11.7 million level. Sandia is a recognized leader in advancing research in this area and gets its funding from this program. 
  Bingaman has been a champion of research into the next generation of light bulb, including light emitting diodes to replace conventional light bulbs. Light emitting diodes are far more efficient at converting energy to light. Bingaman believes having the United States taking the leadership role in this developing technology will create new job opportunities for Americans. 
  "Sandia is making great progress in developing advanced lighting, which is perhaps the most compelling new technology for energy conservation. But without adequate federal funding this technology will not advance further," Bingaman said. "Letting that happen would be a mistake."
   Bingaman was also concerned by an overall erosion in the funding for civilian energy and science programs generally at Los Alamos and Sandia National Laboratories. In the case of Los Alamos, the civilian energy and science programs are proposed at about $105 million, an 8 percent cut from the current fiscal year, and the lowest total for civilian energy and science programs at Los Alamos since 1998. At Sandia National Laboratories, the cut in civilian programs will be over 14 percent.
  "The civilian energy and science programs at the laboratories play an important role in maintaining their scientific excellence and attracting the best and brightest new staff. In my view, basic science is not getting adequate recognition in the Department of Energy and the National Nuclear Security Administration. I plan to explore this issue further when the Department comes before the Energy Committee for its annual budget hearings," Bingaman said. 
  Bingaman said he is also dismayed about the budget increases in the Robust Nuclear Earth Penetrator (RNEP) - funding which was eliminated last year but has reappeared with a toehold of $4 million. According the president's proposal, spending on RNEP could reach $14 million by fiscal year 2007. RNEP is a proposed nuclear weapon that the Pentagon claims it needs to get at deeply buried targets. Bingaman has pointed out that the nation's weapons arsenal already has this capability. 
  "The Pentagon already has the capability to destroy deeply buried targets, so I view RNEP as a poor investment of taxpayer dollars," Bingaman said. "But even more important is the dangerous precedent developing a new nuclear weapon would set for other countries."
  The Bush administration also proposes spending $216 million at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in Carlsbad - a decrease over this year's funding level of $229.44 million. 
  Bingaman noted that within that overall amount, the transportation budget will increase to $37 million from $29.25 million. 
  "I understand that WIPP is working with the New Mexico Environmental Department to agree on the scope of inspection of the drums to be stored at the Carlsbad facility. While I did not support the DOE's plans to change the scope of the inspections, I would like to see the state and WIPP continue to work on finding an agreement which I will monitor as it progresses," Bingaman said. 
  Finally, Bingaman said he is very disappointed that the Bush administration proposed eliminating DOE's Community Reuse Organizations, four of which are in New Mexico. CROs ensure that there is a diverse economy in communities with DOE facilities so that those communities are not entirely dependent on the federal government for employment. Bingaman has been a strong proponent for CROs and will fight for restoration of the funding.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 