SEN. BINGAMAN CONCERNED ABOUT LACK OF FUNDING FOR HEALTH CARE, EDUCATION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is very concerned about the White House's plans for spending in health care and education. 
  President Bush today unveiled his fiscal year 2006 budget proposal, and it contains a devastating $60 billion cut to Medicaid over the next decade. Medicaid is the federal health care program that covers low-income individuals. 
  "New Mexico relies very heavily on Medicaid funding, and yet we still have one of the highest rates of residents without health insurance. It would be very difficult for our state to absorb such drastic cuts," Bingaman said. 
  The budget proposal increasing funding to community health centers by 17 percent in his budget, which is a $304 million increase. This is one of the few items in his Health and Human Services budget that I strongly support.
  The budget repeals the Healthy Communities Access Program, which represents an $83 million cut largely to community health centers, including community health centers in Albuquerque, Santa Fe, and Lordsburg. The proposal would also cut $100 million, or 33 percent, out of funding to the country's children's hospitals, including the Children's Hospital of New Mexico.
  When it comes to education, Bingaman said the White House has proposed far less than is needed to carry out the improvements in the No Child Left Behind Act. The Bush administration is seeking $24.8 billion - $12 billion less than the law calls. Further, the president's budget calls for eliminating 48 critical education programs, for a total cut of $4.3 billion. 
  Some of the initiatives to be slashed were created by Bingaman. One example is the smaller learning communities grant program, which helps large schools create smaller learner environments on their campuses. The Bush administration doesn't want to fund the program at all next year. This year it is funded at $95 million. 
  "Students tend to perform better in smaller, personal environments," Bingaman said. "It's far more costly to construct new schools than it is to create these smaller environments. That's why these grants are so important and should be funded." 
  Bingaman was pleased, however, that the president has proposed a $52 million in spending to expand Advanced Placement classes to more schools - an increase of $22 million. Bingaman also wrote the provision that created this initiative. 
   "AP courses don't just raise the academic achievements for the students who take them, they also improve the quality of all the courses being taught schools," Bingaman said. "I am pleased the president is supporting this important education initiative."
  Bingaman pointed out that several key education programs are being eliminated through the president's budget - including dropout prevention. The President's budget also slashes $306 million in funding from the GEAR-UP program, which encourages minority students to enter and graduate from college. 
  Bingaman was also disappointed in the funding level for Head Start. While there is a an increase of $45 million proposed for a total of $6.8 billion, that increase does not cover the cost of inflation and therefore will end up cutting children out of the program. 
  "It's clear to me that the Bush administration isn't giving education the attention it deserves," Bingaman said. "In fact, this is the first time in a decade that there is an overall cut in education spending. I hope Congress corrects that serious problem when we develop the spending bills later this year."
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 