SEN. BINGAMAN SEEKS MEETING WITH HIGH-LEVEL BUSH ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL TO DISCUSS BORDER SECURITY
 Sen. Jeff Bingaman today requested a meeting with a top Homeland Security Department official to call attention to security issues along the U.S.-Mexican border particularly in light of the agency's new emphasis on Arizona. 
   In Arizona this year, the Homeland Security Department's Office of Border and Transportation Security is investing $10 million in the Arizona Border Control Initiative (ABC), which aims to reduce smuggling of people and drugs into the United States. To that end, the Tucson region has been given enhanced personnel, equipment and aviation assets. As a result, more than 2,000 Border Patrol agents have been assigned to the Tucson border region. In contrast, southern New Mexico's four Border Patrol stations have just 425 Border Patrol agents who are responsible for 14,000 square miles of territory. 
   Bingaman points out that New Mexico's Border Patrol stations at Las Cruces, Santa Teresa, Deming and Lordsburg are already understaffed, and raised concerns about the effects the Arizona Border Control initiative could have on New Mexico.
  Bingaman invited Asa Hutchinson, Undersecretary for the Office of Border and Transportation, Department of Homeland security to brief him about the department's plans for New Mexico. Bingaman also recommended an increase in staff for the state's ports of entry.
   "This year the Border Patrol stations in Lordsburg and Deming have seen an increase in apprehensions by 139 and 27 percent. The New Mexico border is quickly becoming the preferred alternative for drug trafficking and human smuggling and is unprepared to deal with this new wave of illegal immigration. I have fought hard to secure funding for vehicle barricades and new surveillance cameras along the New Mexico border, but without sufficient personnel we cannot properly secure our border without significantly disrupting the flow of trade," Bingaman said.
   "I am deeply concerned that New Mexico is not receiving the level of attention that it requires and that our efforts to secure other areas of the southern border are leaving New Mexico vulnerable. This is exemplified by the Arizona Border Control Initiative (ABC). With enhanced personnel, technology, and aviation assets, ABC has significantly reduced the rate of smuggling operations along the Arizona border," Bingaman said. 
   In addition to being concerned about understaffing at the New Mexico Border Patrol stations, Bingaman said he was disappointed by the recent Department of Defense decision to shut down a program that allowed National Guard personnel to assist with the inspection of vehicles. 
   "The importance of securing our borders while facilitating the lawful movement of goods and persons across U.S. borders is critical to our nation's security and economic wellbeing. With the Border Patrol responsible for managing approximately 7,500 miles of border and over 500 million border crossings annually, I fully recognize the challenges we are facing. Our ability to succeed depends on a well coordinated strategy and a holistic vision of the needs of the border region," Bingaman wrote.
   Unfortunately, the recent decision by the Department of Defense to prohibit National Guard personnel from assisting with the inspection of vehicles will only aggravate this shortage. In his letter, Bingaman requested an increase in staff for the Lordsburg station from 50 to 100, in Deming from 115 to 215, in Santa Teresa from 132 to 230, and in Las Cruces from 129 to 179. Bingaman's request is consistent with the Southwest New Mexico Border Security Task Force's October 2004 recommendations. 
   Bingaman will also discuss with Hutchinson the need to keep the Santa Teresa Port of Entry open 24 hrs/day. The Mexican government is prepared to do the same on its side. Current staffing levels and hours of operation have created long delays at Santa Teresa and have forced the port to close at times. Keeping the port open would greatly benefit New Mexico by facilitating the free flow of commerce. 
   "The importance of securing our borders while facilitating the lawful movement of goods and persons across U.S. borders is critical to our nation's security and economic wellbeing. With the Border Patrol responsible for managing approximately 7,500 miles of border and over 500 million border crossings annually, I fully recognize the challenges we are facing. Our ability to succeed depends on a well coordinated strategy and a holistic vision of the needs of the border region," Bingaman wrote.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 703 Hart Building, United States Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510, 202/224-5521.
 
 