SENATORS PRESENT BILL TO REAUTHORIZE DIABETES FUNDING FOR AMERICAN INDIAN, TRIBAL COMMUNITIES N.M.
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today said they are looking for opportunities to push for consideration of legislation to reauthorize critical public health programs that address the growing diabetes epidemic among New Mexico's American Indian and Tribal communities.
   S.1494, a bill to amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the special diabetes programs for Type I diabetes and Special Diabetes Program for Indians was introduced by Domenici and cosponsored by Bingaman. This bill would reauthorize these two critical public health programs for another five years, and would also increase the mandatory funding for each program to $200 million annually for each year. This will provide another $500 million over the next five years for both programs. Without reauthorization, funds for these programs will end in 2008. 
   "Federally supported diabetes treatment and prevention programs are showing real results in the Native American populations. However, despite all the positive results we have seen from these efforts, there is still much more work to be done. Unless Congress reauthorizes this program, the funding for these efforts and activities will end next year. We can't let that happen. The loss of funding now would be devastating," said Domenici, who serves on the Senate Indian Affairs Committee.
   "Diabetes affects millions of Americans, but it is particularly prevalent in Indian Country. We must do more to find a cure for this chronic disease, and this legislation will help ensure that diabetes treatment and research remain a top priority," Bingaman said. 
  The bill has been referred to the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, on which Bingaman serves.
   In New Mexico, which has one of the highest Native populations in the nation, 10 percent of the American Indians are afflicted with diabetes - more than double the rate of Caucasians and two third the rate of Hispanics who suffer from the disease in the state.
   In McKinley County, which is heavily populated with Navajo Indians, 13.8 percent of the adult population is diabetic - the highest rate in the state. This is followed closely by Cibola County, where Acoma and Laguna Pueblos are located, which has an adult diabetic rate of 11.7 percent. Under the Special Diabetes Program for Indians, these counties have been awarded millions in grant money to help address the high-occurrence of diabetes among their residents.
   According to the American Diabetic Association, nearly 21 million Americans suffer from the disease, and diabetes is now the sixth leading cause of death in United States. The economic toll is equally staggering, with medical costs, disability, work loss, and premature mortality adding up to $132 billion yearly.
   Currently, the Special Diabetes Program for Indians provides $150 million annually for Indian Health Services (IHS), tribes and tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations to prevent and treat diabetes. The Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes allocates $150 million each year for research, development of therapies, and treatment methods to help diabetics treat the disease in the long term.
   Domenici authored the Special Diabetes Program for Indians and the Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes Research as part of the 1997 Balanced Budget Act. Initial funding in 1997 was set at $30 million annually, but later grew to the current $150 million a year.
   Since its creation, the Special Diabetes Program for Indians has allowed IHS to establish 400 new federally supported diabetic treatment and prevent programs in Native communities. The funding has helped provide medications, therapies, clinical exams, and screenings to avert complication. It has also funded important prevention efforts including physical fitness programs, medical nutrition therapy, wellness activities, and children and youth targeted initiatives.
   The Special Funding Program for Type 1 Diabetes Research has helped support research efforts to identify genetic susceptibility, to cultivate therapies to slow or in some cases reverse the progression of the disease, and to develop tools and methods to help diabetics better manage the disease in the long term.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 