SENS. BINGAMAN, DOMENICI CALL ON U.S. POSTAL SERVICE TO FIX LAS CRUCES POSTAL WOES
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici once again called on the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) to ensure that any steps it takes to address staffing concerns at the El Paso, Texas mail processing plant be permanent. The El Paso facility serves portions of southern New Mexico. 
   USPS announced last month it would hire 15 additional employees and begin operating a third shift to increase productivity and efficiency at the El Paso mail processing plat. Unfortunately, it remains unclear over whether the new hires will be temporary or permanent.
   In a letter to Postmaster General John Potter, the New Mexico Senators expressed their frustration over the lack of communication from the USPS and urged him to take permanent steps to improve service in the region. 
   "Much of the mail of southern New Mexico is processed at this facility and there has been a documented history of poor service, service disruptions, and staffing shortages that have resulted in consistent mail delivery problems in the area. The decision to hire only temporary workers fails to recognize the long-term costs of poor service, an unstable workforce, and of repeated training for new employees. 
   "Additionally, the manner in which these hires are being made is of concern. Moreover, if it is the intent of USPS to hire only temporary workers, we should be fully informed. Despite repeated requests to state and national postal officials to communicate all pertinent information to our offices we must still rely on local press accounts to be kept up-to-date on postal issues in the state. This is unacceptable and points to a lack of responsiveness and attention to detail that mirrors the complaints we hear from New Mexico constituents. We are reiterating our request that you let us know in detail the USPS plans to staff the three shifts at the El Paso plant and whether the third shift will be permanent or temporary.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 