SEN. BINGAMAN SECURES MILLIONS FOR NEW MEXICO ANTI-CRIME INITIATIVES
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today announced that he has secured more than $2 million for several crime prevention initiatives, including $150,000 to help the state purchase protective equipment needed by law enforcement to clean up meth labs.  
   The funding is included in the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Bill which has been finalized and is ready to clear its final Congressional hurdle and be sent to the president. 
   Bingaman sought $150,000 to help the New Mexico Department of Public Safety buy protective gear - to be used by members of the State Police Methamphetamine Lab Team for the cleanup of clandestine labs.
   To prevent young New Mexicans from ever becoming addicted to meth, Bingaman secured $500,000 for a state-wide meth education program in secondary schools.
   "Meth has taken a toll on our state. It's essential for law enforcement officials to have all the tools they need to tackle this terrible problem, and that includes protective equipment to clean up toxic meth labs," Bingaman said. "I'm glad to secure $150,000 for protective gear." 
   "While we crack down on meth producers, we also need to keep New Mexico's youth from getting hooked on meth. This $500,000 I have secured for anti-meth education initiatives will go a long way toward addressing that issue," he added.
   Bingaman secured $300,000 for the Silver City Consolidated School District's Secure School Program. Funding will be used to address juvenile delinquency, dropout prevention, and promote educational achievement. 
   "The Secure School Program is working. Positive and successful initiatives like this one deserve to be supported," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman also secured funding for the following:
   $300,000 for the Santa Fe Rape Crisis Center: Funds will be used to support the one-step treatment and prevention center for victims of domestic violence in Northern New Mexico.
   $400,000 for the Espa?ola Police Department's Mobile Data Terminals and Infrastructure. Funds will be sued to provide police personnel with mobile computers to store datat that can be accessed in the field over a secure network, without having to transmit via radio.
   $300,000 for the City of Albuquerque Police Department's Comprehensive Information Project. Funds would be used to design, implement, and support a state-of-the-art information system, including a records management system, computer aided dispatch, mobile data computing, automated field reporting, and a data warehouse available to multiple agencies and jurisdictions. 
   $240,000 to purchase equipment for Sandoval County Law Enforcement. Funds will be used to purchase four new radios and three communication towers to ensure that the county's police, firefighters, and rescurers are able to communicate with each other in a timely manner to coordinate response to emergencies. 
   $750,000 for the Coalition of State Police Athletic Leagues, Gang Prevention-Intervention Program. Funds will be shared by PALs in the states of New Mexico, New Jersey, California, and Florida that will be used to identify at-risk youth and work to keep them out of gangs.
   $150,000 San Juan County Juvenile Services Center, Life Skills and Character Building Programs. Funds will be used to upgrade and expand the scope of its life skills and character building programs. One of the most serious problems among youth in the county is the high recidivism rate, which is currently at 19 percent. In order to address recidivism, the children need education in academics, life skills, and health issues. Character building programs, career readiness sessions, and individual counseling will help equip them with the skills they need to return to society as independent and productive young citizens. Teachings include how to interview for a job, balance a check book, how to manage anger and provocative situations, and how to make appropriate behavioral choices. 
  The bill also contains $2.7 billion for assistance to State and local law enforcement for crime fighting initiatives; $405 million to reimburse States for criminal alien detention costs; $387 million for violence against women prevention and prosecution programs; $416 million for the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grants program; $343 million for juvenile delinquency prevention and accountability programs; $109 million to eliminate DNA analysis backlogs; $140 million for law enforcement technologies and interoperability; $64 million for meth hot spots; and $40 million to reduce gang violence.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 