SEN. BINGAMAN CONGRATULATES SANDIA SCIENCE PARK FOR WINNING NATIONAL AWARD
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today applauded Sandia Science and Technology Park for winning an award from the U.S. Commerce Department's Economic Development Administration (EDA). 
   EDA selected the Sandia Park for its 2005 Excellence in Economic Development Award for Excellence in Technology-led Economic Development. Sandia Park was selected for its commitment to sound, research-based, market driven economic development in helping grow New Mexico's economy.
   "Sandia Tech Park Director Jackie Krrby Moore leads a very capable and talented team that is working hard to help create good jobs in our state," Bingaman said. "Science and technology parks are an important economic engine for New Mexico and I will continue to lend my strong support to helping them grow and thrive."
   At Bingaman's urging, the energy bill that was recently signed into law contains "Technology cluster" provisions that allow assistance for state and local efforts, in conjunction with national laboratories, to build clusters of science and technology excellence in the vicinity of national laboratories.
   Bingaman is also the author of the "Science Park Administration Act of 2005", which encourages the formation of science parks across the country and strengthen existing ones through the use of federal loan and loan guarantees. Science parks are a group of interrelated companies and universities that cooperate as well as compete. Senator Jim Bunning (R-KY) is a cosponsor of the bill.
   Bingaman's bill, which was crafted with the assistance of Kerby Moore and other tech park officials in the state, authorizes over the next five years the U.S. Department of Commerce to award $500,000 grants for the purpose of planning a new science park for a total of $37.5 million, creates a revolving loan program to help existing science parks make upgrades at $300 million, and establishes a $500 million loan guarantee program for up to $50 million per loan for the construction of approximately 20 new world class science parks. 
   The Science Park Administration Act of 2005 also offers a series of tax incentives to business that want to locate in science parks, including accelerated capital depreciation, and a tax credit for companies that invest in universities and laboratories performing research. The bill has been sent to the Senate Finance Committee; Bingaman is a member of that panel
 
 