SEN. BINGAMAN: LANDMARK HIGHER EDUCATION BILL IS SENT TO PRESIDENT
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said Congress has given final passage to legislation he helped write to make a college education more affordable and accessible to New Mexicans.  
   Bingaman said the College Cost Reduction and Access Act increases student aid by more than $20 billion over the next 5 years - including more than $200 million in new grant aid and loan aid for New Mexicans. The bill would substantially increase Pell Grants from $4,310 this year to $5,400 by 2012. Under this proposal, the maximum Pell Grant would increase by $500 next year alone. 
   In addition, the bill simplifies the financial aid process for low-income students by increasing the income level at which a student is automatically eligible for the maximum Pell Grant, and protects working students, increasing the amount of student income that is sheltered from the financial aid process. It also expands eligibility for financial aid so more students will qualify for more financial assistance. 
   "The high cost of college can sometimes put higher education out of reach for many in our state. This landmark bill will make college more affordable and accessible to more New Mexicans, and it's one of the most important things Congress has done this year," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman was on the Senate-House panel that negotiated the final bill. At his urging, the measure includes $10 million to fund and help create a program for Native American Serving Institutions - institutions that serve large Native American student populations, but are not considered tribal colleges. The following schools in New Mexico would benefit from that funding: San Juan College, University of New Mexico Gallup, New Mexico State University-Grants, Eastern New Mexico University-Ruidoso. The bill also contains $60 million in funding to strengthen tribal colleges and universities. 
   The bill also contains $200 million for Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI) to increase the number of students attaining degrees in science, technology, engineering or math and to facilitate transfer for students from two-year to four-year HSIs. 
   The bill also creates scholarships of $4,000 annually for high-achieving undergraduate and graduate students who commit to teaching in such areas as math and science in a high-need district. 
   "I believe this bill is a major investment in our state's - and our country's - future workforce," Bingaman said. 
   This bill also would cap federal student loan payments at 15 percent of a borrower's discretionary income, bringing needed relief to students with excessive debt. And it creates and incentive for students to purse careers in public service by forgiving for 10 years the debt of borrowers who work in public service careers, such as nursing, teaching, or law enforcement. The bill also cuts student loan interest rates in half to 3.4% for undergraduate students with subsidized student loans, providing much needed relief to middle class families. 
   And the bill contains a provision Bingaman wrote that would prohibit colleges and universities from counting special combat pay received by men and women in the Armed Services against their financial aid. 
   The measure will now be sent to President Bush for signature.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 