SEN. BINGAMAN: DEFENSE SPENDING BILLS CONTAINS FUNDING FOR NEW MEXICO
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today voted to approve a spending bill that funds defense spending in New Mexico.  
   "As the home of three Air Force Bases and an Army testing range, New Mexico plays a major role in protecting our country. This spending bill helps ensure our bases are adequately funded and can meet their missions," Bingaman said. 
   The FY 2007 Defense Appropriations Act, which passed 98-0, contains the following: 
   $3.0 million for Tactical AirSentinel made by Albuquerque-based MesoSystems. This initiative protects field operating forces through sensors that detect a biological release in time to take preventative and mediating countermeasures. Tactical AirSentinel will be a mobile, deployable, lightweight, and low power biological detector to detect releases of a variety of biological materials including anthrax, tularemia, viruses, and toxins. AirSentinel sensors operate as part of a network configuration and form the "first tier" of a building air security system being deployed in the Pentagon under the Pentagon Shield program. 
   $2.0 million for Field Programmable Gate Array. These are small, radiation hardened, computer chips put into satellites. Right now there are little if any commercial manufacturers of them. XLINX is one of two in the US, so NM is a natural location to build upon such an activity. The program would be located in the Science Park that is being constructed on Kirtland. 
   $2.5 million to the University of New Mexico for the Long Wavelength Array (LWA). The LWA will be a very large aperture (400 km) instrument designed to meet specific scientific needs such as Cosmic Evolution research, and to build on the highly successful 74 MHz science already being done at the near Very Large Array. 
   $1.5 million for AgilOptics of Albuquerque to establish an Industrial Center for Adaptive Optics in order to carry out the commercialization and industrialization of adaptive optics. 
   Bingaman also supported an amendment written by Senator Jack Reed to set aside $65.4 million for acquisition of new Predator UAVs. This will work to replace those lost abroad and ensure a steady production line into the future for the UAV our Special Operations forces rely on the most.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521. 
 
 