SEN. BINGAMAN OUTLINES SEVERAL FUNDING PRIORITIES FOR SANTA FE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today outlined a few of his top funding priorities for Santa Fe.
   In the next few months, Congress will begin the process of writing bills that fund government agencies. Bingaman has written to some of his Senate colleagues who play key roles in developing those bills, and is seeking support for various projects. 
   For instance, in a letter to Senators Conrad Burns (R-MT) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND), the chairman and ranking members, respectively, of the Senate Subcommittee on Interior Appropriations, Bingaman is seeking $3.5 million for the Valles Caldera National Preserve to cover the cost of infrastructure, contracting and administration. Bingaman has said the funding in recent years for the preserve has been lagging. 
   Bingaman is also seeking $1.5 million in the Interior spending bill to continue with the ongoing project to thin the Santa Fe watershed.
   "The effort to thin the Santa Fe watershed to reduce the threat of fire has been a top priority of mine. The federal government has already dedicated significant resources to this project, and I am asking that the commitment continue next year," Bingaman said.
   Finally, Bingaman is seeking $2.5 million to carry out the Galisteo Basin Archeological Sites Project Act - a Bingaman and Rep. Tom Udall measure that was enacted last year. The law offers protection to archeological sites and artifacts in the Galisteo Basin, which includes the ruins of Spanish missions that date back to the 17th century and spectacular examples of Native American rock art and pueblo architecture. Archeologists have identified 24 sites of particular importance, all of which would be eligible for protection under the new law. 
   Bingaman said the funds would be used by the Bureau of Land Management to conduct the inventory and planning for protecting these two dozen sites.
   Bingaman also wrote to Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), the top two senators on the Senate Subcommittee on Military Construction, seeking $29.5 million to make improvements at the New Mexico National Guard complex.
   The funding would be used to construct six permanent structures that include hangar facilities, flight operation centers, aviation maintenance facilities, storage buildings, and a readiness center. 
   Bingaman said the existing complex was constructed in1979 and designed to support the UH-1 Iroquois helicopter, though the National Guard's 717th Medical Company now operates the HH-60A Blackhawk, which requires larger hangar space and specialized maintenance support facilities, and is incongruent with the current facility. 
  "Our nation and our state both rely heavily on the New Mexico National Guard. The time has come for us to make the much needed investment in the facilities that support the 717th Medical Company," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman pointed out that in addition to supporting the nation's defense capabilities, the New Mexico National Guard performs such key civilian missions as search and rescue and fire fighting.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 