SEN. BINGAMAN'S PLAN TO AWARD MEDALS TO HONOR TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN, IRAQ COMING TO FRUITION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased that the Pentagon is moving ahead with his plan to award separate medals to the servicemen and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Last year, Congress passed a measure Bingaman introduced in the Senate that requires the Pentagon to separate medals for service in Iraq and Afghanistan. The provision was signed into law last spring. Originally, the Bush administration wanted to hand out the "Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medals" to all qualified members of the armed forces. However, Bingaman believes that the wars being fought in Iraq and Afghanistan deserve special consideration and he urged Congress to authorize the creation of the Iraqi Liberation Medal and the Afghanistan Liberation Medal. 
   Bingaman notes that during Operation Desert Storm service members received three separate military decorations for their service: the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, the Southwest Asia Service Medal, and the Liberation of Kuwait medal. For service in Kosovo, our servicemen and women received the NATO Service Medal and the Kosovo Campaign Medal. 
   "The men and women risking their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan should be singled out for their bravery, they shouldn't just be given a generic medal for their service," Bingaman said. 
   On Thursday, the Pentagon released the eligibility requirements for the soldiers. It states that service members authorized the Afghanistan Campaign Medal must have served in direct support of Operation Enduring Freedom on or after Oct. 24, 2001, to a future date to be determined by the Secretary of Defense or the cessation of the operation. The area of eligibility encompasses all land areas of the country of Afghanistan and all air spaces above the land. 
   Those authorized the Iraq Campaign Medal must have served in direct support of Operation Iraqi Freedom on or after March 19, 2003, to a future date to be determined by the Secretary of Defense or the cessation of the operation. The area of eligibility encompasses all land area of the country of Iraq, and the contiguous water area out to 12 nautical miles, and all air spaces above the land area of Iraq and above the contiguous water area out to 12 nautical miles. 
   Service members must have been assigned, attached or mobilized to units operating in these areas of eligibility for 30 consecutive days or for 60 non-consecutive days or meet one of the following criteria: 
   * Be engaged in combat during an armed engagement, regardless of the time in the area of eligibility; or 
  * While participating in an operation or on official duties, is wounded or injured and requires medical evacuation from the area of eligibility; or 
  * While participating as a regularly assigned air crewmember flying sorties into, out of, within or over the area of eligibility in direct support of the military operations; each day of operations counts as one day of eligibility.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 