SEN. BINGAMAN: NEW ENERGY LAW WILL BENEFIT INDIAN COUNTRY
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said is very pleased that the Energy Policy Act of 2005 signed into law today in Albuquerque will benefit Indian Country. 
   Four years ago, when Congress first began trying to create a new energy policy, Bingaman developed several initiatives to spur energy development in Indian Country - initiatives that ultimately ended up in the energy bill President Bush signed today. Bingaman and U.S. Senator Pete Domenici worked together to craft the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
   "This new energy policy will give Indian Country a voice at the Department of Energy and will help tribes cut through the bureaucracy that has held up energy development on Indian lands," Bingaman said. "This is a major step forward."
   "The Energy Policy Act also calls for the continuation of an initiative that is bringing electricity for the first time to thousands of Navajo homes," said Bingaman, who is the author of a provision enacted into law in 2000, and which was set to expire, that over the past few years has paid for the electrification of Navajo homes.
   Indian Energy Accomplishments for New Mexico
   The Indian Energy provisions of the Energy bill will provide significant energy development and electrification opportunities for New Mexico's 22 Pueblos and Tribes. The following provisions are especially significant.
   Giving Indian Energy a Voice at DOE. Creates and Office of Indian Energy Policy & Programs at the Department of Energy that will use grants, technical assistance, and loan guarantees to assist Pueblos and Tribes with the production of energy resources; increasing the supply of electricity to Indian homes and businesses; and managing energy development and use in a manner that protects tribal lands and communities. 
  Cutting Federal Bureaucracy and Empowering Tribes to Tap the Energy Potential of Indian Lands. Expands existing tribal energy programs and grant opportunities at the Department of the Interior, including the use of tribal energy resource agreements to promote self-determination with respect to production and use of tribal energy resources on Indian land.
   Moving Forward with Electrification of the Navajo Reservation. Continues the effort to address the unusually high number of homes without electricity on the Navajo Reservation by extending by 5 years the authorization for the Navajo Electrification Program, first put in law by Sen. Bingaman.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 