SEN. BINGAMAN: PRESIDENT SIGNS SPENDING BILL THAT CONTAINS MILLIONS FOR FOUR CORNERS REGION
  A key spending bill signed into law today contains funding sought by Sen. Jeff Bingaman to support projects in the Four Corners region.  
   At Bingaman's request, the 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill contains funding to, among other things, support projects in Indian Country. Among the request was $25 million to support a Bingaman-created grant program that supports community development projects in Native American communities. 
   "Building healthy communities helps to foster a high stander of living and improve quality of life. I am pleased this funding will help supporting community development in Indian communities where it is most needed," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman also reported that he helped secure $900,000 for a sewer system project in Kirtland in San Juan County. Funding would be used to build a sewer system to replace existing septic tanks in Kirtland. The project covers the commercial district in downtown Kirtland, 114 homes, a mobile home park and 46 parcels of vacant land. 
   "The funding secured in this bill will help ensure that the residents of Kirtland have the funding needed to proceed with this waste water project," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman strongly supported the projects that received federal backing and worked hard to secure funding for them. Among those he sought funding for are:
   * $1.125 million for the New Mexico State Police
   Funding would be used to help the New Mexico Department of Public Safety complete the second half of a multi-year project to equip all state police with Satellite Mobile Data Terminals (MDT) and Computer-Aided Dispatch (CAD), which helps ensure more reliable communications with officers in the field, improves response time, and protects law enforcement officers.
   * $300,000 - Short-Term Foster Care for Juvenile Offenders Program
   Funding would be used by the New Mexico Department of Children, Youth and Families to provide 500 low-risk youth offenders with short-term placement in trained families or in licensed group homes as an alternative to incarceration. 
   * $250,000 - New Mexico Primary Health Care Association 
   Funding will be used to support a community health worker demonstration project statewide (HRSA). Promotoras are community health advocates that are trained to promote health education and wellness in their communities and serve as connectors between health care consumers and providers to promote health among groups that have traditionally lacked access to adequate health care. 
   * $200,000 - New Mexico Police Athletic League
   Funding would be used to implement a statement Law Enforcement Health Program throughout the New Mexico Police Athletic League (NM PAL) that will tackle girls' health issues and domestic violence. Bingaman secured $400,000 in fiscal year 2003.
   * $150,000 - Navajo Medical Division in New Mexico 
   Funding will be used for the establishment of a community health worker demonstration project (HRSA). Promotoras are community health advocates that are trained to promote health education and wellness in their communities and serve as connectors between health care consumers and providers to promote health among groups that have traditionally lacked access to adequate health care.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 