SEN. BINGAMAN INTRODUCES NAVAJO NATION WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman has introduced legislation he wrote to settle the Navajo Nation's water rights claims in the San Juan River Basin. Rep. Tom Udall introduced the measure in the House of Representatives.  
   Last year, the State of New Mexico and the Navajo Nation signed a settlement agreement that fully resolves the tribe's water claims in the basin. But before it can be officially settled, Congress must enact legislation. 
   In general the legislation reflects the signed agreement. For example, the bill recognizes approximately 600,000 acre-feet per year of water to the Navajo Nation for agricultural, municipal, industrial, domestic and stock watering purposes. It also authorizes federal funding for the Navajo-Gallup Pipeline project. 
   Under the Bingaman proposal, which Udall supports, the federal government would contribute funding over about two decades to construct the pipeline and perform other activities to implement the agreement. No dollar amount has yet been specified because the federal government is finalizing the cost of the pipeline project. However, the legislation includes language that guarantees that federal funding will be available. 
   "This legislation would help bring to a close many years of negotiations, and would ensure that both the Navajo Nation and the City of Gallup have adequate water supplies into the future," Bingaman said. "It has a long way to go before it could become law. But the time has come to begin the process of building congressional support to settle this claim." 
   "The Navajo Nation, the State of New Mexico and many other residents of northwestern New Mexico have put a tremendous amount of work into reaching an agreement that will provide a more secure future for many vulnerable communities. I am proud to be able to contribute today to their efforts by introducing the House companion bill and starting it down the path of Congressional approval. I will work with my colleagues to pass this legislation to move these important water projects forward," Udall said. 
   Bingaman intends to hold hearings on this bill early next year when he assumes the role of chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. The House version was sent to the House Resources Committee; Udall is a member of that panel.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 