SEN. BINGAMAN VOTES TO REORGANIZE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IN WAKE OF 9-11 COMMISSION REPORT
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today voted to approve legislation that would implement many of the changes recommended by the 9/11 Commission in its summer 2004 report. The move would result in sweeping changes to the way the intelligence community is organized. 
   The bill, which is on its way to the president for signature, consolidates the 15 independent intelligence agencies into one National Intelligence Authority, which will be headed by the National Director of Intelligence. The director will control the staffing and the funding of the entire intelligence community.
   "These reforms are long overdue and will go a long way toward keeping our country safe," Bingaman said. "Until now, our intelligence agencies were scattered throughout the government. Unfortunately, this clearly hampered our ability to predict and prevent 9/11."
   "This legislation would consolidate all of our intelligence agencies in a way that would provide Congress and the president with the best information available so that we can take appropriate action," he added. 
   The measure contains an amendment Bingaman wrote that allows national laboratory scientists to continue assisting governmental agencies responsible for our national security.
   The bill as introduced did not specifically allow for the continuation of a practice that has encouraged national laboratory scientists to offer their intelligence expertise to various governmental agencies. Bingaman's amendment, which was cosponsored by Senator Pete Domenici, authorizes national laboratory scientists to continue working with intelligence agencies. 
   Over the years, national laboratory scientists from Sandia and Los Alamos and other national laboratories have advised such entities as the National Counterterrorism Center and the Joint Atomic Intelligence Committee, to name just two examples.
   "Without the expertise of these scientists, our abilities would be hampered in many areas, including our efforts to stop the spread of weapons of mass destruction," Bingaman said.
  Bingaman also worked to have language included that is designed to prevent the growth of terrorism in particularly vulnerable countries through the increase in funding for civil society, rule of law, education, economic development, child health, and other such programs. The goal is to assign economic and diplomatic capabilities the same strategic priority as military action and offer countries that might become terrorist sanctuaries with viable alternatives.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 