SEN. BINGAMAN: SPENDING BILL CONTAINS FUNDS FOR ROSWELL, CLOVIS, HOBBS, RUIDOSO
  A key spending bill that was signed into law today contains funding sought by Sen. Jeff Bingaman for Roswell, Clovis, Hobbs and Ruidoso. There bill also funds a project that benefits DeBaca County.  
   Bingaman said he is pleased the bill contains $1.5 million to fund the Flight Research Training Center (FRTC) in Roswell. FRTC is an Eastern New Mexico University-Roswell program - based at the Roswell International Air Center - that teaches pilots the skills and knowledge needed to address in-flight technical problems. 
   "The Flight Research Training Center does a great job training pilots for emergency situations, and I'm pleased the federal government has agreed to make an investment in it," Bingaman said. 
   Using a modified Leer jet fitted with an onboard computer system designed to simulate the controls of larger commercial aircraft, pilots will be tested and trained on how to handle situations involving mechanical failure while in flight. The program aims to train 2,000 pilots over a five-year period in Roswell. Training emphasis is on regional and commuter airlines. 
   The nationwide demand for this training has made Roswell a center for aviation education and training. Currently a total of 3,700 pilots are requesting this type of training. Bingaman helped secured $3 million in 2003 and $2.3 million in the 2002 for this program.
   Bingaman also reported that the spending bill contains funding for two wastewater treatment plants - one in Clovis, and another in Ruidoso.
   For Clovis, $250,000 has been appropriated to help the city upgrade its wastewater treatment plant to handle approximately 2 million gallons per day of effluent from the new cheese plant. The estimated cost of the wastewater treatment plant is $6 million. The State of New Mexico provided $1.5 million in a 2004 capital outlay grant for this project. 
   Another $2.35 million has been set aside to improve county roads to serve the new Southwest Cheese Plant in Clovis. The bill also contains $400,000 to help Clovis purchase emergency vehicles. 
   There is also $88,000 to continue design and planning work associated with the Eastern New Mexico Rural Water Supply Project.
   For the Village of Ruidoso, $150,000 toward the cost of building a regional wastewater treatment plant that would serve the village and Ruidoso Downs. Bingaman has already helped secure $900,000 in 2003 and $1.35 million in 2002.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 