SEN. BINGAMAN: SPENDING BILL THAT FUNDS NORTHERN NEW MEXICO PROJECTS SIGNED INTO LAW
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that a bill containing millions of dollars for Northern New Mexico has been signed into law.
   At Bingaman's request, the 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill contains funding to among other things, support projects in Indian Country. Among the request was $25 million to support a Bingaman-created grant program that supports community development projects in Native American communities.  
   "Building healthy communities helps to foster a high standerd of living and improve quality of life. I am pleased this funding will help supporting community development in Indian communities where it is most needed," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman also reported that he helped secure $3.65 million for Valles Caldera National Preserve. Funding will be used to provide for administration, contracting, infrastructure, and management support services for the Valles Caldera National Preserve board of trustees. 
   Additionally Bingaman reported that he helped secure $1.5 million for the Santa Fe Municipal Watershed Project. Funding will help protect the Santa Fe Watershed from catastrophic fires by thinning the area surrounding the municipal watershed contained within the Santa Fe National Forest. 
   "Protecting the Santa Fe Municipal Watersheds is a top priority. The funding included in this bill will be used to pursue forest thinning in the area and help protect the watershed from wildfires," Bingaman said.
   Bingaman strongly supported the projects that received federal backing and worked hard to secure funding for them. Among those he sought funding for are:
   $1.5 million - Santa Fe Protection and Watershed, Land Acquisition
  Funding will be used for land acquisition in the Forests surrounding Santa Fe. This project includes acquiring the unique 796-acre Mesita Blanca and the 128-acre Rancho Viejo parcels.
   $1.87 million - Santa Fe's National Center for Genome Resources: The funds will be used to continue work of the Bioinformatics Institute for Model Plant Species, which is working with NMSU and Iowa State to improve the productivity and nutrition of crops grown in the US. Bingaman secured $1.6 million for the center in 2004. 
   $1.125 million for the New Mexico State Police: Funding would be used to help the New Mexico Department of Public Safety complete the second half of a multi-year project to equip all state police with Satellite Mobile Data Terminals (MDT) and Computer-Aided Dispatch (CAD), which helps ensure more reliable communications with officers in the field, improves response time, and protects law enforcement officers.
   $600,000 for the Rio Puerco watershed project: $300,000 of which will be used to support the Rio Puerco Management Committee. The committee funds tribal, private, state and federal plans to design and implement improved management practices and projects throughout the watershed. 
  $500,000 for the Santa Fe Buckman Diversion Project: This funding will be used to support continued development of the Santa Fe Water Supply project. 
  $500,000 - La Familia Medical Center in Santa Fe: Funding will be used to help construct a 5,500 square-foot addition and to renovate the existing structure of the Alto Street Clinic of La Familia Medical Center in Santa Fe. This expansion, including seven new exam rooms and three new dental operatories, is needed to address the 55% increase in the number of patients served by La Familia Medical Center since 1999 and to address the needs of a patient population that is nearly 70% uninsured. 
   $400,000 - Mechanical Biological Treatment, Las Vegas: The City of Las Vegas has identified Mechanical Biological Treatment (MBT) as a cost effective means to close and remediate an old landfill and improve current solid waste management practices. Funding would be used to generate a financial plan for the MBT project and to help develop a rural economic model for use in Las Vegas and other New Mexico communities.
   $300,000 - Short-Term Foster Care for Juvenile Offenders Program: Funding would be used by the New Mexico Department of Children, Youth and Families to provide 500 low-risk youth offenders with short-term placement in trained families or in licensed group homes as an alternative to incarceration. 
   $200,000 - New Mexico Police Athletic League: Funding would be used to implement a statement Law Enforcement Health Program throughout the New Mexico Police Athletic League (NM PAL) that will tackle girls' health issues and domestic violence. Bingaman secured $400,000 in fiscal year 2003.
   $250,000 - New Mexico Primary Health Care Association: Funding will be used to support a community health worker demonstration project statewide (HRSA). Promotoras are community health advocates that are trained to promote health education and wellness in their communities and serve as connectors between health care consumers and providers to promote health among groups that have traditionally lacked access to adequate health care. 
   $50,000 - La Familia Medical Center in Santa Fe: Funding will be used to expand its community health workers/promotoras program (HRSA).
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 