SEN. BINGAMAN EFFORTS YIELD FEDERAL FUNDS FOR DROPOUT PREVENTION, ADVANCED PLACEMENT, HISPANIC SERVING INSTITUTIONS
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that the president signed into law a bill that contains funding for three education programs Bingaman helped create: dropout prevention, Advanced Placement classes, and a program that gives grants to large high schools that want to create "smaller learning communities" on their campuses. The bill also contains funding Bingaman sought for Hispanic-Serving Institutions.  
  As a senior member of the Senate Health and Education Committee, Bingaman was influential in writing key parts of the No Child Left Behind Act. He is the author of the provision that makes federal funding available to schools for dropout prevention, and another provision that helps schools offer Advanced Placement courses. He is also the author of the smaller learning communities grant program, which creates an atmosphere of smaller schools within schools. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Spending bill enacted today contains $4.970 million for dropout prevention. While Bingaman is disappointed that this level does not represent an increase in funding over last year, he is pleased it did not receive any cuts, given the Bush administration's proposal to eliminate funding completely. Bingaman believes dropout prevention is so important because recent studies show that only approximately 68 percent of all students who enter high school will graduate in four years with regular diplomas. For Hispanic and Native American students, that number is closer to 50 percent. 
   "If we raise the academic bar at public schools across the country, but we don't do more to keep students in school, then we will be failing a huge percentage of children in this country. We simply need to put a greater emphasis on dropout prevention. This bill takes a small step forward in that direction, but we need to do more."
  The spending bill also contains $30 million to allow schools to begin offering Advanced Placement courses, or to expand the number of courses they offer - particularly at schools with a high percentage of low-income students. The funding can also be used to help students defray the cost of the Advanced Placement exams. This funding represents an increase over current level funding of more than $6 million.
   "I'm a strong believer that AP courses are a great way to improve student achievement. I'm very pleased that some funding has been set aside to help schools to either begin or expand AP programs," Bingaman said. 
  Bingaman also fought to maintain funding for smaller learning. The spending bill contains $95.238 million for "smaller learning communities" - or schools within schools - at larger, impersonal high schools. Although this does not represent an increase, it is significant given the Bush administration's proposals to eliminate funding completely. "Students that attend smaller high school are more likely to perform better in school, have higher graduation rates, and are more likely to attend college," Bingaman said.
  Bingaman said he is also pleased that the spending bill contains $95.873 million to strengthen teaching, research and infrastructure at Hispanic-Serving Institutions - colleges and universities whose student body is at least 25 percent Hispanic. This level of funding represents a small increase over last year's funding levels. Bingaman is one of the leading supporters of Hispanic-Serving Institutions. He is the author of a provision in a separate bill still pending in Congress that would make HSI funding available to the University of New Mexico and New Mexico State University.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 