PRESIDENT SIGNS SEN. BINGAMAN'S BORDER WATER LEGISLATION
  The president has signed into law legislation written by Sen. Jeff Bingaman to allow for a first-ever comprehensive review of the availability of groundwater in the U.S.-Mexico border region.  
   Bingaman's United States-Mexico Trans-boundary Aquifer Assessment Act taps the U.S. Geological Survey to work with states and local entities on both sides of the border to perform a comprehensive assessment of trans-boundary aquifers, including prioritizing those aquifers needing an in-depth analysis, and consolidating existing data and identifying the need for additional studies. Ultimately, USGS and its partners would create detailed maps and groundwater flow models of the priority aquifers. 
   Bingaman said the information and scientific tools developed are expected to be extremely valuable to state and local water resource managers. Among the aquifers to be reviewed under the program are the Hueco Bolson and Mesilla Bolson in southern New Mexico. 
   "Local water managers need more complete data in order to make informed decisions. This legislation will help provide information on how much water is in the shared aquifers border communities rely upon," Bingaman said. 
   Senator Pete Domenici was a cosponsor. "I'm pleased that President Bush has signed this bill into law. The more we know about the water situation in the Southwest, the better. This bill will allow our country to work with Mexico to gain a better understanding of the resources that our nations share and how we can best use them," Domenici said. 
   The need for an in-depth assessment of border aquifers has been acknowledged by the Good Neighbor Environmental Board, an independent federal advisory committee managed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and by the Center for Strategic and International Studies in a January 2003 report. Both have said an assessment will prove to be an invaluable tool in long-term water management plans. 
   Bingaman's legislation was developed in consultation with a number of stakeholders, including the Paso del Norte Water Task Force, a group of water managers, water users, and other citizens in the New Mexico, Texas, and Juarez, Mexico region.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 