COMMITTEE PASSES DOMENICI-BINGAMAN PACE ACT
  Sens. Pete Domenici and Jeff Bingaman today gained a resounding endorsement of their legislation to utilize the Department of Energy and the national labs to dramatically improve science education, research and development. 
   Domenici is the chair and Bingaman is the ranking member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee that today unanimously passed the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Energy Act (S.2197). The bill is one of three PACE Acts the Senators introduced in order to help the United States remain economically competitive with the rest of the world.
   "I believe that this bill is just the beginning of legislation that is going to get done. By passing the PACE Act, we are taking a giant step toward making America competitive and improving our brainpower in the years to come. When we pass this on the floor, it will be a very very big day for the country. I'm pleased to get the process started today in our committee," Domenici said. 
   "With more than 60 cosponsors of our legislation, we already had a lot of momentum toward getting this important package of bills enacted. The action taken by the Energy Committee is our first big step forward," Bingaman said.
   With committee passage, the PACE-Energy Act is now ready for floor action by the full Senate.
   The PACE-Energy Act would create a Director of Mathematics, Science and Engineering Education Programs at the DOE. It will create programs boost specialty schools for math and science, establish science-based internships, and set up a Center of Excellence for Math and Science Education at each national laboratory. 
   The bill will also establish a research grant program for scientists and engineers who have completed their education, as well as a new office within the DOE to direct advanced research projects. Finally, the bill doubles the authorized funding level for basic physical science research.
   "With this bill, DOE is going to be a part of an effort to retool over 100,000 math and science teachers to better serve our schoolchildren. Right now, we're asking teachers to teach these key subjects without having them even study them. The PACE Act is an attempt in a major way to get them up to speed. In addition, we'll double the science and technology research parts of DOE and boost the National Science Foundation," Domenici said. 
   "Our legislation will keep the United States on the leading edge of technology and science, helping create the jobs of the future and ensuring we remain competitive in the global marketplace," Bingaman said. 
   The PACE-Education and PACE-Tax Acts are currently under consideration by the Senate Health, Labor, Education and Pensions Committee (HELP) and the Senate Finance Committee. A HELP Subcommittee held hearings on that bill last week.
   Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Domenici and Bingaman as original cosponsors. Overall, the PACE-Energy Act has garnered 64 cosponsors.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 