SEN. BINGAMAN JOINS IN REINTRODUCING INITIATIVE TO REDUCE GASOLINE CONSUMPTION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman has joined Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) and others in introducing bipartisan legislation that aims to reduce the United States' gasoline consumption by nearly half a trillion gallons by 2028, greatly decrease the country's dependence on foreign oil.  
   Bingaman said the "Fuel Economy Reform Act of 2006" seeks to break the decades-long logjam on increasing fuel economy standards by establishing a target of a 4 percent annual increase in Corporate Avenue Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards - roughly one mile per gallon. This goal must be met unless the experts at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration justify a deviation in that rate by proving that the increase is technologically unachievable, cannot maintain overall fleet safety, or is not cost-effective when compared to the economic and geopolitical value of a gallon of gasoline saved. The Fuel Economy Reform Act reflects the recommended approach of the Energy Security Leadership Council's 2006 report on how to secure America's energy future. 
   "Improving vehicle fuel efficiency is an important step in helping reduce our country's dependency on foreign oil. It's time to investigate serious ways to reduce our oil consumption by improving fuel efficiency, and I believe this bill is a great start," said Bingaman, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The bill also provides tax incentives to encourage domestic manufacturers to develop advanced-technology vehicles, which would help strengthen the U.S. auto industry by allowing them to compete with foreign hybrid, E-85 and other fuel-efficient vehicles. Additionally, the bill would lift the current 60,000-per-manufacturer cap on buyer tax credits to allow more Americans to buy ultra-efficient vehicles. 
   Bingaman said that if the 4 percent per year improvement is maintained for 20 years, this bill would reduce gasoline consumption by 549 billion gallons. If gasoline is just $2.50 per gallon, consumers will save $1.372 trillion at the pump by 2028. 
   The Fuel Economy Reform Act would also provide fairness and flexibility to domestic automakers by establishing different standards for different types of cars. Currently, manufacturers have to meet broad standards over their whole fleet of cars. This disadvantages companies like Ford and General Motors that produce full lines of small and large cars and trucks rather than manufacturers that only sell small cars. 
   America spends $800 million a day - $300 billion annually - on its 20-million-barrel-a-day oil habit. Passenger vehicles alone burn 8 million gallons of oil each day. Because we import 60 percent of our oil, much of it from the Middle East, our dependence on oil is also a national security issue. With oil prices hovering near $70 a barrel in recent years and total U.S. petroleum use estimated to increase 23 percent over the next 20 years, we must act now to prevent a future energy crisis. 
   The bill was cosponsored by Richard G. Lugar (R-IN), Joseph Biden (D-DE), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Arlen Specter (R-PA).
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 