SEN. BINGAMAN DISAPPOINTED BY SENATE'S REJECTION OF PLAN TO STUDY USE OF TORTURE ON PRISONERS
  The U.S. Senate today rejected a proposal to create an independent commission to investigate policies and practices related to alleged abuse of detainees. Sen. Jeff Bingaman voted to create the commission, which would have had to report to Congress on its findings and make recommendations.  
   "The current practice of holding detainees or prisoners indefinitely, without affording them basic due process rights, has been widely criticized in this country and throughout the world. For a country such as ours that has consistently advocated for the rule of law, the policies of the current administration are nothing short of a major embarrassment," said Bingaman, a cosponsor of the amendment. 
   "How we handle prisoners can have a dramatic impact on how our own men and women are treated in the event they are themselves taken prisoner," he added. 
   Specifically, the commission would have been asked to study what policies our nation should have with regard to detaining prisoners, what rights detainees should have, and what laws apply. 
   In a Monday speech on the Senate floor, Bingaman said there are over 500 individuals who are currently being imprisoned in Guantanamo, many of whom have been held for more than three years. Of the 500, fewer than a dozen individuals have been charged to date. The remaining prisoners have not been charged. 
   "Serious concerns have been raised with regard to the rights we are affording prisoners under the current procedures for processing the prisoners. I have repeatedly raised concerns regarding this approach. I believe that it challenges our historic commitment to the rule of law," Bingaman said. 
   "I have never advocated that the Department of Defense release these prisoners but, rather, have said that they should be tried in the criminal justice system or they should be tried in the military justice system, but they should be tried somewhere. I believe it is appropriate to ensure that they do not indefinitely remain in a state of legal limbo and are afforded basic due process rights," he added. 
   The amendment was offered by Senator Carl Levin (D-Mich) to the fiscal year 2006 Defense Authorization Bill.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 