SEN. BINGAMAN: CONGRESS OVERRIDES PRESIDENT'S VETO OF KEY WATER RESOURCES BILL
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said he is very pleased that Congress voted overwhelmingly to override President Bush's veto of important flood protection legislation that will benefit Albuquerque's Southwest Valley. 
   Last week, Bush rejected the congressionally approved Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which authorizes $16.15 million in federal funding for the Southwest Valley Flood Damage Reduction Project. Earlier this week, the House voted to override the veto, and today in a 79-14 vote the Senate did as well. The measure is now law.
   Bingaman pressed hard for the inclusion of the $16.15 million project in WRDA, which authorizes projects and programs for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Bingaman is simultaneously seeking $1 million in fiscal year 2008 to initiate construction on the project.
   "This bill was too important to Albuquerque to let the president's veto stand. I'm very glad we were able to override the president and get this bill important bill enacted into law," Bingaman said. "This new law will help us ensure that vulnerable residents of Albuquerque's Southwest Valley can be protected from flooding."
   Flooding control on the Rio Grande over the years has left some areas of Albuquerque's Southwest Valley below the level of the river causing frequent flooding when it rains. The proposed project would eliminate flood damage by improving drainage in the area, which contains about 500 homes. The project includes the construction of detention basins and enlarging existing drainage channels in the area from Bridge Blvd. south to Rio Bravo Blvd. and from the Arenal Canal east of Coors to the Armijo Drain, west of Isleta Blvd. Completion of the project will reduce the cost of homeowners' flood insurance in the area.
   WRDA also includes the following provisions, which will benefit New Mexico:
   * Rio Grande Environmental Management Provision: The Bingaman authored provision authorizes the Corps of Engineers to carry-out projects to restore fish & wildlife habitat in the Rio Grande. The program is authorized at $15 million a year.
   * Middle Rio Grande Restoration Provision - The provision initiates ecosystem restoration and recreational projects in the Middle Rio Grande reach (Cochiti to Elephant Butte). Total program authorization is $25 million.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 