SEN. BINGAMAN VISITS SANTA FE CLINIC TO DISCUSS IMPORTANCE OF OVERTURNING PRESIDENT BUSH'S SCHIP VETO
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman today said Congress must try to overturn President Bush veto of legislation that would have extended health care coverage to four million uninsured children - including thousands of young New Mexicans. 
   "This health care legislation is one of the most important pieces of legislation Congress passed this year. We have nearly 100,000 children who lack health insurance, so New Mexico stands to gain a lot from this bill," Bingaman said. "I am very disappointed President Bush vetoed the bill. I hope Congress can find the votes to overturn the president's veto."  
   The legislation would have reauthorized the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) - a state/federal health care initiative crated in 1997 that covers millions of children and others who do not qualify for Medicaid but whose families cannot afford health insurance. 
   The bill sets aside $35 billion in new federal funding over the next five years to ensure that more than 10 million American children will either maintain health care coverage or receive it for the first time. 
   As a result of this legislation, New Mexico would have received $195 million for SCHIP next year, and that amount could have potentially increased in the succeeding four years as the state continues its health expansion proposals. With this funding, tens-of-thousands of additional New Mexico children - and adults - would have had access to health care for the first time. 
   Bingaman, as a member of Senate Finance Committee, worked extensively on the bill and had several provisions included in the measure to specifically address New Mexico's needs.
   For instance, Bingaman was influential in requiring SCHIP to provide dental services. Bingaman has been fighting for years to extend dental coverage to young Americans through SCHIP. 
   Also at Bingaman's urging, the measure corrected an inequity in the law that has prevented New Mexico from covering a certain category of low-income New Mexico children, and required the state to return more than $180 million to the federal government since 1998. By ensuring that that this category of children could be covered, Bingaman has ensured that New Mexico will be able to utilize most of its SCHIP funding. 
   Bingaman was also successful in protecting the ability of New Mexico to cover parents and other low-income adults through SCHIP and Medicaid. 
   The bill also created an initiative that Bingaman pushed for many years, which would allow states to automatically enroll children in SCHIP if they have already been deemed eligible for another public program, such as the National School Lunch Program or the Food Stamp Program, with comparable income guidelines.
   And at Bingaman's urging, the measure would have made it easier for Americans to prove their citizenship. Currently, the list of documents that can be used to prove citizenship is so small, as many as 10,000 SCHIP-eligible New Mexicans have been turned down for care. 
   This legislation provides a mechanism to match Social Security numbers for Medicaid and SCHIP patients that should significantly improve the situation. 
   The following provisions are also SCHIP and Medicaid, including: 
   * Ensure that states will offer mental health and substance abuse services on par with the medical benefits covered under SCHIP. 
   * Much improved funding for outreach and enrollment efforts, including critical improvements in outreach and enrollment provisions to Native Americans. These also include recognition and funding for Community Health Workers, such as Promotoras that have played a critical role in outreach and enrollment in New Mexico; 
   * Improved pediatric quality measures for SCHIP and Medicaid.
 
 