KEY SENATE COMMITTEE CLEARS HIGHER EDUCATION BILL SEN. BINGAMAN HELPED WRITE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today said he is pleased a key Senate committee has approved legislation he helped write to make higher education more accessible to New Mexicans. This action clears the way for the full Senate to consider the measure.  
   As a senior member of Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Bingaman was in a key position to influence the bill. He is the author of provisions that strengthen Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), provide federal funds to nontribal colleges that serve Native American students, improve teacher quality, and makes college more accessible and affordable. 
   "Our ability to create good, high wage jobs in New Mexico lies largely in our ability to have a deep well of highly trained workers. That means we must give strong support to our state's colleges and universities," Bingaman said. "This major education bill working its way through the Senate gives a boost to New Mexico's schools and helps make earning a college degree more affordable." 
  The Higher Education Act of 2005 contains key provisions from Bingaman's Next Generation Hispanic-Serving Institutions Act - a measure he introduced in February to support colleges that have a high percentage of Hispanic students. One of the provisions reduces the bureaucracy associated with HSIs receiving federal funding. For example, Hispanic Serving Institutions that have received federal grants must currently wait two years before applying for more funding. Bingaman's legislation removes that two-year waiting period. 
  Another HSI provision sets aside federal funding for the first time to support graduate students enrolled in HSIs. Hispanics continue to have the lowest level of education attainment of any group in the country. In the 1999-2000 school year, Hispanics earned only 6 percent of the bachelor's degrees, 4 percent of the master's degrees and 3 percent of doctor's degrees. 
  At Bingaman's urging, the bill also creates a new initiative that provides grant funding to nontribal colleges with a student population that is at least 10 percent Native-American. Grants would support curriculum development and academic instruction, faculty development, the purchase of books and other educational materials, and support academic tutoring and counseling. Eligible schools in New Mexico include San Juan College, University of New Mexico-Gallup, New Mexico State University-Grants, and Eastern New Mexico-Ruidoso. 
  The Higher Education Act also contains provisions from another bill Bingaman wrote to strengthen GEAR UP (Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs) - a bill aimed at improving students' academic readiness, particularly students who are the first in their families to go to college. The measure requires states and GEAR UP partnerships to change the ways schools prepare students for college, and requires states and school districts to encourage more students to enroll in rigorous high school coursework. It also emphasizes activities that will support the development of college prep curricula, including Advanced Placement, as well as professional development activities for teachers of college prep curricula. 
  Bingaman also wrote into the bill measures that require more of colleges that prepare students to be teachers. Under Bingaman's proposal, each state must now evaluate the effectiveness of teacher prep programs, and do so in a manner that provides meaningful information to the State and to the college. The proposal also requires all states and partnerships to prepare all teachers to identify and tailor instruction to meet the needs of students with limited English proficiency and students with disabilities, as well as manage the classroom, and work and communicate with parents. The bill also authorizes grants to rural school districts to develop innovative teacher recruitment and retention strategies and promotes professional advancement for teachers to increase competencies or receive special certification. 
  "All New Mexico students deserve a qualified teacher in their classroom. In order to achieve that goal, we must demand more of colleges and universities that train prospective teachers," Bingaman said.
  Finally, the bill adds more than $5 billion in student aid for our neediest students, and makes Pell grants available year round so students can finish their degrees sooner.
 
 