N.M. DELEGATION CONTINUES EFFORTS TO TURN BACK PRIVATIZATION STUDY AT WHITE SANDS MISSILE RANGE
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici and Rep. Steve Pearce are stepping up their efforts to delay by at least two years a study on whether to privatize some jobs at White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) because it is premature given ongoing changes at the Army installation and nearby Fort Bliss.  
   In July the New Mexico lawmakers wrote to Army Secretary Francis Harvey pointing out that there are many changes in store for WSMR over the next couple of years and that now is not the time to conduct an A-76 study at the installation. For instance, the Pentagon on Jan. 17 announced that Fort Bliss would be hosting the Future Combat Systems' Experimental Brigade Combat Team (EBCT), the Army stated that the installation was selected "because of its access to White Sands Missile Range, N.M., which provides the requisite land, airspace, and facilities for EBCT Soldiers to fully train, evaluate and test FCS capabilities." 
   In response to that letter, the Army said it does not believe the planned changes will "materially impact" the A-76 study. The New Mexico lawmakers disagree and again issued correspondence outlining their concerns with the Army's A-76 plan. 
   "We still do not believe that an A-76 study at WSMR Garrison would be best for White Sands Missile Range, the U.S. Army, or the nation right now. The installation recently underwent a study, and we believe it to be unwise to push for one at such a critical time. While the 6-month delay you mentioned in the letter was a promising start, we again ask that this study be delayed for at least two years," Bingaman, Domenici and Pearce wrote in their second correspondence to Harvey. 
   The lawmakers once again asked Harvey to delay the study for at least two years as changes at Fort Bliss and WSMR are implemented. 
   In their second letter to Harvey, the lawmakers raised several key issues--including indications that WSMR is not at full staffing levels. First, they said, analysis may be faulty because there has been a hiring freeze at WSMR, there are 66 personnel vacancies in the Department of Public Works (DPW) and 27 in the Department of Logistics (DOL). Additionally, the lawmakers warned that risk for an inaccurate study is increased by the fact that very few resources have been committed to the survey. 
   Furthermore, the Army's response erroneously indicated that few if any Experimental Brigade Combat Team soldiers would be based at WSMR, which is contrary to information the Pentagon had previously provided to the lawmakers.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 