COMMITTEE ENDORSES SEN. BINGAMAN'S MEASURE TO ADVANCE DEVELOPMENT OF BIOLOGICAL PARK ALONG RIO GRANDE
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee has approved legislation he wrote to help advance the development of Albuquerque's Biopark. 
  Bingaman's legislation, which is cosponsored by Senator Pete Domenici, clears title to two tracks of land, paving the way for the city of Albuquerque to complete its development of a Biological Park along the middle Rio Grande. The Biological Park incorporates the Rio Grande Botanical Garden, Tingley Beach, the Zoo and the Aquarium. 
  In 1997, Albuquerque paid the Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District (MRGCD) to acquire two parcels of land - Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park. However three years later, the city's title to the parcels was called into question by the Bureau of Reclamation's assertion that the MRGCD had in 1953 transferred its assets - including Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park - to the United States as part of an easement associated with the construction of the Middle Rio Grande Project. As a result, the city has been hampered in its efforts to create the Biological Park. 
  Bingaman has pointed out that Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park are surplus to the needs of the Middle Rio Grande Project. Accordingly, his legislation - called the Albuquerque Biological Park Title Clarification Act (S. 213) - directs the Bureau of Reclamation to convey any interest the United States may have in Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park to the City of Albuquerque, clearing the city's title and paving the way for Albuquerque to move ahead with its plans. 
  "When it's complete, the Biopark will be a tremendous asset to Albuquerque, increasing tourism and providing Duke City residents with a wonderful place to spend their free time," Bingaman said. "The federal government does not need these two properties and it's time to hand title over to the Albuquerque so the land can be put to better use." 
  "I'm pleased that the Committee has acted to give the city of Albuquerque clear title to this property. Rehabilitating Tingley Beach and San Gabriel Park is an excellent complement to all the other work being done to restore and enhance our Rio Grande bosque. I look forward to supporting this bill's passage by the full Senate," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
  The bill gained Senate passage last year, but the House of Representatives did not act on it.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 