SENATE COMMITTEE CLEARS SEN. BINGAMAN'S BORDER WATER BILL
  A key Senate committee today cleared legislation written by Sen. Jeff Bingaman that would allow for a first-ever comprehensive review of the availability of groundwater in the U.S.-Mexico border region.  
  Bingaman's United States-Mexico Trans-boundary Aquifer Assessment Act passed the Senate twice last year, but lacked support in the House of Representatives. This year, Bingaman's measure has the support of Representative Jim Kolbe, a Republican from Arizona who is introducing the measure in the House.
   The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today approved the bill, clearing it for consideration by the full Senate. 
  Bingaman's legislation taps the U.S. Geological Survey to work with states and local entities on both sides of the border to perform a comprehensive assessment of trans-boundary aquifers, including prioritizing those aquifers needing an in-depth analysis, and consolidating existing data and identifying the need for additional studies. Ultimately, USGS and its partners would create detailed maps and groundwater flow models of the priority aquifers. 
  Bingaman said the information and scientific tools developed are expected to be extremely valuable to state and local water resource managers. Among the aquifers to be reviewed under the program are the Hueco Bolson and Mesilla Bolson in southern New Mexico.
  "Local water managers need every tool at their disposal to meet the region's future water needs. Unfortunately, right now there is no concrete information about how much water is in the aquifers border communities rely upon," said Bingaman, who is the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "This bill would undertake a comprehensive assessment of the availability of groundwater supplies."
  In addition to Kolbe, Bingaman's bill is supported by Republican Senators Pete Domenici and Jon Kyl (Arizona). 
  "Today, the greatest concern for those in the border region is the issue of water. The economies of southern New Mexico, El Paso, and Ju?rez are increasingly connected to the availability of suitable water. An in-depth study of the groundwater supply along the border will serve as an important step in meeting this regional concern," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
  The need for an in-depth assessment of border aquifers has been acknowledged by the Good Neighbor Environmental Board, an independent federal advisory committee managed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and by the Center for Strategic and International Studies in a January 2003 report. Both have said an assessment will prove to be an invaluable tool in long-term water management plans. 
  Bingaman's legislation was developed in consultation with a number of stakeholders, including the Paso del Norte Water Task Force, a group of water managers, water users, and other citizens in the New Mexico, Texas, and Juarez, Mexico region.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 