SENATE COMMITTEE CLEARS NEW MEXICO DELEGATION'S OJITO WILDERNESS BILL
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Pete Domenici reported that the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today cleared legislation that will create a new wilderness area on Bureau of Land Management Land in Sandoval County.  
   Bingaman and Domenici are the sponsors of the legislation in the Senate, and Representatives Tom Udall and Heather Wilson have introduced the same measure in the House of Representatives. 
   The Ojito Wilderness Act would designate 11,000-acre site just south of San Ysidro - known as Ojito - as a wilderness area, thus recognizing and protecting the area's dramatic landforms and rock structures, multicolored badlands, and rare plants. This proposal, which was first put forth by then-Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr. in 1991, has strong local support and strong bipartisan in Congress. 
   Today's action in the Energy Committee clears the legislation for full Senate action. 
   The delegation will work to quickly secure the endorsement of the respective committees and to gain full Congressional approval. 
   "The fact that this measure has won the support of the Energy Committee so early in the year bodes well for getting it adopted quickly in the Senate," said Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "I believe we are in a strong position get the bill enacted into law soon."
   "The Ojito wilderness is a distinctive area in New Mexico that features significant ecological and cultural importance for the Southwest. I look forward to substantive progress in protecting this land so that future generations of hikers, backpackers, and nature-lovers can enjoy the Ojito wilderness as much as we do today. This legislation serves as an opportunity to preserve a unique resource while also promoting the economy and quality of life in New Mexico," said Domenici, chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. 
   The Ojito area has been preserved as a Wilderness Study Area since 1991, pending congressional action to formally designate the area as wilderness. Enactment of the Ojito Wilderness Act would add these 11,000 acres to the National Wilderness Preservation System, which protects wild areas that have "outstanding opportunities for solitude or a primitive and unconfined type of recreation." The area will remain open to hiking, backpacking, horseback riding, and rock climbing, as well as grazing and scenic, scientific, educational, conservation, and historical uses. But it also will remain protected from development, including commercial enterprises, road building, and mining, as well as off road vehicle use. 
   The Ojito Wilderness Act also would add protections to lands buffering the proposed Ojito Wilderness that are largely surrounded by the Pueblo of Zia. The Pueblo will be allowed to purchase these lands for public open space, so long as they remain open to the public for continued recreational, scenic, scientific, educational, and conservation uses, and so long as their natural characteristics are preserved. In doing so, the Pueblo will be able to unite the two separate parts of its Reservation with aboriginal lands that have important religious, cultural, and historical value to the Pueblo. 
   If enacted, Ojito would be the first new wilderness designation in New Mexico in more than15 years, and only the fourth wilderness area in the state to be managed by the Bureau of Land Management.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 