SEN. BINGAMAN'S BILL TO PROMOTE CULTURAL HERITAGE, TOURISM IN SANTA FE, TAOS, RIO ARRIBA CLEARS HURDLE
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today approved sen. Bingaman's bill to promote cultural heritage, tourism in Santa Fe, Taos, Rio Arriba. Sen. Jeff Bingaman wrote to direct federal support to northern New Mexico in an effort to highlight the area's cultural heritage and boost tourism. The measure will now be sent to the full Senate for consideration. 
   Bingaman's "Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Area Act" designates the counties of Santa Fe, Taos and Rio Arriba as a National Heritage Area - which opens the door for federal funds to protect and maintain culturally and historically significant lands and properties through strictly voluntary activities. The National Heritage Area designation does not involve any new acquisitions of federal land. The measure was co-sponsored by U.S. Sen. Pete Domenici. Rep. Tom Udall introduced the bill today in the House of Representatives.
   "Every year New Mexico attracts visitors from around the world who come to see the beauty our state has to offer. This bill will work to protect and promote one of our states most beautiful places," said Bingaman, the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "I hope the full Senate will act quickly to pass this bill." 
   "This legislation will provide ample protection for an historically significant area in northern New Mexico. The region's natural beauty is unquestionable and provides visitors with a glimpse into the diverse land and culture that makes New Mexico so unique," said Domenici, the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. "I believe that the legislation adequately balances conservation concerns and the rights of private property owners and, therefore, I look forward to quick action on this measure in the Senate." 
  "Without question, this bill will positively impact northern New Mexico's economy," Udall said. "The heritage area designation will be extremely successful in bringing the region together, promoting its unique history and culture, and providing educational opportunities to students of all ages. It is my hope that we can pass this legislation by the end of the session."
   The legislation sets up a non-profit corporation governed by a 15 to 25 member board of trustees - consisting of representatives from the state, affected counties, tribes, cities and others - charged with developing a management plan for the heritage area. The corporation would have no authority to implement the plan. Instead, it will be granted the ability to provide funding and other assistance to public and private entities to carry out the recommendations. 
   In addition, the heritage area corporation would be authorized to receive up to $10 million in federal funds over a 15-year period, with a maximum of $1 million in any single year. All funding would have to be matched on at least a one-to-one basis by non-federal funds.
   The corporation's plan would consist of recommendations for identifying, conserving and preserving cultural, historical and natural resources within the heritage area, along with strategies to promote tourism of the region's natural and cultural assets. The corporation would also identify funding sources and assist governments in coordinating activities related to the heritage area. 
   The idea of designating the three counties as the Northern Rio Grande Heritage Area was developed in collaboration with the Northern Rio Grande Heritage Area Steering Committee and the people and communities in the area. The effort has the support of the city of Espa?ola, the city of Santa Fe, Santa Fe County, Rio Arriba County, Taos County, La Jicarita Enterprise Community, the Chimayo Cultural Preservation Association, and the Eight Northern Pueblos.
   There are about two dozen other National Heritage Areas in the United States, but only two are located in Western states - one each in Arizona and Colorado.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 