KEY COMMITTEE ENDORSES ANTI-METH PLAN, SEN. BINGAMAN'S HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENTS FOR INDIAN COUNTRY
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today reported that a key Senate committee has cleared two important bills he strongly supports: one to combat the use of methamphetamine, and another to improve Native American health care. The bills were approved by the Senate Finance Committee. 
  The first bill, the Improving Outcomes for Children Affected by Meth Act of 2006, provides $40 million in new funding for family-centered treatments for methamphetamine addicted parents, and for other support services for their children. The funding could be used for:
  * family-based drug treatment services; 
   * early intervention; 
   * counseling for children and families.
   "Meth is already a major problem in our state, yet the use of this deadly drug seems to be growing. It goes without saying that we need to vigorously prosecute those who sell and use meth. But we also need to commit resources to preventing meth use and to meth detox initiatives," Bingaman said. 
   The bill also reauthorizes the Promoting Safe and Stable Families Program (PSSF), which provides states with federal funding for a variety of family support services including adoption promotion. In 2006, New Mexico received $3.82 million for family support services across the state. 
  Finally, the bill reauthorizes the Mentoring of Children of Prisoners program. Currently, there are three mentoring programs in New Mexico: two in Albuquerque and one in Farmington.  
  The Finance Committee also approved the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Indian Health Care Improvement Act of 2006, which contains an important provision Bingaman wrote to clarify that Native Americans seeking care from Indian health providers are not subjected to a co-pay. 
  The bill also creates important protections that prevent states or the federal government from taking Indian property or tribal lands in exchange for medical services delivered through the Medicaid program. 
  Finally, the legislation clarifies that certain tribal documents can be used for citizenship verification, which would be imposed effective July 1, 2006.
  The bills will be sent to the floor of the Senate for debate.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 