SEN. BINGAMAN ADDRESSES SUMMIT ON DROPOUT PREVENTION
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman today joined First Lady Laura Bush, education advocates, and students at a summit aimed at addressing the country's high school dropout problem. Bingaman addressed the "National Summit on America's Silent Epidemic" and talked about legislation he introduced last month to boost the country's high school graduation rates. Bingaman spoke on a panel with Secretary Spellings about how the federal government can play a role in reducing dropout rates.  
   Bingaman's "Graduation Promise Act of 2007," or the "GPA," would create a federal-state-local partnership to improve this nation's graduation rates, and help transform the lowest performing high schools. The bill authorizes a $2.4 billion High School Improvement and Dropout Reduction Fund to support states in their efforts to turn around high schools with low graduation rates. It also authorizes $60 million to help develop and implement successful models of school reform particularly for students who are struggling in conventional education settings. And it authorizes $40 million in competitive grants to states to identify statewide barriers holding students back from graduating, and creating new policies that improve graduation rates. 
   "Today, we have a far greater understanding of the dropout problem. We can identify the high schools that produce the majority of this country's dropouts, as well as most of the students who enter high school at risk for dropping out," Bingaman said. "The good news is we also know how to help turn these high schools around and help these students succeed." "The Graduation Promise Act authorizes $2.5 billion per year for dropout prevention, with the bulk of funding directed to states and local school districts to help turn around the high schools with the lowest student achievement and lowest graduation rates," Bingaman said. 
   Forty years ago, the United States was No. 1 in the world in high school graduation rates. Today, it ranks 17th. About one-third of the students who enter 9th grade will not graduate from high school in four years, if at all. 
   The statistics are worse for minority students and students from low income families. Only about 55 percent of African American students and 52 percent of Hispanic students graduate on time, compared to 78 percent of white students. And students from low-income families drop out of school at a rate six times higher than their more affluent peers. Today's summit was sponsored by TIME, MTV and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
 
 