SENATE APPROVES DEFENSE BILL THAT CONTAINS SEN. BINGAMAN-BACKED PROVISIONS
  U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman reported that the Senate has given final approval to a spending bill that ensures New Mexico will receive significant funding for defense initiatives. 
   For example, the bill contains $247 million to fund Operation Jumpstart. Bingaman also secured $3 million for the New Mexico National Guard so it can continue to fund counter-drug efforts in the border region and enhance border security.  
   "This bill does a very good job funding defense initiatives based in our state," Bingaman said. "I'm also very glad it contains millions of dollars to support counter-drug and security efforts in southern New Mexico." 
   Also at Bingaman's urging, the bill also contains the following: 
   $1.6 million for the Field Programmable Gate Array Mission Assurance Center at University of New Mexico to train students on the design and manufacture of sophisticated chips that are used from cell phones to satellites. 
   $1.2 million to Caldera Pharmaceuticals for advanced treatment methods for battlefield wounded soldiers - a spin off of Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
   $800,000 for software development at Rapid Imaging Software Inc. in Albuquerque. 
   $2 million for the development a Robust, Mobile Multispectral Fingerprint Capture Device at Lumidigm in Albuquerque. 
   $4.8 million for Joint Directed Energy Test Site, IED Defeat at WSMR to develop instrumentation and combat environment for research, development, test, evaluation and training of joint directed energy systems for detection and defeat of improvised explosive devices. 
   $2 million for R&D on components for operationally responsive space components at Goodrich Aerospace in Albuquerque 
   $2.5 million for Joint Tactical Network Test Environment at WSMR. This project would provide resources for configuring the fiber network, establishing the radio networks for a wide array of communications networks at WSMR. 
   $3.2 million for Playas Training and Research Center Joint Training Experiment at NMT Playas training facility. Funding will be used to establish the PTRC as a Joint National Training and Experimentation Site for National Guard Bureau (NGB) active and reserve personnel, as well as for Air National Guard and Army National Guard personnel. Playas is envisioned as becoming an integral portion of the Joint National Training Capability. 
   $2.5 million for the Playas Mobile Command and Control facility to permit coordinated training at the New Mexico Tech Playas National Training Facility. 
   $4 million for the University Strategic Partnership Program at the University of New Mexico to integrate basic research into defense systems. 
   $2.4 million for the Long Wavelength Array at the University of New Mexico. 
   $5 million for high energy conventional energetic materials at Applied Research Associates in Albuquerque 
   $4 million for UAV Systems and Operations Validation Program, New Mexico State. USOVP has successfully provided the DoD with the unique UAV operations capability to support testing of UAV platforms and systems in civil airspace on a routine basis alongside manned aircraft. UAVs are a growing component of our nation's defense, accelerated due to the global war against terrorism. 
   $6.5 million for Smart Instrument Development for the Magdalena Ridge Observatory, New Mexico Tech. The United States Office of Naval Research (ONR) and the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) have joined a consortium of research universities, including the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology (New Mexico Tech) and Cambridge University, in a unique teaming arrangement to build a state-of-the-art observatory in the Magdalena Mountains near Socorro, New Mexico. 
   Other major items/initiatives funded in the bill: 
   F-22A's are fully funded for 20 at $3.15 billion for Elmdorf AFB in Alaska, thus putting Holloman next in queue.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 