SEN. BINGAMAN: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, OIL COMPANIES MUST TAKES STEPS TO RELIEVE PINCH OF ENERGY PRICES ON CONSUMERS
  At a Senate hearing on Capitol Hill, Sen. Jeff Bingaman said both the federal government and oil companies must take action to help consumers who are paying high gasoline now and will soon be paying high home heating bills as well.  
   "These high gasoline prices have been very hard for working families to absorb. And matters likely will get worse as we head into winter months and home heating bills start to come due. Consumers who are hit hard by gasoline prices may be able to cut back on some of their driving, but when temperatures plunge, it's hard not to heat your home," Bingaman said.
   "We need to put some constructive ideas on the table. There are ways to help consumers in the short-term and the long-term, and I hope this hearing leads us to take action," Bingaman said. 
   Bingaman pointed out that the federal government can take five steps that would have an immediate or long-term impact on helping Americans:
   1)Create a federal law that outlaws price gouging. Bingaman is the cosponsor of legislation that would allow the federal government to prosecute those who overcharge for gasoline and diesel during a major disaster. Those convicted could face one year of imprisonment and/or a $500,000 fine.  
   2)Pass legislation that increases funding to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Three times in the past three weeks the Senate has turned down requests to increase LIHEAP funds, which are distributed to states in order to help low-income families absorb the dramatic increases expected in home heating costs this winter. Bingaman cosponsored amendments that would have bumped up funds to $5.1 billion from $2 billion.
  3)Develop a high-profile public information campaign on how consumers can conserve energy this winter.
   4) Make more natural gas available by allowing the development of Lease Area 181 in the Gulf of Mexico that contains 7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. The Bush administration could take this action right now, without Congressional action, but has chosen not to.
   5)Increasing fuel efficiency in vehicles. Bingaman has long championed proposals that increase the corporate average fuel economy.  
   Bingaman also said oil executives can assist the federal government with conservation efforts, and in providing assistance to low-income families to help defray the cost of home heating. 
   The following oil executives took part in the hearing: Lee Raymond, chairman and CEO of Exxon Mobil Corporation; David O'Reilly, chairman and CEO of Chevron Corporation; James Mulva; chairman and CEO of ConocoPhillips; Ross Pillari; president and CEO of BP America Inc.; John Hofmeister; president and US country chair of Shell Oil Company.
   Contact: Jude McCartin and Maria Najera, 202/224-5521.
 
 