SEN. BINGAMAN HONORS TWO SLAIN ALBUQUERQUE POLICE OFFICERS WHOSE NAMES HAVE BEEN ADDED TO MEMORIAL WALL
  Sen. Jeff Bingaman will submit the following statement into the Congressional Record about Albuquerque Police Department Officers Michael King and Richard Smith, whose names have been engraved on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial wall. A ceremony marking the addition of the names took place today in Washington. Bingaman's statement is as follows: 
   "On Friday, September 9th the nation will honor two of our fallen heroes, as their names - which have been engraved on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial wall here in Washington, D.C. - are unveiled. Officers Michael King and Richard Smith of the Albuquerque Police Department were killed in the line of duty on August 19, 2005, a day that has become known as "The Saddest Day" to the residents of Albuquerque. The officers were in the process of taking into custody a mentally unstable man who had already apparently murdered 3 other people. Their actions on that fateful day saved the lives of countless others and were a demonstration of the way these two fine officers lived their lives. 
  "I speak today to honor Officer King and Officer Smith not only for the way they died but also for the way they lived. They embodied honesty, dedication and commitment to their community through their work and in their private lives. The residents of Albuquerque and of the entire State of New Mexico have taken these officers and their families into their hearts. Now the nation has the opportunity to honor these fine men. 
  "Officer Michael King joined the Albuquerque Police Department in 1980 and spent 11 years in the traffic unit until he retired. But, King missed the camaraderie of the force and his fellow officers and he returned to work in the traffic unit. Often referred to as a "gentle giant", Michael would often stop to help stranded motorists fix their cars. Mr. King worked with and trained many of New Mexico's top law enforcement officers and left a lasting impression with them all. Officer King leaves behind a wife and two sons. 
  "Like his good friend Officer King, Officer Richard Smith didn't need to be working that August day. He had retired from APD but he couldn't stay away and returned to service to protect the people of Albuquerque. Officer Smith is remembered as a man who was committed to his family, faith, and public service. He was always ready with a broad smile and a wave. He spent most of his career as a traffic cop and was buried 25 years to the day he graduated from the police academy. Officer Smith leaves behind a wife and 13 year-old daughter. 
  "These two officers are examples of the best our nation has to offer. It is right that we honor these men and all the officers who have given their lives to protect their fellow citizens."
 
 