CONGRESSIONAL MEMBERS OUTLINE NEW APPROACH TO ENDANGERED SPECIES
  A new approach to improve and update the Endangered Species Act was presented at a news conference today with Sens. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) and Lincoln Chafee (R-Rhode Island), the chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife, and Water, along with House Resources Committee Chairman Richard Pombo (R-California)and Rep. Greg Walden (R-Oregon). The members signaled the start of aHouse-Senate partnership approach to addressing the issue. 
   "The Endangered Species Act is one of our most important laws and Congresswill soon begin seeing proposals concerning it," said Senator Crapo. "We haveagreed to work together with bill sponsors and I am determined to achieve thisESA improvement with bi-partisan support in both chambers to develop aconsistent approach in both chambers. Our goal is to strengthen the ESA byimproving habitat conservation and recovery, providing more and betterincentives, and enhancing the role of states where appropriate. Overall, webelieve the ESA can be less contentious and more effective.
   "Since 1973, the Endangered Species Act has worked to protect thousands ofspecies and the habitats upon which they depend," Chairman Chafee said."Across the nation, there are new and innovative approaches to advancing speciesconservation and recovery. We will be taking a hard look at ways to improve theAct in the subcommittee this year by holding hearings that involve a broad groupfrom the environmental and business communities. I look forward to workingwith Senator Crapo, Chairman Pombo and Representative Walden to craftlegislation that enhances recovery of species and the conservation of habitat."
   "The ESA desperately needs an update and a renewed focus on species recovery,"Chairman Pombo said. "Its one-percent recovery result over the past thirty yearshas failed to lived up to the Act's noble intent and our intrinsic values asAmericans. These are vital statistics that no individual can support. As such, Iam eager to continue the work that is being done between our chambers andoptimistic that we can breathe new life into this law for the 21 st century."
   "It is critical that we modernize and strengthen the 30-year-old ESA so that it canbecome a more effective tool for recovering threatened and endangered species,"said Representative Walden. "As the hard-working people in Oregon's KlamathBasin will tell you, and the National Academy of Sciences will confirm, this well-intendedlaw simply isn't working as it should. Not only should the health ofspecies throughout the nation be demonstrably improved by the ESA, but thehealth of communities and local economies should also be carefully addressedas they too are directly impacted by the policy decisions driven by the Act. Forthe sake of these communities, imperiled species, and the environment that ishabitat for these species, I am confident we can make positive stridestoward improving the results of the ESA and bringing it into the 21st century."
   "Americans want the Endangered Species Act to achieve its purpose ofrecovering species," said Interior Secretary Gale Norton. "Today'sannouncement that these key members of Congress will be working to update andstrengthen the ESA is noteworthy and encouraging. We are prepared to workwith Congress and stakeholders to identify ways to improve the recovery ofendangered species."
   The members focused on issues like addressing priorities, increasing funding, andmore inclusive participation in scientific questions.
   While hearings are not yet scheduled, we expect to see bills introduced and wewill work with all sponsors to coordinate a positive effort this year.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 