SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES IMPROVEMENTS TO RHODE ISLAND'S SECURITY
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced significant actions taken by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to improve security in Rhode Island.  
   Chafee announced that DHS has allocated $189,000 to help fund anti-terrorism efforts in Rhode Island. Allocated under the Department's Fiscal Year 2006 Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP), the funding will be used to support the implementation of effective, preventive, and protective measures that hinder terrorists' ability to conduct surveillance or launch attacks within the immediate vicinity of high priority critical infrastructure targets. For security purposes, the critical infrastructure targets are not disclosed. 
   "This award will extend services that are important in incorporating preparedness capabilities of local jurisdictions responsible for the security and safety of the surrounding communities," Senator Chafee said. 
   In addition, Chafee announced that DHS has also informed him of an $8 million allocation to Amtrak for continuing security enhancements across the country, including intercity passenger rail operations in the Northeast corridor (service between Washington, DC and Boston, Massachusetts). Distributed under the Intercity Passenger Rail Security Program, the funding will ensure that Amtrak's Providence station is examined accordingly for security improvements. 
   In addition, Chafee also announced that DHS has deemed Providence eligible to apply for federal funds under the fiscal year 2006 Port Security Grant Program (PSGP), which seeks to enhance the security of the nation's most critical seaports as identified by the U.S. Coast Guard. The PSGP will emphasize enhanced defenses against improvised explosive devices, non-conventional methods of attack, as well as enhancing overall security within port areas. 
   "This eligibility is great news for the Port of Providence and the residents of Rhode Island, as it will supply officials with the information needed to be aware of, respond to, and defend against an attempt to attack this critical port," Senator Chafee said. "With this designation by DHS, I will be able to work with local, state, and federal officials to ensure Rhode Island receives proper funding to prepare for a catastrophe of any kind, be it conventional or unconventional," stated Senator Chafee.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 