SEN. CHAFEE SUPPORTS PRESCRIPTION DRUG REIMPORTATION
 Today, Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) supported a major victory for drug reimportation which was added to the Homeland Security appropriations bill. The measure, offered by Sen. David Vitter (R-LA), would prevent Customs and Border Protection agents from seizing prescription drugs from individuals returning from Canada.  
   "I was pleased to join in this bipartisan effort to lower the cost of prescription drugs for many Americans," Senator Chafee said. "If passed, this legislation will enable citizens to purchase their medicines in Canada at an affordable rate, without having to risk violating federal law. This a very important first step in the effort to enable the reimportation of prescription drugs into the United States in a safe manner," he continued. 
   Approved by the Senate by a 68-32 vote, the amendment applies only to prescription drugs imported from Canada that that are fully compliant with FDA safety regulations. 
   The amendment mandates that no funds included in Homeland Security appropriations bill can be used by customs and border security officials to prevent individuals from importing cheaper prescription drugs for personal use from Canada. 
   "With the many important security concerns of our customs and border officials, it is not an appropriate use of resources to have these key personnel wasting their time digging through the bags of senior citizens returning from Canada in an attempt to procure affordable prescription drugs," Chafee continued. 
   Senator Chafee has been a champion of the safe reimportation of prescription drugs. He is an original cosponsor of two bills to allow the reimportation of FDA-approved drugs, manufactured in FDA-inspected plants, from 24 industrialized nations. The bills, introduced in 2004 and 2005, will help America attain the twin goals of facilitating the reimportation of drugs and ensuring the safety of these products for American consumers. 
  Chafee is also a cosponsor of legislation that would give the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) negotiating authority over the price of prescription drugs, another way to lower the cost of prescription drugs.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167. 
 
 