SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES MAJOR BROWNFIELDS GRANTS TO RHODE ISLAND
  Today, Sen. Lincoln Chafee joined Robert Varney, Regional Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and state and local officials to announce $1.4 million in federal funding to clean up contaminated property in Providence, Burrillville, and Woonsocket. Distributed by the EPA under the Brownfields Program, seven grants of $200,000 will be allocated to redevelop properties that are currently unusable due to the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance. 
   The Brownfields Program was created by the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act, authored by Senator Chafee and signed into law by President Bush in 2002. Chafee's legislation increased funding for brownfields testing and cleanup and included important liability relief for those parties involved in the redevelopment of brownfields sites.  
   "When Congress approved my brownfields bill, I believed it would create new jobs, enhance public recreation, and strengthen urban neighborhoods," Senator Chafee said. "I am proud that the legislation is paying such large dividends for the people of Rhode Island, and I am looking forward to seeing these properties cleaned up and restored to safe and productive use," he continued. 
   Of the seven awards, the Cities of Providence and Woonsocket will each receive a $200,000 grant to assess the nature and levels of contamination at multiple sites. The grants will also be used for community outreach, in an overall effort to survey brownfields sites that would be appropriate for mixed-use development or the expansion of greenspace in the future. 
   Five cleanup grants of $200,000 each are also being awarded for projects in four locations in Providence and one location in Burrillville, as follows: 
   Johnson & Wales University will receive two grants to remove and cap hazardous substances at its Providence/Cranston Harborside Campus at Fields Point. 
   Once the site of the Providence Shipyard, adjoining 25-acre and 10-acre parcels on the waterfront will be cleaned up as part of a 100-acre complex of student housing, walking and jogging trails, field and track facilities, and greenspace. The grants will be used to cap the site to eliminate human exposure to contaminants and protect the waters of Narragansett Bay. The University was awarded a Brownfields grant of $200,000 in 2005 to clean up an additional parcel. 
   Johnson & Wales originally sought federal brownfields funding for the remediation work in 2003, but was ineligible for a grant because it acquired the Fields Point property just before Senator Chafee's Brownfield Revitalization Act was signed into law. In 
  November 2004, Senator Chafee won passage of legislation amending the Brownfields Act to broaden the definition of a "bona fide prospective purchaser." This amendment made eligible for funding a number of additional purchasers across the country, including Johnson & Wales. 
   The City of Providence will receive a grant to clean up the former Lincoln Lace and Braid Mill site, clearing the way for the construction of two soccer fields. Senator Chafee first visited the site in 2000, and returned in 2003 to announce a Brownfields cleanup grant for The Trust for Public Land. Both projects will enhance the Woonasquatucket River Greenway, a seven-mile green corridor along the Woonasquatucket from Waterplace Park in downtown Providence, west to the town of Smithfield. The Greenway is already prompting reinvestment in neighborhoods such as Olneyville, revitalizing the local economy. 
   Also in Providence, the Providence Community Health Centers (PCHC) will receive a grant toward the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater at the Federated Lithographers Building at 369 Prairie Avenue. The funds will be used to cap the site, monitor groundwater pollution, and engage the community in the project. Senator Chafee is seeking additional funds in the 2007 budget of the US Department of Health and Human Services to assist with the renovation of the building. 
   Finally, the Town of Burrillville will receive a grant toward the cleanup of contaminants at the Stillwater Mill Complex at 246 Harrisville Main Street. The Town plans to build the Jesse Smith Library, replacing a separate facility that was built in 1935. The new library and meeting center is an integral component of the $70 million Stillwater Mill project, which will provide senior and affordable housing in the hub of the community. Senator Chafee is seeking additional funds in the 2007 budget of the US Department of Housing and Urban Development to assist with the renovation of the Stillwater Mill.
 
 