SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES GRANT FOR FIRE SAFETY TRAINING IN COVENTRY
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced today that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded the Central Coventry Fire Department a Fire Prevention and Safety Award totaling $48,729. The Department will use the grant for the purchase of a fire safety training house/trailer, which will be used to target and educate children and the elderly on how to detect and prevent fires. Sen. Chafee is a member of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 
   "I am happy to hear of the purchase of this fire safety education apparatus, which will assist the Central Coventry Fire Department in providing proper fire safety and emergency training," Senator Chafee said. "Instructing children and elderly residents alike on responsible behavior to prevent fires, as well as techniques aimed at safely escaping situations involving fires will have the effect of minimizing fire-related injuries and deaths," he continued.
   The house/trailer is a mobile facility that the Central Coventry Fire District will be able to transport to schools, civic organizations, and senior centers across Coventry. The interior of the facility resembles the inside of an actual house and can simulate emergency situations in order to help children learn how to react in the event of a fire. A safe, nontoxic smoke is released in order to teach kids important techniques such as how to crawl underneath smoke and how to check for indications of fires, such as hot doorknobs. A simulated kitchen is also included, which will educate both children and seniors on the importance of kitchen/cooking safety. The facility is also equipped with video screens and bench seats for multimedia presentations on fire safety. For adults, the facility contains a "storm package," to prepare adults for natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes.
   For more information regarding the 2004 Assistance to firefighter grant program, please visit www.firegrantsupport.com.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 