SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES OVER $2.5 MILLION IN ENVIRONMENTAL GRANTS FOR AREA PROGRAMS
 Sen. Lincoln Chafee today announced that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has released over $2.5 million that he secured in the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Act (Public Law 109-108). Four groups will be the beneficiaries of these grants: Save the Bay, The Barrington Land Conservation Trust, the Department of Environmental Management and the University of Rhode Island. 
   "I am very proud to be able to bring this money home to Rhode Island," said Chafee. "These grants will enable conservationists, scientists, and educators to protect natural resources, teach environmental stewardship, and preserve open space."  
   The grants are as follows: 
   Save the Bay 
   Save The Bay has been granted $475,000 for Project Narragansett, a marine science and professional development program. 
   "Narragansett Bay's shores, marshes, and coves provide a terrific classroom for environmental education," Chafee said. "Save The Bay's programs are nurturing a new generation of environmentalists, helping teachers and schoolchildren make the connection between a healthy Narragansett Bay and a prosperous Rhode Island." 
   Project Narragansett will invite teachers to participate in a seven-month professional development package to increase teacher content knowledge in marine sciences and develop methods to improve student achievement on state mandated assessments. This initiative complements existing Save The Bay programs that provide middle school students from communities with limited economic and educational resources an opportunity to experience the wonders of the marine environment. 
   The grant was funded through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's education account. 
   Sowams Property 
   The Barrington Land Conservation Trust has been granted $936,000 toward the purchase of 14 acres from the Rhode Island Country Club. 
   "The Barrington Land Conservation Trust has worked tirelessly to protect open space, helping to preserve the town's character as well as its natural resources," Chafee said. "I was delighted to learn that the Rhode Island Country Club members had agreed to sell to the land trust and am pleased to lend a hand with some of the funding." 
   This property consists of forested areas, wetlands, two vernal pools, and 900 feet of frontage on Echo Lake, providing valuable habitat for more than 100 bird species. A change in state law, that until recently went unnoticed in the community, had the effect of lifting a deed restriction on this parcel, creating buildable lots and putting the land at imminent risk of development. 
   Senator Chafee toured the property in September 2005. The purchase of the property by the Barrington Land Conservation Trust will also improve opportunities for public recreation in the area, including walking and fishing. 
   The grant was funded through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program, which has been an essential tool for protecting coastal lands under high threat of development and environmental degradation. Additional funds for the land purchase have been provided in the form of state open space grant and private donations. 
   Ferolbink Farm 
   The Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management has been granted $468,000 toward the preservation of Ferolbink Farm in Tiverton and Little Compton. 
   "The gorgeous views across Ferolbink Farm's stone walls and marsh grasses, and down to the sea, speaks to Rhode Island's maritime heritage and colonial past," Chafee said. "The salt marsh at the mouth of Almy Creek is in exceptional condition, and I am hopeful that it can be permanently preserved." 
   DEM intends to use the funds to purchase a conservation easement over a 35-acre portion of the property, protecting critical habitat for migratory birds, federal and state listed bird species, and spawning and nursery areas for fish. The property consists of tidal shoreline on the Sakonnet River, coastal wetlands, and beach areas. Senator Chafee toured area in November 2005. 
   The grant was funded through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Coastal and Estuarine Land Conservation Program, which has been an essential tool for protecting coastal lands under high threat of development and environmental degradation. DEM has secured additional monies from other federal funding sources, including the Farm and Ranchland Protection Program, to conserve another 85 acres at the farm, keeping it in productive agricultural use. The Nature Conservancy and the Tiverton Land Trust are key partners on the project. 
   MapCoast 
   The University of Rhode Island has been granted $750,000 to support the work of the MapCoast partnership. 
   "In order to maximize the chances of success in rebuilding fish populations, bringing back scallops and oysters, finding the pollution hotspots, and restoring coastal marshes, we need to know what bottom looks like," Chafee said. "Underwater habitats are critical indicators of the ecological health of coastal areas, and the ability to map the bottoms of coastal ponds and the shallow areas of Narragansett Bay will have a host of practical applications." 
   The University of Rhode Island, together with numerous federal and state partners, will develop regional and national standards for mapping soils and sediment in shallow coastal ecosystems, to a depth of approximately five meters. The end product will be a Web-accessible database of underwater soil information that meets the needs of a wide variety of users, ranging from scientists to developers to the general public. The project will also develop a classification system for shallow, subtidal habitats based on geographic, geologic, and biological attributes. 
   The grant was funded in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's budget. Mapping of the state's coastal underwater resources is the highest priority of the Rhode Island Environmental Monitoring Collaborative.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 