MUSICA DOLCE RECEIVES $10,000 GRANT AWARD
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced today that the National Endowment for the Arts has awarded Musica Dolce a $10,000 grant as part of the FY 2005 Challenge America: Serving Every Community fast-track grant program. The funding will be used to support Rhode Island concerts featuring renowned violinist Timothy Baker as well as the production of a commemorative CD. The production of the CD commemorates the beginning of a new effort by Musica Dolce to raise its visibility and explore new avenues of revenue. 
   "I am very pleased to hear of this award from the National Endowment for the Arts to Musica Dolce, and applaud their efforts in bringing the gift of music to children and adults alike," Senator Chafee said. "I wish them great success in the production of their concerts and commemorative CD, which I hope will be a best seller," he continued.
   Violinist Timothy Baker, director of the Amadeus Trio, has served as the Concert Master of the Wolf Trap Orchestral performances in addition to as a performer in the Washington Ballet. He was also a finalist in the prestigious Tsychovsky violin competition. He will be performing using the actual violin featured in the movie The Red Violin. Musica Dolce will be sponsoring two performances of Motzart's "Concerto in G Major" on April 2-3, 2005:
   * Saturday, April 2, 2005: 8:00pm performance in the Chorus of Westerly Performance Hall
  * Sunday, April 3, 2005: 3:00pm performance at Salve Regina's Ochre Court in Newport
   Musica Dolce is a non-profit organization that performs public concerts in Southern Rhode Island and Aquidneck Island. The musicians comprising the chamber orchestra are currently in their thirteenth season of performing. They perform frequent children's concerts and a storytellers series, in addition to various chamber music projects. Their objective is to provide Rhode Island families and children an exposure to classical music.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 