SEN. CHAFEE BILL HEADS TO PRESIDENT FOR SIGNATURE
  This week the United States Congress approved S.1869, The Coastal Barrier Resources Act (CBRA), and it is headed to the White House to be signed by President Bush. Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), an original cosponsor of the legislation, lauded Congress for passing the Act, which encourages the conservation of hurricane prone, biologically rich coastal barriers by restricting federal expenditures that encourage development, such as federal flood insurance through the National Flood Insurance Program.  
   "Since its enactment, the Coastal Barrier Resources Act has created an ideal blend of fiscally conservative policy with environmental protection," Senator Chafee said. "By preventing the use of federal funds for the development or reconstruction of coastal regions, the CBRA dissuades investors from building in these priceless areas. This saves the taxpayers greatly, as these areas are especially prone to catastrophes requiring federal assistance, such as hurricanes. Further, the wildlife habitats that exist on these parcels of land are preserved. I am extremely pleased that we have approved this important legislation," he continued. 
   The bill reauthorizes The Coastal Barrier Resources Act of 1982, which established the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System (CBRS), comprised of undeveloped coastal barriers along the Atlantic, Gulf, and Great Lakes coasts. The reauthorization will extend the program, which expired at the end of fiscal year 2005, through fiscal year 2010, as well as facilitate the digitizing of all remaining maps within the CBRA system. 
   CBRA offers a free-market approach to conservation, saving taxpayer dollars and encouraging conservation at the same time. Coastal areas can be developed, but federal taxpayers do not bankroll the investments. Over its life, CBRA has saved over $1 billion and will save millions more in the future. 
   Approximately 3.1 million acres of land and associated aquatic habitat are part of the CBRS. The Service also advises Federal agencies, landowners, and Congress regarding whether properties are in or out of the CBRS, and what kind of Federal expenditures are allowed in the CBRS.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 