SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF JOSEPH CIRILLO TO ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE ACCESS BOARD
  Today, Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced that President George W. Bush has appointed Joseph A. Cirillo of Middletown to be a member of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 3, 2009.  
   Chafee recommended Mr. Cirillo for the position, and was pleased to hear of his appointment: 
   "I applaud President Bush for appointing Joseph Cirillo to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board. Mr. Cirillo will undoubtedly bring to the board a wealth of expertise in architectural design management and more than twenty years experience as a leader in improving the accessibility of state and local buildings to disabled persons. He was appointed as Rhode Island's first State Building Commissioner and worked for the adoption of the state building code system. In addition to his distinguished record in Rhode Island, he has been a leader among his colleagues in the field, serving as President of Building Officials and Code Administrators International, and as President of the National Conference of States on Building Codes and Standards," Chafee said. "I congratulate Mr. Cirillo on this historic achievement." 
   The objective of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board is to enforce federal laws requiring accessibility for persons with disabilities in certain federally funded buildings and facilities throughout the nation. It also sets guidelines and requirements for accessibility standards prescribed by federal agencies and conducts research to determine appropriate specifications for accessibility. In addition, the board provides technical assistance and training on its design guidelines and standards to organizations, agencies, and individuals. 
   Mr. Cirillo graduated from the Rhode Island School of Design in 1963, has been a registered architect since 1968, and belongs to several architectural organizations, including the American Institute of Architects, the International Code Council, and the National Fire Prevention Association.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 