SEN. CHAFEE CHAIRS HEARING TO STUDY CURRENT STATE OF AFFAIRS IN NEPAL
  Today, Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) chaired a hearing of the Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations (SFRC) to review the current state of affairs in Nepal and to examine ways the United States can help stabilize the country and strengthen the democratic process during this time of transition. The committee further explored the significant challenges that remain now that democratic rule has been restored and a new Nepalese government has been formed from the Seven Party Alliance.  
   "There is cause for cautious hope now that democratic rule has been restored and a new Nepalese government has been formed from the Seven Party Alliance. But, significant challenges remain," Senator Chafee said. 
   "I called this hearing because I believe Nepal is in a critical time in its history. We have seen great changes in the space of a few short weeks. We need to examine our foreign policy and aid to ensure that our approach takes account of these changes; is coordinated throughout our government; strengthens the voices of peace; and helps solidify the democratic transition. We also need to assess what are the most effective ways to collaborate with other countries and multi-lateral institutions to support the peace," Chafee continued. 
   Discussed at the hearing was Nepal's transition to democracy, its current political climate, and the future of this new government. Plans for a rewrite of the country's constitution were also discussed, with the issues of equality, human rights, and the culture of the Nepalese people shaping the discussion. 
   The panelists also made recommendations on the appropriate role for the U.S. and other governments in this process as well as international organizations, some recommending steps which should be taken. 
   Speakers included: 
   Witnesses:
  Panel 1:
  * Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Richard Boucher 
   Panel 2:
  * Mr. Deepak Thapa, citizen of Nepal and the William P. Fuller Fellow in Conflict Resolution, The Asia Foundation 
   * Mr. Sam Zia-Zarifi, Asia Program Research Director, Human Rights Watch 
   * Mr. John Norris, Washington Chief of Staff, International Crisis Group
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 