SEN. CHAFEE CALLS FOR INCREASES IN CAFE STANDARDS
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) today joined a bipartisan group of Senators in introducing legislation which would raise Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for all vehicles, including SUVs, from 25 miles per gallon (mpg) to 35 mpg over ten years. The "Ten in Ten" bill, as it is known, would save the United States 2.5 million barrels of oil per day, the same amount of oil imported from the Persian Gulf.  
   "I am proud to join Senator Snowe and others in introducing this much needed legislation which will improve the fuel economy standards of all vehicles," Senator Chafee said. "I have always strongly supported raising CAFE standards - it will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, save us money at the pump, and improve our air quality. With provisions to ensure that improvements to fuel economy standards do not degrade the safety of automobiles or result in job losses, this legislation must be enacted, to begin the process of curing our nation of its addiction to foreign oil." 
   "This legislation is one of many bills I have joined in cosponsoring which would cut back on our consumption, reduce harmful emissions, and wean us off foreign oil. It is my hope that these bills can be reconciled into one bill which has the best chance to be effective in achieving these objectives," 
   "If enacted, the bill would save 420 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, the equivalent of taking 90 million cars off the road in one year. Here we have an excellent opportunity for Congress to get serious about reducing our dependence on foreign oil and reducing harmful emissions, and I am proud to be one of the Senators introducing it today," Chafee continued. 
   The legislation requires the Secretary of Transportation to implement a program for manufacturers to meet the 35 mpg standard by the year 2017, an increase of 10 mpg in 10 years. It also provides safeguards to ensure that improvements to fuel economy standards maximize the retention of jobs in the automobile manufacturing sector of the United States, and does not degrade vehicle safety. 
   Further, it establishes a credit trading program for automobile manufacturers so that if one manufacturer does not meet the CAFE standard of 35 mpg by 2017, it can purchase credits from other auto manufacturers that are able to meet that standard. The bill would also authorize the secretary to establish separate standards for different classes of vehicles according to size, as long as the overall average for the manufacturer's entire fleet of cars meets 35 mpg.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 