$473,324 IN ADDITIONAL LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE FUNDS RELEASED
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee today announced that the United States Department of Health and Human Services has released an additional $50 million in emergency funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Of this additional funding, $473,324 has been awarded to Rhode Island. 
   The award comes at the request of Senator Chafee and 49 other Senators from both sides of the aisle in a letter to President Bush requesting the release of $200 million in fiscal year 2005 funding, of which the Administration has now released $150 million. Senator Chafee has called on the Administration to release the additional $50 million, in addition to a request made today for $3 billion to be allocated for fiscal year 2006.
   "The release of these emergency funds will provide necessary assistance to struggling Rhode Islanders and citizens across the United States to pay their heating bills in this harsh winter season. I applaud the efforts of President Bush in releasing this aid and I call on the Administration to release the remaining $50 million," Senator Chafee said.
   The released funding will provide states with extra assistance, over and above the $1.6billion states have received during this heating season and $250 million in emergency funds awarded in December and February.
   "As Americans face record high prices for oil, natural gas and propane this winter, the winter heating crisis that low-income, elderly, and disabled Rhode Islanders are facing necessitates the need for the release of these funds to insulate and heat their homes.
   "Additionally, I have requested that the leaders of the Committee on the Budget $3provide billion for LIHEAP in fiscal year 2006 and advance appropriations for 2007, thus ensuring the problems we have faced this year will not happen again in future winters, "Senator Chafee added.
   Low-income Americans are disproportionately affected by rising energy costs, which consume a larger percentage of their income than that of the average household.
   LIHEAP helps eligible families pay the costs of heating and insulating their homes in the winter. Nationally, more than 4.5 million low-income households receive assistance each year.
   Individuals interested in applying for LIHEAP assistance should contact their local/state LIHEAP agency or click on the agency directory at: www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/liheap/directry.htm. The directory can help people locate the state or tribal office that administers LIHEAP in communities across the country.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 