SEN. CHAFEE CONTINUES EFFORTS TO PREPARE RHODE ISLAND FOR 2006 HURRICANE SEASON
  Following an extensive field hearing held by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security to assess Rhode Island's readiness for the upcoming hurricane season, Sen. Lincoln Chafee is taking action to address the vulnerabilities that were uncovered. Chafee requested the field hearing, and hosted the Chairman of the Committee on April 20 in Providence, R.I. 
   "Anticipating this hearing, members of the Committee and I had a host of questions regarding Rhode Island's readiness for the 2006 hurricane season. After hearing testimony from Governor Carcieri and other top officials, we have been reassured on many of these concerns, but some remain problematic. I am working with my Senate colleagues to ensure that these gaps in readiness are being closed very quickly," Senator Chafee said.  
   The hearing uncovered four areas where Rhode Island's preparedness needs improvement: 
   During the hearing, all witnesses testified about the urgent need for interoperable communications systems to ensure that all responders can effectively communicate with other state, local, and federal entities that will be assisting. Taking into account the failures of communication that were so detrimental to the rescue and recovery efforts during the Hurricane Katrina disaster, this is a critical concern that needs to be addressed. 
   In light of this, Chafee has joined the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee, Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), in cosponsoring S. 1724, the Assure Emergency and Interoperable Communications for First Responders Act of 2005. The legislation creates an interoperable communications office at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), while directing the Secretary of DHS to create a national communications standard. It also authorizes the making of grants to states for the purpose of improving emergency communications capabilities. 
   Further, panelists raised the issue of the rapid deployment of resources. To this end, Senator Chafee has joined as an original cosponsor of a Joint Resolution that would grant the consent of Congress to allow northeastern states and eastern Canadian provinces to enter into a mutual aid compact. This broad regional agreement would consolidate resources and provide mutual assistance to all participating in the event of a catastrophic occurrence. 
   The plan would authorize Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut to join with Quebec, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland in formalizing a mutual assistance agreement that will expedite the deployment of resources and personnel in a time of emergency. 
   In addition, the Committee heard from Warwick Fire Chief and Emergency Management Director John E. Chartier about the need for prompt reimbursement of expenses from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) when localities provide their equipment and personnel to assist in other areas around the country, such as New Orleans. Senator Chafee is currently working with Senator Collins and top FEMA officials to implement policies to streamline and significantly speed up the reimbursement system. This is essential to ensure that the necessary resources will be available in the event of an emergency in any region. 
   Finally, testimony was given by Providence Mayor David Cicilline regarding the urgent need to transfer the responsibility for the Fox Point Hurricane Barrier from the City of Providence back to the Army Corps of Engineers, which has the resources and expertise to ensure the barrier is properly maintained. Senator Chafee has received the endorsement of the Army Corps and Senator Collins for the transfer of authority, and is currently working with the Homeland Security Committee and Senate leadership on the legislation needed to make this a reality. 
   Following the session, Chairman Susan Collins reiterated the need for holding this hearing: 
   "By examining in detail the homeland security challenges of one state, we can better understand the challenges faced by other states. Rhode Island is a microcosm of the homeland security issues that must be addressed in other costal states," she said. "Rhode Island faces considerable homeland security challenges. In addition to being a major transportation hub, with an increasingly busy international cargo port, and a center of industry, research, education, and recreation, Rhode Island has the second highest population density in the nation. A disaster here, whether natural or man-made, could have especially dire consequences."
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167. 
 
 