SEN. CHAFEE SUPPORTS LEGISLATION TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL ABUSE
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee today supported legislation which will protect children and strengthen penalties against sex offenders. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, as it is known, will significantly toughen penalties for crimes against children; combat internet predators, child pornography, and child exploitation; and prevent child abuse. 
   Chafee was pleased to support this important legislation:  
   "I am proud to join in supporting this legislation which will impose enhanced sanctions for the most serious crimes against children and raise mandatory minimum penalties for repeat offenders," Senator Chafee said. "Every day, 4 children die as a result of child abuse. While most states have registries, the information is not always shared with other states. The legislation passed today in the Senate will enable officials in all 50 states to share information and more effectively investigate child abuse cases," he continued. 
   Specifically, this act increases penalties for federal sex offenses and violent crimes against children. Offenses for which penalties are increased include: sexual abuse, child sex-trafficking, and coercion or enticement to engage in criminal sexual activity or cause child prostitution. Additionally, the Act creates new penalties for the sale of date-rape drugs via the Internet. Increased penalties for existing offenses include: 30 years to life-and in some cases death-for the murder of a child, a 30-year mandatory minimum for raping a child, and a 10-year mandatory minimum for child sex trafficking or prostitution. The statute of limitations for all federal felony offenses of sexual abuse, sex trafficking, or child pornography is also lifted under this act. 
   Furthermore, the Act provides grants to states for civil commitment of the most dangerous sex offenders who show, while incarcerated, that they cannot conform their behavior once they are released from prison. 
   In addition, the legislation mandates that any alien convicted of the federal crime of failing to register as a sex offender will be deportable. The Act also provides that a citizen convicted of a specified offense against a minor will not be eligible to petition for a family-based visa. 
   This measure also strengthens existing requirements for the production of adult materials, to ensure age verification and record-keeping for the protection of children and teenagers from exploitation by pornographers. 
   The Act also provides for a number of pilot programs, grants, and studies to address child and community safety issues. Such programs include: a pilot program for the electronic monitoring of sex offenders; funding for Big Brothers and Big Sisters; and grants to allow parents to obtain fingerprint records for their children. 
   The Act also instructs the Department of Health and Human Services to create a national registry of persons who have been found to have abused or neglected a child, which will be made available to state child-protective-services and law-enforcement agencies to protect children from abuse and neglect. A National Sex Offender Registry will also be established, containing pertinent information on sex offenders to be shared on an immediate basis among states and police jurisdictions. 
   Importantly, grants for programs to educate children and parents on internet safety will also be funded by this legislation. 
   The Internet safety provisions also enhance federal resources needed for the investigation and prosecution of child sex offenses. Those enhancements include funding the hiring of at least 200 additional Assistant United States Attorneys, the addition of at least 10 Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Forces, and the addition of 45 forensic examiners within the Regional Computer Forensic Laboratories and Cyber Crimes Center. Additionally, the Internet Safety provisions expand the civil remedies available to children who have been sexually abused or exploited.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 