SEN. CHAFEE LEADS BIPARTISAN COALITION TO CALL FOR INCREASES IN FUEL ECONOMY STANDARDS
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) today joined a bipartisan group of Senators in introducing legislation which would raise Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards for all vehicles, including SUVs, from 25 miles per gallon (mpg) to 35 mpg over ten years. The "Ten in Ten" bill, as it is known, would save the United States 2.5 million barrels of oil per day, the same amount of oil imported from the Persian Gulf. The bill would also save 420 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, the equivalent of taking 90 million cars (or 75 million cars and light trucks) off the road in one year. 
   "I am proud to join in introducing this much needed legislation which will improve the fuel economy standards of all vehicles," said Senator Chafee. "Raising CAFE standards will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, save us money at the pump, and improve our air quality. Congress must take action to address this worsening problem, and begin the process of curing our nation of its addiction to foreign oil."  
   "This legislation is one of many bills I have joined in cosponsoring which would cut back on our consumption, reduce harmful emissions, and wean us off foreign oil. It is my hope that these bills can be reconciled into one bill which has the best chance to be effective in achieving these objectives," 
   "If enacted, the bill would save 420 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions by 2025, the equivalent of taking 90 million cars off the road in one year. Here we have an excellent opportunity for Congress to get serious about reducing our dependence on foreign oil and reducing harmful emissions, and I am proud to be one of the Senators introducing it today," Chafee continued. 
   The bill would also: 
   * Require vehicle fuel economy labels to reflect actual driving conditions. The bill would require the EPA to update the test that sets the estimated fuel economy for city and highway driving. 
   * Establish mandatory on-board fuel economy displays that show real-time fuel consumption to encourage more fuel efficient driving. 
   * Improve safety rulemaking standards: The bill would require the Department of Transportation to set standards for the industry that will protect Americans in whatever car they choose to drive--whether the Ford Excursion or the Toyota Prius. 
   * Create a program to identify vehicles that meet or surpass mandatory fuel economy standards - the green label and the gold star label. 
   - The green label would be for vehicles that meet or exceed the applicable fuel economy standard or have the lowest greenhouse gas emissions. 
   - The gold star label would be for vehicles that achieve a fuel economy at least 50 mpg, and for light trucks with 37 mpg or higher. 
   Chafee has joined Senators Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and others in leading a growing bipartisan coalition to ensure the enactment of this legislation. 
   Background 
   The United States consumes 25% of the world's oil but only has 3% of the world's reserves. Demand for oil is growing internationally. 
   China's recent surge in oil imports has vaulted them into second place among the world's biggest oil consumers, behind only the U.S. In the past 5 years, China's oil imports have doubled, and show no signs of slowing down. China's auto fleet is predicted to increase from 25 million currently to 125 million within 25 years, which is why Chinese demand for oil is expected to double again by 2025, while its imports will quadruple to 60 percent of its total oil consumption. 
   India is a relatively small player in the global oil market so far and currently accounts for 3 percent of the world's oil consumption, but this is expected to grow rapidly in the coming years. India is heavily dependent on oil imports. Over 70 percent of India's oil is imported, and it is expected that more that 80 percent of India's energy will be imported by 2020. 
   Further, oil-producing countries are making it more difficult for oil companies to invest and increase production. Countries like Bolivia, Russia and Venezuela have taken over the oil fields in their countries; while Nigeria and Kazakhstan have given preferential treatment to state companies. Coupled with increased demand, this will lead to perpetual higher costs at the pump. 
   The International Energy Agency Director Claude Mandil recently said that he expected oil prices to remain high for at least two to three years because of high international demand and tight supply. 
   In fact, at $3 per gallon, Americans driving 15,000 miles per year are, on average, using 600 gallons of gasoline and spending as much as $1,800 per year on gas. By raising CAFE standards to 35 miles per gallon, consumers would only use 429 gallons of gas per year, costing $1,287 per year for gas. That's a savings of $513 per year at the pump. Assuming the consumer keeps the vehicle for at least five years, that's a savings of more than $2500 - more than enough to recoup the cost of more efficient vehicles. 
   Raising fuel economy standards would also help reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Transportation accounts for one-third of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. Every gallon of gasoline burned emits 20 pounds of harmful CO2 into the atmosphere. That means that each car is responsible for about 12,000 pounds of greenhouse gas emissions every year.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167. 
 
 