SEN. CHAFEE DISCUSSES SECURITY ISSUES WITH DIRECTOR OF HOMELAND SECURITY NOMINEE CHERTOFF
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee today met with Judge Michael Chertoff, who has been nominated by President Bush to become director of the Department of Homeland Security. Chertoff, who will testify before the newly reorganized Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, of which Chafee is a member, discussed Rhode Island security issues with the Senator, including security improvements and modifications to T.F. Green Airport. The discussion touched upon funding for modifications to the terminal at T.F. Green that would permanently accommodate the facility's Explosive Detection System (EDS) equipment, alleviating long lines and strengthening the security of Rhode Island's primary airport. 
   "I was glad to have a chance to meet with Judge Chertoff to discuss various issues, including those under the jurisdiction of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee," Senator Chafee said. "One of the top issues in our discussion was improving and streamlining the security at T.F. Green Airport, and I am pleased that Judge Chertoff has promised to carefully assess the need for funding to integrate Explosive Detection Systems in a more permanent and convenient location," he continued.
   T.F. Green was one of the first airports in the nation to install EDS equipment, and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) has already approved the preliminary design and concept of the operation. Funding for EDS integration at airports has been approved within Federal Aviation Administration's reauthorization bill, which became law in December, 2003. If sufficient funds can be appropriated, x-ray machines would be moved out of the lobby at Green and put in a more permanent place. In order for this to become a reality, the Rhode Island Airport Corporation would need approximately $34 million from TSA. Judge Chertoff has assured Senator Chafee that he will look into the issue, should he be confirmed by the Senate.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 