SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES GRANT FOR AMERICORPS
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced today that the Corporation for National and Community Service has notified him that the 2004 AmeriCorps grant applications for the Chamber Education Foundation and the Diocese of Providence have been approved. They will receive a total of $769,457. The money will be used to fund both the Rhode Island Mentoring Program (RIMP) as well as the Leaping Lizards! Learning Through Literacy! (Learning Through Literacy) Program. In addition, funding has been made available to provide each AmeriCorps member who completes a term of service an education award payable to a qualified educational institution or lender, redeemable for up to seven years. The award amounts to roughly $4,725 per full time employee. 
   "The programs staffed and funded by AmeriCorps provide great services to the people of the State of Rhode Island," Senator Chafee said. "I am pleased that this money is being made available to encourage literacy as well as ensuring our state's children have positive mentors in their communities." he continued.
   Of the total monies provided, $337,500 will be used to help the Chamber Education Foundation fund the Rhode Island Mentoring Program, while the remaining $431,957 will be used to assist the Diocese of Providence fund the Learning Through Literacy Program.
   The RIMP provides trained AmeriCorps members to help build capacity of mentoring programs throughout Rhode Island. The members are placed in 5 regions of Rhode Island (Northern, Southern, East Bay, West Bay, and Central) to establish and continue mentoring activities as well as capacity building efforts, in addition to establishing a statewide Career Mentoring Resource Center and after-school mentor clubs at Title 1 elementary schools in Warwick, RI. Funding has been approved for 25 full time employees, with education awards totaling $118,125.
   The Learning Through Literacy Program concentrates on low and moderate-income families and provides a partnership outreach to a variety of educational institutions. The AmeriCorps members serve at 4 childcare centers around Rhode Island, with 2 located in Providence, 1 in Newport, and 1 in Lincoln. The members improve the staff's literacy services, in addition to recruiting volunteers for literacy work at the centers. The funding provides for 32 full time employees, with education awards totaling $151,200.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 