SEN. CHAFEE HAILS VICTORY IN FIGHT FOR CAPE WIND
  Today, Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) and other proponents of alternative energy technology prevailed in their four-month long opposition to a legislative provision which would have blocked a renewable wind energy project off the coast of New England. Chafee today praised a legislative committee's decision to drop a controversial provision which would have effectively blocked the Cape Wind project by extending veto power to the Governor of Massachusetts.  
   "This is a positive step for the environment and for renewable energy," Senator Chafee said. "By removing this legislative road block, the Cape Wind project can begin to become a reality; a model for the nation and a source of jobs for Rhode Island. If approved, the project could provide an estimated 75 percent of the power needed for the Cape and surrounding Islands," he continued. 
   "With unprecedented increases in conventional energy prices, wind energy generation is a promising option to provide much needed relief to New England. It is clean and renewable; and projects such as this will help to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. In addition, this project will have a very positive impact on Rhode Island's economy, and encourage future offshore projects," he continued. 
   Cape Wind's plan calls for building 130 wind turbines that will produce up to 420 megawatts of renewable energy - replacing an estimated 113 million gallons of oil each year. 
   Further, Chafee has pointed out the benefits of this project to Rhode Island's economy, with construction of significant portions of the project to be performed at the Quonset Business Park; creating 600 to 1,000 new jobs and spurring new economic development opportunities for the state and the region. 
   Chafee has been a leader of a growing coalition of senators, environmental groups, and concerned citizens opposed to attempts to block the Cape Wind project. The provision was inserted into the Coast Guard reauthorization legislation using a method that bypassed regular legislative procedures. As early as February, Chafee sent a letter to a group of Senators responsible for the fate of the Cape Wind, urging them to reject proposals to kill the project. 
   Recently, Chafee embarked on a fact-finding mission to the site of the proposed wind farm in Nantucket Sound. 
   "After seeing first hand the proposed site of the turbines, I am impressed with the project's potential," he said.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167. 
 
 