SEN. CHAFEE RECOGNIZED FOR COMMITMENT TO ENVIRONMENT, PUBLIC HEALTH
  Sen. Lincoln D. Chafee (R-RI) received the John H. Chafee Distinguished Public Servant Award from the New England Water Works Association (NEWWA), the region's largest not-for-profit organization of water works professionals. 
   "The award, named after the senator's late father, acknowledges his commitment to principles and causes related to the environment and public health," said NEWWA executive director Raymond J. Raposa.
   The presentation was made at NEWWA's recent annual conference in Newport.
  "Specifically, Senator Chafee is being recognized for helping to defeat the federal Energy Bill last fall because of its Safe Harbor provision that protected manufacturers of Methyl Tert-Butyl Ether (MBTE), a gasoline additive, from product liability," said Raposa.
   MBTE has been responsible for contamination of drinking water supplies throughout New England and the country.
   "Senator Chafee cast a critical vote that prevented passage of the Energy Bill with the Safe Harbor provision, despite strong support for the bill from his own party," said Raposa.
   NEWWA also commended Senator Chafee for his work as a member of the Senate Committee on Environmental and Public Works, and chairman of its Superfund Subcommittee.
   In this capacity, Senator Chafee has been a major proponent for protecting local and national lakes, rivers, and drinking water supplies through improved storm water management and wastewater treatment plant upgrades. A strong supporter of drinking water infrastructure programs, he has secured several grants and low-interest loans for infrastructure improvements to public water systems throughout his native Rhode Island, said Raposa.
  The New England Water Works Association is the oldest regional water works association in the country.
   Founded in 1882, NEWWA works to improve and conserve public drinking water supplies, protect public health and safety, and promote the professional development and education of about 3,000 members in the water works field.
   Contact: Raymond Raposa, 508/893-7979, 617/969-9131, 617/694-8225.
 
 