SEN. CHAFEE'S BLACKSTONE LEGISLATION PASSES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
  Today, Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced that the House of Representatives has approved legislation calling for the reauthorization of the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor for five more years. The bill to reauthorize the Corridor, introduced by Chafee, was brought before the House as part of S. 203, a package of legislation relating to programs of the Department of the Interior that has been the subject of discussions between the House and Senate. The Blackstone provision was included at the request of Senate leaders at the urging of Sen. Chafee. It now heads to the Senate floor for consideration.  
   "This great news for the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor," said Senator Chafee. "If the bill is approved, the Blackstone Heritage Corridor will continue to be an excellent source of tourism and historical education. It will enable the completion of the Blackstone Bikeway, a 46 mile bike path which provides exercise and enjoyment to our citizens. Finally, it will allow for the continued clean up of the Blackstone River and protection of its watershed," Senator Chafee said. 
   The John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act of 2005, has received the strong support of Governor Donald Carcieri and Dr. Michael Sullivan, Director of the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management (DEM). Sullivan testified before the National Parks Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources along with Don Murphy, Deputy Director of the National Park Service (NPS). 
   "Blackstone is widely recognized as the Birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution. It was in the Blackstone Valley for the first time in America that the power of water was successfully harnessed for the industrial production of cotton yarn by Samuel Slater in 1793. . .Its influence shaped the history of American free enterprise, labor, immigration and ethnicity, and management of the environment. It has worked hard and created a connectedness and linkage for the region," said Sullivan. 
   Chafee continued: "For nearly twenty years, the Blackstone Valley Corridor Commission has worked with the National Park Service to clean up, revitalize, and preserve this historic land. It is my hope that this legislation will swiftly pass the Senate so the progress of the Corridor will continue."
   Contact: Christopher Spina, 202/224-6107.
 
 