SEN. CHAFEE PRIMATE LEGISLATION HEADED TO FULL SENATE
  Yesterday, legislation introduced by Sens. Lincoln D. Chafee (R-RI) and James Jeffords (I-VT), was unanimously approved by the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), and is headed to the full Senate for consideration.  
   S. 1509, the Captive Primate Safety Act, adds nonhuman primates to the list of animals that cannot be transported across state lines for pet trade. This includes chimpanzees, monkeys, baboons, and other primates - all of which can inflict serious harm to humans through severe and at times life threatening bites and scratches. Primates may also be carriers of harmful diseases, including Herpes B, monkeypox, tuberculosis, yellow fever, and the Ebola virus. 
   "I am pleased to have joined Senator Jeffords and others in cosponsoring this important legislation, to protect Americans from this dangerous activity," Senator Chafee said. "While monkeys and chimpanzees are often portrayed as fun and entertaining pets, the animal brought home often as a baby will soon grow into a very large, forceful creature carrying disease and ready to attack. Further, these animals are often treated in an inhumane manner, as they are confined to cages and their teeth are pulled to make them more domestic. This bill would significantly reduce the practice of keeping these animals as pets, minimizing the human injury and infection associated with them," he continued. 
   According to the Captive Wild Animal Protection Coalition, 100 people have been injured by primates over the past decade, including 29 children. Horrific stories have been reported of primates breaking out of cages and mauling, biting and even killing individuals. Further, serious diseases, such as herpes B, are passed on frequently by primates. 
   Passage of this act would have no impact on trade or transportation of animals for zoos, research facilities, or other federally licensed and regulated entities, such as legitimate wildlife sanctuaries. 
   The bill is supported by the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS), which has praised Chafee for his leadership on this legislation. In addition, more than 50 organizations have joined the HSUS in supporting the Captive Primate Safety Act. They include the American Zoo and Aquarium Association (AZA), the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA), the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), the Jane Goodall Institute, Friends of the Earth, and Born Free USA. 
   Chafee was presented the HSUS "Legislative Leadership Award" for his record on animal protection in May of 2006.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 