SEN. CHAFEE CONDUCTS VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT INTERVIEW
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee today interviewed SPC Richard Greenhalgh, Jr., of Chepachet, as part of the Veterans History Project. Greenhalgh deployed with the 119th Military Police and spent 4 months in Fallujah and 7 months in Baghdad. He is a former active duty officer who served in Kosovo. 
   Senator Chafee was joined by Ashley Pearson, the fifth grader from Lincoln, whose patriotic letter to Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, was mentioned in President Bush's State of the Union address. The interview commemorates Chafee's partnership with the Rhode Island National Guard on the Veterans History Project, and the importance of recording the stories of our most recent veterans. Rhode Island National Guard Lt. Colonel Mathies Santos also participated.
   "There is no better way to give thanks to our war veterans than to have their personal stories preserved as part of the permanent historical record of the nation," said Chafee. "I believe that this generation and future Americans have much to learn from those who served."
   Senator Chafee, who initiated the project last spring, in partnership with the Rhode Island Historical Society, recently reached out to the Rhode Island National Guard, veterans and their families to give them an opportunity to share their stories and experiences, including their motivations to serve and support the USA and Rhode Island during peacetime and war.
   Congress created the Veterans History Project in October 2000 to collect and preserve audio and video-recorded oral histories from American war veterans and civilians who served in support of our war efforts, along with other first-hand materials such as photographs, diaries and letters. The Rhode Island Historical Society has graciously agreed to store the tapes and collectibles, and the materials will be available for all Rhode Islanders to see and hear.
   "Congress wants the public to be involved and I encourage all Rhode Islanders to be part of this exciting endeavor," noted Chafee. "Grandchildren should interview their grandparents, students should interview community members, and veterans should interview each other. Families, friends, historians, teachers, senior care workers, and students are encouraged to participate and become volunteer interviewers."
   To learn more about this national initiative, call Senator Chafee's Providence Office at 401 453-5294. Additional information may be obtained by contacting Bernard Fishman, executive director of the Rhode Island Historical Society at 401 331-8575 or www.rihs.org.
   Contact: Debbie Rich, 401/453-5071.
 
 