SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES $170,000 TO PROVIDE SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT FOR STATE PRISONERS
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded the Rhode Island Justice Commission a grant totaling $169,193 for fiscal year 2005. The grant, part of the 2005 Residential Substance Abuse Treatment for State Prisoners Program (RSAT), will be used to provide treatment to inmates of Rhode Island's Minimum Security prison as well as the Training School for Youth, Rhode Island's juvenile correctional facility. The Rhode Island Department of Corrections, Division of Rehabilitative Services, will be responsible for the allocation of funding. 
   Under the RSAT program, funding will be devoted to the treatment of Minimum Security inmates for intensive residential substance abuse and case management. The Rhode Island Training School for Youth will also use a portion of the funding to provide a residential substance abuse program for male residents of the facility. This program will implement drug testing for all residents of the correctional facility and foster linkages with community resources in order to provide suitable substance abuse treatment. Educational, vocational, employment, and mental health services will also be provided to the residential unit graduates.
   "Funding to combat prisoner addiction to drugs and alcohol is a necessary step towards the ultimate goal of incarceration - rehabilitation. By focusing the efforts of these programs on those inmates who are incarcerated in Minimum Security and the Training School, we are placing an emphasis on rehabilitating individuals who will have a better chance of being receptive to treatment - those in violation of the most minor infractions and, most importantly, our state's youth," Senator Chafee said.
   The goals of the RSAT program are to assist states and local governments in developing and implementing substance abuse treatment programs in state and local correctional and detention facilities. Additionally, assistance is provided to create and maintain community-based services for offenders who are released from institutionally based substance abuse programs.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 