SEN. CHAFEE OPPOSES BID TO BLOCK CAPE WIND ENERGY PROJECT
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) continues his fight along with a growing coalition of Senators, environmental groups, and concerned citizens opposing a legislative provision to block a wind energy project off the coast of New England. The provision was improperly inserted into the Coast Guard reauthorization legislation using a method that bypassed the appropriate legislative procedures. If enacted, it would effectively halt the "Cape Wind" project.  
   The "Cape Wind" project, as it is known, is a proposed wind farm on Nantucket Sound which has been declared safe, environmentally friendly, and economically beneficial to Rhode Island and its surrounding states. Today, Chafee reiterated his long standing support for this pollution-free, renewable wind energy project, which will not only provide a much needed source of energy to New England at a reasonable price but will also improve air quality. 
   Chafee, who is at the forefront of an effort to remove this provision, today pointed out that this project would also be very beneficial to Rhode Island's economy. With construction of significant portions of the project to be performed in Rhode Island at the Quonset Business Park, 600 to 1,000 new jobs could be created, spurring new economic development opportunities for the state and the region. 
   "This is a win-win for Rhode Island," Senator Chafee said. "I urge my colleagues in the Senate to discontinue their improper attempt to derail this project and allow the people of New England to benefit from economic growth, a cleaner environment, and more affordable sources of energy." 
   "With unprecedented increases in conventional energy prices, wind energy generation is a promising option to provide much needed relief to New England. It is clean and renewable; and projects such as this will help to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. In addition, termination of this project will have a negative impact on Rhode Island's economy and discourage future offshore projects in America" he continued.
 
 