SEN. CHAFEE COMMITTEE RESTRUCTURES FEMA
  Today, the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs (HSGAC) approved a comprehensive reorganization of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to improve emergency response infrastructure and procedures in the event of a natural disaster, such as Hurricane Katrina.  
   The restructuring comes in the wake of a report by the Committee on the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) response to Katrina. U.S. Senator Lincoln Chafee, a member of the committee, participated in the hearings and issuing of the the report, and has worked with HSGAC Chairman Collins (R-ME) and Ranking Member Lieberman (D-CT) in this restructuring. The bill, S. 3721, incorporated many of the recommendations in the HSGAC report. 
   "Last year, the government's failure to effectively communicate with state and local responders to receive a proper assessment of the situation on the Gulf Coast cost hundreds of lives," Senator Chafee said. "The investigation and subsequent legislation our committee has been working on for over ten months will help the federal government effectively communicate as well as streamline supplies and other resources to the site of a disaster. It is vital that we fix the flaws in our system as rapidly as possible in order to endure the safety of all Americans." 
   "Last April, I hosted an extensive field hearing of the Homeland Security Committee in Providence to assess Rhode Island's readiness for the upcoming hurricane season. I requested this hearing to assess Rhode Island's preparedness and level of vulnerability should a category four or five hurricane hit our coastline. After hearing testimony from Governor Carcieri and other top officials, I have worked to ensure some of the gaps in our readiness are being closed. I am pleased that the legislation approved today brings Rhode Island closer to our goal." 
   Specifically, the legislation will bring together disaster preparedness and response functions within FEMA and give the agency autonomous status within DHS. The legislation will also set up a new Office of Emergency Communications, to coordinate existing radio interoperability programs while enhancing communications interoperability among first responders to a catastrophe. 
   Further, the legislation would revamp the Stafford Act to give the president greater discretion in providing benefits to disaster victims. It would also require the establishment of a National Disaster Recovery Strategy by DHS to ensure disaster aid is disbursed in the most efficient way possible.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 