SEN. CHAFEE CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO SUPPORT LEGISLATION TO REDUCE AMERICA'S DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
  Yesterday, Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) called upon President Bush to continue to address the issue during Tuesday's State of the Union speech, regarding the reduction of America's consumption of foreign oil. In a letter signed by a bipartisan group of members of Congress from both houses, Sen. Chafee encouraged the president to support proposed legislation to mandate oil conservation over the next 25 years while increasing the efficiency of motor vehicles. The bill would create tax credits for hybrid cars and renewable fuels, and set new regulations for federal fleets. 
   "I was pleased to hear the President address the issue of America's addiction to oil, and to hear him advance several options to improve energy efficiency. While this is an important step, the responsibility remains on Congress to act. I have joined with 11 other senators to introduce a bipartisan measure to reduce oil consumption by 2.5 million barrels per day within a decade, and by 2031 reduce oil consumption in the United States by half. Our bill would also set targets for so-called flex-fuel vehicles, which run on clean, domestically produced ethanol," Senator Chafee said.  
   Serving on both the Committee on Foreign Relations as well as the Committee on Environment and Public works, Chafee has been at the forefront of this issue and has been an outspoken advocate for exploring alternatives to address this urgent problem. 
   "In the past, Congress has been reluctant to take positive steps toward reducing our dependence on foreign oil. On six different occasions, I have voted to boost Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards, which would require an increase in the fuel efficiency of American-made cars and light trucks. The most recent measure was rejected by a vote of 28-67. I call on my colleagues to become proactive in the fight of end our dependence on foreign oil," he continued. 
   In his capacity as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs on the Committee on Foreign Relations, Chafee recently chaired a hearing which addressed America's dependence on foreign oil and its effect on U.S. foreign policy. 
   Additionally, Chafee, who drives a hybrid car, is a cosponsor of S. 2025, which was introduced on November 18, 2005. The proposal would create a federal action plan to mandate savings starting with 2.5 million barrels of oil per day in 2016, at least 7 million barrels per day in 2026 and 10 million barrels per day in 2031. The savings would be from projected fuel usage levels in those years. 
   Additionally, the measure would provide tax credits and other incentives to encourage automakers to produce gas-electric hybrid cars, plug-in hybrids, fuel-cell vehicles, "flexible-fuel" vehicles which run on both gasoline or alternative fuels, and other qualified technologies. The measure also includes a tax credit for manufacturers and suppliers for 35 percent of qualified investments for incremental costs incurred to reequip, expand, or establish a manufacturing facility to produce advanced technology vehicles (such as advanced diesels and hybrids). 
   The measure would also close the SUV tax loophole (except for farm vehicles), which is in effect today for the business purchase of SUVs weighing over 6,000 pounds. This will reduce the current strong incentive for the purchase of these large, fuel consuming vehicles. 
   Text of the Letter is attached:
   February 1, 2006 
   Mr. President, 
   We are writing to you to express our strong support for your call to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. As you expressed in your State of the Union speech last night, we must continue to expand our research and development efforts into vehicle and fuel technologies that will be available in the near term. By doing this we will help safeguard our national security, improve American competitiveness and protect our environment. 
   We represent an emerging bi-partisan and bi-cameral consensus on legislative steps we can take this year to address our dependence on fossil fuels. In November, we introduced The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, which is focused on two important concepts. First, we must set visionary and achievable goals for reduced oil consumption and measure progress towards these goals as a national priority. Second, the most effective means to achieve these goals is by providing incentives to encourage manufacturers, distributors and consumers to utilize domestic resources to bring to the market a full range of 21st Century vehicles and fuels based on clean, renewable, non-oil based technologies. Flexible fuel electric hybrid vehicles that take advantage of fuels such as bio-ethanols, methanol, clean bio and coal diesels, and electricity, are here today and can dramatically reduce our oil consumption in the near future. By utilizing the programs authorized in our legislation, we believe that we can achieve crude oil savings of over 2.5 million barrels per day within a decade. 
   This dedicated bi-partisan group looks forward to your support as we move our legislation forward to bring these ideas into action this year.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 