SEN. CHAFEE SECURES MILLIONS IN DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Today, Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced that millions of dollars in federal funding will flow to Rhode Island upon passage of the House-Senate Conference Report on the Department of Defense appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007. Final passage of the report is imminent, and could occur as early as tomorrow. The report was released today, and provides $436.6 billion for the Department of Defense for military personnel ($86 billion), military operation and maintenance ($119.8 billion), weapons procurement ($80.9 billion), and many other matters. Additionally, the bill allocates $70 billion for operations related to the global war on terror. 
   Importantly, the legislation includes a 2.2 percent across-the-board pay raise for military personnel. The bill also includes $34.55 million for projects Senator Chafee has worked to bring to Rhode Island. 
   "I am pleased that these funds have been allocated to Rhode Island companies - it is a testament to the contribution they make in keeping our national defense first-rate," Senator Chafee said. "While these projects have positive implications for our national defense, they will also continue to stimulate Rhode Island's economy. For example, funds secured for Raytheon will sustain over 500 jobs in Rhode Island," he continued.  
   Electric Boat, Raytheon, Textron, and several small businesses are among the Rhode Island firms which will benefit from these funds. 
   Projects for which funding was secured by Senator Chafee include the following: 
   Raytheon: 
  $3,431,600,000 for DD(X) 
   DD(X) is the Navy's next generation surface combatant destroyer, and is the centerpiece and chief development program for the Navy's Family of Ships system. A multi-mission destroyer tailored for land attack and littoral dominance, DD(X) will provide independent forward presence and deterrence, special operations forces basing, and operate as an integral part of joint and combined expeditionary forces. 
   $50 Million for AQS-20 Minehunting Sonar 
   Funds will go to support this Mine Hunting Sonar which has had an excellent performance record and is planned to be in full rate production in fiscal year 2007. Additionally, it is a common system that can be towed by various helicopters or the RMS, and is not specifically tied to any one platform. 
   $15 Million for the Mk-54 Program 
   The Mk-54 program produces the only torpedo in the world capable of full operation in coastal waters. This funding is essential for the Navy to be able to operate successfully against the growing diesel electric submarine threat. 
   The Funds secured by Senator Chafee will help sustain the jobs of 32 employees in Rhode Island. 
   $2,200,000 for Project Athena 
   Project Athena is a multi-faceted command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance system used for situational awareness, synthesis, analysis, and knowledge management. Using information from global sources - including sensors, databases, and intelligence - Athena delivers persistent surveillance, situational awareness, and anomaly detection aids to reduce operator workload. These funds will allow Raytheon to expand the capability of this critical maritime domain awareness system to integrate extended range surface and underwater coastal surveillance capabilities, as well as intelligence and multi level security and inter-operability. 
   Electric Boat of North Kingstown: 
   $9,000,000 for the Large Aperture Bow Array (LAB): 
  Large Aperture Bow (LAB) program has been designed to replace the spherical array on submarines, instead using sensors and electronics that have a longer lifespan and are less expensive. This technology yields a recurring cost savings of about $15 million per ship and additional life cycle cost savings. This reduces the costs of submarine construction and system acquisitions, while improving performance. 
   $6,750,000 for the Flexible Payload Module and Virginia Payload Interface 
   Flexible Payload Module (FPM) simplifies integration of new and existing payloads in either a pressure proof or free flooded environment. Payload Interface Module (PIM) is the shipboard structure and the standardized interface to the ship, which is essential for integration of payloads and sensors using the FPM. This will significantly enhance the capabilities of the Virginia class submarine. FPM and PIM are expected to result in cost savings to the Virginia class of about $370 million. 
   $4,500,000 for the Large Displacement Unmanned Underwater Vehicle (LDUUV) At-Sea Launch and Recovery 
   Funds will be awarded to Electric Boat for improvements to the SSGN Guided Missile Submarine, equipping future designs with state-of-the-art weapons and sensors for combat near the shoreline. EB will also develop and demonstrate a large displacement UUV stowage, launch, and recovery system that is applicable to SSGN as well as future submarines. Work will be performed at EB's facilities in Rhode Island and Connecticut. 
   Other Projects: 
   2,000,000 to Zebra Technologies of Warwick for Naval Warfare Center Asset Visibility Business Process Improvements: 
   Senator Chafee has secure these critical funds to help Zebra Technologies provide for the Naval Air Warfare Center Asset Visibility Business Process Improvement (NAWC AV BPI) , which supports the Department of the Navy's Enterprise Transformation initiatives, including "Sea Enterprise" and "Enterprise Resource Planning." The Navy has committed to transformation of its business processes to make them more effective, efficient, and affordable. The Navy needs to continue to test, evaluate, and accelerate the transformation process. The Navy is planning to evaluate and test the NAWC AV BPI, simultaneously inserting Automatic Identification Technology (AIT), primarily passive Radio Frequency Identification (pRFID), at inventory and repair facilities, and specifically at NAWCs where it is working with industry to provide aircraft avionics, air-launched weapons, and other aviation equipment related to Navy and Marine Corps air power. 
   The funds will help build on prior year Congressional efforts to accelerate implementation of Radio Frequency Identification technology to improve the Navy's supply chain management system, and will help advance the goal expressed in the recently released Quadrennial Defense Review, which spoke of the Defense Department's focus "on improving visibility into supply chain logistics costs and performance 
   $1,950,000 for New England Manufacturing Supply Chain (NEMSC): The NEMSC works with small and medium manufacturers in New England to build their capacity to supply equipment and products to the DOD. By tapping the vastly underutilized capacity of these small and medium sized firms to meet the growing needs of the defense industry, this is an important step in rebuilding our nation's supply chain capability. 
   $1,200,000 for Undersea Perimeter Security Interoperable Detection (UPSIDE): This funding would be used enhance the development of a prototype undersea detection, classification, and response system to address water-borne threats made against critical shorefront infrastructure. The program will focus with specific emphasis on protecting U.S. Naval and defense facilities located in Rhode Island and Connecticut, to ensure the security of these sites and the security of the residents of these areas. 
   The prototype, developed largely with fiscal year 2006 funding that Senator Chafee secured, would be used by the Integrated Coastal ocean management and emergency system and the University of Rhode Island Center of Excellence in Undersea Technology, to design develop, test, and implement a robust undersea security and force protection system. This project will bring three key elements - academia (through University of Rhode Island), public expertise and evaluation (through the Naval Undersea Warfare Center). 
   * $1,800,000 to BAE Systems of Newport for Improved Submarine thin-line towed array and array hander reliability 
   * $1,600,000 to Textron for Guided Dispenser System for Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicles 
   * $1,400,000 to Applied Radar, Inc. of North Kingstown for Wideband Digital Airborne Electronic Sensing Array 
   * $1,350,000 to Matrix, Inc. of East Providence for Near-Hermetic Packaging and Interconnection Technology for Electronic and Optoelectronic Subsystems 
   * $1,000,000 for Anteon of Middletown for Command and Control Web Based Architecture 
   For more information on these projects, please contact Senator Chafee's office at 202-224-4913.
 
 