SEN. CHAFEE'S LANDMARK BREAST CANCER LEGISLATION HEADS TO SENATE
  Today, landmark legislation to combat breast cancer was unanimously approved by the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP). 
   Authored by U.S. Senator Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), S. 757, The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act, provides federal funding for research into the environmental causes of breast cancer. The legislation has been hailed by breast cancer advocacy groups as critical to defeat this disease, which is the second leading cause of cancer deaths in women.  
   "This is a great first step in the enactment of legislation that holds the promise for a better understanding of the causes of breast cancer, breakthroughs in prevention and treatment, and ultimately a cure," said Senator Lincoln Chafee (R-RI). "For many years, scientists have researched the genetic variations that can lead to breast cancer, but the environmental causes have largely been ignored. The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act will allow us to gather this important evidence on what environmental factors may trigger the onset of breast cancer before we come to conclusions, and it will arm women with the scientific data they need to stay healthy and cancer-free. I hope the commitment of those who worked to approve this legislation in the committee will bring this bill to the forefront of women's health issues in Congress." 
   Members of the National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) praised Chafee's efforts to move this bill forward: 
   "We are grateful for Senator Chafee's long-standing commitment to this landmark breast cancer legislation and his ongoing leadership on breast cancer public policy. It is time for a national strategy to address the connection between the environment and the development of breast cancer. Now, thanks in large part to the key efforts of Senator Chafee, the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act will help us discover the causes of breast cancer, and gain the knowledge needed to prevent it, treat it more effectively, and hopefully, eradicate this disease," said Fran Visco, President of NBCC. 
   Marlene McCarthy, co-founder and Chair of the Rhode Island Breast Cancer Coalition, added: "Senator Chafee has been an incredible leader on this bill. He has been tenacious and it is because of his commitment to this grassroots initiative of the National Breast Cancer Coalition that this legislation has passed." 
   This legislation would, for the first time, create a national strategy to address this important issue. Specifically, it would authorize the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to award grants for the development and operation of multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional research centers focused on the environmental factors that may be related to the development of breast cancer. The program would be peer-reviewed and would also include representatives from community organizations. 
   The bill would authorize $30 million in Fiscal Years 2007-2012 for the research grants. 
   With the exception of skin cancer, breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer among women in the United States and worldwide. Approximately 3 million women in the United States are living with breast cancer, 2.3 million of whom have been diagnosed and an estimated 1 million who do not yet know that they have the disease. 
   In 2006, it is estimated that 274,900 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed among women in the United States, 212,920 cases of which will involve invasive breast cancer and 61,980 cases of which will involve ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death for women in the Unites States between the ages of 20 and 59. Approximately 40,970 women in the United States die from the disease in 2006. 
   Chafee noted that breast cancer is a particularly urgent issue for Rhode Island. According to Chafee, the American Cancer Society estimates that 780 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed this year in Rhode Island. Another 150 Rhode Island women will die of breast cancer this year. 
   Scientists have long recognized that environmental factors - such as diet, pesticides, and electromagnetic fields - play a significant role in determining who will contract breast cancer. Unfortunately, due to difficulties in correlating environmental factors with specific instances of breast cancer, this important area has remained underfunded and understudied. The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act would provide the first congressionally mandated study of potential environmental risk factors of breast cancer. 
   Senator Chafee has been a leading advocate of breast cancer research since his arrival to the Senate in 1999. For his efforts, the National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) recognized him for his "Outstanding Leadership in the Fight Against Breast Cancer" in 2001, 2004, and 2005. In 2005 NBCC also awarded him its certificate of Excellence "in recognition of [his] perfect score in the National Breast Cancer Coalition's Voting Record for the 108th Congress." In November 2004, the Avon Foundation honored Senator Chafee as a "Pink Ribbon Crusader," in recognition of his "exemplary support of the breast cancer cause."
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 