SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES $390,000 TO CLEAN UP CONTAMINATED SITES
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee has announced that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will award the Rhode Island Economic Development Corporation (RIEDC) $390,000 for additional capitalization of its Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund (RLF). This funding will enable RIEDC to provide low-interest loans and subgrants for cleanup activities at brownfields sites statewide.  
   The EPA's Brownfields Program is designed to empower states, communities and other stakeholders in economic development to work together to prevent, assess, safely clean up and sustainably reuse brownfields. A brownfields site is real property, the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse of which may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. 
   The program was created by legislation authored by Senator Chafee and signed into law by President Bush in 2002. Senator Chafee's legislation provided increased funding for brownfields and included important liability relief for those parties involved in economic redevelopment of brownfield sites. 
   "I am pleased to hear of this award, which will enable RIEDC to provide municipalities and nonprofits with the right combination of incentives to encourage brownfield redevelopment in Rhode Island, preserving the historic character of town centers, and promoting smart economic growth," Senator Chafee said. "While many old manufacturing sites across Rhode Island have been identified as ripe for redevelopment, the State's revolving loan fund is nearly depleted. There is great demand for assistance with brownfields cleanups, and this grant will jump-start projects in municipalities that are having difficulty securing such funding on their own," he continued. 
   "The remediation of blighted properties is a critical element of RIEDC's redevelopment strategy, and I hope that EPA will continue to be supportive of this effort." 
   In the past, RIEDC has demonstrated the RLF program can be a great success. Using its $1.7 million RLF Pilot grant, RIEDC made a $700,000 loan to Save the Bay to remediate the Field's Point site in Providence, on which the organization constructed its Explore the Bay Education Center and new headquarters building. The building was the winner of the Phoenix Award for excellence in brownfields redevelopment. 
   In 2003, RIEDC was awarded a $3 million RLF grant, with an additional $600,000 awarded in 2004. Due to this allocation, loans and subgrants totalling $900,000 were awarded to the non-profit West Elmwood Housing Development Corporation to remediate the former Rau Fasteners Mill Complex in South Providence, which was redeveloped as Westfield Lofts. Senator Chafee visited the Lofts in 2005, which included mixed-income housing, artists' work/live lofts, commercial space, and a child care center. 
   Subgrants were also made to the Pawtucket Armory Association to remediate the historic Pawtucket Armory, formerly used by the National Guard. The Armory is being redeveloped as an arts education and performance center. Additionally, funds from previous grants have been committed to other important projects, such as the Riverside Mill project, which is run by the nonprofit Olneyville Housing Corporation.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 