SEN. CHAFEE AMENDMENT ADDS KEY NUCLEAR PROTECTIONS TO U.S.-INDIA TRADE AGREEMENT
  Today, an amendment offered by Sen. Lincoln Chafee (R-RI) to legislation implementing the U.S. - India civilian nuclear energy agreement was approved by the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, of which Chafee is a senior member. Chafee's amendment expresses the will of Congress that U.S. exports of nuclear fuel to India should not contribute to, or in any way encourage, increases in the production of nuclear material for non-civilian purposes. 
   The U.S. - India agreement allows India to receive nuclear fuel, technology, and reactors from the United States - benefits that were previously denied because of its status outside the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). Today, by a vote of 16-2, the Committee approved legislation which would implement this agreement by making an exemption to the NPT. The Chafee amendment was unanimously agreed to by a voice vote. Chafee hailed the amendment as a pragmatic, bipartisan approach to address concerns about nuclear weapons proliferation.  
   "My amendment sends a clear message that the policy of the United States is not to in any way, directly or indirectly, assist India's weapons program," Chafee said at today's hearing. "I think it is important that we state clearly that we are living up to our non-proliferation commitments. The United States needs to make abundantly clear that this nuclear cooperation agreement is not meant to ease India's uranium crunch and facilitate weapons productions. No one wants the import of fuel to open the way for India to shift domestic uranium out of its energy program and use it to construct more weapons. We will need to work hard in the future to ensure that these are not just words, but represent the will and action of the United States," he continued 
  Chafee has been active in efforts to press for an equitable deal while ensuring the safety of the United States and its allies. Chafee has attended briefings with President Bush, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Undersecretaries of State Nick Burns and Bob Joseph and other high ranking officials to discuss this important legislation, which he has cosponsored. 
   The following are excerpts from Senator Chafee's opening statement from the hearing: 
   "The nuclear agreement with India, coupled with the other trade and cooperation initiatives signed in July, 2005, represent a major step forward in the relationship between the United States and India. I think strengthening this relationship is good for the United States and good for India and I welcome it. India is a world power, with a growing and dynamic economy and an enormous population located in a strategic part of the world. A warm relationship is a goal I heartily endorse. 
   However, I am a strong supporter of efforts to curb the spread of nuclear weapons. India is a country that is not a party to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT), and has demonstrated that it has developed nuclear weapons. Not only must we be concerned about India's behavior, we need to worry about the effect this will have on the multi-lateral non-proliferation regime, which has been very successful in curbing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. By creating a special exemption for India, we do not want to give cause to countries that have given up their quest for nuclear weapons in exchange for civilian nuclear cooperation to rethink that critical decision. 
   The U.S.-Indian nuclear cooperation proposal has been subjected to intensive congressional scrutiny, House and Senate hearings, and frequent consultations with Bush Administration officials and arms control experts representing both sides of this issue. I have found this process and the accompanying debate helpful. I have been encouraged by India's largely responsible behavior, even though it is not party to the NPT, in efforts to curb proliferation. I think through careful diplomacy and effort we can begin the process of bringing India into the nuclear non-proliferation regime while working with other important countries so that they adhere to their commitments to not develop weapons. 
   I congratulate Chairman Lugar and Ranking Member Biden and their staffs for their work in crafting this mark. They have tackled a difficult issue with care and concern. They have preserved the existing structure of our domestic non-proliferations laws, including a strong oversight for Congress. They have strived to find the balance between moving this initiative forward and attending to the significant proliferation concerns that exist. I believe they have by and large achieved that balance, and thus I will be supporting the Lugar-Biden mark. 
   As I said, I still have concerns. I would very much like to see progress on a multi-lateral and/or a regional fissile material cut off treaty. I want to see stringent monitoring to ensure that India does not simply shift domestic uranium out of their energy program, once they are able to import fuel, and use it to construct more weapons. I want to see clarification that if India were to violate its commitments - such as by detonating a device, or proliferating weapons or technology - the US-India Civilian Nuclear Agreement be terminated, the export licenses revoked, and to the extent possible, materials, such as fuel and spent fuel, returned. 
   India is an important country and a responsible country. I would expect that it will live up to its commitments. But we are amending our laws, and I think it makes sense to try to address these issues in a long-term manner. As such we need to ensure our commitment to nonproliferation is protected."
 
 