SEN. CHAFEE'S BLACKSTONE LEGISLATION HEADS TO PRESIDENT FOR SIGNATURE
  Today, Sen. Lincoln Chafee's legislation to reauthorize the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor for five more years passed the Senate and is headed to the President's desk for signature. The bill has been approved by both the House and Senate as part of S. 203, a package of legislation relating to programs of the Department of the Interior. The Blackstone provision was included at the request of Senate leaders at the urging of Sen. Chafee. The measure passed the House on July 24, 2006. 
   "For nearly twenty years, the Blackstone Valley Corridor Commission has worked with the National Park Service to clean up, revitalize, and preserve this historic land and river. Today marks another historic day for the Blackstone Heritage Corridor, as it will continue to be a thriving source of tourism and historical education. Further, the passage of this legislation will yield the completion of the Blackstone Bikeway, a 46 mile bike path which provides exercise and enjoyment to our citizens. It will preserve the jobs of those employed by the project, and, importantly, continue the clean up of the Blackstone River and protection of its watershed," said Senator Lincoln Chafee, who authored the legislation."  
   The John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor Reauthorization Act of 2005, has received the strong support of Governor Donald Carcieri and Dr. Michael Sullivan, Director of the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management (DEM). Sullivan testified before the National Parks Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources along with Don Murphy, Deputy Director of the National Park Service (NPS). 
   Lawrence D. Gall, Executive Director of the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor was delighted to hear the news of the reauthorization: "This is a red-letter day for the Blackstone River Valley and its residents. Thanks to our bi-state Congressional delegation, we now have a mandate to complete the vision of the late Senator John Chafee in establishing the national heritage corridor twenty years ago. In going back to Congress for reauthorization the Commission faced a terrific uphill battle this time around. I can say without a moment's hesitation that without Senator Lincoln Chafee this could not have happened. He was uniquely positioned to make our case to the Senate leadership, and I watched him work tirelessly and steadily to shepherd this bill through to enactment. I know I speak for all the Commissioners and staff in expressing our gratitude to the Senator for what he has accomplished for us and for the citizens of the Blackstone Valley." 
   "Blackstone is widely recognized as the Birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution. It was in the Blackstone Valley for the first time in America that the power of water was successfully harnessed for the industrial production of cotton yarn by Samuel Slater in 1793. . .Its influence shaped the history of American free enterprise, labor, immigration and ethnicity, and management of the environment. It has worked hard and created a connectedness and linkage for the region," said Sullivan. 
   During his tenure in the Senate, Senator Chafee has been a constant supporter of the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor, securing over $34.5 Million for cleanup, operations, and construction as well as for completion of the Blackstone River Bikeway, an eighteen-mile bicycle and pedestrian facility along the Blackstone River between Providence and Woonsocket. This beautiful recreational facility connects historic sites, municipal centers, state and local parks, recreational facilities, and scenic locations within Corridor. This path provides Rhode Islanders with a safe, efficient, and continuous facility that encourages bicycle riding as an alternate means of transportation.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 