RHODE ISLAND RECEIVES MILLIONS IN SPORT FISH AND WILDLIFE RESTORATION FUNDING
  Rhode Island will receive millions in sport fish and wildlife restoration grants, Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced today. Distributed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), a total of $4,884,192 will be given to Rhode Island to support conservation and education programs throughout the state. As Chairman of the Fisheries, Wildlife, and Water Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW), which has jurisdiction over FWS grant programs, Sen. Chafee introduced legislation last year which ensured a portion of these funds would continue flowing to the states this year.  
   The sport fish and wildlife restoration monies will support conservation efforts in Rhode Island focusing on fish and wildlife monitoring, habitat improvement, acquisition of land for habitat conservation and species protection, research, education, and other programs. The funds also help pay for hunter safety, aquatic education, and fish and wildlife-related recreation projects. 
   "Preserving, protecting, and increasing habitats that sustain fish and wildlife in Rhode Island is one of my primary concerns, and I am pleased that this critical funding has been allocated to serve this purpose," Senator Chafee said. "Allocating funding beneficial to hunters and fisherman as well as for efforts to monitor and protect species will allow for a continued and beneficial coexistence between recreation and the prosperity of Rhode Island's fish and wildlife resources," he continued. 
   Of the total funding, Rhode Island will receive $2,908,477 from the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration account, which will be used to stock fish, acquire and improve sport fish habitat, provide aquatic resource education opportunities, conduct fisheries research, and construct boat ramps, fishing piers, and other facilities necessary to provide recreational boating access. Revenue is generated for this account by the collection of excise taxes and import duties on sport fishing equipment and tackle, motorboat and small engine fuels and pleasure boats. Funds are distributed to the states based on the land and water area and the number of fishing license holders in each state. 
   In addition, $1,372,361 will be allocated from the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Fund for fiscal year 2006. Funded by the collection of excise taxes and import duties on firearms, ammunition, and archery equipment, Rhode Island will use this money to manage wildlife populations by conducting habitat research, surveys, and inventories, as well as to administer hunter education programs. Funds are distributed based on land area and the number of hunting license holders in each state. 
   Finally, the remaining $603,354 will be distributed under the State Wildlife Grants (SWG) program. The allocation will be used to protect and preserve natural habitats supporting rare and unique species via land acquisition. The Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management, which recently completed a Rhode Island Comprehensive Wildlife Conservation Plan as required under the SWG Program, will be responsible for the distribution of the monies. This grant will add to previously awarded funding which RIDEM will use to implement the Rhode Island Wildlife Conservation Plan including such activities as land acquisition. Currently, the RIDEM has received approximately $3.1 million in funds as part of the State Wildlife Grant program.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 