SEN. CHAFEE OPENS PAWTUCKET LAYOVER FACILITY
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee today joined state and local officials and transportation officials to celebrate the opening of the new Pawtucket Layover Facility off Route 95. Sen. Chafee was instrumental in securing $10.5 million in the fiscal year 2001, 2002 and 2003 Transportation Appropriations bills to help finance the project that made it possible for the MBTA to expand commuter rail service south of Providence.  
   Senator Chafee was joined by officials from the Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT), Massachusetts Bay Commuter Rail, and Federal Transit Administration. 
   "The relocation of this layover facility to Pawtucket is a win-win for the commuters of Rhode Island, for residents of the Oak Hill neighborhood in Attleboro, and, in the future, for passengers utilizing the new train stations in Warwick and Wickford," said Senator Chafee. "I am pleased that I could help bring these federal funds to Rhode Island to allow RIDOT to fulfill its part of the Pilgrim Partnership and extend MBTA commuter train service throughout our state." 
   In May 1998 the governors of Rhode Island and Massachusetts signed an agreement to increase commuter rail service to Rhode Island. The agreement included a commitment from the MBTA to serve the Warwick Station when it is operational and to explore a rail extension to Wickford. In March 2001, RIDOT signed an agreement with Massachusetts to extend rail service to Providence for an additional five years. In exchange, RIDOT agreed to fund 80% of the construction cost for the Pawtucket layover facility. 
   "The MBTA provides a vital service to the rail passengers of Rhode Island, "noted Senator Chafee. "One of the reasons I worked so hard to secure funding for this project is that it will allow the MBTA to service the Warwick Intermodal Facility and further expand service to the proposed train station in Wickford, " Chafee stated. 
   Construction on the project began in May 2003 and yard work was completed last spring. Amtrak is currently installing the lead-in tracks and interlockings off its main line. When completed this summer, the six-track rail yard will be used for overnight layover/storage of commuter rail equipment. It is initially being built with light service capability and is designed to accommodate two additional tracks and a small maintenance area. 
   "Whether it is commuting to Boston for work, going to see the Red Sox on the weekends, or taking the special trains to Gillette Stadium for the Patriots' games, it is truly exciting to see commuter rail expand in Rhode Island," Chafee concluded. 
   The Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT) acquired the nine acre site from the Pawtucket Redevelopment Agency in 1998. The parcel is landlocked between Route 95 and the Amtrak main line and has deeded access rights for railroad purposes only.
   Contact: Debbie Rich, 401/453-5071.
 
 