SEN. CHAFEE JOINS SBA IN ANNOUNCING DECISION TO OFFER DISASTER RELIEF TO FOUR RHODE ISLAND COUNTIES
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee today joined with Gov. Donald Carcieri, SBA Rhode Island District Director Mark Hayward and other members of the Congressional Delegation to announce the decision of the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to offer physical and economic disaster relief to thousands of small businesses and homeowners across Rhode Island. These funds will be available to Rhode Islanders who incurred damage as a result of widespread flooding in October 2005. 
   At events today in Cranston and Cumberland, the SBA announced that Kent, Providence, Bristol, and Washington Counties would be eligible for both physical and economic relief, in addition to Connecticut's New London and Windham Counties and Bristol, Norfolk, and Worcester Counties in Massachusetts.
   Senator Chafee was at the forefront of this request for assistance, writing to SBA Administrator Hector V. Barreto on October 17 to ask for a disaster declaration to "ensure that affected businesses have access to capital as they recover in the aftermath of this disaster." Additionally, he wrote a letter to President George W. Bush asking for assistance in this matter.
   "The decision by the SBA to make low-interest loans available to those affected by the October flooding is welcome news for homeowners, renters, and business owners in these areas," Senator Chafee said. "As a result of flooding, the resources of our state were severely strained, adversely affecting a number of businesses throughout the region, forcing many to temporarily lay off employees. I am very pleased that the SBA has decided to offer this assistance, and I encourage all who may have been affected by the flooding to apply," he continued.
   Renters and homeowners will be offered loans of up to $40,000 to repair or replace personal property such as furniture and clothing damaged by flooding. Additionally, homeowners are eligible for up to $200,000 in loans to repair disaster-damaged primary residences. Furthermore, $1.5 million in loans is available to businesses and non-profit organizations for the repair of damage to real estate, machinery, equipment and inventory. Economic Injury Disaster Loans are also available to small businesses unable to pay bills or meet operating expenses.
   Interest rates are as low as 2.687 percent for renters and homeowners and 4 percent for businesses, with terms up to 30 years. Loan amounts and terms are set by SBA and are based upon each applicant's financial condition.
   To assist disaster victims, SBA is opening a temporary Disaster Loan Assistance Center in the SBA District Office, 380 Westminster Street, Room 511, in Providence. The Center will open on Friday, January 27 at noon and will remain open Monday through Friday, between 8:00 and 4:30 p.m., until further notice.
   Anyone unable to visit the Disaster Loan Assistance Center may obtain applications by calling the SBA Disaster Assistance National Customer Service Center at 1-800-659- 2955 (for the hearing-impaired 1-800-877-8339); Monday through Saturday from 8:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. EST. Applications may be obtained, completed and returned to the Disaster Loan Assistance Center or mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, National Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, Texas 76155.
   The deadline for physical damage applications is March 27, 2006; the deadline for economic injury applications is October 26, 2006.
   For more information about the SBA's Disaster Loan Programs visit its website at www.sba.gov/disaster
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 