SEN. CHAFEE, PROVIDENCE MAYOR CICILLINE ANNOUNCE SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENT IN FUTURE OWNERSHIP OF FOX POINT HURRICANE BARRIER
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee today joined Providence Mayor David N. Cicilline to announce that he has spearheaded language in the Senate version of the Supplemental Appropriations Bill (H.R. 4939) that will provide authority for the Army Corps of Engineers to operate and maintain the Fox Point Hurricane Barrier. The bill now heads to a conference with the House of Representatives.  
   "Inclusion of this language is the first step in an important process of winning Congressional approval for the transfer of the Hurricane Barrier over to the federal government," said Senator Chafee. 
   Senator Chafee introduced the legislation after Mayor Cicilline's testimony at an April 20th field hearing held in Providence by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security to assess Rhode Island's readiness for the upcoming hurricane season. Mayor Cicilline testified that there was an urgent need to transfer responsibility for the annual operation and maintenance from the City of Providence to the Army Corps of Engineers to ensure the barrier is properly maintained. 
   "This legislation would provide critical relief to our residents on two fronts," said Mayor Cicilline. "It would ensure that our primary defense against hurricanes would have the full resources of the U.S. government and it would relieve Providence taxpayers of the hundreds of thousands of dollars they shoulder each year to maintain this regional asset. The Fox Point Hurricane Barrier protects hundreds of businesses, thousands of jobs and the state's transportation hub." 
   The Fox Point Hurricane Barrier was completed in 1966 after Hurricane Carol hit the city in 1954. Today, it protects an estimated $2 billion worth of infrastructure, including homes, businesses, and the seats of city, state and federal government in downtown Providence. 
   "While several years have gone by since a massive hurricane has hit our region, the very existence of this barrier is an indication of the power of these storms in the past. As Hurricane Katrina has shown us, we must be constantly diligent and prepared for the power of hurricanes and their associated storm surges," Chafee stated. 
   "I am pleased with the inclusion of the transfer language and for an amendment inserted by Senator Reed to provide funds to complete repairs of the Barrier's electro-mechanical system. I am committed to maintaining both of these provisions, whether in the Supplemental or future legislation," Chafee concluded.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167. 
 
 