RHODE ISLAND CITIES, TOWNS TO RECEIVE OVER $300,000 TO PREVENT, CONTROL CRIME
  Seven of Rhode Island's cities and towns have been awarded grants to support crime prevention and control, Sen. Lincoln Chafee announced today. Pawtucket, Woonsocket, Cranston, Warwick, East Providence, North Providence, and Johnston will receive funds totaling $326,219 under the 2005 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program. The cities and towns can use the funding to support a broad range of activities designed to curb criminal activity based on their local needs and conditions. Funds can be used to provide technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for various programs, including law enforcement, prosecution, prevention and education, as well as drug treatment and other rehabilitation programs. 
   "The funding being allocated is essential in providing these cities and towns with the means to update, maintain, and supplement programs and equipment designed to prevent criminal activity and increase the safety of their communities," Senator Chafee said. "With these awards, operations will improve effectiveness, jobs will be created, and state of the art equipment will put to use - and the flexibility of this assistance program is the major reason why many have benefited from this award in many different ways."
   Of the award, the Pawtucket Police Department will receive $98,246 to support the Community Policing and Narcotic Units programs, allowing several vital programs to continue. In addition, the Woonsocket Police Department will use its $63,173 award to upgrade outdated computer software, pay overtime, and support community policing through crime various prevention programs.
   The city of Cranston has been allocated $47,538 to purchase vehicles for the Cranston Police Department, which will improve law enforcement response to incidents in the communities they serve. $45,637 will be awarded to the Warwick Police Department to replace outdated laptops that are currently service, enabling a fully operational patrol fleet.
   Additionally, the city of East Providence will upgrade and service the hardware and software that currently compromise the information and operating systems of its Police Department. This will improve operational effectiveness, safety, and the services provided to the citizens of East Providence. They are being awarded $33,066.
   The North Providence Police Department will receive $19,332 for maintenance of recently upgraded technological capabilities in its squad cars, which maintains and processes all tickets, arrests, reports, and connects to the Rhode Island fingerprint database, allowing for the immediate processing of fingerprints to prevent and control crime. Finally, the Johnston Police Department will use its $19,227 to train all sworn personnel to respond to an active shooter situation without the aide of a SWAT team or special service unit.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 