SEN. CHAFEE, FORMER CHAIRMAN OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE GREENSPAN DISCUSS RISING GLOBAL DEMAND FOR OIL
  Today, in a hearing held by the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Sen. Lincoln Chafee questioned witness Alan Greenspan about the future of oil prices, and its relationship with the rising demand for oil across the globe. The hearing, titled Oil Independence and Economic Risk, featured testimony from Dr. Greenspan, the former Chairman of the Federal Reserve.  
   Chafee questioned Greenspan about the future likelihood of higher gas prices, in light of the growing demand for oil by developing nations such as China and India. Greenspan called Chafee's line of questioning important, agreeing with the Senator that increasing worldwide demand for oil, combined with diminished potential U.S. reserves, has all but eliminated U.S. influence on the global price of oil. 
   "I believe that reduction of our dependence on foreign oil for the long term can only be accomplished by developing alternatives to petroleum, and becoming more efficient in using the petroleum we consume," Senator Chafee said. 
   "Current oil prices over time should lower to some extent our worrisome dependence on petroleum. Still higher oil prices will inevitably move vehicle transportation to hybrids, and despite the inconvenience, plug-in hybrids," Greenspan said in his testimony. "With those developments, oil in the years ahead will remain an important element of our energy future, but it need no longer to be the dominant player," Greenspan continued. 
   "Since coming to the Senate, I have consistently supported common-sense policies to decrease domestic demand for oil, whether by increasing the supply of alternative energy, or by increasing energy efficiency," Chafee continued. "These initiatives, such as a much-needed increase in Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards, have been consistently defeated. Last July, I voted against the energy bill because it did not do nearly enough to set us on the path to energy security." 
   Chafee added: "More recently, I have cosponsored S. 2025, the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act. This bill would require the government to develop a plan to reduce our oil consumption by 2.5 million barrels of oil a day within a decade, and 10 million barrels a day by 2031. It calls for fuel-economy standards for heavy-duty vehicles, loan guarantees for manufacturers of hybrids, and incentives for alternative-fuels development and mass-transit systems. I am also a cosponsor of S.2747, the Enhanced Energy Security Act of 2006, which contains many of the same provisions as S. 2025, as well as including Renewable Portfolio Standards (or RPS). 
   These types of initiatives will help decrease U.S. consumption of oil, which will result in a more stable U.S. economy, less pollution, and importantly, less money going into the coffers of countries that may not necessarily have our best interests at heart."
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167. 
 
 