SEN. CHAFEE ANNOUNCES GRANTS FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE COALITIONS IN RHODE ISLAND
  Sen. Lincoln Chafee has received notice from the U.S. Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women that two Rhode Island organizations will receive separate grants in the amount of $85,457. Allocated as part of the Grants to State Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence Coalitions Program, the funds have been awarded to the Rhode Island Coalition Against Domestic Violence (RICADV) and the Sexual Assault Trauma Resource Center of Rhode Island (SATRC). 
   "These awards will serve to improve the capabilities and services available to those who have been the victim of sexual assault and domestic abuse," Senator Chafee said. "It is very important to make sure that these victims are educated as to the services available so they can benefit from the wide range of programs Rhode Island has in place to ensure proper treatment."
   RICADV is dedicated to ending domestic violence in Rhode Island. The coalition will use the award to improve coordination of statewide coalition member activities and programs, such as meetings and trainings. Additionally, it will disseminate information to facilitate communication and coordination of services to victims, while enhancing public awareness of domestic violence through a statewide media campaign. Additionally, RICADV will also strengthen collaborations with local and statewide allied professionals through participation on task forces to improve services to victims.
   As the sole agency in the state organized specifically to deal with issues of sexual assault and trauma, SATRC uses a comprehensive range of services, including intervention, treatment, education, and prevention. The coalition will use this award to identify needs and gaps in services for victims of sexual assault, improving victim response statewide. SATRC will also enhance collaborations of sexual assault stakeholders and partners to address service needs and areas of concern, and also to develop policies and protocols that effectively address the needs of sexual assault victims. Funds will also be devoted to increasing public awareness of sexual violence services available to victims.
   Contact: Stephen Hourahan, 202/224-6167.
 
 