SENATE APPROVES SEN. FEINSTEIN MEASURE TO STUDY 'RIM OF THE VALLEY' ADDITION TO SANTA MONICA MOUNTAINS NATIONAL RECREATION AREA
  The Senate today approved a measure sponsored by U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) that would direct the U.S. Department of the Interior to study the possibility of adding the "Rim of the Valley" corridor to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. 
   "The bill approved by the Senate today brings us one step closer to connecting Los Angeles area residents to vast open spaces and miles of trails located in the foothills of Southern California's mountains," Senator Feinstein said. "The Rim of the Valley corridor is home to a fragile chaparral ecosystem and includes a broad range of local wildlife, including mountain lions, bobcats, and golden eagles. So, it's important that we continue to work towards protecting this important natural habitat."
   The measure, which is co-sponsored by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), was included in the comprehensive public lands package approved by the Senate today. Companion legislation, sponsored by Representative Adam Schiff (D-Pasadena), was approved by the House in December 2007. The comprehensive package will require approval by the House before it can go to the President for his signature.
   The Rim of the Valley corridor connects to the adjacent Los Padres and Angeles National Forests, and encircles the San Fernando, La Crescenta, Simi, Conejo and Santa Clarita valleys. It also encompasses parts of the Santa Monica, Santa Susanna, San Gabriel and Verdugo mountains, and the San Rafael Hills.
   Creating a single, contiguous Rim of the Valley trail would allow people to enjoy greater access to existing trails in the Recreation Area.
   The Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, created by act of Congress in 1978, is the world's largest urban park, ranging from the Pacific Ocean east to the Ventura Freeway. It is overseen by the National Park Service.
   If this legislation is passed, Congress would hold true to its original commitment to preserving the scenic, natural and historic setting of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area.
   The comprehensive public lands measure approved today by the Senate will require approval by the House before it can go to the President for his signature. It is expected that the House will pass the legislation soon.
 
 