$5.6 MILLION COMING FOR HUMBOLDT COUNTY LEVEES
  The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Governor's Office of Emergency Services (OES) have committed more than $5.6 million toward the repair of Humboldt County's Arcata and Jackson levees damaged during the severe storms and flooding of late 2005 and early 2006, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) announced today. 
   "At the onset of this year, the Arcata and Jackson levees in Humboldt County sustained severe storm damage that desperately required a speedy response," Senator Feinstein said. "With FEMA's approval of a $5.6 million grant, California will be able to move forward with the repair process and return the levees to their original conditions."
   The $5,641,818 grant announced today was made available under the FEMA/OES Public Assistance (PA) Program. The grant will fund engineering services, debris removal, new rock slope protection and other efforts to repair damages to the two levees and bring them back to pre-disaster conditions.
   In December 2005 and January 2006, high tides and winds in excess of 90 mph combined to compromise the integrity of the Aracta and Jackson levees, located north and south of State Route 255, in Arcata. As a result of the storms and flooding, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger proclaimed a state of emergency for 31 counties and requested federal disaster help. 
   President Bush declared a major disaster for the 31 counties, making 13 eligible for disaster assistance to renters, homeowner and businesses of all sizes, and 30 counties eligible for reimbursements under the PA Program. 
   The PA Program provides reimbursements to state and local government agencies and certain non-profits providing government-like services for eligible, disaster-related expenses associated with debris removal, emergency protective measures, and repair and restoration of damaged infrastructure. Seventy-five percent of the PA program is funded by FEMA, 18.75 percent by the State of California, and the remainder is provided by local governments.
 
 