SEN. FEINSTEIN ISSUES STATEMENT ON NEW EFFORTS TO CRACK DOWN ON METH IN NORTHERN CALIFORNIA
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today welcomed plans by the Drug Enforcement Administration to bolster its efforts to crack down on methamphetamine and other illegal drugs in Northern California. The following is a statement by Sen. Feinstein:  
   "The decision by the DEA to increase the number of agents in Redding is an important step forward in the fight against the growing scourge of methamphetamine. I want to personally thank DEA Administrator Karen Tandy for increasing the number of agents from two to five, which paves the way for the creation of a Resident Office in Redding. 
   I have long supported bringing locating DEA Agents to Redding to help local law enforcement deal with the methamphetamine problem in the North State. I first requested the DEA to accelerate opening a field office in 2000, which led to two agents being assigned to Redding in June of 2002. 
   Last December, I met with the Shasta County Methamphetamine Task Force, where I was briefed on methamphetamine and other drug trafficking problems that continue to plague the North State. I was asked and am happy to support increasing the number of agents in the Redding Office. 
   These agents will work with the State and local law enforcement agencies to combat the production and trafficking of methamphetamine as well as other illegal drugs in Shasta County and throughout Northern California. 
   California produces about 80% of the methamphetamine consumed nationwide making it a "source country" and Northern California has unique drug problems. I am told that drug trafficking organizations are moving or expanding their operations into the more rural areas in the northern part of our state.
   Last month, the DEA along with the California Multi-jurisdictional Methamphetamine Enforcement Team (CALMMET) and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Branch teamed up and confiscated about 13 pounds of methamphetamine in Tehama County that originally came out of the Bay Area. 
   The El Paso Intelligence Center reports that about 249 meth labs were seized in Northern California, many of which are small "mom and pop" labs located in Butte County. Labs operated by larger organizations are moving to Shasta and Tehama County so they can be close to the I-5 corridor.
   The Shasta Interagency Task Force reports that over 27,000 grams of methamphetamine have been seized since 2002. This is straining local law enforcement and prevention efforts to address this serious problem. 
   It is my hope that increasing the number of DEA agents in Redding will stem the tide of methamphetamine production and other drug trafficking in Northern California. I appreciate what the DEA has done so far and encourage them to move quickly to fill these positions so we can get to work."
 
 