SENATE APPROVES SEN. FEINSTEIN BILL TO ADD 25,500 ACRES TO REDWOOD NATIONAL PARK
  The Senate today approved legislation sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) to add 25,500 acres of land known as the Mill Creek property, to Redwood National Park in Del Norte County. Companion legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Representatives Mike Thompson (D-Calif.).  
   "The Mill Creek property was purchased from a lumber company two years ago in an historic effort to conserve this redwood forest, provide watershed protection for the primeval forests of Jedediah Smith Redwoods State Park, and protect critical habitat of the wild coho salmon," Senator Feinstein said. "Today, we go one step further. This legislation builds upon the efforts made two years ago and would ensure that this land is protected for all time." 
   In 2002, the California Department of Parks and Recreation acquired from the Save-the-Redwoods League 25,500 acres of forest land known as the Mill Creek property in Del Norte County, which is contiguous with the Redwood National and State parks boundary. Save-the-Redwoods League had previously purchased the land from Stimson Lumber Company of Portland, Oregon. 
   This bill would include within the park boundary the Mill Creek property and about 900 acres of land acquired and added to the State redwood parks since the 1978 expansion of the Redwood National Park boundary. There would be no Federal costs for land acquisition or development resulting from this legislation. 
   These lands will be managed by the same cooperative management agreement between the National Park Service and the California Department of Parks and Recreation. This partnership is viewed as a model of interagency cooperative management efforts and will provide for more efficient and cost-effective management of an ecologically significant resource. 
   This bill enjoys strong support from local and Federal officials, including Del Norte County and the Department of the Interior. 
   Senator Feinstein has long been an advocate for protecting redwood forests. Between 1995 and 1999, Senator Feinstein brought the Federal Government, the State of California, and the Pacific Lumber Company together and negotiated a compromise agreement that protects the Headwaters Forest, a 7,500-acre grove of ancient redwoods.
 
 