SENS. FEINSTEIN, BOXER URGE PRESIDENT TO APPROVE FEDERAL DISASTER DECLARATION FOR NORTHERN, CENTRAL CALIFORNIA COUNTIES
  Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) are urging President Bush to approve Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's request for federal disaster declaration for counties in Northern and Central California as soon as possible. These areas recently suffered severe storm damage, including nearly $70 million in damage to public facilities alone.  
   "The communities affected by the storms stand in serious need of federal assistance," the Senators wrote in a letter to President Bush. "We urge you to approve the Governor's full request as soon as possible to ensure those affected by this disaster get the assistance they need." 
   The following is the text of the letter Senators Feinstein and Boxer sent to President Bush: 
   May 12, 2006 
   President George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Mr. President, 
   We are writing to ask your expedited approval of Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger's federal disaster declaration request, dated May 10, 2006, for the counties affected by the recent severe storms in California. The communities affected by the storms stand in serious need of federal assistance, and I fully support the Governor's request. 
   Starting on March 29, 2006, and running through much of April, a series of heavy storms struck California bringing heavy rain, flooding, and widespread mudslides. California already experienced major storms earlier in the year, and this most recent spate of storms caused severe damage throughout Northern and Central California, including nearly $70 million in damage to public facilities alone. Based on the extent of the damage, Federal assistance is in dire need to help these communities recover and also prepare for future storms. 
   We respectfully urge you to approve the Governor's full request as quickly as possible. We appreciate your consideration in this matter and look forward to working with you in any way to ensure those affected by this disaster get the assistance they need. 
   Sincerely,
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator 
   Barbara Boxer
  United States Senator
 
 