SENATE WOMEN'S CAUCUS ON BURMA CALLS FOR RELEASE OF AUNG SAN SUU KYI, IMPROVED CONDITIONS FOR BURMESE WOMEN, GIRLS
  The Senate Women's Caucus on Burma, led by Co-Chairs Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), today called for the release of Burma's democratic leader Aung San Suu Kyi, and improved conditions for the women and girls of Burma. 
   Following is the text of the letter sent by the Senate Women's Caucus on Burma to Ibrahim Gambari, the UN Special Envoy to Burma:  
   March 11, 2008
   The Honorable Ibrahim Gambari
   Under-Secretary General of the United Nations
   for Political Affairs
   United Nations
   First Avenue at 46th Street
   New York, New York 10017
   Dear Mr. Gambari:
   On March 8, 2008, millions of people from around the world will gather to honor and pay tribute to the lives and accomplishments of women and girls on International Women's Day. 
   As you continue your efforts to push Burma's ruling State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) for a credible and inclusive dialogue on national reconciliation and restoration of democracy, we encourage you to mark International Women's Day by highlighting the plight of women and girls in Burma. 
   We urge you to call for:
   The immediate and unconditional release of Aung San Suu Kyi and all political prisoners, including the more than 130 women who were arrested during the Saffron Revolution;
   Greater participation by women in Burma's political process;
   The elimination of rape as an instrument of war and human trafficking and the arrest and prosecution of those who have condoned and committed such acts;
   Full access for the Red Cross to all Burmese prisons; and
   The removal of restrictions on international organizations who conduct health and other humanitarian assistance programs.
  As members of the United States Women's Caucus on Burma, we are saddened that our friend and sister, Aung San Suu Kyi, will spend the day under house arrest - and that the women of Burma will continue to face a sustained campaign of oppression and violence at the hands of the SPDC. 
   Indeed, the military junta's record of abuse against women and girls is extensive and deeply troubling: 
   Aung San Suu Kyi, Nobel Peace Prize laureate and leader of the National League for Democracy, has spent most of the past 18 years in prison or under house arrest. In 2003, she survived an assassination attempt by pro-government thugs.
   More than 130 women were arrested by the regime during last fall's Saffron Revolution. The International Committee of the Red Cross continues to be barred from visiting these women and other political prisoners.
   Rape is commonly used as an instrument of war by the Burmese military;
   Human trafficking of women and girls is rampant;
   Severe restrictions on international humanitarian organizations have prevented them from providing much needed assistance, particularly to women and girls Burmese women suffer from a maternal mortality rate of 230 per 100,000. 
   We must not remain silent in the face of such dire crimes and violent behavior. The people of Burma have suffered long enough. 
   We once again express our solidarity with Aung San Suu Kyi and the women and girls of Burma. We look forward to a future International Women's Day when we can join them in celebrating their new found freedom and equality. 
   We appreciate your attention to this request and we look forward to hearing from you.
   Sincerely, 
   Senator Dianne Feinstein
   Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison 
   Senator Barbara Boxer
   Senator Maria Cantwell
   Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton
   Senator Susan Collins
   Senator Elizabeth Dole
   Senator Amy Klobuchar
   Senator Mary Landrieu
  Senator Blanche Lambert Lincoln
   Senator Claire McCaskill 
   Senator Barbara Mikulski
  Senator Lisa Murkowski 
   Senator Patty Murray
   Senator Olympia Snowe
   Senator Debbie Stabenow
 
 