SENATE APPROVES SENS. TALENT, FEINSTEIN AMENDMENT PROVIDING ANTI-METH FUNDING FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
  The U.S. Senate today approved an amendment to the Budget offered by Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) providing $99 million to assist law enforcement in the fight against meth through the COPS Meth Hot Spots program. The amendment was approved just days after the President signed into law the Talent-Feinstein Combat Meth Act which among its many provisions authorizes $99 million for the anti-meth program. The amendment, which was also co-sponsored by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), was approved by the Senate unanimously.  
   "Last week the President signed into law the toughest, most comprehensive anti-meth legislation ever introduced in the Congress, much less passed," said Sen. Talent. "The centerpiece of the Combat Meth Act, which we passed with strong bipartisan support, restricts the sale of products necessary to cook meth. But we also included critical funding for law enforcement in Missouri and around the country. The funding we approved will help law enforcement officials catch and prosecute the meth cooks and it provides new resources to help clean up the toxic waste dumps created by the local labs."
   "This amendment is an important step forward in helping local and state law enforcement combat methamphetamine," said Sen. Feinstein. "It's time that Congress puts its money where its mouth is. We passed a tough bill. Now we need to fund it. The scourge of meth is not going to go away by itself."
   The Talent-Feinstein amendment provides $99 million over five years for the COPS Meth Hot Spots program as authorized in the Combat Meth Act. The funding will help train state and local law enforcement to investigate and lock-up meth offenders. It also expands the funding available for personnel and equipment for enforcement, prosecution and environmental clean-up.
   Senators Talent and Feinstein, both co-chairs of the Senate Anti-Meth Caucus, championed the Combat Meth Act, which was signed into law on March 9. The heart of the new law restricts the sale of cold products containing the chemicals necessary to cook meth by limiting how much one person can buy to 9 grams a month and 3.6 grams in a single day.
   The Combat Meth Act is modeled after the successful Oklahoma law which saw an immediate 80 percent decline in meth lab busts. It is the toughest, most comprehensive anti-meth package ever considered by the Congress.
   Methamphetamine is perhaps the most deadly, fiercely addictive and rapidly spreading drug this country has ever known. This drug is not only sold and consumed in our neighborhoods, it is made there as well, in an incredibly toxic process combining cold medications with harmful chemicals such as iodine, ammonia, starter fluid, drain cleaner or rubbing alcohol. 
   The hazardous byproducts of meth production can threaten the health and life of those making the illegal drug, their families and communities, as well as the law enforcement officers who respond.
 
 