SEN. FEINSTEIN, REPS. TAUSCHER, MILLER CALL ON NAVY TO COLLABORATE WITH CITY OF CONCORD ON REDEVELOPMENT OF NAVAL WEAPONS STATION
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Reps. Ellen Tauscher and George Miller (all D-Calif.) are urging the U.S. Navy to work closely with the City of Concord, Calif., in redeveloping the former site of the Concord Naval Weapons Station.  
   Senator Feinstein and Representatives Tauscher and Miller became concerned after learning that the Navy is considering the sale of the 5,100-acre property to a private developer, Shaw Environmental. For the past year, the city of Concord has been in negotiations with the Navy on a redevelopment plan of its own.
   The following is the text of their letter being sent to Navy Deputy Assistant Secretary Wayne Arny:
   The Honorable Wayne Arny
   Deputy Assistant Secretary
   Department of the Navy (Installations and Facilities)
   1000 Navy Pentagon
   Washington, DC 20350 
   Dear Mr. Arny: 
   We are writing to express our concern regarding reports that the Navy may be considering the sale of Concord Naval Weapons Station property to a private developer before the City of Concord has the opportunity to complete its community-based reuse plan. 
   It is our understanding that on October 30, 2006, the Shaw Group Inc. forwarded you an unsolicited proposal to acquire a portion of the base in exchange for performing other military construction projects for the Navy. In response, last week you sent a letter to Concord City officials stating the Navy's intention to carefully review the Shaw proposal with the possibility of employing the exchange authority. This is despite the fact that the Navy has designated the City of Concord as the formal ruling authority over the reuse of the base and has already provided the city some $2.6 million for planning and public outreach efforts. 
   We would therefore strongly encourage the Navy to work closely with the City of Concord to develop a mutually beneficial proposal to clean up and redevelop the land. We continue to support the city-led collaborative process that has been ongoing for the last year. Thank you for your attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely,
   Dianne Feinstein
  U.S. Senator 
   Ellen Tauscher
  Member of Congress 
   George Miller
  Member of Congress
 
 