SENATORS ASK PRESIDENT'S SUMMARY TO BE DECLASSIFIED
  The President
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   A one page President's Summary was completed and disseminated for the October 2002 National Intelligence Estimate (NIE), Iraq's Continuing Programs for Weapons of Mass Destruction. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence requested a copy of this document as part of its inquiry into the U.S. Intelligence Community's prewar intelligence assessments related to Iraq. 
   In denying the Committee's request for a copy of the President's Summary of the October 2002 NIE, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) stated that "we will not provide any materials written exclusively for the President or for the PDB [President's Daily Brief] readership." However, our Committee was informed by the CIA that 80 copies of the President's Summary were distributed to the White House - indicating that the document was not intended "exclusively" for the President, and apparently far exceeding the PDB readership at the White House. And additional copies of the President's Summary were distributed to other Intelligence Community officials. We also note that the President's Summary contains no intelligence beyond that contained in the widely disseminated NIE, and does not set forth policy advice that could be considered privileged.
   While our Committee staff were permitted to take notes from the President's Summary, we believe the full document should have been provided to the Committee. Furthermore, there is no reason the President's Summary should not be declassified in its entirety and publicly released so the American people can better understand the nature and extent of intelligence provided to the President regarding the threat posed to our country by Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.
   Accordingly, we request that you declassify and immediately release to the public the one page President's Summary of the October 2002 NIE, Iraq's Continuing Programs for Weapons of Mass Destruction. Thank you for your consideration of this request. We look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience.
   Sincerely,
   John D. Rockefeller, IV
  United States Senator
   Richard J. Durbin
  United States Senator
   Carl Levin
  United States Senator
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator
   John Edwards
  United States Senator
   Barbara A. Mikulski
  United States Senator.
 
 