SENATE APPROVES NOMINATION OF STEPHEN LARSON TO CENTRAL DISTRICT COURT OF CALIFORNIA
  The Senate today approved the nomination of Judge Stephen Larson to a seat on the federal District Court for the Central District of California in Riverside, California. 
   Judge Larson was nominated for this position after being recommended by the bipartisan Judicial Advisory Committee established to nominate District Court Judges in California.  
   "I believe the Judicial Advisory Committee is a model for the Nation," Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said. "Under this system, a committee of lawyers including Democrats and Republicans recommends qualified, non-ideological applicants to the President." 
   "Judge Larson's nomination through this process, along with his impressive record of public service, gives me confidence that he comes to the bench without an agenda and that he will serve the people of California and the Nation with wisdom, integrity, and humility." 
   The Judicial Advisory Committee is comprised of four six-member subcommittees - one for each judicial district in the state. Each subcommittee has one member selected by Senator Boxer, one selected by Senator Feinstein and one jointly by both Senators along with three members named by Gerald Parsky, President Bush's State Chair for judicial appointments.
   Each Subcommittee is responsible for naming three to five possible nominations for a vacancy in that Subcommittee's jurisdiction. To move a candidate forward a majority vote is required. Once the selections have been made, Mr. Parsky reviews them and forward them to the White House for final selection.
   Once a nomination is made by the White House, that selection faces review and a vote by the Senate's Judiciary Committee, on which Senator Feinstein is a member, and then by the full Senate. 
   The following is the prepared text of Senator Feinstein's statement on the Senate floor:
   "Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for the nomination of Magistrate Judge Stephen Larson to a seat on the federal District Court for the Central District of California in Riverside, California. 
   Judge Larson comes to this nomination with a strong background of public service. 
   Since October 2000, Judge Larson has served as a Magistrate Judge for the Central District of California in Riverside. In the ten year before becoming a Magistrate Judge, Larson served the public as an assistant U.S. attorney in the Central District of California, where he was chief of the U.S. Attorney Office's Organized Crime Strike Force and coordinator of its Russian Organized Crime Unit. 
   Judge Larson attended college here in Washington, at the GeorgetownUniversitySchool of Foreign Service, from which he received a Bachelors of Science in 1986. Judge Larson returned to California for law school, graduating from the University of Southern California Law School in 1989. 
   The American Bar Association has unanimously declared Judge Larson to be "Well Qualified," the ABA's highest rating. 
   Judge Larson has the strong support of California's "Inland Empire." I have received endorsements of Judge Larson's nomination from a diverse cross-section of the Inland Empire's legal community: from judges and law professors; from government attorneys and private practitioners; and from Democrats and Republicans. 
   In these letters, Judge Larson is praised for his "legal knowledge," "fairness," "integrity," "hard work," "temperament," "intelligence," "patience," and "sense of social justice." 
   Judge Larson was nominated through the bipartisan judicial selection process that we developed in California, a process which I believe is a model for the Nation. Under this system, a committee of lawyers including Democrats and Republicans recommends qualified, non-ideological applicants to the President. 
   Judge Larson's nomination through this process, along with his impressive record of public service, gives me confidence that he comes to the bench without an agenda and that he will serve the people of California and the Nation with wisdom, integrity, and humility."
 
 