SEN. FEINSTEIN CALLS ON NAVY TO FACILITATE USS IOWA TRANSFER TO CALIFORNIA
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) is asking the Navy to move forward with transferring the USS Iowa from "reserve" to "donation" status to help facilitate locating the battleship in California city as a floating museum. Senator Feinstein also asked for the Navy to provide a clear timeframe for completion of the process. 
   "The USS Iowa is one of the greatest battleships in U.S. naval history and having it established as a floating museum in California is a great honor," Senator Feinstein wrote in a letter to Navy Secretary Donald C. Winter. "I am hopeful that the process is moving along expeditiously." 
   The following is the text of Senator Feinstein's letter to Secretary Winter:
   March 14, 2006 
   The Honorable Donald C. Winter
  Secretary of the Navy
  United States Navy
  1000 Navy Pentagon
  Washington, D.C. 20350 
   Dear Secretary Winter: 
   As you may know, Representative Richard Pombo and I agreed on language which was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Authorization conference report that provides for the donation of the USS Iowa to the state of California. This measure ensured that this historic battleship will be disposed through the Navy's Ship Donation Program in a fair and transparent process. 
   I believe the USS Iowa is one of the greatest battleships in U.S. naval history and having it established as a floating museum in California is a great honor. Furthermore, it is a fitting memorial to the thousands of sailors who served aboard this battleship over the past six decades. 
   As such, I am writing you to inquire about the timeframe for transferring the USS Iowa to donation status. I am hopeful that the process is moving along expeditiously. Any information you can provide me on this important matter would be greatly appreciated. Thank you for your time and I look forward to your response. Best regards. 
   Sincerely,
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator
 
 