SEN. FEINSTEIN URGES SUPPORT FOR NOMINATION OF SMITH TO THE NINTH CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today urged her colleagues to support the nomination of Milan Smith to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. After Sen. Feinstein, Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) and others also spoke in support, the Senate approved the nomination 94-0. Following is the statement Sen. Feinstein made on the floor of the Senate:  
   "I am very pleased to be here as a member of the Judiciary Committee, as a Californian, to indicate my support for the confirmation of Milan Smith to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. It's a fine occasion to be able to come here and represent that we have a very competent man to become an appellate court judge. 
   Mr. Smith has a long and distinguished legal career in our state. The chairman of the committee pointed out some of this. After graduating from the University of Chicago Law School in 1969, Milan Smith moved to Los Angeles where he has been an important part of the legal community ever since. Mr. Smith founded the law firm known as Smith, Crane, Robinson & Parker in 1972. And over the last 34 years, with that firm he has engaged in a wide-ranging legal practice in business, and real estate law. 
   After reviewing his extensive record, a majority of the American Bar Association rated him well qualified to serve as a judge of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. He has demonstrated an impressive and enduring commitment to serving the public, from presiding over the governing board of the Los Angeles State Building Authority to acting as Vice Chairman of Ettie Lee Homes for Youth. 
   As many of you know, Milan Smith is the older brother of our esteemed colleague, Oregon Senator Gordon Smith. I know the senator from Idaho was just talking to Senator Smith and saying, 'Isn't it nice California is getting a Californian.' We are having a little tousle over another judge which the senator from Idaho thinks should be an Idaho judge, and the senators from California believe should be a California judge. So that issue has not yet been joined. But it certainly will.
   Smith's maternal grandfather, Jesse Udall, was the Chief Justice of the Arizona Supreme Court, so Milan Smith stands poised to follow family precedent in serving on one of our nation's highest courts. 
   I'd like to congratulate him on this nomination. I'd like to urge all of my colleagues to vote for him, and I'd like to say to his younger brother, who is sitting here in the chamber, that it really is a wonderful day, I think, for both Senator Boxer and for me, to be able to see you so happy. I know what this means to you, and how fine it is to have such a fine legal mind in your family. So we want to offer you our best congratulations as well."
 
 