SENS BOXER, FEINSTEIN ALONG WITH REP. HERGER, LEAD CALIFORNIA DELEGATION IN URGING AIR FORCE TO CONSIDER BEALE AFB AS HOME OF CYBER COMMAND
  California's U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein (both D-CA), along with Representative Wally Herger (R-CA-02), led a unanimous bipartisan California congressional delegation in urging Secretary of the Air Force Michael Wynne to consider Northern California's Beale Air Force Base as the headquarters for the new Air Force Cyber Command. 
   The Air Force recognizes the profound importance of the "cyber battlefield" in protecting our national security, and is in the process of establishing a Cyber Command to help ensure that our nation's military can achieve dominance in this critical field. The Command's permanent home reportedly will be announced early next year. Beale AFB is one of a few bases being considered. A copy of the letter to Secretary Wynne is attached. Senators Boxer and Feinstein and Representative Herger made the following statements about the possibility of bringing the Command to Beale AFB:
   Senator Boxer said, "Beale Air Force Base is a great location for the Air Force's new Cyber Command for several reasons, including its proximity to a large pool of high-tech workers and its existing infrastructure already used for cyber-related operations. The Cyber Command has the potential of bringing many high paying jobs and economic development benefits to the entire state. California's Congressional Delegation will continue to work with and encourage the U.S. Air Force to select Beale AFB as the home for this new front in protecting our national security."
   Senator Feinstein said, "Beale Air Force Base would serve as an excellent home for the Air Force's new Cyber Command. Northern California is a recognized leader in state-of-the-art technology, cutting-edge innovation, and boasts a highly-qualified work force. Beale's bid enjoys strong local community support and I am committed to working with my colleagues in the California Congressional Delegation to help make Beale the permanent location for the new Cyber Command."
   Rep. Herger said, "Beale Air Force Base stands out as the ideal location for the new Air Force Cyber Command. As the home of the U-2 and Global Hawk spy planes, as well as a first-class ground station that deciphers and disseminates intelligence, the airmen at Beale already perform key cyber-related missions. Additionally, Northern California's booming high tech industry and esteemed universities stand ready and able to partner with the Air Force in performing cyber operations. I will continue to work with the local community and the California Delegation to promote Beale and its unique assets as Secretary Wynne draws closer to deciding where to locate the permanent Command."
 
 