SEN. FEINSTEIN RAISES QUESTIONS WITH SECRETARY RUMSFELD ON TECHNIQUES USED BY FEMALE INTERROGATORS
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) has urged Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld to respond to questions on whether female interrogators may have used offensive techniques when questioning detainees at Guantanamo Bay, as reported by the New York Times.  
   Following is the text of a letter Senator Feinstein sent to Secretary Rumsfeld: 
   February 16,2005 
   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld
  Secretary of Defense
  1000 Defense Pentagon
  Washington, DC 20301-1000 
   Dear Secretary Rumsfeld, 
   I write seeking information concerning recent allegations about particularly offensive interrogation techniques which may have been used by female interrogators at the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. 
   As detailed in a New York Times story, Ex-G.I. Writes About Use of Sex in Guantanamo Interrogations, female interrogators "tried to break male Muslim detainees at the United States prison camp...by sexually touching them, by wearing miniskirts and thong underwear, and, in once case, by smearing a Saudi man's face with red ink, which he was led to believe was menstrual blood." A copy of the article is enclosed. 
   There is no doubt in my mind that such actions, if true, violate basic norms of international law, and the spirit of the Geneva Conventions, and are reprehensible. Worse, they run counter to core traditions of our nation and its military. This kind of behavior does grave damage to our standing throughout the world, and will inevitably inflame an already hostile Muslim world. Such techniques are degrading both to the prisoner, and to the women who carry out the interrogations. 
   I would greatly appreciate if you could advise me, as soon as possible, whether or not these allegations are true, and if so, what is being done as a result. Specifically, has an investigation into these specific allegations been initiated, and if so, what have been the results thus far? 
   As I learn more about how our nation's military and intelligence services are conducting the difficult, but necessary, task of detaining and interrogating prisoners, I am increasingly concerned that we may be failing. Poor planning, inadequate guidance, and pervasive confusion have marked our efforts at Abu Ghraib, at Guantanamo and elsewhere. I see little indication that there have been significant positive benefits in terms of strategic or tactical intelligence, while at the same time our detention program seems to exacerbate the hostility of our enemies, and even our friends, in the Muslim world. Simply put, I am concerned that our detention and interrogation program creates more terrorists than it eliminates. 
   I look forward to your reply, and to working with you to address this consequential issue. 
   Yours truly, 
   Dianne Feinstein
  U.S. Senator.
 
 