CONGRESS AWARDS THE CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO HIS HOLINESS, THE DALAI LAMA
  The U.S. Congress today awarded the nation's highest civilian honor, the Congressional Gold Medal, to His Holiness, the Fourteenth Dalai Lama of Tibet. U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), the lead Senate sponsor of the resolution authorizing the medal, spoke at the ceremony.
   The authorizing Senate resolution was sponsored by Senator Feinstein and late Senator Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.). Companion legislation was sponsored in the House by Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) and Tom Lantos (D-Calif.). The resolution became law on September 27, 2006. 
   Following is the text of Senator Feinstein's prepared remarks for today's Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony:
   "Mr. President, Madam Speaker, Mr. Majority Leader, and honored guests.
   I want to begin by recognizing Senator Craig Thomas, who passed away earlier this year.
   Senator Thomas was my cosponsor on the Senate resolution which authorized this Congressional Gold Medal and also on the Tibetan Policy Act, which outlined - for the first time - U.S. policy toward Tibet.
   Senator Thomas' wife, Susan, is present today, along with several members of his family.
   Susan, would you please stand and be acknowledged?
   Now, a few words about His Holiness, the Dalai Lama.
   This world is filled with conflict and strife. But, the Dalai Lama transcends this world and inspires us with hope.
   * To know him is to know compassion.
   * To listen to him is to learn wisdom.
   * To be close to him is to feel the presence of something very special.
   This man has been a quiet force for peace and compassion. He moves people to look beyond their narrow, selfish interests and to find the strength to help others.
   I have been blessed to call the Dalai Lama a friend for nearly 30 years.
   I first met him in Dharamsala through my husband-to-be, Richard Blum, in the fall of 1978. I was awed by his presence and moved to action.
   In September 1979, as Mayor of San Francisco, I was the first official to invite and welcome His Holiness to San Francisco to present him with a key to the City. This was his first visit to America.
   As I came to know His Holiness, I have tried to be a bridge between His Holiness and the Chinese leadership.
   In fact, on three separate occasions since 1991, my husband and I hand-delivered letters from His Holiness to the Chinese leadership:
   * Asking for direct talks;
   * Reiterating his Middle Way approach; and
   * Clearly stating that he does not seek independence for Tibet, but is looking to secure Tibet's religious and cultural autonomy.
   Through our many talks, I know the Dalai Lama is a reasonable man. He is not seeking independence, but meaningful autonomy within the People's Republic of China.
   And I truly believe that if the Chinese leadership were to sit down with the Dalai Lama, they together could work out a solution whereby he would be able to return to his native Tibet, which has long been his hope and dream.
   This has sadly been a lost opportunity.
   The simple truth is this: I can think of no one who more embodies the spirit of the Congressional Gold Medal than His Holiness, the Dalai Lama.
   People flock by the thousands to his lectures all over the world. They yearn to hear his voice, to be enveloped by his spirit of compassion.
   His teachings resonate across religions, cultures, and ethnic lines. And his message of peace, non-violence and understanding has never been more relevant.
   So let me offer my deepest congratulations, and offer my personal thanks to His Holiness for spreading his message of compassion around the world.
   Thank you."
 
 