SENS. TALENT, FEINSTEIN, REP. BLUNT PRAISE TARGET'S LEADERSHIP IN FIGHTING METH EPIDEMIC
  Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Rep. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), sponsors of the Combat Meth Act (S. 103/H.R. 314), today praised the Target Corporation for their leadership in voluntarily placing cold and allergy products that contain ingredients used to make methamphetamine behind the pharmacy counter. Target is the first national retailer to voluntarily move the products which will make it tougher for meth cooks to get their hands on the one ingredient necessary to produce the deadly drug. 
   "With this announcement, Target is telling meth cooks who prey on our kids and neighborhoods: 'your money is no good here,'" said Sen. Talent. "Target understands how the spread of meth is hurting our communities and this move will help curb the production of meth in Missouri and around the country. I'm also hopeful that Target's leadership will help gather momentum among other retailers in support of our legislation to limit the sale of products with pseudoephedrine and provide law enforcement with additional resources to fight meth."
   "Meth has swept across the nation in recent years, leaving behind a trail of destroyed lives, devastated families, crime sprees, and hazardous waste," Sen. Feinstein said. "This act of corporate responsibility by Target will help slow the spread of this dangerous drug and encourage other stores to help us with this serious nationwide problem."
   "I commend the leadership of Target on this important issue," said Congressman Blunt. "By voluntarily putting products containing pseudoephedrine behind the pharmacy counter, Target has demonstrated the understanding that access to common cold medicine can be a meth cook's dream come true. The most effective way to fight the growing meth epidemic is to make it harder for criminals to get the key ingredient in the production of this deadly drug. Target is clearly equally committed to cracking down on meth production and ensuring that honest people are still able to get the medicine they need."
   Target's new policy will go into effect within the next 60-90 days. Customers who purchase products containing pseudoephedrine will be limited to two packages per transaction or to more stringent restrictions as required by law.
   Target Corporation is a chain of large, general merchandise discount stores consisting of 1,330 locations in 47 states. There are 36 Target stores in Missouri and 195 in California, the two states that lead the nation in the production of methamphetamine.
   Talent, Feinstein and Blunt are pushing federal legislation to move pseudophedrine behind the pharmacy counter and to provide critical resources to local law enforcement to fight meth. The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to take action on the legislation in the coming weeks.
 
 