SEN. FEINSTEIN EXPRESSES CONCERN OVER MIXED HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING FOR CALIFORNIA CITIES
  U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today expressed concern over the decision of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to cut counter-terrorism grant funding for Los Angeles and Sacramento while improving funding for other urban areas in California. Los Angeles' funding level falls to $72.58 million, a 10 percent cut over last year, and Sacramento's funding level falls to $4.16 million, a 44 percent drop. 
   "I am troubled that the Department of Homeland Security would cut counter-terrorism funding levels for Los Angeles and Sacramento. California has been the target of terrorist plots in the past, as highlighted by the President. Los Angeles is the largest city in the most-populous state in the nation, and Sacramento is the capital city. Both face significant risk, and deserve more funding, not less," Senator Feinstein said.
   The funding announced for other California cities is certainly welcome, especially for San Diego. It is the second-largest city in the state and home to several military installations. I am glad that the Department of Homeland Security recognizes the need for increased counter-terrorism funding there. But the bottom line is, the Department's overall funding of California is a mixed bag."
   DHS also announced that California will receive $94 million in grants to improve emergency communications for police and fire departments. Under the Public Safety Interoperable Communications Grant Program, the Los Angeles-Long Beach area will receive $22 million, and the Bay Area will receive $15 million. The remaining $57 million will go to the state, which will disburse the money to municipalities.
   The Urban Area Security Initiative provides funding to high-threat, high-density urban areas to assist in preventing acts of terrorism. Here is this year's funding breakdown for California, with comparisons to last year's funding levels:
   * Table omitted (the document can be viewed at http://feinstein.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=NewsRoom.PressReleases&ContentRecord_id=db5829a3-e448-16f6-3f1a-f86c0b430c20&Region_id=&Issue_id=)
 
 