SEN. FEINSTEIN CALLS FOR HEARINGS ON NUCLEAR REACTOR SAFETY
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) has written to members of the Committee on Environment and Public Works to express her concern about the potential for security breaches at America's nuclear plants and research reactor facilities. Sen. Feinstein asked the committee to conduct oversight hearings into nuclear safety and into what is being done to protect the American people against the possibility of a terrorist attack.  
   The following is the text of Senator Feinstein's letter:
   November 17, 2005
   The Honorable James Inhofe
  Chairman, Committee on Environment And Public Works
  410 Dirksen Senate Office Building
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable James Jeffords
  Ranking Member, Committee on Environment and Public Works
  456 Dirksen Senate Office Building
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable George Voinovich
  Chairman, Subcommittee on Clean Air, Climate Change, and Nuclear Safety
  524 Hart Senate Office Building 
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable Thomas Carper
  Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Clean Air, Climate Change, and Nuclear Safety
  513 Hart Senate Office Building 
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Gentlemen:
   I am writing to call your attention to an issue of great importance that has the potential to affect the lives of all Americans: the safety and security of our nation's nuclear research reactors at universities around the country.
   As you may already be aware, ABC Primetime News recently aired a report entitled "Loose Nukes" in which ABC News conducted a four-month investigation into possible security breaches at many of the nuclear research reactors operating on 25 college campuses around the country. ABC News found serious security flaws.
   I believe that this report brings to light a serious loophole in the security of the nation's nuclear plants. As members of the Committee on Environment and Public Works, with jurisdiction over the issue of nuclear safety, I would encourage you to conduct an oversight hearing to look further into the issue of nuclear safety and ascertain if there is more that Congress needs to be doing to protect Americans from potential terrorist attacks.
   I thank you for your attention to this important matter and look forward to your response.
   Sincerely,
   Dianne Feinstein
 
 