SEN. FEINSTEIN COMMENTS ON PRESIDENT'S COMMENTS REGARDING PATRIOT ACT, DOMESTIC SPYING
  Statement by Senator Dianne Feinstein
  On the President's Comments Regarding Patriot Act 
  and Domestic Spying
   "I believe the Patriot Act is vital to the protection of the American people and I question why the President is opposing a three-month extension while efforts are underway to reach a consensus on two problematic provisions.  
   I have never been in favor of allowing any provisions of the Patriot Act to expire. First, there are over 200 provisions of the Patriot Act that are already permanent law, and do not need extension. Second, I was the original Democratic co-sponsor of the unanimously passed bill which would have extended all of the 16 provisions of the Patriot Act subject to sunset. I have asked Senator Frist to bring the parties back to the table to negotiate further on the two sections of the act that remain at issue, because I believe it is important that we reach a consensus. 
   There is a bill pending, introduced by Senator John Sununu (R-NH) and co-sponsored by a bipartisan group of 40 Senators, which would prevent any provision from expiring and would simply allow three month's additional time to work out the last issues. 
   I do not understand why Senator Frist and the White House are opposing a three-month extension of the Patriot Act. I hope they will reconsider. These provisions are very important to our national security, and threatening to let them expire to score partisan political points is simply wrong. 
   Further, I also deeply believe there needs to be an opportunity to investigate the latest revelations that the President has authorized the NSA to spy on U.S. citizens. 
   The President and members of his administration have tried to assert that the original authorization for the use of force following 9/11, coupled with the President's role as Commander in Chief, allows him to act without statutory authority. I believe this interpretation of the Constitution is both incorrect and dangerous, and I am requesting an inquiry into this issue."
 
 