SEN. FEINSTEIN URGES ADMINISTRATION TO PROVIDE QUICK, EFFECTIVE FEDERAL ASSISTANCE TO CALIFORNIA COUNTIES AFFECTED BY WINTER STORMS
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) is urging President Bush for full and expeditious approval for federal disaster assistance for California counties affected by recent winter storms.  
   "Quick and effective assistance from the federal government is essential to help residents repair their homes and businesses, assist municipalities in the clean-up process, and better prepare communities for future storms," Senator Feinstein wrote in a letter to President Bush. "The communities affected by the storms stand in serious need of federal assistance, and I fully support Governor Schwarzenegger's request." 
   Late yesterday California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger sent a letter to President George Bush requesting federal assistance to help disaster victims and public agencies rebuild from the series of storms that hit the state over the New Years weekend. 
   The Governor specifically requested federal disaster assistance for individuals in Contra Costa, Del Norte, Lake, Marin, Mendocino, Napa, Sacramento, Siskiyou, Solano, and Sonoma counties. Additionally, the Governor requested assistance for local government agencies in Alpine, Amador, Butte, Colusa, Contra Costa, Del Norte, El Dorado, Humboldt, Lake, Lassen, Marin, Mendocino, Napa, Nevada , Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, San Joaquin, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Cruz, Sierra, Siskiyou, Solano, Sonoma, Sutter, Trinity, Yolo, and Yuba counties. 
   Following is the text of the letter sent by Senator Feinstein to President Bush: 
   January 18, 2006 
   President George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Mr. President, 
   I am writing to ask your expedited approval of Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger's federal disaster declaration request for the counties affected by the recent severe winter storms in California. The communities affected by the storms stand in serious need of federal assistance, and I fully support the Governor's request. 
   Starting on December 19, 2005, and running through the New Year's weekend, a series of heavy storms struck California bringing heavy rain, high winds, mudslides, and flooding. Three deaths have been blamed on the storms and hundred of residents were driven from their homes. Floods and mudslides closed a number of Interstate and U.S. Highways, and the heavy rains and winds left 600,000 homes and businesses without power. Quick and effective assistance from the federal government is essential to help residents repair their homes and businesses, assist municipalities in the clean-up process, and better prepare communities for future storms. 
   I respectfully urge you to approve the Governor's full request as quickly as possible. I appreciate your consideration in this matter, and I look forward to working with you in any way to ensure those affected by this disaster get the assistance they need. 
   Sincerely, 
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator
 
 