SENS. FEINSTEIN, BOXER URGE SENATE TO APPROVE RENAMING RESEDA POST OFFICE IN HONOR OF COACH WOODEN
  Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer (both D-Calif.) today urged Senate passage of a bill renaming a Reseda, California, post office after legendary basketball coach John Wooden. The bill currently is before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.  
   Senators Feinstein and Boxer sent letters today to Senators Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.), Chairman and ranking member of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, in support of H.R. 4646 by Congressman Brad Sherman (D-Calif.), previously approved by the House of Representatives. 
   "Coach Wooden has served as a role model for many of California's young athletes. Today he is 95 years old, and the renaming of the Reseda post office in his honor would be an extraordinary way of expressing our gratitude for his years of dedication to our state," Senator Feinstein said. 
   "John Wooden is widely recognized as a college basketball legend. From his time on the court to his days coaching at UCLA, Wooden is renowned not only for his impressive record of success, but also for his leadership, ability to inspire, mentoring of students, and his dedication to family and friends," Senator Boxer said. "A John Wooden Post Office would be a reminder to LA residents of Wooden's lifetime of service both on and off the court." 
   The text of the letter to Senators Collins and Lierberman follows: 
   "We write to express our support for H.R. 4646, a bill that would rename a post office in Reseda, California after legendary basketball coach John Wooden. This non-controversial legislation passed the House in early April, and is now before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 
   Coach Wooden's legacy of exemplary achievement and service makes him an outstanding candidate for this honor. Under his leadership, the UCLA Bruins basketball team won a record 10 national championships, had four perfect 30-0 seasons, were Pac-10 champions twenty times, and once were victorious in 88 consecutive games. Coach Wooden is one of only three people enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame as a player and a coach. Additionally, he proudly served his country in the Navy in World War II and has authored several bestselling books. 
   Your consideration of this matter is much appreciated. There is some urgency as Coach Wooden is 95 years old and in poor health. Please let us know if there is anything we can provide to help this process move forward. Thank you."
 
 