SENS. BOXER, FEINSTEIN CALL FOR CONGRESSIONAL HEARING TO ENSURE FEMA IS PREPARED TO RESPOND TO MAJOR CALIFORNIA EARTHQUAKE
  Troubled that FEMA may not have a plan to respond to a potential catastrophic earthquake in California, Sen. Barbara Boxer and Sen. Dianne Feinstein (both D-CA) today requested a Congressional hearing on the status of the federal government's disaster recovery plan for a major California earthquake. The request for a hearing follows previous requests for President Bush to release FEMA's California earthquake recovery plan.  
   Following is the Senators' letter to Senators Collins and Lieberman requesting a Congressional hearing. The previous requests are also attached. 
   October 18, 2005 
   The Honorable Susan Collins
  Chairwoman
  Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee Washington, D.C. 20510 
   The Honorable Joe Lieberman
  Ranking Member
  Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Chairwoman Collins and Ranking Member Lieberman: 
   We are writing to request a hearing on the status of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) disaster recovery plan for a major earthquake in California. We are concerned that FEMA is not prepared and may not even have a plan. 
   After seeing FEMA's slow response in responding to Hurricane Katrina, we want to make sure that a similar tragedy does not happen if a major earthquake occurs in California. Therefore, five weeks ago, the President was asked to provide a copy of FEMA's plan so it could be shared with officials in California. 
   To date, we have not received a copy of the plan, leading us to believe that FEMA may not even have a plan. We wrote to the President this week again requesting the emergency plan. 
   We urge you to hold hearings on the status of the federal government's disaster recovery plan in the event of a major earthquake in California. We need to get to the bottom of this situation and ensure that we are prepared to respond to natural disasters. 
   Thank you for your consideration. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara Boxer 
  United States Senator 
   Dianne Feinstein 
  United States Senator
 
 