SEN. FEINSTEIN JOINS 29 SENATE COLLEAGUES TO SAY WHITE HOUSE MUST SEEK CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL FOR OFFENSIVE MILITARY ACTION AGAINST IRAN
  Along with 29 co-signers, U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today sent a letter to the White House warning the President not to take offensive military action against Iran without the express consent of Congress.  
   The Senators also expressed concern that the administration's increasingly provocative rhetoric has undermined diplomatic efforts with Iran. 
   Following is the text of the letter from the 30 Senators: 
   November 1, 2007
   President George W. Bush
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear President Bush:
   We are writing to express serious concerns with the provocative statements and actions stemming from your administration with respect to possible U.S. military action in Iran. These comments are counterproductive and undermine efforts to resolve tensions with Iran through diplomacy. 
   We wish to emphasize that no congressional authority exists for unilateral military action against Iran. This includes the Senate vote on September 26, 2007 on an amendment to the FY 2008 National Defense Authorization Act. This amendment, expressing the sense of the Senate on Iran, and the recent designation of the Quds Force of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist, should in no way be interpreted as a predicate for the use of military force in Iran. 
   We stand ready to work with your administration to address the challenges presented by Iran in a manner that safeguards our security interests and promotes a regional diplomatic solution, but we wish to emphasize that offensive military action should not be taken against Iran without the express consent of Congress.
   Sincerely,
   Senator Daniel Akaka
  Senator Max Baucus
  Senator Barbara Boxer
  Senator Sherrod Brown
  Senator Robert Byrd
  Senator Maria Cantwell
  Senator Tom Carper
  Senator Bob Casey
  Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton
  Senator Christopher Dodd
  Senator Byron Dorgan 
  Senator Dick Durbin
  Senator Dianne Feinstein 
  Senator Tom Harkin
  Senator Tim Johnson 
  Senator John Kerry 
  Senator Amy Klobuchar 
  Senator Herb Kohl 
  Senator Patrick Leahy 
  Senator Claire McCaskill
  Senator Barbara Mikulski 
  Senator Patty Murray 
  Senator Jack Reed 
  Senator Jay Rockefeller 
  Senator Bernie Sanders 
  Senator Debbie Stabenow
  Senator Jon Tester 
  Senator Jim Webb
  Senator Sheldon Whitehouse 
  Senator Ron Wyden
 
 