SEN. FEINSTEIN CALLS FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE OF CALIFORNIAN DETAINED IN VIETNAM
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today called on the Government of Vietnam to immediately release prisoner Cong Thanh Do, a California resident who has been imprisoned in Vietnam for more than a month without having charges filed against him.  
   In a letter to the Ambassador of Vietnam to the United States Nguyen Tam Chien, Senator Feinstein stated that because charges have not been filed against Do, he should be released immediately and returned to the United States. 
   Senator Feinstein noted that reports indicate that Do was arrested for his work to promote democracy and human rights in Vietnam. 
   The following is the text of Senator Feinstein's letter to Ambassador Chien: 
   September 20, 2006 
   I am writing to call on the Government of Vietnam to release immediately Mr. Cong Thanh Do, an American citizen and a constituent from California, who was arrested as a tourist and detained on August 14, 2006 while visiting Vietnam. 
   I understand that despite the fact that no charges have been brought against him, Mr. Do, a 47 year old engineer at Applied Materials in San Jose, California remains imprisoned more than a month after his arrest. It has also been brought to my attention that Mr. Do was unable to speak with officials from the United States Consulate for more than two weeks after his incarceration. 
   This case causes me deep concern. It has been reported that Mr. Do was arrested simply for his work to promote democracy and human rights in Vietnam. At the very least, Mr. Do's case should be afforded all rights under Vietnamese and international law including access to legal representation, a physician, and U.S. Consulate officials. Since no charges have been filed against him, Mr. Do should be immediately released and allowed to return to the United States. 
   I appreciate your attention to this request and I look forward to hearing from you. 
   Sincerely, 
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator
 
 