FY 2008 OMNIBUS APPROPRIATIONS BILL INCLUDES FEINSTEIN-BOXER MEASURE TO PROVIDE $3.5 MILLION
  U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer (both D-Calif.) today announced that the Omnibus Appropriations bill includes a measure they sponsored to establish economy-wide reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, an essential first step towards reducing global warming emissions through a cap-and-trade system. 
   Specifically, the funding bill provides $3.5 million for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop and publish a rule establishing a greenhouse gas emissions registry. Legislative proposals to cap greenhouse gas emissions all depend on solid baseline data, so this registry is an essential part of setting an effective cap on global warming emissions.
   "Global warming is the foremost environment challenge of our time," Senator Feinstein said. "That's why it's so critical that we have the data to understand the scope of the emissions problem. Solid data is essential to the establishment of an effective cap-and-trade system. This bill would provide $3.5 million to the EPA to establish an economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions registry. This funding is an important first step towards helping to understand and reduce our nation's carbon footprint."
   Senator Barbara Boxer said, "Gathering additional information on greenhouse gas emissions is an important part of establishing a comprehensive program to combat global warming. I am very pleased to support efforts to press EPA to move forward in addressing what really is the challenge of our generation."
   The measure sponsored by Senators Feinstein and Boxer provides $3.5 million for the EPA to use its existing authority under the Clean Air Act to provide for reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors of the U.S. economy. The EPA Administrator would determine the appropriate thresholds of emissions above which reporting would be necessary. The Administrator could use existing reporting requirements for utilities under the Clean Air Act, and could build on the pioneering work of the Multi-State Climate Registry.
   The measure requires that the draft rule be developed and published by the EPA within nine months and a final rule completed within 18 months of enactment.
   The Feinstein-Boxer measure was originally included in the FY 2008 Interior Appropriations Bill passed by the Senate Appropriations Committee in June 2007. Senator Feinstein serves as the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior and Related Agencies, and Senator Boxer serves at the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works.
 
 