SEN. FEINSTEIN ENCOURAGED BY GENERAL MOTORS'S INTRODUCTION OF NEW ONSTAR SERVICE TO REDUCE GASOLINE CONSUMPTION
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif) today applauded General Motors for introducing a new service that will give OnStar customers the information they need to make sure their vehicles run as efficiently as possible, and reduce gasoline consumption. The provision is one of the key points of legislation Sen. Feinstein has introduced with Sens. Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and Lincoln Chafee (R-R.I.)  
   Specifically, General Motors announced that it will add a new service to OnStar by providing information about the car's tire pressure, engine performance, and when an oil change is necessary. In addition, OnStar now will let drivers know if their vehicles are E-85 (ethanol fuel) compatible and where the nearest gas station that provides E-85 is located. 
   Last month, Senators Feinstein, Snowe, Inouye and Chafee introduced the "Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act," which would increase fuel economy for all passenger cars and SUVs by 10 miles per gallon in 10 years. The bill also includes a provision requiring all new cars manufactured after Model Year 2013 to have on-board displays showing real-time fuel consumption and tire pressure indicators to encourage more fuel efficient driving, similar to the service introduced by General Motors. 
   "I am encouraged that General Motors has taken the initiative to introduce this new service that will give consumers the information they need to make sure their vehicle runs as efficiently as possible. I believe all car companies should take this step, which is why the Ten-in-Ten bill needs to be passed without delay," Senator Feinstein said.
   According to the U.S. Department of Energy, nearly four million gallons of gas are wasted each day nationwide for every one pound per square inch of tire under-inflation. With gasoline nearing $3 per gallon nationwide, that translates to $12 million per day, or $4.4 billion per year in wasted gas money.
 
 