SEN. FEINSTEIN ANNOUNCES $6.5 MILLION FOR PERCHLORATE CLEANUP
  The proposed FY05 Defense Appropriations bill approved by a House-Senate Conference Committee includes $6.5 million to address perchlorate contamination in the Inland Empire , Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), a member of the conference committee, announced today. The conference report is expected to be on the House and Senate floors this week. 
   "This funding for perchlorate cleanup is badly needed to address this pervasive and dangerous problem that is leaking into the water supply and permeating the food chain," Senator Feinstein said.
   The Conference Committee report includes spending for several perchlorate clean-up projects: $4 million requested by Senator Feinstein is directed to the Environmental Security Technical Certification Program to conduct research and demonstrate clean up technologies in the Rialto-Colton Basin, and an additional $2.5 million requested by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) is for wellhead treatment where perchlorate contaminated water is pumped out, treated and then passed along back into the system.
   "The Department of Defense is the number one contributor to perchlorate contamination and cleanup of these sites is long over due. The costs to clean up perchlorate contamination are astronomical, reaching nearly $1 million in capital costs per drinking well and $500,000 in annual operating costs. This immense cost has been a barrier to the Defense Department's cleanup of perchlorate and has also hurt local water districts dealing with the problem. This funding should help to bring down this cost and the aid the cleanup of this dangerous chemical."
   In June, the Senate approved an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill sponsored by Senator Feinstein, calling on the Pentagon to remediate perchlorate contamination on DOD sites.
   Exposure to perchlorate may adversely affect human health, especially in vulnerable and sensitive populations like young children and newborns. Perchlorate has been identified as a contaminant of drinking water sources or in the environment in 34 States and has been used or manufactured in 44 States. California has more than 350 affected water sources, including the Colorado River, which irrigates 1.4 million acres of farmland in Arizona and California.
 
 