FISCAL 2008 INTERIOR APPROPRIATIONS BILL INCLUDES SENS. FEINSTEIN-BOXER MEASURE TO PROVIDE $2 MILLION FOR EPA
  Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer (both D-Calif.) today announced that the FY 2008 Interior Appropriations bill includes a measure they have sponsored to provide $2 million for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop and publish a rule for economy-wide reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. The bill was approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee yesterday. 
   Senator Feinstein serves as the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior and Related Agencies, and Senator Boxer serves at the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works.
   "Global warming is the foremost environment challenge of our time," Senator Feinstein said. "That's why it's so critical that we have the data we need to understand the scope of the emissions problem. Everyone should agree that we need good data on the issue, whether you support cap-and-trade, as I do, or other potential solutions, including the development of new technologies. This bill would provide $2 million to the EPA to use its existing authority to establish an economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions registry. This funding is a first step towards helping to understand and reduce our nation's carbon footprint."
   Senator Barbara Boxer said "Gathering additional information on greenhouse gas emissions is an important part of establishing a comprehensive program to combat global warming. I am very pleased to support Senator Feinstein's efforts to press EPA to move forward in addressing what really is the challenge of our generation."
   Specifically, the bill would provide $2 million for the EPA to use its existing authority under the Clean Air Act to provide for reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors of the U.S. economy. The EPA Administrator would determine the appropriate thresholds of emissions above which reporting would be necessary. In order to avoid redundancy, the Administrator would have discretion to use existing reporting requirements for utilities under the Clean Air Act.
   The draft rule must be developed and published by the EPA no later than April 30, 2008 and a final rule no later than December 31, 2008.
 
 