SENATE GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE APPROVES REAUTHORIZATION OF BREAST CANCER RESEARCH STAMP
  The Senate Governmental Affairs Committee today approved legislation sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) that would reauthorize the Breast Cancer Research Stamp for another two years.  
   "The Breast Cancer Research Stamp has been a complete success, helping to save lives of those stricken with breast cancer," Senator Feinstein said. "So far the stamp has raised for $45 million for breast cancer research, and if the stamp is reauthorized, it will raise millions more to help find a cure to this dreaded disease." 
   "Using the stamp sends a clear message of hope - that someday we will find a cure. But until a cure is found, it is critical that we all do our part to help fight cancer, and the Breast Cancer Research Stamp gives us that opportunity."
   As a result of legislation Senator Feinstein first authored in 1997, the breast cancer stamp is the first in our nation's history dedicated to raising funds for a special cause. Since 1998, the United States Postal Service has sold over 627 million breast cancer stamps - raising $45.5 million for breast cancer research. The legislation is cosponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson (R-Texas), and 51 other Senators. 
   Specifically the legislation would: 
   * Permit the sale of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp until December 31, 2007. The stamp is currently set to expire December 31, 2005. 
   * The stamp would continue to be priced up to 25 percent above the value of a first-class stamp with the surplus revenues going to breast cancer research programs at the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Defense. The stamp currently costs 45 cents, with 8 cents devoted to research. 
   Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer among women in every major ethnic group in the United States. More than two million women are living with breast cancer in America today, yet one million of them have not been diagnosed. Today, breast cancer is still the number one cancer killer of women between the ages of 15 and 54. The disease claims another woman's life every 15 minutes in the United States. 
   More and more people today are becoming cancer survivors rather than cancer victims thanks to breakthroughs in cancer research. According to the American Association for Cancer Research, eight million people are alive today as a result of cancer research. 
   Reauthorization of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp would not affect any other semi-postal proposals under consideration by the Postal Service.
 
 