SEN. FEINSTEIN ENDORSES CALIFORNIA STATE BILL AIMED AT FIGHTING GLOBAL WARMING
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today endorsed legislation currently in the California State Assembly that would require California to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming. The Global Warming Solutions Act, introduced by California Assembly Members Fran Pavley and Fabian N??ez, would require the state adopt and enforce standards essential for protecting Californians from dangerous air pollution. 
   "This is a sensible way to manage risk--to press forward with technologically feasible efficiency gains right now," Senator Feinstein wrote in letters to Assembly Member Pavley and Speaker N??ez. "The alternative of delay could later require severe emission reductions causing a serious shock to our economy if we are going to avoid dangerous climate change." 
   Specifically, the bill would:
   * Require California to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020; 
   * Direct the Air Resources Board (ARB) to develop sector-by-sector rules for achieving the emissions reduction goal; and 
   * Require companies in the electricity and fuels sectors and a few other large emitters in California to report their emissions of greenhouse gases. 
   The following is the text of separate letters of endorsement Senator Feinstein sent to Assembly Member Pavley and Speaker N??ez: 
   I am writing to endorse your Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (AB 32) and to applaud your leadership in fighting global warming, which is perhaps the most serious long-term problem facing the world today. 
   You are entirely prudent in requiring significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. This is a sensible way to manage risk--to press forward with technologically feasible efficiency gains right now. The alternative of delay could later require severe emission reductions causing a serious shock to our economy if we are going to avoid dangerous climate change. 
   I also firmly believe in the initiative of our great State. If California takes the lead in mandating significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, it will significantly boost the odds that Congress will follow in California's steps. 
   We here in Washington are watching with deep interest, grateful for your leadership. 
   Warmly, 
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator
 
 