SENATE APPROVES SENS. MCCONNELL-FEINSTEIN RESOLUTION CALLING ON UN SECURITY COUNCIL TO TAKE ACTION AGAINST BURMA
  The U.S. Senate has approved a resolution calling on the U.N. Security Council to "immediately consider and take appropriate actions to respond to the growing threats posed to the Southeast Asia region by conditions in Burma." The resolution was sponsored by Sens. Mitch McConnell (R-Kent.) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and co-sponsored by nine other senators.  
   Senator Feinstein's statement in support of the resolution follows:
   "Mr. President, I rise today to express my support for a concurrent resolution introduced yesterday by Senator McConnell and myself that urges the United Nations Security Council to respond to the growing threats posed to the Southeast Asia region by conditions in Burma under the rule of the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC).
   I have been proud to work with Senator McConnell to raise awareness about the situation in Burma and to put pressure on the SPDC to respect the wishes of the Burmese people, restore democracy, and release from house arrest the leader of the National League for Democracy and Nobel Peace Prize winner, Aung San Suu Kyi. Congress has acted decisively in support of these efforts by passing the Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act of 2003 to impose a complete ban on Burmese imports for one year and renewing that ban this past July.
   There is still much work to be done. The threat posed by the military junta goes beyond Burma's borders and extends to the entire Southeast Asia region. The SPDC has committed numerous human rights abuses and detained over 1,300 political prisoners. It has allowed the spread of HIV/AIDS to go unchecked. It has engaged in the illicit production and trafficking of narcotics. It has engaged in the trafficking of human beings. It has attempted to purchase weapons from North Korea, China, and Russia.
   The international community simply cannot afford to ignore these threats any longer. Inaction will only strengthen the regime in Rangoon and foster greater instability in the Southeast Asia region. This resolution simply encourages the United Nations Security Council to consider the situation in Burma carefully and take appropriate action.
   While I am proud that the United States has acted in support of freedom and democracy in Burma , we need the help of our friends and allies put pressure on the SPDC to change its behavior and respect the wishes of the Burmese people and the international community. I urge my colleagues to support the resolution."
 
 