SENS. FEINSTEIN, HUTCHISON TO RENEW BREAST CANCER STAMP
  Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) today introduced legislation to reauthorize the special fundraising Breast Cancer Research Stamp, which is currently slated to expire at the end of this year.  
   "The Breast Cancer Research Stamp has raised more than $42 million for research into treatments for this terrible disease," Senator Feinstein said. "Breast cancer affects millions of people in this country and the funds raised by this stamp can help more of them to become cancer survivors and not cancer victims. I urge my colleagues to join me in the effort to continue this remarkable stamp."
   "When the Breast Cancer Research stamp was issued in 1998, it struck a chord with all Americans who seek to fight this disease," Senator Hutchison said. "This stamp has generated over $42 million for vital breast cancer research. Congress should make sure this program can continue advancing this critical work. I am proud to again partner with my friend Senator Feinstein in this effort and I am hopeful our colleagues will support this important legislation." 
   The Breast Cancer Research Stamp is the first stamp of its kind dedicated to raising funds for a special cause and so far the U.S. Postal Service has sold 588.3 million of the stamps raising $42.66 million for breast cancer research. 
   The stamp costs 45 cents and is deemed valid as a 37-cent stamp. The additional 8 cents charged for each stamp is directed to research programs at the National Institutes of Health, which receives 70 percent of the proceeds, and the Department of Defense breast cancer research programs, which receives the remaining 30 percent of the proceeds. 
   About 3 million women in the United States are living with breast cancer, one million of whom have yet to be diagnosed. One out of every 7 women will get breast cancer, just as one out of every 6 men will have prostate cancer. The disease claims another woman's life every 13 minutes in the United States. Though much less common, about 1,300 men in America are diagnosed with breast cancer each year. 
   Originally created in 1997, Congress has reauthorized the stamp three times. The original cosponsors for the bill were Senators Feinstein, Alfonse D'Amato (R-NY), and Lauch Faircloth (R-NC) in the Senate, and Representatives Vic Fazio (D-CA) and Susan Molinari (R-NY) in the House.
 
 