SEN. FEINSTEIN ASKS SENATE TO PROTECT CALIFORNIA LANDS
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today introduced several bills that would protect public lands in California and would benefit Redwood National Park, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, Yosemite schools and the Rim of the Valley Corridor.  
   "Park and recreational lands provide people with a vital refuge from urban life while preserving valuable habitat and wildlife," Senator Feinstein said. "These bills advance efforts to ensure that our lands, coastlines and forests will be preserved for all time. It is my hope that the Senate and House can come together to protect these great California resources." 
   The Redwood National Park Boundary Adjustment Act would add 25,500 acres of land known as the Mill Creek property to Redwood National Park in Del Norte County. In addition to the Mill Creek property, this bill would include within the park boundary about 900 acres of land acquired and added to the State redwood parks since the 1978 expansion of the Redwood National Park boundary. There would be no Federal costs for land acquisition or development resulting from this legislation. 
   "The Mill Creek property was purchased in an historic effort to conserve the redwood forest, provide watershed protection, and protect wildlife habitats," said Senator Feinstein. Our redwood trees are treasures that need to be protected and preserved. These efforts will ensure that this forest is protected for future generations and that the coho salmon who return to spawn in the clear, cool waters of this forest are safeguarded. I commend Congressman Mike Thompson for his efforts to safeguard California's magnificent resources and sponsoring this companion legislation in the House." 
   The Yosemite Schools/Golden Gate National Recreation Area (GGNRA) legislation would both provide funding for schools in Yosemite Park and add lands in the GGNRA. 
   Three small schools in Yosemite National Park, attended by approximately 130 children of park service employees, have faced significant hardship in recent years and have had to cut down on educational services and faculty just to stay open. This legislation would authorize the National Park Service to provide supplemental funding for these schools. 
   "The Yosemite Schools portion of this bill is important because it would prevent some Yosemite students from having to be driven more than 45 miles to and from school each day," said Senator Feinstein. "Children who live in Yosemite National Park should not suffer because they live in remote areas and lack access to larger public schools. I applaud Congressman George Radanovich for his work to pass companion legislation in the House and help these children." 
   The GGNRA measure in this legislation would add 4,700 acres of pristine natural land to the GGNRA in San Mateo County including a 4,076 parcel known as the Rancho Corral de Tierra. The mountainous property, which surrounds the coastal towns of Moss Beach and Montara, was previously purchased by the Peninsula Open Space Trust (POST). The Trust has agreed to transfer the land to the Federal Government for about half of the purchase cost. 
   "Expanding the Golden Gate National Recreation Area will protect the sweeping views of the San Mateo coast and ensure the protection of rich farmland, several miles of public trails, and an incredible array of wildlife and vegetation," said Senator Feinstein. "I look forward to working with Congressman Tom Lantos, who is sponsoring companion legislation in the House, to pass this bill and preserve this striking area." 
   The Rim of the Valley Corridor Study legislation would direct the Interior Department to conduct a study to help evaluate whether the Rim of the Valley warrants national park status. The study would examine impacts to wildlife, endangered plant and animal species, and private landowners; possible connections along the Rim of the Valley Trail System; and historically significant landscapes, sites and structures. The Corridor includes the mountains surrounding the San Fernando, La Crescenta, Santa Clarita, Simi, and Conejo Valleys. 
   "This parcel of land is unique because of its rare Mediterranean ecosystem and wildlife corridor that stretches north from the Santa Monicas," said Senator Feinstein. "With the population growth forecasted to multiply exponentially over the next several decades, the need for parks to balance out the expected population growth has become critical in California. Congressman Adam Schiff plans to introduce companion legislation for this bill in the House and I applaud his commitment to this issue."
 
 