SENATE APPROVES RESOLUTION TO RENAME RUBIDOUX POST OFFICE IN HONOR OF LOCAL FALLEN HERO
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Rep. Ken Calvert (R-Corona) today announced that the Senate has approved a resolution to rename the Rubidoux post office in honor of Lieutenant Todd Jason Bryant, who lost his life while serving in Iraq. The resolution passed the Senate by unanimous consent on Wednesday evening. 
   H.R. 988 was introduced in the House by Rep. Calvert. The post office is located at 5757 Tilton Avenue in Riverside, Calif.
   "I would like to thank Senator Feinstein and her staff for their work and support of this legislation which honors Lieutenant Bryant's sacrifice and his family," stated Rep. Calvert. "Todd was one of those rare individuals who distinguished himself at every stage of life. I was proud to nominate Todd to West Point and later to have him on my staff as an intern."
   "Representative Calvert has worked hard to pass this resolution, and I would like to thank him for his efforts," Senator Feinstein said. "Lt. Bryant was a courageous soldier, committed to serving his nation. The Rubidoux community lost a tremendous young man and determined leader. This post office will serve as a meaningful reminder of the dedication and sacrifices made by Lt. Bryant and each member of our Armed Forces serving in Iraq."
   Todd was born on January 14, 1980, in Long Beach, California. Todd came from a military family and his desire and determination to join the military was resolute. He enlisted in the Army Reserve and completed Basic Training at Fort Sill, Oklahoma before his senior year of high school. Rep. Calvert appointed Todd to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
   After graduation, Todd attended the Armor Officer's Basic Course at Fort Knox, Kentucky, graduating in December 2002. He reported to Fort Riley, Kansas in January 2003, and was initially assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st, Battalion 34th Armor Regiment where he served as an Assistant Operations Officer. In April of 2003, Todd was reassigned to C Company, 1-34 AR where he assumed duties as Platoon Leader, 3rd Platoon. On August 30, 2003, Todd and Jenifer Reardon were married in Pennsylvania, nine days before shipping out with his unit in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On Friday, October 31, 2003, Todd was killed by an explosive device as his Humvee traveled on a road between Fallujah and Baghdad. He was 23 years old.
   "I look forward to delivering this bill to the President for his signature," said Rep. Calvert. "As Memorial Day approaches I'll be thinking of Todd and all the brave heroes, and their families, who gave their lives for our country. The dedication of the post office will be one way to ensure that the memory of Lieutenant Todd Bryant lives on."
 
 