REPUBLICANS AGAIN BLOCK EFFORT TO PASS SENATE CAMPAIGN ELECTRONIC FILING BILL
  Senate Republicans today blocked an effort by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Chairman of the Rules and Administration Committee, to pass common sense legislation that would require Senate campaign finance reports to be filed electronically.
   This is the second time in two weeks that Senator Feinstein's attempts to move this legislation have been blocked. 
   Senator Feinstein and Senator Russ Feingold (D-Wis.) spoke on the Senate floor this afternoon in support of S. 223, and called for unanimous consent on the legislation. However, the vote was blocked when Senator Jim Bunning (R-Ky.) rose and objected "on behalf of the Republican side."
   Senator Feinstein previously called for unanimous consent on April 17, but a similar objection by an unnamed Republican held up passage.
   This legislation is sponsored by Senators Feingold and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), and is co-sponsored by 35 other Senators. The Senate Rules Committee approved the legislation on March 28, 2007.
   The legislation would require Senate campaign finance reports to be filed electronically, rather than in paper format. Currently, House candidates, Presidential candidates, political action committees and party committees are all required to file electronically. But Senators, Senate candidates and party committees are exempt.
   The Senate campaign filing system in place today requires paper copies of disclosure reports to be filed with the Senate Office of Public Records, which scans them to make a digital copy and sends the copy to the Federal Elections Committee (FEC) on a dedicated communications line. The FEC then prints the report and sends it to a vendor in Fredericksburg, Virginia, where the information is keyed in by hand and then transferred back to the FEC database - at cost of approximately $250,000 annually to taxpayers.
   The following is the prepared text of Senator Feinstein remarks delivered today on the floor of the United States Senate:
   "Mr. President. On April 17, just over a week ago, I rose to ask unanimous consent that the Senate take up and adopt S.223, which was reported by the Rules Committee on March 28.
   Senator Alexander objected "on behalf of a Republican Senator" and so the bill remains in limbo.
   To this date, that Republican Senator has declined to come forward to say why the bill should not become law.
   This is such a simple, direct bill with respect to transparency. It is an idea whose time has long come. It is very hard for me to understand who could oppose this and what their reason for opposing it could be.
   After last week's roadblock halted passage, the Minority Leader's spokesman told the Washington Post, "Senators are now reviewing the bill in anticipation of legislative action."
   We would hope that the review is complete and we could get down to business.
   At our hearing on March 14 and at our mark-up on March 28, it was clear that there is no public opposition to this proposal.
   It is time for the Senate to act
   This bill titled, "Senate Campaign Disclosure Parity Act." is sponsored by Senators Feingold and Cochran and 35 other Senators.
   It would require that Senate campaign finance reports be filed electronically, rather than in paper format.
   Currently, House candidates, Presidential candidates, political action committees and party committees are all required to file electronically.
   But Senators, Senate candidates, authorized campaign committees and the Democratic and Republican Senatorial Campaign Committees are exempt.
   As a result, we have a cumbersome system in which paper copies of disclosure reports are filed with the Senate Office of Public Records, which scans them to make an electronic copy and sends the copy to the FEC on a dedicated communications line.
   The FEC then prints the report and sends it to a vendor in Fredericksburg, Virginia, where the information is keyed in by hand and then transferred back to the FEC database - at cost of approximately $250,000 annually to taxpayers.
   It's long past time to bring the Senate into the modern era.
   I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in ensuring timely access and disclosure of campaign finance activities to the public."
 
 