SENATE APPROVES SEN. FEINSTEIN BILL TO STUDY EXPANDING SANTA MONICA MOUNTAINS NATIONAL RECREATION AREA TO INCLUDE 'RIM OF THE VALLEY'
  The Senate today approved legislation sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D- Calif.) that would explore the possibility of adding the Rim of the Valley Corridor in Southern California to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area.  
   "Park and recreational lands provide people with a vital refuge from urban life," Senator Feinstein said. "But the amount of open space in Southern California only continues to diminish. That's why it's so important to protect and preserve the rare ecosystems and critical wildlife habitat of the Rim of the Valley. Today's action brings us another step closer to making the rim of the valley corridor part of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. I am gratified that the Senate has once again approved this legislation, and I am hopeful that the House will act on it soon." 
   The Rim of the Valley Corridor Study legislation would direct the Interior Department to conduct a study to help evaluate whether the Rim of the Valley should be included as part of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. The study would examine impacts to wildlife, endangered plant and animal species, and private landowners; possible connections along the Rim of the Valley Trail System; and historically significant landscapes, sites and structures. 
   The Corridor includes the mountains surrounding the San Fernando , La Crescenta, Santa Clarita, Simi, and Conejo Valleys. A companion bill has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and cosponsored by Representatives David Dreier, George Miller, and Brad Sherman.
   The National Park Service oversees the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, the world's largest urban park as designated by Congress in 1978, spanning from the Ventura Freeway westward to the Pacific Ocean. Inclusion of the Rim of the Valley corridor would link wildlife habitat in the Santa Monica Mountains to the Angeles National Forest. 
   The Act requires the Secretaries to consult with state, county, and local governments, and to report their recommendations to Congress within three years. An Act of Congress would then be required to designate any new addition to the Park System. In the 108th Congress, this legislation was approved by the Senate, but did not reach the House floor. 
   A number of environmental organizations support this legislation, including the Altadena Foothills Conservancy, the California Wilderness Coalition, Scenic America, and the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club, as well as the cities of La Canada Flintridge, Glendale, Pasadena, and South Pasadena.
 
 