SENATE APPROVES RESOLUTION BY SENS. FEINSTEIN, CORNYN, OBAMA, LUGAR TO ESTABLISH NATIONAL DAY OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING AWARENESS ON JAN. 11
  The U.S. Senate has approved a resolution by Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), John Cornyn (R-TX), Barack Obama (D-IL), and Dick Lugar (R-IN) to create a National Day of Human Trafficking Awareness, to be observed on January 11 of every year.
   The Resolution is intended to raise awareness about human trafficking, a form of modern-day slavery. 
   Victims of human trafficking are forced to work in sweatshops, prostitution rings, farm labor, private homes and other enterprises. Traffickers use many techniques to keep their victims enslaved - including fear, isolation and threats of violence, according to the U.S. Department of Justice.
    It is a pervasive global crime, with nearly 1 million people trafficked across international borders every year - roughly 80 percent of them are women and children - according to the U.S. State Department.
   "It is vitally important that we as a nation work to eliminate human trafficking, whose victims are among the most vulnerable members of society, including women and children," said Senator Feinstein, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
   "Human trafficking is a real problem in California, where there were 500 known cases of human trafficking between 1998 and 2003. There were no doubt countless other cases, because victims of this crime live in fear and often avoid law enforcement. Human traffickers use force, threats and coercion to make their victims believe they have no other choice but to work for their captors."
   "This Resolution is an important step in fighting this crime. We already have laws against human trafficking. Now, with this Resolution, we can raise awareness of human trafficking among the people most likely to come into contact with victims of this crime."
   Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said: "I believe most Americans would be shocked to learn that slavery continues to exist today - not just in remote parts of the world, but hidden away in communities across America. We must keep working to eradicate human trafficking by raising awareness and strengthening efforts to combat it both abroad and here at home." 
   "Human trafficking is an atrocity and we must do everything we can to enforce the law and to raise awareness to prevent it," said Senator Obama. "This resolution will bring national attention to the victims of modern slavery in sweatshops and other forced labor enterprises throughout the nation."
   "Thousands of people are trafficked every year inside their own countries and across international borders. The State Department's Trafficking in Persons office is vigorous in calling to account those countries that are the source and recipients of these abused individuals. We join in this resolution to highlight their situation and suffering in the hopes that such attention will heighten the public's awareness of their plight, and with the hope of making progress to curtail these practices," said Senator Lugar.
   Facts about Human Trafficking:
   * An estimated 12.3 million people around the world are forced into labor and sexual servitude, according to the International Labor Organization of the United Nations.
   * About 800,000 people are trafficked across international borders, according to the U.S. State Department. Of these, about 80 percent are women and girls, and up to 50 percent are minors.
   * An estimated 14,500-17,500 victims of human trafficking are brought into the United States each year, according to the U.S. Department of Justice.
   * The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 made human trafficking a federal crime, investigated primarily by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Immigration and Customs Enforcement. In addition, several states have enacted laws against human trafficking. 
   Language of the Concurrent Resolution:
   "Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That Congress supports the goals and ideals of observing the National Day of Human Trafficking Awareness on January 11 of each year and all other efforts to raise awareness of and opposition to human trafficking."
 
 