SEN. FEINSTEIN REFLECTS ON LEGISLATIVE ACHIEVEMENTS OF 2007
  Reviewing the just-concluded first session of the 110th Congress, U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today pointed to several major legislative victories achieved in a challenging political environment.
   "The American people voted for change, and I worked hard this year on legislation to change our nation in positive ways," Senator Feinstein said. 
   "I'm most proud that historic fuel efficiency legislation, which I authored along with Senators Olympia Snowe, Daniel Inouye and Ted Stevens, passed the Senate and the House - with the help of Speaker Nancy Pelosi - and was signed by the President. It is the first fuel efficiency law in more than two decades, and will raise fleetwide average standards by 10 miles per gallon over the next 10 years, and save 2 million barrels of oil per day. This was a major victory, and a step long overdue. 
   "The Senate also unanimously approved a measure to close the 'Enron Loophole,' which I sponsored along with Senators Carl Levin and Olympia Snowe. Since 2000, the Commodities Futures Modernization Act has exempted electronic energy markets for large traders from government oversight. I have worked to close this loophole for several years, since it was revealed in the wake of the Western Energy Crisis of 2001-2002. The measure approved by the Senate requires transparency and an audit trail of energy traders; requires traders to report activity to the Commodities Futures Trading Commission; gives the Commission new authority to punish manipulation, fraud, price distortion,  and excessive speculation; and requires electronic trading platforms to actively monitor their markets. This will help deter unscrupulous traders from manipulating our energy markets and driving up energy costs. This legislation was added as an amendment to the Farm Bill, which has been sent to a House-Senate Conference Committee.
   "Third, I was the Senator that first brought to light the political manipulation of U.S. attorneys, in a floor speech on January 16, 2007. And now I have seen my legislation to end these abuses become law. This legislation restores Senate confirmation of U.S. attorneys, and ensures prosecutors work in the districts they were appointed to serve, not in Washington.
   "The Gang Abatement Act, which I co-sponsored with Senator Orrin Hatch, passed the Senate earlier this year. We first introduced a version of this bill 10 years ago, so it has been a long, hard fight to get it passed through the Senate. I'm hopeful the House of Representatives will realize that the present situation with gangs continues to deteriorate, especially in the largest city in my state, Los Angeles -- which in just five years has seen 23,000 verified violent gang crimes. Bottom line: gang violence is an epidemic across the United States, and it is vital that this bill is passed.
   "So this was a year with several major legislative victories, but we also have a lot of work ahead of us. We need to bring our troops home from Iraq, and to press the Iraqi government to take responsibility for peace and security. We need to close the detention center at Guantanamo, which hurts America's image around the world every day. And we need to ensure that the CIA ends the practice of waterboarding; legislation I authored to end this practice will be taken up by the Senate early in 2008.
   "I share the frustrations of the American people. They want us to do more - for our troops, for children without health insurance, for hardworking American families facing tough economic times. This year we showed what is possible when both sides of the aisle work hard for the good of the nation. I'm looking forward in 2008 to building on the successes of 2007."
   Senator Feinstein's highlights of 2007 include:
   Advancing Democratic Values:
   Joined with Democratic Majorities on Key Votes, Including: 
   Requiring strategic troop withdrawals from Iraq; 
   Increasing the federal minimum wage by 70 cents, to $5.85 this year and $7.25 by 2009 (legislation signed into law in May); 
   Reauthorizing the Children's Health Insurance Program (vetoed by President Bush); and 
   Increasing federal funding for stem-cell research (vetoed by President Bush). 
   Enacted Legislation:
   Increasing Fuel Efficiency: On December 19, President Bush signed into law historic legislation co-sponsored by Senators Feinstein, Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii), and Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), to increase fleetwide average fuel economy standards by 10 miles per gallon (mpg) over 10 years, or from 25 mpg to 35 mpg by Model Year 2020. By 2025, the legislation will save 2 million barrels of oil per day, reduce motor vehicle emissions by 17 percent below projected levels, and save American families $700-$1,000 a year. 
   Reforming Ethics and Lobbying: On September 14, President Bush signed into law comprehensive ethics and lobbying reform legislation co-sponsored by Senator Feinstein. As Chairman of the Senate Rules and Administration Committee, Senator Feinstein played a key role in the bill's passage and managed its progress on the Senate floor. Provisions include slowing the revolving door between Congress and lobbyists; requiring disclosure of lobbyists who bundle campaign contributions; and increased transparency in the legislative process. 
   Restoring U.S. Attorney Independence: On June 14 and December 26, President Bush signed into law two pieces of legislation authored by Senator Feinstein, who was the first Senator to bring to light the political manipulation of U.S. attorneys. The ensuing investigation, led by Senator Feinstein, resulted in the resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and enactment of two laws to restore U.S. attorney independence: 
   The "Preserving U.S. Attorney Independence Act" (signed June 14) co-sponsored by Senators Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), and Arlen Specter (R-Pa.). It is designed to end the politicalization of the Justice Department, and restores Senate confirmation of U.S. attorneys; and 
   The "United States Attorney Local Residency Restoration Act," (signed December 26) co-sponsored by Senators Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), and Jon Tester (D-Mont.). It requires that U.S. attorneys live in the districts they were appointed to serve. 
   $500 Million for Wildfire Prevention and Suppression: On November 13, President Bush signed an appropriations bill that included $500 million in emergency fire suppression, risk reduction and recovery funding sought by Senator Feinstein. Senator Feinstein made the request as wildfires ravaged Southern California, along with Representatives Jerry Lewis (R-Calif.) and Norm Dicks (D-Wash.).The bulk of the money will be directed to California. Senator Feinstein also introduced bills to encourage improved fire-prevention efforts in areas prone to wildfires, increase federal recovery aid to disaster victims, and keep track of criminal arsonists. 
   Restricting Cluster Bombs: On December 26, President Bush signed into law a measure co-sponsored by Senators Feinstein and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) to restrict the sale or transfer of cluster bombs. The measure is intended to reduce civilian deaths and suffering caused by these weapons. It requires that no funds be used for sale or transfer of cluster bombs unless they have a failure rate of 1 percent or less, and will be used only against clearly defined military targets. 
   Reauthorizing Breast Cancer Research Stamp: On December 21, President Bush signed into law legislation sponsored by Senator Feinstein to extend the sale of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp for four more years, to the end of 2011. Since first going on sale in 1998, the stamp has raised $59.5 million for breast cancer research - more than any other fund-raising stamp. 
   Preserving West Los Angeles Veterans Administration Campus: On December 26, President Bush signed into law legislation introduced by Senator Feinstein to prohibit commercial development of the West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs Medical Center site. The legislation specifically prohibits the Department of Veterans Affairs from entering into enhanced-use leases of the land, and from selling any portions of it for private use. 
   Restoring Public Access to Santa Rosa Island: On December 26, President Bush signed into law legislation co-sponsored by Senators Feinstein and Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), to restore full public access to Santa Rosa Island in the Channel Islands National Park off Santa Barbara. The legislation ensures the island will be open to the public. 
   Increased Funding of State Criminal Alien Assistance Program: On December 26, President Bush signed into law an increase to this program advocated by Senator Feinstein. Under this increase, the program will receive $410 million to reimburse states and localities for incarceration of undocumented aliens convicted of criminal offenses. The FY 2008 funding level is an increase of $11 million over FY 2007. 
   Prosecution of Sexual Abusers:  On December 26, President Bush signed into law a measure with language drafted by Senator Feinstein to ensure that anyone abusing a person in federal custody is fully prosecuted. The language closes a loophole preventing federal criminal penalties from being filed against anyone sexually abusing a minor, immigrant, or other person held in federal custody, including by the Department of Homeland Security or Office of Refugee Resettlement. 
   Legislation Approved by House-Senate Conference:
   Ensuring CIA Follows Army Field Manual: On December 13, the House of Representatives approved legislation authored by Senator Feinstein to prohibit U.S. intelligence agencies from using "waterboarding" and other coercive techniques. The legislation, co-sponsored by Senators Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), and Russ Feingold (D-Wis.), had earlier been approved by the bipartisan majorities of the Senate and House Intelligence Committees. Slated for Senate consideration in early 2008, it specifically prohibits U.S. intelligence agencies from using techniques not authorized by the Army Field Manual. 
   Legislation Approved by Senate:
   Combating Gang Violence: On September 21, the Senate unanimously approved anti-gang legislation co-sponsored by Senators Feinstein and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). It would authorize more than $1 billion in funding for gang prevention, intervention and suppression programs; create tough federal penalties to deter and punish members of illegal street gangs; authorize more than $411 million to keep kids out of gangs; and protect against witness intimidation. The legislation is awaiting approval in the House of Representatives. 
   Closing Enron Loophole: On December 13, the Senate unanimously approved legislation by Senator Feinstein to close the "Enron Loophole," which has exempted electronic energy markets from government oversight. Senator Feinstein's legislation was included as an amendment to the Farm Bill, which has been sent to a House-Senate Conference Committee. The measure will increase federal oversight authority to detect and prevent manipulation in U.S. electronic energy markets, create an audit trail, and increase transparency. It will deter unscrupulous traders from manipulating energy prices and driving up energy costs. 
   Restricting Nevada-Style Gambling in Bay Area: On November 5, the Senate approved legislation introduced by Senator Feinstein to prevent a major expansion of Casino San Pablo in the East Bay. The legislation, referred to the House committee on Natural Resources, virtually eliminates the possibility of a major expansion of Casino San Pablo, resolving a long-running dispute between the local community and the Lytton Band of Pomo Indians. 
   Legislation Approved by Committee:
   Clamping Down on Rogue Internet Pharmacies: On September 27, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved the Ryan Haight Internet Pharmacy Consumer Protection Act, introduced by Senators Feinstein and Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.). The legislation will stop Internet pharmacies that sell controlled substances without a valid prescription, while protecting consumers who fill legitimate prescriptions online. 
   Protecting Against Identity Theft: On May 3, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved legislation by Senator Feinstein to protect individuals from identity theft. The legislation requires businesses to notify consumers in the event of security breaches that expose personal data.
 
 