SEN. FEINSTEIN ANNOUNCES ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GRANTS TO BOOST COMMUNITIES AFFECTED BY BASE CLOSURES
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today announced four grant awards to boost economic development at four former military facilities in California. The grant awards, approved by the Commerce Department's Economic Development Administration, went to the March Joint Powers Authority overseeing the former March Air Reserve Base; the Southern California Logistics Airport Authority at the former George Air Force Base; the Inland Valley Development Authority at the former Norton Air Force Base; and the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency and the County of San Francisco for planning the redevelopment of the Hunters Point Naval Shipyard.  
   "Communities across our State have been hit hard by base closures," Senator Feinstein said. "These funds will provide a welcome economic boost and create jobs in several of those California communities." 
   Details about the projects are below: 
   * Applicant: March Joint Powers Authority (JPA), 
  (March Air Reserve Base) 
  Economic Development Administration (EDA) Grant Amount: $950,000
  Total Project Cost: $1,056,000 
   Summary: Grant money will be used for the removal of asbestos from the Arnold Heights Housing area (formerly the Wherry Housing area). This is the first phase of JPA's goal in removing 580 total housing units. JPA will use this money to remove 120 housing units. They anticipate the completion of this project will take 9 months. In addition, once asbestos is completely removed, the California Department of Forestry will be able to perform training exercises on the demolished housing units, such as burn training and fuel management. The redevelopment project is expected to employ more than 12,000 Moreno Valley citizens. March Air Reserve Base was realigned on April 1, 1996. 
   * Applicant: Southern California Logistics Airport Authority
  (George Air Force Base)
  EDA Grant Amount: $3,230,000 (To be reimbursed by the Department of Defense)
  Total Project Cost: $3,588,900 
   Summary: Grant money will be used to create additional wells and well infrastructure needed to improve the water supply on the former base. With increased water supply, the Airport Authority can more effectively pursue industrial/commercial development. The investment is expected to help create 1,000 new jobs and spur $10 million in private investment. The base was realigned in December of 1992. 
   * Applicant: Inland Valley Development Authority
  (Norton Air Force Base)
  EDA Grant Amount: $3,230,000
  Total Project Cost: $3,588,889 
   Summary: Grant money will be used to fund the demolition of 37 buildings and disposal of asbestos and lead paint. It will also bring in Stater Brothers, Inc., which has plans to create their national redistribution center and corporate offices in this 160-acre area. This will create and retain 2,000 new jobs. Other incoming companies include Mattel, Pep Boys and Kohl's. Base was closed in March of 1994. 
   * Applicant: San Francisco Redevelopment Agency and the County of San Francisco (Hunters Point Naval Shipyard)
  EDA Grant Amount: $2,134,000
  Total Project Cost: $2,372,000 
   Summary: Grant will be used to develop plans to renovate Hunters Point Naval Shipyard. After redevelopment, more than 8,000 new jobs will be created for local citizens.
 
 