SENS. FEINSTEIN, HUTCHISON URGE CHILDREN TO USE BREAST CANCER RESEARCH STAMPS TO SEND THEIR MOTHER'S DAY CARDS
  With Mother's Day coming upon us quickly, Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) today called on sons and daughters to use the Breast Cancer Research Stamp when sending greeting cards to their mothers.  
   "Using a Breast Cancer Research Stamp on your Mother's Day cards will help a good cause and show your mother how important she is," Senator Feinstein said. "Raising nearly $45 million for breast cancer research, the stamp's ability to strike a blow against this terrible disease has resonated with people since its inception. I commend everyone who has already bought the stamps, and I urge everybody to get out there and buy more Breast Cancer Research Stamps." 
   "Using the Breast Cancer Research Stamp to mail your Mother's Day card shows you truly care and are committed to finding a cure," Senator Hutchison said. "Whether or not a loved one has fought this disease, it affects all of us. Early diagnosis is the best way to prevent breast cancer from taking future lives, but we must also commit to research and technology that will lead to a cure. I encourage everyone to take advantage of this easy way to contribute to a noble cause." 
   Slated to expire at the end of the year unless Congress acts, Senator Feinstein and Senator Hutchison have introduced legislation to reauthorize the stamp for two more years. The bill currently has 35 cosponsors. Representative Joe Baca (D-Calif.) has introduced similar legislation in the House, which has 68 cosponsors. Congress originally passed legislation to create the Breast Cancer Research Stamp on July 29, 1997 and has reauthorized the stamp three times so far. 
   "With more bipartisan support, we can keep this stamp going until the day we have a cure," said Senator Feinstein. "I hope that Congress will pass this legislation soon." 
   The Breast Cancer Research Stamp is the first stamp of its kind dedicated to raising funds for a special cause. The U.S. Postal Service has sold 606.8 million copies and raised $44.1 million for breast cancer research. It is the bestselling commemorative stamp in history, selling even more copies than the Elvis Presley stamp. 
   The stamp costs 45 cents and is deemed valid as a 37-cent stamp. The additional 8 cents charged for each stamp is directed to research programs at the National Institutes of Health, which receives 70 percent of the proceeds, and the Department of Defense breast cancer research programs, which receives the remaining 30 percent of the proceeds. 
   About 3 million women in the United States are living with breast cancer, one million of whom have yet to be diagnosed. One out of every 7 women will get breast cancer, just as one out of every 6 men will have prostate cancer. The disease claims another woman's life every 13 minutes in the United States. Though much less common, about 1,300 men in America are diagnosed with breast cancer each year.
 
 