SENS. FEINSTEIN, CORNYN EXPRESS GRATITUDE FOR CANADIAN PRIME MINISTER'S HELP TO STOP VIDEO PIRACY
  Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) earlier this week sent a letter to the Prime Minister of Canada applauding his efforts to secure passage of legislation in Canada to crack down on video and audio piracy, specifically banning the recording of movies before they are released to video.
   The Canadian bill is similar to the Artists' Rights and Theft Prevention Act (ART Act), a law Senators Feinstein and Cornyn introduced in 2003. The legislation was signed into law in April 2005 as part of the Family Entertainment and Copyright Act of 2005. 
   The law has two major provisions:
   * First, it is now a federal crime to videotape movies in theaters without authorization.
   * Second, it is easier for prosecutors to convict individuals who put pre-released material on the Internet or for aggrieved parties to file lawsuits.
   The following is the text of Senators Feinstein and Cornyn's letter:
   June 25, 2007
   The Right Honourable Stephen Harper, P.C., M.P.,
  Prime Minister of Canada
  80 Wellington Street
  Ottawa, Ontario
  Canada K1A 0A2
   Dear Prime Minister:
   We are writing to express our sincere gratitude for your government's recent adoption of legislation to combat the piracy of motion pictures in Canada. We believe that bill C-59, which amended the Criminal Code to prohibit the unauthorized recording of a motion picture in a theater, sends a clear message that piracy will not be tolerated in Canada. The law will go a long way toward eradicating the rising camcording problem. And so we applaud your successful efforts in passing this legislation.
   As we noted in our previous letter, the theft and sale of newly-released movies is a serious threat to the motion picture industry. Advancements in digital technology and improved camcorder capabilities have only amplified this threat and further jeopardized the property rights of artists. This is apparent in that more than 90 percent of counterfeit DVDs of newly-released movies originate from high-quality unauthorized recordings taken with a camcorder.
   The United States took a strong stand against such piracy, enacting federal legislation criminalizing the use of recording devices in movie theaters and providing stiff penalties for violators. This provided an important deterrent and allowed the movie industry and theater owners to effectively attack this problem domestically. Unfortunately, following enactment of the new law in 2005, much of this illicit business simply migrated outside the United States--including into Canada. According to a report issued by the U.S. Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, Canadian-sourced camcordings rose by 24 percent in 2006. Twentieth-Century Fox reported that, at one point that year, Canadian theaters were the source for nearly 50 percent of all illegal camcordings. It became clear that changes to United States law alone would not be sufficient to effectively address this problem.
   Through enactment of bill C-59, your government took a decisive step to combat camcording-generated piracy. Crucially, the new law allows individuals to be prosecuted for unauthorized camcording without requiring proof that the recording is being made for commercial purposes. Copyright thieves will no longer be able to immunize themselves from prosecution by claiming the recording was intended merely for personal use.
   Unauthorized camcording is an egregious form of copyright piracy and it poses a serious threat to the motion picture industry, in the United States and in Canada. With strong anti-camcording laws now in place in both our countries, copyright pirates will have a harder time creating illegal recordings.
   Thank you again for your prompt and decisive actions to address this problem. If we can be of any assistance to you or your cabinet ministers, please do not hesitate to contact us.
    Sincerely,
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator
   John Cornyn
  United States Senator
   Cc:
   The Honourable Robert Douglas Nicholson, P.C., M.P.,
  Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada
   The Honourable Maxime Bernier, P.C., M.P.,
  Minister of Industry
   The Honourable Beverly J. Oda, P.C., M.P.,
  Minister of Canadian Heritage and Status of Women Canadian Heritage
 
 