SEN. FEINSTEIN CALLS FOR ROBUST U.S. RESPONSE TO DEVASTATING EARTHQUAKE, TSUNAMI
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today expressed her deep sympathy for the victims of the earthquake and tsunami which has devastated parts of 12 nations in Asia and called on Secretary of State Colin Powell to provide a robust and comprehensive aid package of emergency relief. Following is the text of Senator Feinstein's letter: 
   December 30, 2004
   The Honorable Colin L. Powell
  Secretary of State
  U.S. Department of State
  2201 C Street, NW
  Washington, DC 20520
   Dear Secretary Powell:
   The earthquake and tsunami which occurred this week in Asia represents a worldwide humanitarian calamity, and I believe it is critical that the United States take a leadership role in responding to the crisis.
   I cannot begin to express my deep sympathy for the victims of this disaster and their families. They are in my thoughts and my prayers. And I believe our nation must do everything it can to help in rescue and recovery efforts. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I stand ready to designate the funding that is needed.
   The scope of this disaster is unprecedented. It is estimated that the death toll across 12 nations has already exceeded 115,000. And this number could double or triple as a result of infectious diseases spread in the disaster's aftermath.
   That's why it is absolutely imperative that the United States provide a robust and comprehensive aid package to provide emergency relief. This package should include significant funding, as well as potable water, sanitation, food, and shelter to prevent the spread of disease. We must also work with our friends and allies, the United Nations, and international organizations such as the Red Cross to develop a long term disaster relief aid package. There is no time to lose.
   I welcome the initial release of $35 million in aid, but clearly the United States must do more to help those in need. This is a critical opportunity to show the world that we are a compassionate, generous, and giving nation. Through our actions, America and the American people can earn the world's respect and admiration.
   I thank you for your attention to this request, and I want you to know that I will do whatever I can to help provide this needed assistance.
 
 