SEN. FEINSTEIN TO CO-SPONSOR 'THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN LATINO COMMUNITY COMMISSION ACT'
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today announced that she will sign on as a co-sponsor of "The National Museum of the American Latino Community Commission Act." The bill would create a national commission to study the potential establishment of a National Museum of the American Latino in Washington, D.C.  
   "I am pleased to support this legislation, which is the first step in creating a national museum in our nation's capital honoring the rich cultural and historical contributions of the Latino community," Senator Feinstein said. 
   "I'm very proud to represent California, where over 12 million of our country's 41 million Latinos reside, and hope that every person who visits Washington , DC will some day soon have an opportunity to learn the full history of Latinos in American culture." 
   The bill, S. 2475, was introduced by Senator Ken Salazar (D-Colo.), and currently has the bipartisan support of 15 other senators. 
   Specifically, this legislation would: 
   * Authorize $3.2 million over two years to create a 23-member commission to study the potential establishment of a National Museum of the American Latino. 
   * Require the Commission to develop a fundraising plan to create and maintain support of a National Museum through private contributions from the American Latino community and the general public. 
   * Require the Commission to submit a report, within 18 months after becoming law, to the President and Congress on how to establish, maintain and fund a National Museum of the American Latino. 
   The House companion bill, introduced by Representative Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.) has passed out of the House Administration Committee and Resources Committee and is headed to the House floor. 
   All members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus have co-sponsored the bill, which is supported by national Hispanic organizations, including the National Council of La Raza and the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC).
 
 