SENS. FEINSTEIN, BOXER, BIPARTISAN GROUP OF 6 CALIFORNIA REPS. URGE FEMA, SBA TO ASSIST IN PROMPT PRELIMINARY ASSESSMENT OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA FLOOD DAMAGE
  Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) and a bipartisan group of six California Members of the House of Representatives today urged the prompt completion of a preliminary assessment of the flood damage caused by recent storms in Northern California. The assessment by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Small Business Administration (SBA), in conjunction with the California Office of Emergency Services (OES) and local communities, will gauge total damages to determine what Federal assistance is needed.  
   "The latest storms to hit Northern California have resulted in serious flooding causing extensive damage to many individual properties and numerous small businesses, as well as key infrastructure, including numerous public roads, bridges and flood control structures," Senator Feinstein said. "It is imperative that you assign sufficient personnel to get these estimates done quickly to determine what Federal disaster assistance is needed in local communities throughout Northern California." 
   At this time 22 Counties have declared a local state of emergency. Yesterday, the Governor proclaimed a State of Emergency in seven of these counties, and five have requested a Presidential Declaration of a Federal disaster area. 
   Following is the text of the letter to FEMA's Acting Director R. David Paulison and SBA Administrator Hector Barreto sent by Senators Feinstein and Boxer along with California Representatives Richard Pombo (R-Calif.), Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), Lynn Woolsey (D-Calif.), Wally Herger (R-Calif.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.), and Daniel Lungren (R-Calif.): 
   January 3, 2006 
   The Honorable R. David Paulison
  Acting Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
  500 C Street, S.W.
  Washington, DC 20472 
   The Honorable Hector V. Barreto
  Administrator of the Small Business Administration
  409 Third Street, S.W.
  Washington, DC 20416 
   Dear Administrator Barreto and Director Paulison: 
   We are writing to request that you expedite the completion of preliminary damage assessments in coordination with the State of California's Office of Emergency Services. It is imperative that you assign sufficient personnel to get these estimates done quickly to determine what Federal disaster assistance is needed in local communities throughout Northern California. 
   The latest storms to hit Northern California have resulted in serious flooding causing extensive damage to many individual properties and numerous small businesses as well as key infrastructure, including numerous public roads, bridges and flood control structures. Power outages have affected over 100,000 households and businesses throughout the New Year's weekend at some point.
   At this time 22 counties have declared a local state of emergency. Yesterday, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in seven of these counties, and five have requested a Presidential Declaration of a Federal disaster area.
   Many of these counties are still responding to flood-related incidents and incurring additional costs associated with these activities, as well as ensuring existing flood control projects and levees are performing as they should. Your assistance in finishing preliminary damage assessments will help local communities and the State assess total damages to determine what Federal assistance is needed.
   Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter, and please feel free to contact us if we can be of additional assistance. 
   Sincerely, 
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator 
   Barbara Boxer
  United States Senator 
   Richard Pombo
  United States Representative 
   Mike Thompson
  United States Representative 
   Lynn Woolsey
  United States Representative 
   Wally Herger
  United States Representative 
   Daniel Lungren
  United States Representative 
   Doris Matsui
  United States Representative
 
 