SEN. FEINSTEIN URGES NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER TO CLARIFY REMARKS ABOUT IRAQ'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM
  In response to remarks by National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice that the issue of whether Iraq was seeking aluminum tubes for its nuclear weapons program was still being debated, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today urged her to clarify whether she still believes the tubes were being sought to develop enriched uranium despite U.S. government and international investigations that have found otherwise.  
   Senator Feinstein, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, also asked the Dr. Rice whether there is any new intelligence to bolster this claim and, if so, to provide it to the Intelligence Committee for review. 
   "As you know, the Intelligence Committee conducted a lengthy investigation of the intelligence on weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and found that the intelligence about the aluminum tubes and other aspects of Iraq 's nuclear weapons program was wrong, unfounded or overblown," Senator Feinstein said in a letter to Dr. Rice. 
   "Also, the Iraq Survey Group told Congress that it had found no evidence that the tubes were for nuclear weapon development or that Iraq had resumed its weapons program. Yet, now you, as the President's National Security Adviser, seem to be implying that these assessments are still open to debate. I would find such an assertion very troubling, especially if you are basing your comments on intelligence that has already been discredited." 
   The following is the text of a letter sent by Senator Feinstein to Dr. Rice: 
   October 5, 2004 
   Condoleezza Rice
  National Security Adviser
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear Dr. Rice: 
   I am writing in response to your comments on ABC's "This Week" with George Stephanopoulos regarding questions raised by a New York Times article on the aluminum tubes you had previously contended were strong evidence that Iraq was rebuilding its nuclear weapons program. 
   The article, "How the White House Embraced Disputed Arms Intelligence," provided a comprehensive and accurate analysis of the issues concerning the aluminum tubes. Especially troubling, was the documentation on how the Administration in public statements leading up to the war in Iraq discounted reports by the Energy Department, the State Department, British Intelligence and the International Atomic Energy Agency that the tubes were most likely meant to be used for conventional rocket launchers and not for the development of enriched uranium for a nuclear bomb. 
   On September 8, 2002, you stated on CNN, that these aluminum tubes "are only really suited for nuclear weapons programs, centrifuge programs," even though nuclear weapons experts at the Energy Department had warned the National Security Council in 2001 that this was incorrect. 
   Mr. Stephanopoulos asked you, "Do you accept today that these tubes were likely for rockets, not nuclear weapons? 
   You responded: "George, as I understand it, people are still debating this. And I'm sure they will continue to debate it." 
   As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I am very interested in learning of any new credible information that demonstrates that these rods were being used to develop enriched uranium. 
   As you know, the Intelligence Committee conducted a lengthy investigation of the intelligence on weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and found that the intelligence about the aluminum tubes and other aspects of Iraq's nuclear weapons program was wrong, unfounded or overblown. 
   Also, the Iraq Survey Group told Congress that it had found no evidence that the tubes were for nuclear weapon development or that Iraq had resumed its weapons program. 
   Yet, now you, as the President's National Security Adviser, seem to be implying that these assessments are still open to debate. I would find such an assertion very troubling, especially if you are basing your comments on intelligence that has already been discredited. 
   As a member of the Intelligence Committee, I would like to know: 
   * If you still believe that the aluminum tubes were convincing evidence that Iraq was seeking to rebuild its nuclear weapons program? 
   * And, if so, are you basing this belief on information that has not already been reviewed and found to be flawed by the Intelligence Committee? 
   If, indeed, you are aware of new intelligence not provided to either the Intelligence Committee or the Iraq Survey Group, I would ask that you present it to the Committee for review as soon as possible. 
   I look forward to your response. 
   Sincerely, 
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator
 
 