LEGISLATION PROTECTING CALIFORNIA'S NATURAL RESOURCES READY FOR PRESIDENT'S SIGNATURE INTO LAW
  The U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation that would add land to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Redwood National Park. The bill also authorizes additional funding for schools located in Yosemite Park. The measure approved by the House was originally introduced by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) in the Senate. The bill will now go to the President for signature.  
   "California's wildlands and forests are not only a State treasure, they are also National gems. If we do not act now to protect these precious natural resources, we will be in danger of losing them forever," Senator Feinstein said. "I am proud that Congress is doing its part to protect these vanishing treasures. And I would like to thank Resources Committee Chairman Richard Pombo for helping to move this important legislation through the House." 
   The Golden Gate National Recreation Area (GGNRA) portion of the legislation will add 4,500 acres of pristine natural land to GGNRA in San Mateo County including a 4,076 acre parcel known as the Rancho Corral de Tierra. The Peninsula Open Space Trust (POST) previously purchased the mountainous property that surrounds the coastal towns of Moss Beach and Montara. The Trust has agreed to transfer the land to the Federal Government for approximately half of the purchase cost. 
   "The Golden Gate National Recreation Area is an important part of San Francisco's charm and history," Senator Feinstein said. "I am pleased that the recreation area's expansion will add panoramic views of the San Mateo Coast, several miles of public trails, rich farmland, and an incredible array of wildlife and vegetation to this significant Bay Area landmark. And I applaud Congressman Tom Lantos for his help in protecting these impressive resources." 
   Another portion of the bill will add 25,500 acres of land known as the Mill Creek property to Redwood National Park in Del Norte County. In addition to the Mill Creek property, this bill will bring about 900 acres of land within the park boundary. There is no Federal cost for the land acquisition or development resulting from this legislation. 
   "Adding the Mill Creek property to the Redwood National Park is a historic step and will enable us to protect California's magnificent redwood forests for generations to come," Senator Feinstein said. "This legislation will also provide watershed protection, and protect wildlife habitats preserving the forest. I would like to thank Congressman Mike Thompson for his partnership in protecting these remarkable natural treasures." 
   The legislation will also authorize the National Park Service to provide supplemental funding for three small schools in the Bass Lake Joint Union Elementary and Mariposa Unified School Districts, which are located in Yosemite National Park. In recent years, these schools have faced significant hardship and have had to cut down on educational services and faculty just to stay open. 
   "Children who live in Yosemite National Park should not be forced to face commutes of more than 90 miles roundtrip each day to go to school just because they live in remote areas," Senator Feinstein said. "Providing the resources to keep these schools open is an important priority for California, and I commend Congressman George Radanovich for his support of this issue in the House."
 
 