SILICON VALLEY LEADERSHIP GROUP ENDORSES SEN. FEINSTEIN'S BILL TO INCREASE FUEL EFFICIENCY FOR ALL PASSENGER VEHICLES TO 35 MPG BY 2019
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today announced that the Silicon Valley Leadership Group has endorsed the 'Ten in Ten Fuel Economy Act,' a bill which would raise fuel economy standards for all passenger vehicles, including SUVs, sedans and light trucks by 10 miles per gallon (mpg) over 10 years - or from 25 to 35 mpg by model year 2019. 
   The Silicon Valley Leadership Group represents more than 200 companies based in California's Silicon Valley. Collectively, the member companies contribute more than $1 trillion to the global economy.  
   The text of the letter announcing the group's endorsement is pasted below (and attached as a .PDF file): 
   March 2, 2007
   The Honorable Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senate - California
  331 Hart Senate Office Building
  Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Senator Feinstein: 
   It is my pleasure to inform you that the Silicon Valley Leadership Group has endorsed your "Ten in Ten" bill, S.357. 
   Thank you for your bold and determined leadership to raise our nation's fuel economy standards. As you well know, auto manufacturers doubled the fuel economy of their vehicles to nearly 28 miles a gallon over 10 years after Congress enacted the corporate average fuel economy standard program in 1975. But since then, fuel efficiency levels have stagnated. 
   Auto manufacturers have significantly improved the efficiency of their vehicles since 1985. However, those gains have largely been used to provide other consumer benefits such as boosting vehicle horsepower or weight while holding fuel economy constant. Performance improvements are valuable to many consumers. However, as a nation we are facing enormous risks due to global warming and our dependence on imported fossil fuels. 
   According to the Energy Information Administration, transportation is the largest contributing end-use sector to total emissions of carbon dioxide, and motor gasoline is by far the largest single source of those emissions. One way we can begin to curb our consumption of motor gasoline is to increase the corporate average fuel economy of our nation's passenger vehicles and light duty trucks. 
   According to independent experts, the increase you have proposed - ten miles per gallon in ten years - is aggressive but attainable. We support your efforts to move our nation forward on this important issue. Please let us know how we might be of assistance as you move your bill through congress. 
   Sincerely, 
   Carl Guardino
  President & CEO
   The Ten in Ten Fuel Economy Bill 
   If passed, the Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy bill would save: 
   * 18 percent reduction of vehicular greenhouse gas emissions by 2025; or 350 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions. This is the equivalent of taking 60 million cars (or 50 million cars and light trucks) off the road in one year. 
   * 2.1 million barrels of oil per day by 2025, nearly the amount of oil we currently import from the Persian Gulf. 
   The bill would also:
   * Establish mandatory on-board fuel economy displays that show real-time fuel consumption to encourage more fuel efficient driving. 
   * Improve safety rulemaking standards: The bill would require the Department of Transportation to set standards for the industry that will protect Americans in whatever car they choose to drive. The bill would mandate standards to mitigate the difference in weight and size between the largest and smallest vehicles, and improve bumper height compatibility between vehicles. 
   * Create a program to identify vehicles that meet or surpass mandatory fuel economy standards - the green label and the gold star label. 
   - The green label would be for vehicles that meet or exceed the applicable fuel economy standard or have the lowest greenhouse gas emissions. 
   - The gold star label would be for vehicles that achieve a fuel economy at least 50 mpg, and for light trucks with 37 mpg or higher.
 
 