LONGS DRUGS STORES ENDORSES SENS. FEINSTEIN-TALENT ANTI-METH LEGISLATION
  Warren F. Bryant, Chairman, President, and CEO of Longs Drug Stores, today announced Longs' endorsement of legislation sponsored by Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Jim Talent (R-Mo.) to put cold medicine containing pseudoephedrine, a key ingredient to make methamphetamine, behind the pharmacy counter.  
   "Altering and/or abusing drugs goes against the most basic and fundamental principals of pharmacies and the pharmacists that operate them," said Warren F. Bryant, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Longs Drug Stores. "I commend Senators Feinstein and Talent on their bill and endorse their efforts to eradicate the illegal production and abuse of meth." 
   "Meth is cheap, accessible, and potent," Senator Feinstein said. "It is a horribly destructive drug, yet making meth has been as simple as a trip to the local store. I am delighted that Senator Talent and I have a new partner in the war against meth. Longs Drug Stores' support along with the effort to put cold medicine containing pseudoephedrine behind the pharmacy counter will help make it harder for meth cooks to make this incredibly addictive drug." 
   "Longs Drugs understands how the spread of meth is hurting our communities," said Senator Talent. "Senator Feinstein and I have the dubious distinction of representing the two states that lead the country in the production of meth. We've been working with Longs and other chain drug stores for months and we are grateful for their support. If we can keep medicines containing pseudoephedrine behind the counter, we can keep meth out of our schools and neighborhoods." 
   In recent weeks Longs Drugs, Albertsons, CVS, Kmart, Rite Aid, Shopko, Target, Walgreens, and Wal-mart have announced plans to voluntarily put cold medicine behind the counter in their stores. And the National Association of Chain Drug Stores has endorsed a set of principles that include moving the drugs behind the pharmacy counter. But Longs is the only retailer to endorse the Feinstein/Talent legislation to date. 
   "It is wonderful that Longs Drug Stores and so many other companies have taken the initiative to voluntarily put pseudoephedrine behind the counter," said Senator Feinstein. "I hope that other retailers will follow their example, move the cold medicine behind the counter, and support this legislation." 
   Methamphetamine can be cooked up by using pseudoephedrine, which is found in many cold medications such as Sudafed, NyQuil, and Tylenol Cold, and several other basic ingredients. The chemicals used to make meth can bring about a tremendous environmental problem as every pound of meth leaves approximately five to seven pounds of toxic waste. Meth is made in makeshift labs hidden in basements, cars, and motel rooms across the country and is sold for as little as $20 per dose. 
   "California is considered the 'source country' for meth production providing 80 percent of meth nationwide," Senator Feinstein said. "But the problem is getting worse. California law enforcement has seized 828 meth labs so far this year, more than the 778 labs seized in all of 2004. We are fighting a war against meth. That is why we urgently need to pass this legislation." 
   THE COMBAT METH ACT OF 2005 (S. 103) 
   This legislation is modeled after a law Oklahoma passed last year limiting the sale of products containing pseudoephedrine. Since its law was enacted, Oklahoma has seen meth lab seizures decline about 80 percent. Twelve states - Arkansas, Georgia, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Tennessee, Washington and Wyoming - have passed new laws in the past few months following the Oklahoma model and 30 more states are considering similar legislation. 
   The Combat Meth Act would require products containing pseudoephedrine to be sold behind the pharmacy counter. It also limits the purchase of products containing pseudoephedrine to 9 grams over a 30-day period (the equivalent of 300 30-milligram pills). Purchasers would be required to present proof of identification and sign for the medicine upon purchase. In order to ensure that rural communities without pharmacy access are not negatively impacted, the legislation provides for the DEA to authorize others to sell the medicines so long as they follow the same procedure. 
   The legislation, which currently has 24 cosponsors, would also: 
   * Invest critical resources in local law enforcement efforts - Provides an additional $15 million under the COPS program to train state and local law enforcement to investigate and lock-up methamphetamine offenders and expands the methamphetamine "hot spots" program to include personnel and equipment for enforcement, prosecution and environmental clean-up. 
   * Expand the ability of local prosecutors to bring methamphetamine distributors to justice - Provides $10 million to hire additional federal prosecutors and train local prosecutors in state and federal meth laws and cross-designates them as Special Assistant U. S. Attorneys, allowing them to bring legal action against cooks and traffickers in federal courts under tougher guidelines. 
   * Enhance treatment options - Authorizes $3 million for the creation of a Methamphetamine Research, Training and Technical Assistance Center which will research effective treatments for meth abuse and disseminate information and technical assistance to states and private entities on how to improve current treatment methods. 
   * Increase awareness and involvement of businesses that legally sell pseudoephedrine - Provides $10 million for states and businesses that legally sell ingredients used to cook meth with resources to monitor purchases of methamphetamine precursors (pseudoephedrine) and provides training expenses and technical assistance to law enforcement personnel and employees of businesses which lawfully sell substances which may be used to make meth. 
   * Provide services for children affected by the spread of meth - Provides $5 million in grant funding for Drug Endangered Children rapid response teams to promote collaboration among federal, state, and local agencies to assist and educate children that have been affected by the production of methamphetamine.
 
 