SEN. FEINSTEIN HAILS BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH, SUCCESS OF BREAST CANCER RESEARCH STAMP
  At the start of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today announced that the Breast Cancer Research Stamp has raised more than $40 million for breast cancer research.  
   "The Breast Cancer Research Stamp has been an incredible success, having raised more than $40 million for breast cancer research," Senator Feinstein said. "I can't think of a better way to honor Breast Cancer Awareness Month than to purchase more of these extraordinary stamps. I commend everyone who uses the stamps regularly and I encourage you to keep it up. The funds raised for research will bring us closer to the day we have a cure for breast cancer." 
   About 3 million women in the United States are living with breast cancer, one million of whom have yet to be diagnosed. One out of every 8 women will get breast cancer, just as one out of every 6 men will have prostate cancer. The disease claims another woman's life every 13 minutes in the United States. Though much less common, about 1,300 men in America are diagnosed with breast cancer each year. 
   "The U.S. Postal Service has told me that Albertsons grocery stores purchased nearly $1 million worth of Breast Cancer Research Stamps to be promoted and sold this month. I am thrilled that Albertsons has made this effort to promote the Breast Cancer Research Stamp and Breast Cancer Awareness Month," Senator Feinstein added. "Women should also take this time to talk to their health care providers about their risk for breast cancer and find out what they should do to be screened for the disease." 
   The Breast Cancer Research Stamp has sold more than 555.6 million copies to date, more than any other commemorative stamp, with 6.17 million stamps sold in August alone. Sales of the stamp have raised $40.06 million for breast cancer research. Total sales of the stamp amount to $231.5 million. 
   The stamp costs 45 cents and is deemed valid as a 37-cent stamp. The additional 8 cents charged for each stamp is directed to research programs at the National Institutes of Health, which receives 70 percent of the proceeds, and the Department of Defense breast cancer research programs, which receives the remaining 30 percent of the proceeds. 
   Legislation to create the Breast Cancer Research Stamp was signed into law by President Bill Clinton on August 13, 1997. It is has been reauthorized by Congress three times and is currently authorized to run through the end of 2005 by a provision in the FY04 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. 
   The original sponsors for the bill were Senators Feinstein, Alfonse D'Amato (R-NY), and Lauch Faircloth (R-NC) in the Senate, and Representatives Vic Fazio (D-CA) and Susan Molinari (R-NY) in the House. Most recently, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) joined with Senator Feinstein to cosponsor the measure to reauthorize the stamp in the 108 th Congress. 
   The National Breast Cancer Awareness Month (NBCAM) program is dedicated to increasing awareness of breast cancer issues, especially the importance of early detection of breast cancer through screening mammography, clinical breast examination, and for women 20 years of age and older, breast self-examination. 
   It works through a nationwide education campaign aimed at the general public, state and federal governments, health care professionals, employers, and women of all ages and ethnic groups. The National Breast Cancer Awareness campaign is comprised of 17 national public service organizations, professional medical associations, and government agencies working in partnership to raise awareness and provide access to screening services.
 
 