SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS BILL ADDS $30.4 MILLION FOR SACRAMENTO LEVEE REPAIRS
  The FY'06 Supplemental Appropriations bill approved by a Senate-House Conference Committee provides $30.4 million to accelerate critical levee repairs and flood control projects in the Sacramento region, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) announced today.  
   The bill includes $23.3 for Sacramento River bank protection projects and $7.1 million for levee improvements for South Sacramento streams. Final votes on the bill by the House and Senate could be as early as this week. 
   "Levees represent the first line of defense against catastrophic floods for millions of residents and businesses in the Sacramento area," Senator Feinstein said. "The $30 million of emergency funding provided in the FY06 Supplemental Appropriations bill will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to complete critical levee repairs and help provide Sacramento with the 100-year flood protection it needs before it's too late.
   "Last August, we learned the hard lesson from Hurricane Katrina that levees must be stable and secure. Without these much-needed flood control projects, an earthquake or a major storm in Sacramento would be disastrous--one-third of the city would be quickly inundated with as much as forty feet of feet of water because of a levee break. Providing this funding now will help save countless lives and millions of dollars in property later. 
   "I wish to thank Senators Domenici and Reid for their leadership on this issue. Every day of delay puts at risk the safety of millions of Sacramento's residents. The time for these critical levees repairs is now. "
   Specifically, the emergency supplemental bill would provide: 
   * $23.3 million for Sacramento River Bank Protection: The project in and around the City of Sacramento provides erosion control bank protection for the Sacramento River Flood Control Project levees. One hundred eighty-three actively eroding sites on levees banks have been identified, 29 of which are considered to have a high potential for failure. 
   * $7.1 million for South Sacramento Streams: The project in southeastern Sacramento County includes building 12 miles of floodwalls and constructing 13 miles of levee improvements. The completed project improvements will provide minimum 100-year protection to over 100,000 residents. 
   The Sacramento funding will go to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to complete work that already is underway, but not yet completely funded for the remainder of fiscal year 2006, which ends Sept. 30. Last fall, Congress provided $41 million for Sacramento's highest priority levee restoration and flood control projects in FY'06. The emergency supplemental funding, if approved, would represent a total of $71 million for Sacramento's most urgent levee repair projects.
 
 