SENATE PASSES SENS. CRAIG-FEINSTEIN RESOLUTION DESIGNATING WEEK OF MARCH 13 'NATIONAL SAFE PLACE WEEK'
  The U.S. Senate passed a resolution yesterday introduced by Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Larry Craig (R-Idaho) that would designate the week of March 13, 2006 as "National Safe Place Week." The Safe Place program is a public/private partnership that has been serving at-risk youth since 1983 in communities across the country.  
   "This is an excellent opportunity to recognize those who work with this program, to show them that they have our support and appreciation, and that they are making a difference," Senator Feinstein said. "Having Safe Place in your state means having a network of businesses and volunteers actively promoting and assisting in the program every day, helping the local youth combat child abuse, substance addiction, and crime." 
   Safe Place is a nationally acclaimed program that makes help readily accessible to young people who might be abused, neglected, threatened or in immediate danger. More than 173,000 youth have received help at one of the nation's nearly 15,000 Safe Place sites or as a result of counseling by phone following Safe Place school education. Safe Place is currently operated by 140 agencies serving 700 communities in 40 states. 
   The Safe Place program relies on community partners working together in the best interest of at-risk youth. It is based on building public-private partnerships that encompass all segments of the community including businesses, schools, fire departments, law enforcement, social service agencies and a network of committed volunteers who make themselves available to young people at Safe Place locations at any time.
   This year marks the third year that Senators Feinstein and Craig have sponsored, and the Senate has passed, a resolution designating a "National Safe Place Week." Senators Durbin (D-Ill.), Cochran (R-Miss.), Lautenberg (D-N.J.), Inhofe (R-Okla.), Crapo (R-Idaho), Landrieu (D-La.), Salazar (D-Colo.), Clinton (D-N.Y.), Bunning (R-Ky.), Lincoln (D-Ark.), DeWine (R-Ohio), Inouye (D-Hawaii), Lieberman (D-Conn.), Feingold (D-Wis.), Dodd (D-Conn.), Snowe (R-Maine), Boxer (D-Calif.), Murkowski (R-Alaska), Johnson (D-S.D.), and Kohl (D-Wis.) joined Senators Feinstein and Craig by cosponsoring this resolution.
 
 