SEN. FEINSTEIN CALLS ON ENERGY DEPARTMENT TO MOVE MOAB WASTE AWAY FROM WATER SUPPLY
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today urged the Energy Department to move uranium mining waste from a site near Moab, Utah away from the Colorado River, which is a major source of drinking water for Southern Californians as well as residents of Utah, Nevada and Arizona.  
   The Environmental Protection Agency has indicated that the option of disposing the waste on-site would not prevent contaminants including uranium and ammonia from seeping into the river and groundwater in the future. Because the uranium mill tailings pile lies within the 100-year floodplain of the Colorado River, future floods could disturb the pile and increase the release of contaminants. 
   Following is the text of a letter Senator Feinstein sent to Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman: 
   March 7, 2005 
   The Honorable Samuel Bodman 
  Secretary of Energy 
  Department of Energy 
  1000 Independence Avenue, SW 
  Washington, DC 20585 
   Dear Secretary Bodman, 
   I am writing to urge the Department of Energy to adopt an off-site remediation plan for the uranium mill tailings pile at the site near Moab, Utah. The Moab site lies adjacent to the Colorado River, which serves as a water resource for the citizens of Utah, Nevada, Arizona, and California.
   The Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) the Department of Energy released last November identified the environmental impacts of two primary remediation alternatives: one that would cap the tailings pile on site and one that involves off-site disposal. The Department did not, however, identify a preferred alternative as part of the Draft EIS. I wish to bring to your attention several of the reasons why the on-site alternative will not provide a long-term solution to this problem.
   In response to the Draft EIS, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) indicated that because the on-site remediation alternative does not involve use of a liner underneath the disposal pile, contaminants from the tailings pile, including uranium and ammonia, will continue to seep into the groundwater and into the river. The EPA also pointed out that the eventual deterioration of the salt-beds underlying the disposal site will result in subsidence in the area of the site, compromising the integrity of the proposed cap and leading to radon releases and water infiltration through the pile. 
   The location of the Moab site within the 100-year floodplain for the Colorado River presents an increased risk of reintroducing contaminants into the groundwater and surface waters should heavy flooding occur. A recently released study by the U.S. Geological Survey indicated that part of the pile would be inundated by up to 25 feet of water during the flooding associated with 100-year to 500-year storms. 
   It is clear to me that the on-site alternative presents the possibility for significant adverse impacts on the Colorado River in the event of flooding or river migration, natural subsidence, or disposal cell failure. Because of the potential for prolonged environmental and public health risks associated with continued release of toxic contaminants into ground and surface waters, off-site disposal is the only option that offers a long-term solution. 
   I greatly appreciate your attention to this issue. It is my hope that the Department of Energy will move forward with a final remediation plan for the Moab site that includes off-site disposal of the uranium mill tailings and a comprehensive groundwater remediation strategy that provides long-term protection of the local citizens, and almost 25 million Americans who use the Colorado River water downstream. 
   Sincerely, 
   Dianne Feinstein 
  United States Senator.
 
 