SEN. FEINSTEIN SEEKS HOMELAND SECURITY TRAINING CENTER IN CALIFORNIA
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today asked Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to consider establishing a domestic preparedness training facility in the State of California. Currently, none of the five facilities in the U.S. comprising the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium are located on the West Coast.  
   Senator Feinstein sent the following letter to Secretary Chertoff soliciting his support for an additional facility: 
   April 8, 2005 
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff
  Secretary
  U.S. Department of Homeland Security
  Washington, D.C. 20528 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff, 
   I write to ask your support for establishing a homeland security regional training center in California . The Department of Homeland Security's effort to train federal, state and local officials in homeland security disciplines is administered by the Office of Domestic Preparedness (ODP). ODP, in turn, has designated five "Training Partners," who together constitute the "National Domestic Preparedness Consortium." None of the five training partners is located on the West Coast. 
   I ask that you carefully consider designating a sixth member of the consortium in California. 
   California, as you know, ranks with New York and the Washington Metro Area, among the high-risk areas of the Country. It also is home to some of the most knowledgeable experts in the various homeland security disciplines such as fire-fighting, search-and-rescue and law enforcement response. In sum, California is the natural location for such a facility. 
   I have asked my staff to work with your office to explore ways that California can host a sixth member of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium. I am confident that working together we can identify an appropriate location in California to serve this vital role in our nation's homeland security efforts. 
   I appreciate your attention to this matter, and look forward to working with you as you take on the responsibilities of your new position. 
   Sincerely yours, 
   Dianne Feinstein
  U.S. Senator.
 
 