SEN. FEINSTEIN TESTIFIES FOR BRAC HEARING IN MONTEREY
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) gave videotaped testimony to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission at a regional hearing today in Monterey, California. Following is the prepared text of Sen. Feinstein's testimony:  
   "Mr. Chairman, the BRAC Commission, Ladies and Gentlemen, I swear and affirm that the testimony that I am about to give will be accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
   This hearing is a key step in the BRAC process. It will help determine whether three California military installations are realigned or closed. 
   * The Naval Postgraduate School; 
   * The Defense Language Institute; and 
   * The Naval Broadway Complex. 
   Let me begin with the Naval Postgraduate School and Defense Language Institute. I'd like to tell you why I believe it would be a huge mistake to lose these two tremendous assets. 
   As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I know that there are those who would do this nation great harm. I know that the only way to prevent that harm is through intelligence and the ability to find them before they attack us. 
   Consider what the commander of our Central Command General John Abizaid said before a House Committee last year. And I quote: 
   'What will win the Global War on Terrorism will be people that can cross the cultural divide, reach out to those who want our help and figure out how to make that happen....So we ignore the Defense Language Institute and other institutions of military education at our own peril.' 
   These institutions are vital. They have substantial military and strategic value. The Naval Postgraduate School, for instance, provides high-level academic training to military officers. It offers many of the same degrees as civilian institutions, but with a major difference: 
   Every one of the School's programs is focused on military strategy and military needs. 
   The students receive a top-notch education. They develop invaluable relationships. And they become better soldiers. 
   At the same time, the Defense Language Institute adds significant value to our nation's military and intelligence agencies. 
   One of the great shortcomings of our nation is the absence of speakers of Arabic, the absence of people who understand the Muslim culture and religion. And this language school produces the great bulk of Arabic speakers for our nation. 
   So there is a critical defense mission that needs to be carried out - and both these facilities are doing the job. As a matter of fact, the Pentagon's BRAC recommendations specifically did not include either of these facilities. 
   It pointed to the value of the institutions and said that 'sustaining a world class educational facility as a component of our military structure had long-term benefits that attracts future military leaders from other countries.' 
   They also gave the Naval Postgraduate School the highest military value rating of all military educational institutions. There are some who acknowledge the military value, but say that their functions could be privatized or consolidated. 
   But the fact is that closing these facilities school would cost anywhere from $130 million to privatize, and hundreds of millions of dollars to move them completely to Ohio . And many of the faculty would not move, so you would lose a great deal of your human capital as well. 
   The Navy estimated that it would save $89 million by privatizing the school. But it is our belief that the cost analysis of the Navy is not accurate. It fails to take into account a number of significant factors: 
   * The Navy based its savings figure on the cost of privatizing education for only Navy and Marine students. The additional cost of educating members of other branches of the service and foreign military officers is estimated to be $26 million a year. 
   * The $110 million in reimbursements for research grants and educational contracts that come in each year. 
   * The fact that if students go elsewhere, they will spend 3 to 6 months longer in school - adding significantly to the cost of educating each student. 
   So the belief is that there would be substantial additional costs incurred through privatization - as much as $140 million. 
   Additionally, the Navy does not take into account the 2,600 units of affordable housing that are currently being constructed near the facilities, which would significantly reduce the cost of living for faculty, staff, and students. 
   Here's the bottom line: these institutions are too valuable to be replaced - both in terms of financial cost and the education they provide. 
   And it is my great hope that they will not be closed or realigned. 
   Finally, let me just say a word about the Navy Broadway Complex. The complex serves as headquarters for Navy Region Southwest. And there have been discussions for years about moving the headquarters to a more secure location and turning the site into a district of shops, restaurants, parks and high-rise housing. 
   I believe - as do the City of San Diego and the Navy - that this issue can be resolved outside the BRAC process. I offer my help to see that that the issue gets settled soon. 
   So in conclusion, let me thank you for the opportunity to testify today. I very much appreciate it."
 
 