SEN. FEINSTEIN INTRODUCES BILL TO AID LEAST DEVELOPED NATIONS
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) has joined with Sens. Gordon Smith (R-Ore.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), and Rick Santorum (R-Pa.) to introduce legislation to eliminate barriers to trade between the United States and 14 of the world's poorest nations.  
   "The key to sustained growth and rising standards of living will be the ability of developing countries to create vital export industries to compete in a free and open global marketplace," Senator Feinstein said. "We should help these countries help themselves by opening the U.S. market to their exports." 
   The legislation, known as the Tariff Relief Assistance for Developing Economies Act (TRADE) of 2005, would provide duty-free and quota-free benefits for garments and other products similar to those afforded to beneficiary countries under the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act. 
   The countries covered by the legislation are the 14 Least Developed Countries as defined by the United Nations and the U.S. State Department which are not covered by any current U.S. trade preference program. They include: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, Kiribati, Laos, Maldives, Nepal, Samoa, Solomon Islands, East Timor, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Yemen. The bill also contains a special emergency trade provision to assist Sri Lanka in its rebuilding efforts. 
   "At a time when U.S. standing is at an all-time low in some countries, we need this legislation to show the best of America," Senator Feinstein said. "It will provide a vital component to our development strategy and add another tool for fighting the war on terror." 
   The bill would provide an especially strong economic boost to Cambodia, Nepal and Bangladesh. In Nepal, the garment industry is entirely export-oriented and accounts for 40 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. Employing over 100,000 workers, half of whom are women, the industry sustains the livelihoods of over 350,000 people. 
   Cambodia has approximately 250,000 garment industry workers who support approximately one million dependents. The industry accounts for more than 90 percent of Cambodia's export earnings. 
   In Bangladesh, the garment industry accounts for 75 percent of export earnings, employs 1.8 million people and sustains the livelihoods of as many as 15 million people. 90 percent of Bangladesh's garment workers are women.
 
 