SEN. FEINSTEIN QUESTIONS SHELL'S PLANS FOR BAKERSFIELD REFINERY
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today questioned Shell Oil's plan to close its Bakersfield refinery and its apparent failure to make a "good faith effort" to sell the plant to willing buyers so the gasoline supply can keep flowing. 
   In another development, the Federal Trade Commission on Wednesday disclosed that it has launched a formal antitrust investigation into the plant closure.
   Following is the text of a letter Senator Feinstein sent to Lynn Laverty Elsenhans, President and CEO of Shell Oil Products US: 
   July 7, 2004 
   Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans
  President and CEO
  Shell Oil Products US
  One Shell Plaza
  Houston, TX 77252.
   Dear Ms. Elsenhans:
   Thank you for your letter dated June 30, 2004 , regarding Shell's Bakersfield refinery. I was pleased to learn that Shell is not intending to reduce gasoline output this summer.
   I am writing today to express my concern over Shell's plans for the Bakersfield refinery. Based on our telephone conversation, it was clear to me that Shell would prefer to sell the refinery to closing it. I understand that there are several willing buyers out there for the Bakersfield refinery. Yet, I have heard that Shell has not made a good faith effort to sell the refinery.
   Specifically, I have heard that Shell has not created a "data room" with access to potential buyers, which indicates to some buyers that Shell intends to close the facility and not offer it for sale. Further, I have been told that Shell has never offered the assets for sale, has not prepared a prospectus or offering document, and has not engaged an investment banker to negotiate a sale.
   I respectfully request that Shell do everything it can to sell the Bakersfield facility to a willing buyer so that it can continue to be used to refine gasoline for California 's drivers.
   Thank you for your consideration of my request. I look forward to your reply.
   Sincerely,
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator.
 
 