SEN. FEINSTEIN CALLS FOR DESIGNATION OF TULE LAKE WORLD WAR II INTERNMENT CAMP AS NATIONAL LANDMARK
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today urged Gale Norton, Secretary of the Department of the Interior, to designate the World War II Tule Lake Segregation Center as a National Historic Landmark.  
   "The internment of Japanese Americans during World War II was a grim chapter in America's history," Senator Feinstein said. "Designating the Tule Lake Segregation Center site as a National Historic Landmark would ensure that we honor surviving internees during their lifetime, and the center would serve as a lasting reminder of our ability to inflict pain and suffering upon our fellow Americans."
   During World War II, the federal government ordered the evacuation and internment of 120,000 Japanese Americans at ten internment camps and other sites across the country. Tule Lake, in northern California, was the largest and one of the most infamous of the internment camps. Prisoners there held frequent demonstrations and strikes, demanding their rights under the U.S. Constitution. As a result, it was made a "segregation camp," and internees from other camps who had refused to take the loyalty oath or had caused disturbances were sent to Tule Lake. At its peak, Tule Lake held 18,789 internees. Tule Lake was also one of the last camps to be closed, staying open until March 20, 1946. 
   Following is the text of a letter that Senator Feinstein sent recently to Secretary Norton: 
   Dear Secretary Norton: 
   Earlier this year, the National Park System Advisory Board and the National Landmarks Committee recommended that the Tule Lake Segregation Center, located in Modoc County, California, be designated as a National Historic Landmark. I write to you in support of this recommendation. 
   During World War II, the federal government ordered the evacuation and internment of 120,000 Japanese Americans at ten internment camps and other sites across the country. Tule Lake Segregation Center was the largest of the ten camps. 
   The proposed designation includes publicly-owned lands, managed by the Bureau of Reclamation and the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) that contain significant historic structures. The designation enjoys the support of the Japanese American community, Modoc County, and the State of California, acting through Caltrans and the State Historic Preservation Officer. 
   In addition, I commend the National Park Service in preparing this nomination, working with members of the local community, and amending the size of the nomination to address local concerns. 
   I respectfully urge you to designate the Tule Lake site in an expeditious manner to honor surviving internees during their lifetimes. Thank you for your attention to this matter 
   Sincerely, 
   Dianne Feinstein
  United States Senator
 
 