SEN. FEINSTEIN, REP. HERGER SECURE FUNDING FOR NORTHERN CALIFORNIA FLOOD CONTROL PROJECTS
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Wally Herger today announced that the Energy and Water Development appropriations Act of 2006 includes funding for three critical flood protection projects in Northern California. The measure includes $1.2 million for the YubaRiver Basin Project, $361,000 for the SutterCounty "Northern CA Streams" project, and $250,000 for the HamiltonCity "J Levee" project.  
   "It's critically important that we prepare now to prevent tragedies later, " Senator Feinstein said. "That's why these projects are so important. When they are completed, they will help shore up levees and protect Californians from catastrophic flooding. Let me thank Representative Herger for his leadership on these projects." 
   Congressman Herger added, "I am extremely pleased that we were able to secure funding for Yuba and Sutter counties and Hamilton City. Even in this tight budget climate, it is very important to ensure that public health and safety projects move forward. I greatly appreciate Senator Feinstein's continued attention to the flood protection needs of Northern California, and her efforts in her position on the Senate Appropriations Committee to support funding for these projects. I look forward to us continuing to work together in support of such projects." 
   The projects included in the Conference Report are:
   * The Yuba River Basin project responds to the devastating floods of 1986 and 1997 in the Sacramento Valley, and would strengthen 21 miles of levees that protect Marysville and surrounding communities. The $1.2 million willenable the Corps of Engineers (Corps) to complete their General Reevaluation Report for this important public safety project.
   * The Sutter County "Northern CA Streams" project was also conceived in response to the catastrophic events of 1986 and 1997. The $361,000 will enable the Corps to complete a structural analysis of the levees that protect Yuba City and nearby communities. 
   The Hamilton City "J Levee" project is designed to provide significantly enhanced flood protection to 2,600 area residents, as well as nearby agricultural lands. The $250,000 will help enable the Corps of Engineers to continue with Preconstruction Engineering and Design (PED) activities for this important project.
 
 