SEN. FEINSTEIN PRAISES CALIFORNIA RIDERS IN TOUR OF HOPE
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today applauded Andrea Glassberg of San Francisco and Neil Shah of Woodland Hills for their participation in the Tour of Hope.  
   "I commend Andrea Glassberg and Neil Shah for taking part in the fight against cancer by joining the Tour of Hope," Senator Feinstein said. "Their commitment is an inspiration for all of the researchers, advocates, and patients working to conquer cancer. This terrible disease affects the lives of millions of Americans each year and will continue to do so until we find a cure, which I believe will happen in my lifetime." 
   As two of 20 cyclists selected from nearly 1,200 applicants, Andrea and Neil joined cancer survivor and six-time Tour de France champion Lance Armstrong in a cross-country ride to raise awareness about the importance of cancer clinical trials. The riding team is made up of cancer survivors, caregivers, physicians, nurses and researchers. 
   A longtime advocate for advancing the fight against cancer, Senator Feinstein was recently recognized by the American Cancer Society with the National Distinguished Advocacy Award and was also honored by the Breast Cancer Research Foundation as a Funding Hero. In addition, she is the co-chair of the Senate Cancer Coalition as well as a vice-chair of C-Change, formerly the National Dialogue on Cancer. 
   In the Senate, Senator Feinstein has sponsored the National Cancer Act, which would establish a battle plan to fight cancer by improving research, creating incentives for effective treatments, and improving patient's quality of care, and also the creation of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp, which has raised more than $40 million for breast cancer research through the first postal stamp dedicated to raising funds. 
   Dr. Glassberg was inspired to become a physician after her grandmother's experience with ovarian and breast cancer, and conducted her doctoral dissertation research on genetic testing for the two diseases. Her current research focuses on patients' motives for becoming involved in clinical trials, with the hope of encouraging more people to participate. She is a pulmonary and critical care fellow at the University of California, San Francisco. 
   Dr. Shah is a hematologist/oncologist who dedicates his time and energy in the lab, working to find new treatments for cancer. He is currently studying a new compound that could potentially improve the treatment of patients with leukemia. Dr. Shah is an assistant professor of hematology and oncology at UCLA's Jonsson Cancer Center. 
   As part of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Tour of Hope team, Andrea and Neil are riding almost 3,500 miles from Los Angles to Washington, DC where they will arrive on October 9. The purpose of the ride is to help inform the public about the importance of participating in cancer clinical trials. Over 60 percent of pediatric patients with cancer are enrolled in clinical trials, compared to just five percent of adults with cancer. Clinical trials have helped increase the cure rate in childhood cancer from less than 10 to 75 percent in the past three decades.
 
 