SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. FEINSTEIN'S BILLS SEEKING TO EXPAND PROTECTIONS FOR CALIFORNIA LANDS
  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee today approved two pieces of legislation sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) that would increase the size of Redwood National Park and explore the possibility of adding the Rim of the Valley Corridor in Southern California to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. 
   The Redwood National Park Boundary Adjustment Act would add 25,500 acres of land known as the Mill Creek property to Redwood National Park in Del Norte County. In addition to the Mill Creek property, this bill would include within the park boundary about 900 acres of land acquired and added to the State redwood parks since the 1978 expansion of the Redwood National Park boundary. There would be no Federal costs for land acquisition or development resulting from this legislation. A companion bill has been introduced in the House by Rep. Mike Thompson (D-Calif.).
   "Our redwood trees are treasures that need to be protected and preserved," Senator Feinstein said. "By adding more than 25,000 acres to Redwood National Park , this legislation would help conserve the redwood forest, provide watershed protection, and protect wildlife habitats. These efforts will ensure that this forest is protected for future generations." 
   The Rim of the Valley Corridor Study legislation would direct the Interior Department to conduct a study to help evaluate whether the Rim of the Valley should be included as part of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area. The study would examine impacts to wildlife, endangered plant and animal species, and private landowners; possible connections along the Rim of the Valley Trail System; and historically significant landscapes, sites and structures. The Corridor includes the mountains surrounding the San Fernando, La Crescenta, Santa Clarita, Simi, and Conejo Valleys. A companion bill has been introduced in the House by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.).
   "Today's action brings us one step closer to making the rim of the valley corridor part of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area," Senator Feinstein said. "The amount of open space in Southern California continues to diminish each year. That's why it is so important that we move to protect this land, which is special because of its rare ecosystem and critical wildlife habitat."
 
 