CHAIRMAN FEINSTEIN CALLS ON VA TO PROVIDE VOTER REGISTRATION ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Chairman of the Senate Rules and Administration Committee, today called on the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide veterans being treated in VA facilities with assistance in registering to vote.  
   "The right to vote is the most basic democratic principle, and those who have been fighting for our country deserve the chance to make their voice heard at the ballot box," Chairman Feinstein wrote to Veterans Affairs Secretary R. James Nicholson.
   Chairman Feinstein requested information regarding the Department's current policy on assisting veterans with the voter registration process.
   The following is the text of Chairman Feinstein's letter to Secretary Nicholson:
   March 9, 2007
   The Honorable R. James Nicholson
  Secretary of Veterans Affairs
  810 Vermont Avenue NW
  Washington, DC 20420
   Dear Secretary Nicholson:
   It has come to my attention that our nation's veterans, some of whom are being treated for serious injuries in U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs' facilities, may not be receiving the assistance they need to ensure that they are properly registered to vote. The right to vote is the most basic democratic principle, and those who have been fighting for our country deserve the chance to make their voice heard at the ballot box. 
   It seems to me that those brave men and women who are under your care in VA hospitals should be given the time and assistance they require to make certain they are registered to vote upon return from conflict abroad. I would like to know what, if any policy is in place to assist veterans in VA facilities exercise their right to vote. If the Department of Veterans Affairs does not currently offer voter assistance activities, I would like to know why this critical service is not being offered.
   As you may know, the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 allows federal offices to choose to be designated as "voter registration agencies," which allows them to do the following:
   * Distribute federal mail-in voter registration application forms; 
   * Assist applicants in completing voter registration application forms; and 
   * Accept completed voter registration application forms for transmittal to the appropriate State election official. 
   Given the unique needs of our veterans returning from war, I believe this designation would go a long way toward ensuring one of their most basic, and important rights is protected. I hope you will consider it. 
   Sincerely,
   Dianne Feinstein
  Chairman
 
 