SEN. FEINSTEIN RECEIVES AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY'S HIGHEST ADVOCACY HONOR
  The American Cancer Society announced today that Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., has become the first recipient of the organization's new National Distinguished Advocacy Award. The Senator was nominated for the award by the Society's California Division in recognition of her outstanding leadership on cancer issues in the public policy arena. 
   Society volunteers from California were on hand as the Senator accepted her award at a dinner in Washington , D.C. on Wednesday, September 8. Senator Feinstein will also be the guest of honor at an American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network event in California in early 2005.
   "Senator Feinstein has been and continues to be a dedicated leader in Congress in the fight against cancer," said Gary Streit, chairman of the National Board of Directors of the American Cancer Society. "Her commitment is evident in not only her legislative record but also in her active involvement outside of Congress to unite the cancer community. We thank her and are proud to present her with this award."
   "This year, an estimated 134,000 Californians will be diagnosed with cancer and more than 55,000 will die," said Donald O. Lyman, M.D., president of the California Division of the American Cancer Society. "Senator Feinstein is ever mindful of those sad statistics, investing her time, energy, and political capital into trying to reduce the pain and suffering cancer causes. She is truly deserving of this award."
   In Congress, Senator Feinstein helps to set the cancer policy agenda as co-chair of the Senate Cancer Coalition. As the author of the National Cancer Act of 2003, she introduced one of the most comprehensive legislative approaches to defeating cancer since passage of the National Cancer Act of 1971. Recent efforts include acting as a leading sponsor of a Senate budget resolution that would have provided more money for cancer research and programs through an increase in the federal tobacco tax. Last year she also sponsored an amendment that provided nearly $1 billion in additional funding for the National Institutes of Health.
   Additional achievements include co-sponsoring the Cancer Screening Coverage Act, the Access to Cancer Therapies Act, and the Patient Navigator, Outreach, and Chronic Disease Prevention Act. She also sponsored the legislation establishing the National Breast Cancer Stamp, the first stamp in our nation's history to raise funds for a special cause. Since first going on sale during the summer of 1998, the stamp has raised nearly $40 million for breast cancer research.
   Beyond her work in Congress, Senator Feinstein is Vice Chair of C-Change, formerly known as the National Dialogue on Cancer. C-Change is the first group to bring together the public, private and non-profit sectors together to address cancer as a societal problem.
   The National Advocacy Award is the highest national advocacy honor bestowed to an individual by the Society and is the mark of distinction and accomplishment in the field of public policy advocacy pertaining to cancer.
   The American Cancer Society is dedicated to eliminating cancer as a major health problem by saving lives, diminishing suffering and preventing cancer through research, education, advocacy and service. Founded in 1913 and with national headquarters in Atlanta, the Society has 14 regional Divisions and local offices in 3,400 communities, involving millions of volunteers across the United States. For more information anytime, call toll free 1-800-ACS-2345 or visit www.cancer.org
 
 