SENS. FEINSTEIN, BOXER INTRODUCE AMENDMENT TO HELP FIRST RESPONDERS COMMUNICATE DURING EMERGENCIES
  During debate on the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill today, Sens. Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein (both D-CA) introduced an amendment to boost funding for interoperable communications systems used by first responders in emergency situations.  
   The Boxer-Feinstein amendment would provide $70 million in grants for state and local agencies to improve existing communications systems or purchase new systems. The funding for the grants was 100 percent offset by a cut in the "human resource" personnel system account which includes outside consulting contracts for management improvement. 
   Boxer said, "Our first responders must be able to communicate with one another in real-time during emergency situations- we shouldn't be asking our firefighters and police to rely on their personal cell phones to do their jobs. We need to do our job at the national level and provide our first responders with the resources to protect our communities in the case of a terrorist attack or emergency. It's far more important than bringing in fancy outside consultants." 
   Feinstein said, "In all too many jurisdictions, police, fire, and emergency medical services can't communicate with each other via radio when an emergency occurs - this was the case on September 11, during the Columbine massacre, and following the Oklahoma City bombing. Increased funding for interoperable communications means faster responses, better coordination between agencies, and lives saved." 
   In March, Boxer introduced the First Responders Homeland Defense Act, which included a provision that would provide $300 million in grants each year for 5 years for interoperable communications systems.
   The Boxer-Feinstein amendment was defeated by a one vote margin of 46-45. 
   Boxer said, "This very close vote gives me confidence that we are on the verge of winning this issue for our first responders and for the American people."
 
 