SEN. BURR ANNOUNCES FEDERAL GRANT WORKSHOP IN HICKORY
  Sen. Richard Burr today announced his office will sponsor a statewide federal grant workshop in Hickory to focus on improving access to federal grants for museums and libraries. The workshop will be held on Thursday, November 30, 2006 at 9:00 AM at the Arts and Science Center of Catawba Valley located at 243 Third Avenue, Northeast in Hickory.  
   The workshop is part of Burr's North Carolina Economic Development series to make North Carolina more competitive in the federal arena. This workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process for North Carolina's museums and libraries and will include speakers from federal government departments. 
   "Libraries and museums are cornerstones of learning in every North Carolina community. They enhance cultural heritage, increase civic participation and create life-long educational opportunities in the areas they serve," said Senator Burr. "I hope this workshop will provide North Carolina's museum and library personnel with a better understanding of the federal grants process so they can continue to make a positive impact on those they serve." 
   Senator Burr has invited representatives from the Institute of Museum and Library Services, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the National Endowment for the Arts to speak at the workshop. 
   This workshop is part of a series Senator Burr is hosting in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. In January, Senator Burr hosted the first Economic Development Summit in Raleigh which focused on providing federal grant information to North Carolina's community colleges. Senator Burr also hosted a workshop in Washington, DC which focused on access to grants for fire and rescue teams and a workshop in Fayetteville which focused on access to grants for faith-based and community organizations. In July he hosted an Economic Development Summit in Charlotte which focused on health care. 
   The workshop is free and open to the public. Pre-registration is requested. North Carolina museum and library personnel who wish to attend the workshop can register online at www.burr.senate.gov/register or contact Emily Cranford at (202) 224-3154 by Monday, November 27, 2006.
   Contact: Laura Caudell, 202/224-3154.
 
 