SENS. DOLE, BURR EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR HIGH POINT MARKET
  Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today introduced a resolution expressing support for the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, North Carolina.  
   "The High Point Market has a significant impact on the North Carolina economy, contributing more than $1.1 billion dollars annually and attracting more attendees than any other event in the state," said Senator Dole. "As the conclusion of the spring market is upon us, I am proud to recognize the importance of this great event to our state." 
   "Twice a year, the High Point Furniture Market brings thousands of people to North Carolina, which greatly benefits our economy," said Senator Burr. "The High Point Furniture market has become a North Carolina institution and I am proud to introduce a resolution in its honor." 
   Text of the resolution is below: 
   Expressing support for the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, North Carolina. 
   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES 
   Mrs. DOLE (for herself and Mr. BURR) submitted the following resolution; 
   Whereas the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, North Carolina (commonly known as the 
  ''High Point Market'') is the largest home furnishings industry trade show of its kind in the world; 
   Whereas the High Point Market takes place every April and October, and is the largest event in North Carolina, attended by more people for a longer period of time over a larger area than any other event in the State; 
   Whereas an average of 70,000 manufacturers, exhibitors, sales representatives, retail buyers, interior designers, architects, support personnel, suppliers, and news media attend the High Point Market each April and October; 
   Whereas people from all 50 States and more than 100 foreign countries attend the High Point Market; 
   Whereas the High Point Market attracts an average of 2,500 exhibitors from around the world, with international exhibitors constituting more than 10 percent of the exhibitors at the event; 
   Whereas the exhibits at the High Point Market encompass a wide variety of finished products, including case goods (wood furniture), upholstery, accessories, lighting, bedding, and rugs; 
   Whereas the High Point Market has more than 11,500,000 square feet of permanent showroom space in more than 180 separate buildings in High Point and Thomasville, North Carolina; 
   Whereas the High Point Market brings $1,140,000,000 and more than 13,000 jobs to North Carolina annually, and creates a significant, lasting, and positive economic impact on a State in which the manufacturing economy is declining due to offshore production; 
   Whereas the Federal Government has invested in the High Point Market by providing funding to help meet critical transportation infrastructure needs; and 
   Whereas the High Point Market is a vital engine for economic growth for North Carolina, especially for the region commonly known as the Triad Region: Now, therefore, be it 
   Resolved, That the Senate- 
   (1) Expresses support for the International Home Furnishings Market in High Point, North Carolina; 
   (2) Commends those who organize and participate in the International Home Furnishings Market for their contributions to economic growth and vitality in North Carolina; and 
   (3) Recognizes that the International Home Furnishings Market has a positive economic impact on North Carolina and is vital to a region and State adversely affected by a decline in traditional manufacturing.
   Contact: Doug Heye, 202/224-3154.
 
 