SEN. BURR COSPONSORS BILL HELPING TO PRESERVE NORTH CAROLINA'S HISTORIC TREASURES
  Senator Richard Burr has cosponsored legislation that will help preserve and protect some of North Carolina's cultural and historical treasures. The legislation, the Preserve America and Save America's Treasures Act (S.2262) will make permanent two competitive grant programs - Preserve America and Save America's Treasures.  
   "Many of North Carolina's historic and cultural landmarks benefit from these grants, and I'm glad to support this legislation that will help preserve more of these reminders of our history," said Burr. 
   "Not only are historical artifacts and buildings protected for future generations, but North Carolinians benefit from understanding our rich history and cultural heritage," Burr added. 
   Preserve America encourages and supports community efforts to preserve cultural and natural heritage. Previous Preserve America grants awarded in North Carolina include $29,500 to "Discovering Downtown: Preserving and Promoting Gastonia's Heritage" in Gastonia, North Carolina and $75,000 to the North Carolina State Historic Preservation Office and its project: "Rural Heritage Resources Survey: Northampton, Hertford, Bertie, and Beaufort Counties." 
   The Preserve America grants are available to assist local economies find self-sustaining ways to promote their cultural resources through heritage tourism. For information on how to be designated as a Preserve America community, contact the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation at (202) 606-8503, email achp@achp.gov, or visit www.preserveamerica.gov. 
   The Save America's Treasures program is one of the largest grant programs working to protect our nation's endangered cultural heritage including intellectual and cultural artifacts and historic structures. Since 2000, almost 20 grants have been awarded in North Carolina and close to $4 million in grant money has been used to preserve schools, courthouses and other historical artifacts. 
   Save America's Treasures grants are available for preservation or conservation work on nationally significant intellectual and cultural artifacts and collections and on nationally significant historic properties. Application materials for the FY 2008 grant competition are not yet available. For more information, visit www.nps.gov/history/hps/treasures.
 
 