SEN. BURR ANNOUNCES NORTH CAROLINA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUMMIT ON HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Richard Burr today announced he will cosponsor a North Carolina Economic Development Summit to focus on health care information technology and healthcare workforce issues on Monday, July 24 on the West Campus of Central Piedmont Community College in Charlotte. U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao will deliver the keynote address at the summit.  
   "The health care industry plays a vital role in North Carolina's economy. I hope this summit will explore health care information technology initiatives and workforce issues that can expand economic development in our communities," said Senator Burr. "North Carolina's high quality health care system makes our state a great state in which to live and work. I hope this summit will provide information to strengthen our health care services." 
   Federal officials from the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor and Veterans Affairs will participate in session discussions. In addition, representatives from Central Piedmont Community College, C. W. Williams Community Health Center, IBM, the University of North Carolina Hospital System and Washington Hospital Center will help facilitate dialogue on the health care panels. 
   The summit is the second in a series Senator Burr has developed to enhance economic development in North Carolina. The first summit was held in January and focused on access to federal grants for community colleges. Future events will include summits addressing education issues related to economic development in the Tar Heel state. 
   In addition to the summits, Senator Burr will continue to host workshops in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina focusing on increasing access to federal resources and more effective grant writing skills for North Carolina's small businesses and counties, cities, and towns. In March, Senator Burr hosted a workshop concentrating on access to federal grants for fire and rescue teams; and in June he hosted a workshop in Fayetteville on accessing federal grants for faith-based and community organizations. 
   For more information go to www.burr.senate.gov.
   Contact: Laura Caudell, 202/224-3154.
 
 