HOLIDAY SEASON GIVES OCCASION TO SUPPORT OUR TROOPS
  Each holiday season we get caught up in a flurry of activity. We buy gifts for our loved ones, attend holiday parties, and entertain our family and friends. Often the holidays come and go in a blur and the New Year has arrived and we wonder where the time went.  
   This year I want to challenge you to take a moment to reflect on an important part of the holiday season: the gift of giving. Today, our men and women in uniform are fighting the War on Terror and sacrificing their lives so we may live in freedom. They are spending their holidays away from their families and many soldiers have returned home to difficult circumstances or with injuries impacting their daily lives and the lives of their families. Many families have lost loved ones and sadly will be spending the holiday season without sons or daughters, mothers or fathers. 
   This year rather than hosting a holiday party in your office or home, I encourage families, businesses, organizations, and communities across North Carolina to support our troops and their families. Personally, instead of throwing a holiday party with my staff, I am donating the money which would have been spent on the parties to military support organizations in our state. 
   There are many efforts we can make to put a smile on a service member's face, lift morale, and show appreciation for their sacrifices. For example, we can send care packages to soldiers, support scholarship programs for military children, or assist the wounded when they return home. There are many ways to support our men and women in the Armed Forces. The U.S. Department of Defense has launched a website http://155.7.40.58/americasupportsyou/StateSupport.aspx?ID=nc which is dedicated to recognizing citizen support for our military men and women at home and abroad. The website lists over 150 non-profit organizations dedicated to helping our troops and their families and it has a webpage dedicated to North Carolina's non-profit military organizations. You may also visit my website at www.burr.senate.gov for more information. 
   By helping our troops and their families this year in lieu of throwing a holiday party they will know firsthand how much North Carolinians appreciate their service and sacrifice.
  North Carolina is home to 120,000 military personnel and over 770,000 veterans. I am proud North Carolina has the reputation for being the most military friendly state in the country. This holiday season let's show them why we have earned that reputation.
   Contact: Laura Caudell, 202/224-3154.
 
 