SENATE VA COMMITTEE TO EXAMINE DISABILITY BENEFITS COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS
  U.S. Senator Richard Burr announced today that members of the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs will hold a hearing on recommendations from the Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission (VDBC). The hearing will take place in room 562 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building on January 24 at 9:30 AM. The hearing will feature testimony from the chairman of the VDBC and officials from three veterans' organizations.  
   WHO 
  U.S. Senator Richard Burr 
   WHAT 
  Senate VA Committee Hearing on Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission (VDBC) Recommendations 
   WHEN 
  January 24, 2008 
  9:30 AM 
   WHERE 
  562 Dirksen Senate Office Building 
  Washington, DC 
   The VDBC issued its final report to Congress on October 3, 2007. The report contained over 100 recommendations addressing all aspects of veterans benefits, from health care to claims processing. The commission called for a system-wide reform of the benefits system, including removing the disability rating function from the Department of Defense, updating the VA rating schedule, and placing a greater focus on rehabilitation. 
   The VDBC was established by the National Defense Authorization Act of 2004 to study laws relating to veterans and survivor compensation and assistance and VA's implementation of those laws. The commission's thirteen members were appointed by the President and Congressional leaders. 
   Witnesses 
   Panel I 
   Lieutenant General James Terry Scott (Retired), Chairman, Veterans' Disability Benefits Commission 
   Panel II 
   Mr. Todd Bowers, Director of Government Affairs, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America 
   Mr. Gerald Manar, Deputy Director, National Veterans Service, Veterans of Foreign Wars, representing The Independent Budget; 
   Mr. Steve Smithson, Deputy Director for Claims Service, National Veterans Affairs and Rehabilitation Commission, The American Legion
   Contact: Chris Walker and Mark Williams, 202/224-1616.
 
 