SEN. BURR ANNOUNCES FEDERAL GRANT WORKSHOP IN WASHINGTON
  Sen. Richard Burr today announced he will sponsor a federal grant workshop in Washington, D.C. to focus on access to federal grants for fire departments and rescue squads not affiliated with a hospital. The workshop will be held on Friday, March 31, 2006 at 10:00 AM in room 430 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, D.C.  
   The workshop is part of Burr's North Carolina Economic Development series to make North Carolina more competitive in the federal arena. This workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process for North Carolina's fire and rescue squads. 
   "Fire and rescue squads risk lives every day to help others in our communities. This workshop will provide more information to fire and rescue teams about how to be more competitive for federal grants which can help improve their ability to respond to emergencies in their communities," said Senator Burr. 
   Federal officials from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Agency and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will facilitate the workshop discussions. 
   Also, the Congressional Research Service, a non-partisan division of the Library of Congress which provides comprehensive and reliable legislative research, will present a "Grants 101" class to provide an overview of the federal grant process, including how to find federal funding for a project and how to effectively write a grant proposal. In addition, representatives from the United States Fire Administration will also participate in the workshop. 
   This workshop is part of a series Senator Burr is hosting in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. In January Senator Burr hosted the first Economic Development Summit in Raleigh which focused on providing information to North Carolina's community colleges. Later this year Senator Burr will host an Economic Development Summit focusing on health care. 
   North Carolina fire and rescue squad personnel who wish to attend the workshop should contact Emily Cranford at (202) 224-3154.
   Contact: Laura Caudell, 202/224-3154.
 
 