SEN. BURR CONGRATULATES BARTON COLLEGE BASKETBALL TEAM ON 2007 NCAA DIVISION II CHAMPIONSHIP
  Sen. Richard Burr today congratulated the Barton College Bulldogs for winning the 2007 NCAA Division II Basketball Championship. The Bulldogs defeated the defending champions Winona State 77-75 to win the title.  
   "I am proud of the Barton College Bulldogs for their come from behind victory. I have seen a lot of college basketball games in my life, but the last 45 seconds of this game was one of the most exciting I have watched," Burr said in a statement for the Senate record. "In North Carolina, basketball is not just a game, it's a way of life. I applaud Coach Lievense and the Bulldog team for their extraordinary season." 
   Barton College is a small private school in Wilson with a student body of 960 students. The win over Winona State, a relatively large school with an enrollment of over 8,000 students, represents a "David and Goliath" story for this small-town North Carolina basketball team. 
   Senator Burr submitted the following statement for the record in the United States Senate: 
   Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I rise today to congratulate a college basketball team that this past weekend won a national title. 
   I'm speaking of Barton College in Wilson, North Carolina who beat the defending champion Winona State, to win the Division II Basketball Championship. 
   Through their win, Barton College also ended Winona State's Division II record 57-game winning streak. 
   Now I have seen a lot of college basketball games over the course of my life (especially representing the State of North Carolina where basketball is not just a game but a way of life), but this one ranks close to the top when it comes to exciting endings. 
   With only 45 seconds left to play in the game, Barton down by 7 points - a deficit that would be extremely difficult to overcome by any team - and assisted by the stellar performance of his teammates, Barton's Anthony Atkinson scored an unbelievable 10 points in the remaining 39 seconds (included a buzzer-beating lay-up) to win the Division II national title by a score of 77-75. 
   If you didn't see the game live, I would suggest you go on the internet and watch the ending to this fantastic game. 
   It is simply unbelievable and is reminiscent of Christian Leattner's game-winning last-second jump shot in Duke's dramatic 104-103 victory over Kentucky in the East regional final of the 1992 NCAA Tournament. 
   For Barton College, a small private school with a student body of only 960 students, this win over Winona State, a relatively large school with an enrollment of over 8,000 students, represents a "David and Goliath" story for a small-town North Carolina basketball team. 
   Again, I congratulate the NCAA Division II National Champion Barton Bulldogs and Head Coach Ron Lievense on an extremely exciting end to an extraordinary season. 
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
   Contact: Laura Caudell, 202/224-3154.
 
 