SENS. BURR, DOLE APPLAUD SENATE APPROVAL OF U.S. DISTRICT COURT JUDGE NOMINATIONS
  Sens. Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr today applauded the Senate for approving the nominations of Robert J. Conrad to be a U.S. District Court Judge for the Western District of North Carolina and James C. Dever III to be a U.S. District Court Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. The nominations had previously been held up for several years. Judge Dever was originally nominated for the post by President Bush on May 22, 2002. Mr. Conrad was nominated by President Bush on April 28, 2003.  
   "Bob Conrad and Jim Dever have the character, integrity and record of public service to serve as judges who will make North Carolina proud," said Senator Burr. "I am pleased the Senate acted today on these nominees so they can begin their work on behalf of North Carolina and our nation. I urge my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee to quickly consider Judge Boyle's nomination. Judge Boyle deserves an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor." 
   "This vote finally puts an end to the longest judicial emergency for the district courts in the country. Jim Dever will do an admirable job on the bench," said Senator Dole. "Bob Conrad will do a fine job of interpreting the law. Both of these nominees come with strong credentials, and I am pleased the Senate has moved forward on their nominations. I am disappointed that the Judiciary Committee did not consider Judge Boyle today. After more than a decade, his nomination has been held up far too long. For 214 years, the Senate has exercised its constitutional responsibility to provide advice and consent on judicial nominations, and this tradition must continue." 
   Senators Burr and Dole have worked diligently in support of the nominations. In February, Burr and Dole signed the Senate "blue slips" necessary to advance the Conrad, Dever and Boyle nominations forward. Last month, they testified in support of the nominees before the Senate Judiciary Committee. Both have spoken on the Senate floor in support of the nominees. Earlier this month, Burr, joined by six of his Senate Freshmen colleagues, signed a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid seeking a solution to the standstill on judicial nominations. 
   For more information, please visit www.burr.senate.gov or www.dole.senate.gov.
   Contact: Doug Heye, 202/224-3154.
 
 