SEN. BURR ANNOUNCES STAFF ADDITIONS TO BIOTERRORISM, PUBLIC HEALTH SUBCOMMITTEE
  Sen. Richard Burr today announced that Dr. Bob Kadlec, Jenny Hansen and Kendall Byrum have joined the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions' Subcommittee on Bioterrorism and Public Health staff.  
   Dr. Bob Kadlec will serve as Staff Director of the Subcommittee. Dr. Kadlec, recently retired from the Air Force, has recently completed three years of service at the White House as the Director of Biodefense Preparedness and Response at the Homeland Security Council where he worked on the national smallpox vaccination policy and oversaw operation of the BioWatch program. He graduated from the United States Air Force Academy, later graduating from medical school at the Uniformed Service University of the Health Sciences. 
   Jenny Hansen will serve as Health Policy Director. For over six years, Ms. Hansen has assisted Senator Burr on health care legislation related to the Food and Drug Administration, Medicare, and Medicaid. Before joining Burr's staff, she worked for the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare. Ms. Hansen graduated magna cum laude from Duke University with a degree in Public Policy. 
   Kendall Byrum will serve as Staff Assistant. Ms. Byrum, a former intern in Burr's Congressional office, graduated from Meredith College in '03 with a B.A. in Political Science. She was previously employed at Meyers and Associates in Washington, D.C. 
   "Preparing our public health system and health care providers to combat bioterrorism is an important task and I look forward to the subcommittee playing a significant role in the public policy debates in this critical area," said Burr. 
   "During this Congress, I'm working to build on the past successes of the HELP Committee as well as increase the involvement of the Subcommittees," said Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY). "Senator Burr is playing an important role in that effort by contributing valuable insights and opinions on the important issues facing his Subcommittee and the Committee as a whole. I'm pleased that these new staff members have joined the HELP team to support and move forward the important work Senator Burr is doing."
   Contact: Doug Heye, 202/224-3154.
 
 