SEN. BURR ANNOUNCES NORTH CAROLINA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUMMIT ON HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Richard Burr today announced he will cosponsor a North Carolina Economic Development Summit focusing on wellness and prevention solutions and health care research and development on Tuesday, February 20 at the Durham Civic Center in Durham. Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni, Director of the National Institutes of Health, will deliver the keynote address at the summit. The summit will be moderated by North Carolina Secretary of Health and Human Services Carmen Hooker Odom.  
   "The health care industry is important to North Carolina's economy. Our state continues to be a world leader in innovative health care strategies," said Senator Burr. "I believe we should increase medical research and development in our state because it not only extends healthy lives and reduces illness, but it also creates jobs. This summit will increase awareness on prevention and wellness solutions and research and development issues." 
   Representatives from Dell, Inc. in Austin, Texas; The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; The Ten City Challenge in Washington, D.C.; and VF Corporation in Greensboro will discuss employer solutions on wellness and prevention. Representatives from Duke University; M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas; Park Square Bank in Durham; The Aurora Fund in Durham; and the U.S. Department of Defense's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) will explore how to develop medical research into better patient care, products, and jobs. 
   The summit is the third in a series Senator Burr has developed to improve economic development in North Carolina. The first summit was held in January 2006 and focused on access to federal grants for community colleges. 
   Last July Burr cosponsored a summit on health care information technology and workforce development in Charlotte. Future planned events include a summit addressing higher education issues and a summit for county, city and town managers in the Tar Heel state. 
   In addition to the summits, Senator Burr will continue to host workshops across North Carolina focusing on increasing access to federal resources and more effective grant writing skills for North Carolina's small businesses and counties, cities, and towns. Last year, Senator Burr hosted workshops concentrating on access to federal grants for fire and rescue teams, faith-based and community organizations, and museums and libraries. 
   The summit is free and open to the public. Registration is required. For more information about the summit go to http://burr.senate.gov/register or call John Kane in Senator Burr's office at (202) 224-3154.
   Contact: Laura Caudell, 202/224-3154.
 
 