SEN. BURR ANNOUNCES FEDERAL GRANT WORKSHOP IN FAYETTEVILLE
  Sen. Richard Burr today announced his office will sponsor a statewide federal grant workshop in Fayetteville to focus on improving access to federal grants for faith-based and community initiatives. The workshop will be held on Thursday, June 22, 2006 at 9:00 AM at the Airborne and Special Operations Museum located at 100 Bragg Boulevard in downtown Fayetteville.  
   The workshop is part of Burr's North Carolina Economic Development series to make North Carolina more competitive in the federal arena. This workshop aims to provide a better understanding of the federal grants process for North Carolina's faith-based and community initiative organizations and will include speakers from federal government departments. 
   "Faith-based and community initiative organizations play an integral role in North Carolina communities. These organizations provide a helping hand to members of our communities that need it most," said Senator Burr. "I hope this workshop will provide faith-based and community groups with a better understanding of the federal grants process so they can continue to make a positive impact on the communities they serve." 
   Senator Burr has invited representatives from the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives, the U.S Agency for International Development (USAID), the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to speak at the workshop. 
   This workshop is part of a series Senator Burr is hosting in both Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. In January Senator Burr hosted the first Economic Development Summit in Raleigh which focused on providing federal grant information to North Carolina's community colleges. In March Senator Burr hosted a workshop in Washington, DC which focused on access to grants for fire and rescue teams. Later this year Senator Burr will host an Economic Development Summit focusing on health care. 
   The workshop is free and open to the public. Pre-registration is requested. North Carolina faith-based and community initiative organization personnel who wish to attend the workshop should contact Emily Cranford at (202) 224-3154.
   Contact: Laura Caudell, 202/224-3154.
 
 