SEN. BURR PRAISES TORTI APPOINTMENT TO SENIOR FDA POST
  U.S. Senator Richard Burr today praised the appointment of Dr. Frank M. Torti to serve as Principal Deputy Commissioner and first Chief Scientist at the Food and Drug Administration. Dr. Torti currently serves as director of the Comprehensive Cancer Center at the Wake Forest University School of Medicine. He also chairs the Department of Cancer Biology and is the Charles L. Spurr Professor of Medicine at the medical school. Torti was appointed to the post by Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, FDA Commissioner. 
   "I am pleased Dr. von Eschenbach has appointed one of North Carolina's finest doctors to this prominent position," Burr said. "It is so important to have talented individuals like Frank in important positions at the FDA. I have been impressed by Frank's leadership and vision at the Comprehensive Cancer Center and look forward to working with him in his new role."
   As Principal Deputy Commissioner and first Chief Scientist, Dr. Torti will lead the effort in recruiting talented professionals to work at the FDA. He will also steer the FDA's internal research program, which is essential to improve information on drug, device, and food issues faced by FDA reviewers and employees.
   Dr. Torti began his medical training at Johns Hopkins University, where he earned his bachelor's and master's degrees. He received his M.D. from Harvard Medical School and his Masters in Public Health from the Harvard School of Public Health. Dr. Torti founded the Cancer Biology Training Consortium, a national society of cancer biology department chairs and program directors, where he currently serves as president. He is a recipient of National Institutes of Health MERIT Award.
   Dr. Torti received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Johns Hopkins University, his medical degree from Harvard Medical School, and his Master of Public Health from Harvard School of Public Health. He served as an intern and resident at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, and as a fellow of medical oncology at Stanford University where he subsequently joined the faculty and was tenured. He has written extensively on prostate and bladder cancer, designed and executed a number of cancer clinical trials, and has substantially contributed to the understanding of the molecular mechanisms that underlie inflammatory diseases and cancer.
   Contact: Chris Walker and Mark Williams, 202/224-1616.
 
 