Senator Carper Spends Monday, June 5, 2006 in Kent County                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       For Immediate Release: June 2, 2006
		Contact: 
	Tours DE Aerospace Education Foundation “Outpost” in Smyrna 

Highlights Breast Cancer Screening Services Van in Dover

Visits State Street Assisted Living Facility

Speaks at Dover Rotary Meeting

Visits Delaware State Fire School                                                                                                                                                                         Dover, DE- Senator Carper starts his day with a visit to the Delaware Aerospace Education Foundation “Outpost” in Smyrna.  DASEF has taken a leadership role in creating the Innovation, Technology and Exploration Center, an exciting destination for unique applied learning for the youth and residents of the Delaware Region.  The ITEC will serve as an educational link to future technologies as well as a vehicle for understanding the importance of preserving the environment and its most valuable resource – people.     
Senator Carper will join the Delaware Breast Cancer Coalition to highlight and promote the services of the Delaware Breast Cancer Coalition and the Women’s Mobile Health Screen van.  The van is a convenient one-stop cancer-screening unit for women, and is wheelchair accessible. Mammograms done on the van are the same high-quality as those done in a standing facility. The van travels directly to the communities in Delaware that most need access to these services, and regularly visits Claymont, Wilmington, New Castle, Dover, Lewes/Rehoboth Beach, Seaford, and Frankford. From June 2005 until the end of April 2006, 320 women have been screened in the van in Delaware.     
Several women who have been screened and diagnosed in the van will be on hand to talk about their experiences. The Senator will also be joined by Delaware Breast Cancer Coalition Representatives, the American Cancer Society, Screening for Life Representatives, and local elected officials.    
Over 40,000 women in the U.S. will die from breast cancer this year, 110 of them from Delaware.  Although for the first time in five years, Delaware’s breast cancer incidence rates have fallen below the average rates for the U.S., our state’s mortality rate is still ranked 7th in the country.    

Senator Carper recently was the first male senator to sign on as a co-sponsor of S. 1687, the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act.  This legislation would extend this important program through 2011, and would also increase its funding from $203 million to $250 million per year.      

Next, the Senator will visit the State Street Assisted Living Facility, where he will talk with staff and residents.  He will give brief remarks over their lunch hour.      

Senator Carper will be the guest speaker at the Downtown Dover Rotary Club meeting where he will discuss immigration and answer questions.       

The Senator ends his day in Dover with a visit to the Delaware State Fire School.  DSFS recently received a small federal grant to upgrade their teleconferencing equipment.  The equipment is located at the site in Dover and at their two regional sites in order to extend their reach to cover emergencies.  This grant was funded through DEMA and Homeland Security funding.  The Senator will be given a tour and demonstration of new equipment.  Senator Carper is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, the Senate panel with jurisdiction over the fire service and our nation's homeland security efforts.      

Monday, June 5, 2006    

  9:30 am – 10:10 am              Tours Aerospace Outpost    
                                                Big Oak Road (no physical address)     
                                                Directions: South Smyrna Exit, turn left (south towards Dover), left at next light onto Big Oak Road, under overpass on the left    
                                                Smyrna    

10:30 am – 11:20 am              Highlights Breast Cancer Screening Van     
                                                Delaware Breast Cancer Coalition parking lot    
                                                165 Commerce Way    
                                                Enterprise Business Park     
                                                Dover    

11:30 am – 12:15 pm              Visits State Street Assisted Living     
                                                21 North State Street    
                                                Dover     

12:20 pm – 1:15 pm                Speaks to Dover Rotary Club    
                                                Lobby House    
                                                9 East Loockerman Street    
                                                Dover    

 1:30 pm – 2:30 pm                 Visits Delaware Fire School    
                                                1461 Chestnut Grove Road    
                                                Dover     

### Return