Senator Tom Carper Spends Monday, August 8, 2005 in Sussex County
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              For Immediate Release: August 5, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Offers Welcoming Remarks to Jack Nicklaus at Bayside Resorts Golf Club

Discusses Social Security at Ocean View CHEER Center

Recognizes Seaford Central Elementary School and School District 

Visits Seaford VA Clinic 
                                                                                                                                                                                      
Senator Carper will offer welcoming remarks to Jack Nicklaus for the grand opening of Nicklaus’s newest golf course, Bayside Resorts Golf Club.  The Senator will be on-hand to watch Nicklaus take some driving practice and learn more about this distinctive and beautiful new course near Fenwick Island.    
The Senator will join seniors at the CHEER Coastal Leisure Center in Ocean View for a discussion about Social Security.  He will talk about the latest action in Washington D.C. and answer questions.   
The next stop will be to learn more about the EPA Energy Star Program in Seaford.  Senator Carper will visit Seaford Central Elementary School and then the Seaford School District Building, taking tours of both and seeing the cost and energy cutting methods that led them to the STAR program.  A new lighting system and centralized computer system in a sophisticated control room will be part of the tour.  EPA officials will be on hand to answer questions about the program.  
The Senator’s last stop of the day is at the Seaford Veteran’s Administration Clinic.  He has a follow-up meeting with the staff to receive an update on this newer building and how it is meeting the needs of local veterans.   
Monday, August 8, 2005   


11:15 am – 12:15 pm              Welcoming Remarks to Jack Nicklaus   
Bayside Resorts Golf Club  
31806 Lakeview Drive  
Selbyville  

12:35 pm – 1:35 pm                Discussion about Social Security   
                                                CHEER Coastal Leisure Center  
                                                30637 Cedar Neck Road  
                                                Ocean View   

2:30 pm – 3:30 pm                  EPA Energy STAR Program Recognition   
                                                Seaford Central Elementary School and School District Building  
                                                1 Delaware Place  
Seaford  

3:35 pm – 4:35 pm                  Seaford VA Clinic Tour  
                                                121 Front Street  
                                                Seaford               
### Return