Sen. Carper Spends Friday, April 7th in New Castle County                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       For Immediate Release: April 6, 2006
		Contact: 
	 Wilmington, DE – On Friday, April 7, 2006, Senator Tom Carper will spend the day in New Castle County.    

The Senator’s day starts with his participation in a ribbon-cutting ceremony and open house at Delaware Elwyn to celebrate the completion of the $3 million renovation of its Wilmington facility.  The facility will provide an additional 4,000 square feet of space for the Senior Adult Program increasingly serving people with Alzheimers and dementia.   

Senator Carper will then join State Treasurer Jack Markell on a visit to one of the 23 tax assistance centers in Delaware where they will highlight free services offered to help low income people with their taxes.  In Delaware, the Nehemiah Gateway Community Development Corporation coordinates the efforts of the state to strengthen the economies of low and moderate income communities, and one of the programs they offer is the Delaware Earned Income Tax Credit Campaign.    

The EITC Campaign has been credited with bringing more children out of poverty each year than any other federal program and the program offers free tax preparation in conjunction with the IRS.  The Delaware assistance sites help raise fiscal awareness and are spread throughout the state.  They are located at non-profit agencies or faith-based organizations who donate space.  The sites provide free tax help and preparation, information about EITC, and an array of other services, such as housing referrals and financial literacy. Last year, 8,100 Delawareans received free help with their taxes and the goal is for 2006 is 10,000.    

People who have received assistance will be on-hand to share their experience.   

The Senator’s final stop takes him to Newark, where he will attend the Special Olympics of Delaware’s Annual Basketball tournament.  The Senator will meet athletes from the twenty-five school teams that are playing.  He will also help sponsor, Bank of New York, present medals.    


Friday, April 7, 2006   


10:00 am – 11:00 am             Ribbon Cutting   
                                                Delaware Elwyn   
                                                321 East 11th Street  
                                                Wilmington    

11:05 am – 12:00 pm              Federal Funding Announcement and Visit    
                                                Low Income Tax Payer Assistance Center  
                                                Ezion Mt. Carmel Church  
                                                7th and Walnut Streets   
                                                Wilmington  
                                                *State Treasurer Jack Markell also attending*  

12:15 pm –   1:15 pm              Special Olympics of Delaware Basketball Tournament   
                                                University of Delaware Field House  
                                                Route 896   
                                                Newark   
### Return