Senator Tom Carper in Kent County on Friday, Dec. 9, 2005                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       For Immediate Release: December 8, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Rings Bell for Salvation Army 

Lecture/Q with Wesley College Students about His Recent Trip to Middle East 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WILMINGTON, DE (Dec. 8, 2005) – Senator Tom Carper will spend Friday, December 9, 2005 in Kent County.      
The Senator will help the Salvation Army kick off the holiday season by ringing the bell in Dover.  A tradition since it began in San Francisco in 1891, the Red Kettle Campaign is the Salvation Army’s biggest fundraiser.  Last year alone, the campaign raised over $100 million in communities nationwide, with the nickels, dimes, quarters and dollars all remaining in the towns where the money was deposited into the kettles. The funds raised help support many of the 37 million people in poverty who turn to the Army for food and toys at Christmas, utility and homeless assistance, senior and child care, drug abuse treatment and many other social service needs.  This year for the first time, people can also donate online at www.salvationarmyusa.org.     
Senator Carper will then deliver a speech and participate in Q at Wesley College about his trip to the Middle East.     
The Senator returned Saturday, December 3, 2005, from his week-long trip to Iraq, Israel, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia.  During the trip, the Senator met with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei, Dr. Salam Fayyad, finance minister for the Palestinian Authority, Jordan’s King Abdullah, Prime Minister Adnan Badran, and Iraqi military and government officials, and Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah bin Abd al-Aziz and Crown Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz.    
Senator Carper will speak about his trip for about 20 minutes, and then participate in student and media Q  The Senator will speak about his meetings, the war in Iraq, and what he learned about the peace process in the Middle East.     

Members of the audience will include students from an American Politics class taught by Dr. Gene Hallus.   In addition, all students and faculty are invited to attend.  The Senator has done interviews locally and nationally throughout the week, including FOX News, CNN, MSNBC, and CN8’s “It’s Your Call with Lynn Doyle.”     

Carper’s trip to the Middle East was part of a congressional delegation fact-finding mission led by Senator Chuck Hagel (R – NE) from Monday, November 28, 2005 to Saturday, December 3, 2005.  Representatives Ellen Tauscher (D-CA) and Vic Snyder (D-AK) were also on the trip.    

Friday, December 9, 2005    


10:00 am – 11:15 am              Ringing of Salvation Army Bell     
                                                Super Fresh Supermarket    
                                                Green Tree Shopping Center    
                                                Route 8    
                                                Dover     

2:15 pm – 3:15 pm                  Speech and Q about trip to the Middle East    
                                                Wesley College    
                                                Malmberg Hall, Room 115    
                                                Governor’s Avenue    
                                                Dover      

### Return