Senator Carper’s Kent County Schedule for Monday, July 11, 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                For Immediate Release: July 8, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Tour Bio Safety Laboratory in Smyrna

Talk with Seniors at Modern Maturity Center in Dover 

Participate in USDA Open House in Dover 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dover, DE – Senator Tom Carper will spend Monday, July 11 2005, in Kent County.    

The Senator will tour the newly-renovated Public Health Laboratory in Smyrna.  The chemical terrorism laboratory detects metals at trace levels and cyanide and nerve agents in clinical samples - new capabilities for Delaware. The new Bio Safety Level III laboratory includes a 100-square-foot addition, and testing capabilities for anthrax and other microbes that could be used in a terrorist event.  Both labs have state-of-the-art safety features. The Bio Safety Level III lab is equipped with a vaporized hydrogen peroxide system to kill accidentally released microbes. Both new labs have special air handling systems to filter incoming and outgoing air. Remodeling included a new entrance for hazardous samples. Previously, such samples were carried through the entire building, potentially exposing bystanders and jeopardizing sample and laboratory security. The new entrance leads directly to the area testing for hazardous samples.  Construction began in the fall of 2004 and ended April 1, 2005. The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funded the project at a cost of nearly $1.8 million. New equipment includes mass spectrometers, bio-safety cabinets, an autoclave, a thermalcycler, freezers, refrigerators and incubators.  

The Senator will be having lunch at the Modern Maturity Center in Dover, where he will speak briefly about social security.  The Center Director, Carolyn Fredricks, was appointed by the Senator as a representative to the White House Conference on Aging that is scheduled to take place this fall.    

Finally, the Senator will participate in an Open House at the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). On March 1, 2005, the USDA agencies officially collocated together in the current building, marking the end of a seven year journey.  Prior to the three agencies coming together, Delaware offices for the Farm Services Agency, Natural Resource Conservation Service, and Rural Development were located separately in three different buildings unable to share common areas or equipment.  Today, the new office provides space for 73 employees that share more than equipment and rooms; they share a partnership that is dedicated to serving farmers and other rural customers.     

Friday, June 10, 2005  


10:30 – 11:15             Tour of DHSS Public Health Bio Safety III Laboratory  
                                    30 Sunnyside Road  
                                    Smyrna  

11:30 – 12:30              Lunch at Modern Maturity Center                
                                    1121 Forrest Avenue  
                                    Dover  

1:00 – 1:45                  USDA Open House  
                                    1221 College Park Drive  
                                    Dover  

                                    PROGRAM:                              
                                                                Marlene Elliott, State Director, Delaware and Maryland,    
                                                USDA Rural Development  

                                                Brittany Platzke, Song  

                                                Pledge of Allegiance, Led by FFA and 4H  

                                                The Honorable Thomas R. Carper, United States Senator  

                                                Richard Bergold, State Executive Director  
                                                USDA Farm Service Agency  

                                                Ginger Murphy, State Conservationist  
                                                Natural Resources Conservation Service  

                                                Meryln Carlson, Deputy Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment  
                                                Natural Resources Conservation Service  

                                                Ceremonial Knot Tying   

                                                Tour of the offices  

### Return