Panel Approves Bill to Name SR-1 Bridge After Senator Roth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      For Immediate Release: June 8, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	 WASHINGTON (June 8, 2005) – The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee today unanimously approved legislation, introduced by Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., to name the State Route 1 Bridge over the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal after the late Sen. William Roth.    

The legislation, which is cosponsored by Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., would designate the bridge, the “Senator William V. Roth, Jr. Bridge.”  Sen. Roth was instrumental in securing federal funds to construct the bridge, which was completed in December 1995.  

“Senator Roth was an extraordinary man and dedicated public servant,” said Senator Carper.  “In a small state like Delaware, you have a wonderful opportunity to change people’s lives for the better.  Bill Roth set the gold standard for constituent services, for helping people solve their problems.  All of us in the Senate should emulate that kind of dedication.”  

Carper continued, “Senator Roth will forever be remembered for his work on retirement security, the environment, enlarging NATO and expanding free trade.  It’s my honor to help commemorate his life and his service to the First State through this legislation.”    

Sen. Roth was first elected to the House in 1966, serving two terms, before being elected to the Senate, where he served for 30 years.   He also won the Bronze Star for his service in the U.S. Army during World War II.   He died in 2003 at the age of 82.  ### Return