Sen. Carper Announces Three Local Fire Companies Receive Combined Total of Nearly $400,00 from U.S. Department of Homeland Security
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            For Immediate Release: March 8, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	
Federal Grant Provides Direct Assistance to Firefighters                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Wilmington, DE – Three fire companies in Delaware are set to receive a combined total of $397,539 in federal grant money from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Senator Tom Carper announced today.  Through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), Wilmington Fire Department will receive $245,979, Little Creek Volunteer Fire Company will receive $130,500, and Belvedere Fire Company will receive $21,060.   The AFGP awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation’s firefighters and the services they provide.       

Little Creek and Wilmington Fire Companies will receive this money through the Operations and Firefighter Safety program.  The grants will go toward training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and modifications to fire stations and facilities.   The Belvedere Fire Companies grant is through the Fire Prevention program.       

“Delaware’s firefighters put their lives in jeopardy every day in an effort to keep families safe, and this grant will assist in their mission and help keep them safe,” said Senator Tom Carper.      

Senator Carper is a senior member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, the Senate panel with jurisdiction over the fire service and our nation's homeland security efforts.      
### Return