Sen. Carper Continues Effort to Develop Riverfront with Announcements on Friday, September 9, 2005                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              For Immediate Release: September 8, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	

Gives Command to Begin Removal of Shipwreck “State of Pennsylvania” 

Announces Funding for New Pedestrian Bridge & Tours Peterson Wildlife Refuge by Boat 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wilmington, DE – Senator Tom Carper will spend Friday, September 9, 2005, on Wilmington’s Riverfront.      
Senator Carper will announce $175,000 in federal funding to remove the State of Pennsylvania shipwreck, and will give the official order to commence work on removing the remains of the ship.  A team of divers off of two boats will be ready to begin the underwater dissection.  The wreckage of the State of Pennsylvania has been in the Christina River since 1970, when it ran aground at the foot of South Madison Street.  It sat for 18 years, until the wooden parts of the vessel were destroyed by a deliberately-set fire in 1988.  The remaining part of the boat - its 225-foot hull - sits buried in the mud at the bottom of the river, impeding boat traffic and recreational water traffic.      
“I am honored to give the command to begin removal of the State of Pennsylvania.  Once a beautiful ship, the hull has been dangerous to both necessity and recreational ships in the River for a quarter century.  To protect an area and a ship so rich in history, the Army Corps of Engineers has worked diligently with the RDC and local conservancy groups to ensure removal with the respect this treasure deserves,” said Senator Carper.      

"Not only is the removal of the Sunken Steamer, the State of Pennsylvania, an important step in the ongoing renovation of the Wilmington Riverfront, but it also alleviates long standing safety concerns for those who navigate the Christina River channel.  I commend the work of the U.S Army Corps of Engineers, the Riverfront Development Corporation, the Christina Conservancy, and the New Castle County Conservation District for their efforts leading to the removal," said Senator Biden, who is unable to attend the event.      
The Senator will be joined by members of the Riverfront Development Corp., Governor and Mrs. Russell W. Peterson, County Executive Chris Coons, conservancy groups, DNREC, and the Army Corps of Engineers, who are performing the removal.      
The Senator will also hear from Governor Peterson and DNREC about the updates in the Russell W. Peterson Urban Wildlife Refuge, and will also announce $285,000 in federal funding to build a pedestrian bridge, making the refuge accessible to foot traffic.  The 202-acre marsh is a wetland project, similar to many across the country.      
A tour of the refuge with Senator Carper, Governor Peterson, and DNREC will immediately follow the press conference.     

*Notes for media*    
Senator Carper will give the command for divers to enter the Christina River and begin work at 10:30 a.m.   The boat tour of the refuge requires a life vest, provided by DNREC.   The tour will be in a marshy area, so please dress accordingly.         
Friday, September 9, 2005    



10:30 am – 11:30 am              Announcement of State of Pennsylvania Removal     
                                                South Madison Street on the Riverfront     
                                                Under Green Crane, just north of Dravo Plaza    
                                                (between P & C Roofing and Timothy’s)    
                                                Wilmington    

11:40 am – 12:15 pm              Tour of Russell W. Peterson Urban Wildlife Refuge    
                                                South Madison Street on the Riverfront    
                                                South end of the Shipyard Shops     
                                                Wilmington     


### Return