Sen. Carper’s New Castle County Schedule for Wed., August 10, 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             For Immediate Release: August 9, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	 Announces $20 Million in Federal Funding to Expand Transportation Options  
 Near the Riverfront    

Press Conference Regarding Health Care Agendas and Issues   

Wilmington, DE – Senator Tom Carper will spend Wednesday, August 10, 2005, in New Castle County.    
Senator Carper will announce securing $20 million in federal funding through the transportation bill to provide alternatives for vehicle and pedestrian traffic in the Riverfront area.  Senator Carper will be joined by Mayor Jim Baker, Blue Rocks General Manager Chris Kemple, and Mike Purzycki, Executive Director of the Riverfront Development Corporation.  Artists’ renderings of four possible interchange possibilities will be on display.   This is an important and needed undertaking in the Riverfront area.  The people living here and those people we want to attract need more ways to access Wilmington.    
Under the $286.4 billion, six-year transportation bill, Delaware would receive a 30 percent increase over current levels.  Within that allocation, $40.7 million would be set aside for interstate maintenance, $21 million for highway safety and $5 million for the new “Safe Routes to Schools” program, which is designed to help children walk safely to school.    
In celebration of National Health Center Week, the Senator will attend a press conference at Westside Health Center.  He will join Wilmington Mayor Jim Baker and Congressman Mike Castle.  The event will focus on the vital role community health centers play in caring for the underserved and uninsured locally and nationally.  Senator Carper will discuss the Senate’s role in this mission.  This week is also used every year to emphasize children’s health and encourage parents to bring their children to the doctor for back-to-school physicals.    
Friday, August 5, 2005  



11:30 am – 12:30 am              Announcement of $20 Million in Federal Funding  
                                                Frawley Stadium   
                                                Main Concourse – Pro Zone   
                                                South Madison Street on the Riverfront   
                                                Wilmington  

1:00 pm – 2:00 pm                  Westside Health Center Press Conference  
                                                1802 W. Fourth Street  
                                                Wilmington   
### Return