Sen. Carper’s Sussex County Schedule for Friday, February 10, 2006                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              For Immediate Release: February 9, 2006
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Recognizes Police and Firefighter Recipients of Valor Awards

Lectures at Salisbury University about Middle East  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bethany, DE – Senator Tom Carper will spend Friday, February 10, 2006, in Sussex County.    

Senator Carper will help honor recipients of the Second Annual Valor Awards, hosted by the Bethany-Fenwick Area Chamber of Commerce.    The Senator will make remarks and congratulate the outstanding police officers from five towns and outstanding firefighters from five volunteer companies who will be receiving awards. The event, sponsored by Carl M. Freeman Communities, gives chamber members an opportunity to thank those who keep our community safe and strong, and to honor outstanding police officers and firefighters from the towns we serve.  Josh Freeman will give the keynote address.     

Senator Carper will then deliver a speech and participate in Q at Salisbury about his recent trip to the Middle East.  The Senator returned Saturday, December 3, 2005, from a week-long trip to Iraq, Israel, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia as part of a congressional delegation fact-finding mission.  During the trip, the Senator met with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei, Dr. Salam Fayyad, finance minister for the Palestinian Authority, Jordan’s King Abdullah, Prime Minister Adnan Badran, and Iraqi military and government officials, and Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah bin Abd al-Aziz and Crown Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz.    
Senator Carper will speak and then participate in student and media Q  The Senator will speak about his meetings, the war in Iraq, and what he learned about the peace process in the Middle East.     

Friday, February 10, 2006    
12:00 pm – 1:15 pm                Participation in Bethany Fenwick Valor Awards Ceremony    
                                                The Den at Bear Trap Dunes    
                                                RR2    
                                                Ocean View     

1:35 pm- 2:10 pm                   Speech and Q about trip to the Middle East     
                                                Salisbury University    
                                                1101 Camden Avenue    
                                                Salisbury, MD    
                                                *Speech to be given in Fulton Hall, Room #111    
### Return