Carper Issues Statement on President’s Proposed Troop Surge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     For Immediate Release: January 10, 2007
		Contact: 
	Calls for a Realistic and Sustainable Political Solution in IraqWASHINGTON (Jan. 10, 2007) -- Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., today issued the following statement on the president’s proposed increase in troop levels in Iraq:      
"I have serious reservations about the president's new strategy and fear it will not be successful in quelling the violence that plagues Iraq and endangers American troops.      
Many military leaders have said a so-called ‘surge’ in American forces will do very little, if anything, to stop the violence in Iraq.  Instead, they fear, as I do, that absent a realistic and sustainable political solution in Iraq, the president’s strategy will not achieve its intentions and will further over-extend our military forces in the region.      
For the past year, I have said that we need to begin a phased redeployment of American forces out of Iraq because it will force the Iraqis to take greater responsibility for their security and their future.      
I have also urged the Bush administration to fully engage in brokering a Middle East peace agreement between Israel and Palestine, as well as work to persuade Iraq’s neighbors that they have a stake in helping Iraq’s new government succeed.  I have also urged the president to directly engage Iran and Syria to help stabilize Iraq and support its new government.  Ignoring them doesn’t mean they’re going away.      
I look forward to more carefully reviewing the details of the president's plan over the next couple of days, as well as to a rigorous debate in the Congress over the direction we must take in Iraq.” ### Return