Carper Named Vice-Chair of Democratic Leadership Council                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        For Immediate Release: July 15, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	 Washington, D.C. (July 15, 2005) -- Delaware Senator Tom Carper will be the new vice-chair of the Democratic Leadership Council, a leading centrist organization formed in the 1980s to promote “New Democrat” messages of national security, economic growth and personal responsibility.      

Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack will become the new chairman of the organization, taking over for Sen. Evan Bayh, D-Ind., who has chaired the DLC since 2001.    The announcement comes as Gov. Vilsack and Sen. Carper, in addition to nearly 300 other elected officials from over 40 states, prepare to attend the DLC’s annual National Conversation in Columbus, Ohio, on July 25.    

As vice-chairman, Carper will serve as one of the DLC’s top organizers and communicators as Democrats prepare for the 2006 and 2008 election cycles.      

“I’m proud to accept this new position at the DLC and look forward to advancing a positive, reform-based agenda for Democrats as we head into the 2006 and 2008 elections,” said Carper.  “Democrats need to define ourselves by what we’re for, not simply by what we’re against.  The DLC is focused on keeping America safe, promoting economic growth, promoting core Democratic values like family and community responsibility, and reclaiming the mantle of reform.  In my new capacity, I look forward to making sure that voters across this country know that Democrats are committed to a bold reform agenda that will strengthen America at home and around the world."    

Al From, CEO and Founder of the DLC, said:  “We’re thrilled that Gov. Vilsack and Sen. Carper will assume leadership roles with the DLC.  They both have long records as reformers and innovators.  Under their leadership, the DLC will continue to drive change in our country and our party by advancing a national agenda of security, opportunity, and reform that can win the support of a majority of Americans.”      

In addition to his duties as the vice-chair of the DLC, Carper also serves as a Democratic Deputy Whip in the Senate as well as co-chair (along with Sen. Mary Landrieu, D-La.) of the Senate New Democratic Coalition.    

The Democratic Leadership Council (DLC) leads the New Democrat movement, a national network of elected officials and community leaders whose innovative ideas are modernizing progressive politics for the 21st Century.   Since its inception, the DLC has championed policies focusing on economic growth, fiscal discipline, expanded international trade, and national service. The DLC was founded in 1985.  Past chairs include former President Bill Clinton, Sen. Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, former Rep. Dave McCurdy of Oklahoma, Sen. John Breaux of Louisiana, former Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia, former Sen. Charles Robb of Virginia and House Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri.    
### Return