Sen. Carper Spends Wednesday, April 19th in Sussex County                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       For Immediate Release: April 18, 2006
		Contact: 
	Hosts Clean Air Press Conference

Visits Del-Tech Childcare Center, Funded by Federal Grants

Visits Nanticoke Health Services and Hospital                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Millsboro, DE – On Wednesday, April 19th, Senator Carper will hold a press conference to discuss the new clean air legislation he will present on the floor of the Senate in the next few weeks.  His proposed bill would crack down on power plant emissions of mercury and other air pollutants, while also addressing the problem of global warming.     
Carper, the senior Democrat on the Senate’s clean air subcommittee, has been working with environmental groups, industry representatives and senators from both parties to develop the legislation, called the Clean Air Planning Act. The bill will be a "new and improved" version of four-pollutant legislation Carper introduced in 2003.    
Carper said that while a lot of progress has been made over the past couple of decades, more needs to be done to clean the air in Delaware, particularly for the thousands who suffer from asthma and other lung ailments.    
The press conference will offer more information about the bill, and great visuals, including a backdrop of the Indian River Power Plant.      
The Senator will then stop by Del-Tech College’s on-campus childcare center to see what services are being provided after receiving federal funding.  In October 2005, Carper helped announce that the college received a $164,000 grant under the Child Care Access Means Parents in School program, which provides access to campus-based child care services for low income students.  The Senator will tour the facility and spend time with faculty.     

Finally, Senator Carper will visit Nanticoke Health Services and Hospital.  What started as a 32-bed hospital in 1952 has grown to include extended care, business services, outpatient services, medical centers across Sussex County and a host of preventive medicine and health education programs.  He will see the improvements made in the past few years and hear about those programs.    

Wednesday, April 19, 2006     


10:30 am – 11:30 am Clean Air Press Conference     
                        Bulls Eye Lane    
                        Millsboro             
Directions           
            From the North (Delaware):     
            Route 1 South to 113 South     
            113 South to Millsboro (Route 24)    
            Turn left onto Route 24 East (Wawa on right)    
            *Travel 4.2 miles to Bulls Eye Lane (through Millsboro, through MountAire Poultry Plant)     
            Make a right onto Bulls Eye Lane (dirt road) – look for Carper signs    
            Follow until the end (less than a mile)     

            From Salisbury:     
            113 North to Millsboro (Route 24)     
            Turn right onto Route 24 East (Wawa on left)     
            *Follow from above     

            From Ocean City:    
            Route 1 North to Route 24 West     
            Make a left on Route 24 West     
            Look for Nanticoke Indian Museum at Route 5    
            *Travel 1.8 miles from museum to Bulls Eye Lane    
            Turn left onto Bulls Eye Lane (dirt road) – look for Carper signs    
            Follow until the end (less than a mile)     

            From Milford and South:     
            Route 1 South to Route 24 West     
            Make a right onto Route 24 West     
            *Follow from above      


  1:45 pm –   2:45 pm              Visit to Del-Tech Childcare Center    
Owens Campus    
Seashore Highway/Route 18     
Georgetown     

  3:05 pm -    4:05 pm Tour of Nanticoke Health Services and Hospital      
                                                801 Middleford Road    
                                                Seaford      
### Return