Senator Carper Announces 2006 Service Academy Nominations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       For Immediate Release: January 18, 2006
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Delaware’s Finest Rise Among Ranks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Washington, DC – Bringing Delaware’s finest one step closer to joining the ranks of America’s military officers, Senator Tom Carper announced today the names of his service academy nominees for the class entering in June 2006.  Each year, members of the United States Congress are charged with nominating top candidates from their home state, ensuring the best and the brightest are considered for admission to the nation’s leading service academies.    

“This is where we accept responsibility for shaping the vision of America’s future.  Among these outstanding candidates will emerge the future of our country,” Carper said.  “These academies will develop the leaders for tomorrow and these young people will help our nation realize its vision.  Their integrity, dignity and perspective are inspiring.  I am proud to say they are amongst Delaware’s finest.”  

Securing Senator Carper’s nomination to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs are:  

Zachary Bartsch of Newark, St. Elizabeth High School; Emily Darone of Middletown, Middletown High School; Kristen Erikson of Magnolia, Dover High School; Mark Frederick of Smyrna, Polytech High School; Robert Hamilton of Lewes, Cape Henlopen High School; Jerimiah Hicks of Dover, Dover High School; Tyler Humpton of Bridgeville, Sussex Technical High School; Brandon Ignacio of Wilmington, DE Military Academy; Kyle Klinkenborg of Hartly, Polytech High School; Edward Kowalski of Hockessin, Salesianum High School; Shane McLaughlin of Seaford, Seaford High School; Joseph Quinn of Dover, Caesar Rodney High School; Matthew Rigby of Camden, Caesar Rodney High School; Michael Ruehr of Seaford, Seaford High School; Shawn Soviak of Middletown, Middletown High School; David Staley of Wilmington, Charter School of Wilmington; Alexandra Stamat of Lincoln, Sussex Technical High School; Jessica Stephenson of Hockessin, A.I. duPont High School; Garrett Wells of Newark, DE Military Academy; Jared Zentz of Dover, Caesar Rodney High School.  

Securing Senator Carper’s nomination to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis are:  

Rory Alfree of Wilmington, Salesianum High School; Zachary Bartsch of Newark, St. Elizabeth High School; Sophia Bay of Seaford, Sussex Technical High School; Adam Buddenbohn of Hockessin, A.I. duPont; Emily Darone of Middletown, Middletown High School; Kristen Erikson of Magnolia, Dover High School; Mark Frederick of Smyrna, Polytech High School; Robert Hamilton of Lewes, Cape Henlopen High School; Tyler Humpton of Bridgeville, Sussex Technical High School; Brandon Ignacio of Wilmington, DE Military Academy; Thomas Mancuso of Seaford, Sussex Technical High School; Shane McLaughlin of Seaford, Seaford High School; Ashley Panicelli of New Castle, St. Andrews High School; Sean Porter of Bear, Red Lion Christian Academy; Joseph Quinn of Dover, Caesar Rodney High School; Matthew Rigby of Camden, Caesar Rodney High School; Shawn Soviak of Middletown, Middletown High School; Alexandra Stamat of Lincoln, Sussex Technical High School; Brent Waninger of Claymont, DE Military Academy; Jared Zentz of Dover, Caesar Rodney High School.  

Securing Senator Carper’s nomination to the United States Military Academy in West Point are:  

Zachary Bartsch of Newark, St. Elizabeth; Sophia Bay of Seaford, Sussex Technical High School; Nicholas Cain of Georgetown, Sussex Central High School; Kristen Erikson of Magnolia, Dover High School; Robert Hamilton of Lewes, Cape Henlopen High School; Tyler Humpton of Bridgeville, Sussex Technical High School; Brandon Ignacio of Wilmington, DE Military Academy; Joseph Quinn of Dover, Caesar Rodney High School; Shawn Soviak of Middletown, Middletown High School; David Staley of Wilmington, Charter School of Wilmington; Alexandra Stamat of Lincoln, Sussex Technical High School; Jessica Stephenson of Hockessin, A.I. duPont High School; Jessica Sun of Hockessin, Charter School of Wilmington; Emilie Urdahl of Lewes, Cape Henlopen High School; Garrett Wells of Newark, DE Military Academy; Jared Zentz of Dover, Caesar Rodney High School.  

Securing Senator Carper’s nomination to the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point are:  

Zachary Bartsch of Newark, St. Elizabeth; Sophia Bay of Seaford, Sussex Technical High School; Stephen Cushing of Middletown, Salesianum High School; Mark Frederick of Smyrna, Polytech High School; Brandon Ignacio of Wilmington, DE Military Academy; Edward Kowalski of Hockessin, Salesianum High School; Jessica Sun of Hockessin, Charter School of Wilmington; Garrett Wells of Newark, DE Military Academy; Jared Zentz of Dover, Caesar Rodney High School.  
### Return