Delaware Programs to Receive Almost $4.5 Million for Homeless                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   For Immediate Release: December 21, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Delaware Delegation Announces Grant from HUD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Wilmington, DE – Several Delaware organizations that assist homeless people will be receiving a total of $4,486,971 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Delaware Delegation announced today.      

The grants, awarded under HUD’s Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance Program (CoC) helps communities across the United States address problems of homelessness by organizing and delivering housing and services that meet the specific needs of homeless individuals and families as they move toward stable housing and maximum self-sufficiency.      

All grant recipients in Delaware were awarded money through the CoC’s Supportive Housing Program (SHP), which assists homeless providers to acquire, build, renovate and operate facilities that serve homeless individuals.  In addition, they offer homeless persons the supportive services they need to move out of homelessness and to achieve independent living.    

Connections Community Support Programs Inc. received $955,250.  The State of Delaware received $1,535,961.  The Ministry of Caring received $1,671,784 and the Young Women’s Christian Association of New Castle County received $323,967.    

"In a country as wealthy as the United States, it is difficult for most people to fathom that there are families that quite literally do not have a roof over their heads," said Senator Biden.  "This money will help us ensure that struggling Delawareans have a decent and safe place to call home as they work toward a better life."     

“Our state faces a housing crisis with no simple solution,” said Senator Tom Carper.  “This money will help alleviate some of the shortage and allow these providers to help the home-less on the road to a better life and down the road to independent living.”    

"I am extremely pleased with the news of this federal funding because it will help those communities throughout Delaware whose mission it is to assist homeless families and individuals.  It is imperative we supply the necessary resources to providers of services that offer stability and independence," Castle said.      
### Return