Sen. Carper’s Sussex County Schedule for Wednesday, February 22, 2006                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           For Immediate Release: February 21, 2006
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Celebrate “I Love to Read Month” with Third Grade Class in Selbyville

Participates in Chamber of Commerce Ribbon-Cutting in Rehoboth 

Visits “Streetscape Project” in Rehoboth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

Wilmington, DE – Senator Tom Carper will spend Wednesday, February 22, 2006, in Sussex County.  

Senator Carper will help students celebrate “I Love to Read” Month at the Southern Delaware School of Arts.    The Senator will speak to a third grade class and will then read them a book.  The students have asked the Senator to talk about his interests and hobbies, his favorite book and author as a child, and to share an interesting fact about himself.    

Senator Carper will then participate in the ribbon-cutting for the grand opening of the new building for the Rehoboth-Dewey Chamber of Commerce.  The Senator will then tour the new facility and talk with members of the Chamber.  
From there, the Senator will view the end of Rehoboth Avenue, where the “Streetscape” project he announced last summer is being constructed.  He will be joined by members of the Chamber and local business owners, who are excited that the project is proceeding well ahead of schedule.  Last August, Senator Carper announced $6.75 million in federal funding he secured through the surface transportation reauthorization bill for the Phase III-C, Infrastructure and Streetscape Improvements on Rehoboth Avenue. This money is being used to complete the final phase of the project that includes the reconstruction of a street lane, new streetlights, reconnection of sewer and water lines, and improvements to sidewalks, restrooms, and the bandstand area.   
Friday, February 10, 2006  

10:00 am – 11:00 am              “I Love to Read” Celebration  
                                                The Southern Delaware School of the Arts  
                                                31 Hoosier Street   
                                                Selbyville  

11:30 am – 12:30 pm              Ribbon Cutting at Chamber of Commerce    
                                                509 Rehoboth Avenue  
                                                Rehoboth Beach  

12:45 pm – 1:45 pm                Update of “Streetscape” Project  
                                                End of Rehoboth Avenue  
                                                (where the bandstand used to be)  
                                                Rehoboth Beach                                    
### Return