Sen. Carper Spends Friday, February 24, 2006 in Kent and Sussex Counties 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      For Immediate Release: February 23, 2006
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Announces “Live Near Your Work” Partnership

Meets with Delaware State Teacher of the Year and Participates in a Physical Education Class                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dover, DE – On Friday, February 24, 2006, Senator Tom Carper will help announce the involvement of an international company, Aramark, and their participation in the “Live Near Your Work” program in Delaware.    

The Live Near Your Work (LNYW) Program is an employer-sponsored, cooperative partnership that encourages employees to purchase homes near their place of work.   The LNYW Program provides down payment and closing-cost assistance to eligible employees who purchase homes in designated areas.  Aramark is the first employer in Dover to offer this incentive to its employees, and 19 of their employees, who work at Wesley College, will participate.    

The Dover Community Partnership, a non-profit corporation created through the Carper/City of Dover Housing Initiative, was created by the Senator to look at low-income housing opportunities in the City of Dover.   

The Senator’s next stop takes him to Sussex County to meet with the Delaware State Teacher of the Year.  Garrett Lydic, a teacher at North Laurel Elementary School, is the first teacher ever chosen from the Laurel School District.  Mr. Lydic teaches Physical Education and has invited the Senator to participate in a new program called Dance Dance Revolution III, which will teach the concept of dance, beat awareness, and rhythm.  The class will consist of mostly 2nd graders, but some 4th graders will be on-hand to offer assistance to the younger students.    

Friday, February 24, 2006  
10:30 am – 11:30 am             Partnership Announcement   
                                                Dover Housing Authority  
                                                76 White Oak Road  
                                                Dover  
                                                Also attending:  
Bette Coplan, Vice President, Wesley College  Saundra Johnson, Director, Delaware State Housing Authority  Ami Sebastian Hauer, Director, Dover Housing Authority  Aramark Regional Director     
2:30 pm – 3:20 pm                  Meeting with Delaware State Teacher of the Year/PE Class    
                                                Teacher: Garrett Lydic  
                                                North Laurel Elementary School  
                                                300 Wilson Lane  
                                                Laurel   
### Return