Sen. Carper Unveils Faith-Based Homeownership Initiative and Partnership with Fannie Mae and DE Federation of Housing Counselors                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                For Immediate Release: January 27, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	Homeowners welcome Senator Carper and media into their new homes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Wilmington, DE – Senator Tom Carper on Friday, January 28, 2005, will visit each of Delaware’s three counties to highlight his new faith-based homeownership initiative and introduce some of the families who have benefited from this effort.  The goal of the initiative is to increase homeownership rates among especially minorities using new outreach strategies and technology to streamline the home buying process.      

Senator Carper developed this statewide strategy with major assistance from Delaware Federation for Housing Counselors, various lenders, local churches, and Fannie Mae (FNM/NYSE).     

 The three-part process, as overseen by the Delaware Federation for Housing Counselors,  works in the following way:    
·        Homeownership workshops are sponsored by trusted neighborhood organizations, such as churches;    
·        Those interested can register for follow-up housing counseling sessions with Delaware Federation for Housing Counselors;    
·        Once the mortgage is ready, the customer’s application may be transmitted electronically from Home Counselor Online ä, Fannie Mae’s free Web-based counseling-support software, to a participating lending partner, thereby streamlining the mortgage application process.    

To date, 18 churches, 10 counseling agencies, and three lenders (GMAC, Wachovia, and Wilmington Trust) are participating in Wilmington, Dover, and Georgetown.      

On Friday, the homeowners will open their homes for tours and speak about the benefits of the program.  The homeowners’ pastors, Senator Carper, a representative from Fannie Mae, DE Federation of Housing Counselors, and the lenders will also speak.  All will be available for interviews and photos.      



FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 2005    

New Castle County    
10:30 a.m. – 11:15 a.m.    
The Home of Mr. Robert Wright    
2303 N. Monroe Street    
Wilmington    

Directions:    
Take I-95    
Take Concord Pike South Exit    
At off-ramp go to the right onto Concord Pike South    
Make a right onto Concord Pike    
Go straight through the first light (over Broom Street)    
Make a right at the second light onto Baynard Boulevard     
Make a left onto 23rd Street    
Make your first left onto N. Monroe Street    
Mr. Wright’s house is the second house on your left, number 2303.    

Kent County    
12:15 p.m. – 1:00 p.m.    
The Home of Mr. and Mrs. Antonio Bing    
136 Birkdale Lane    
Camden    

Directions:    
Take Route 1 South    
Exit Route 1 South at exit for Salisbury and Route 13 South    
Make a left onto Route 13 South      
At the 3rd traffic light, make a left turn onto Route 10 East    
    (Landmarks: Dairy Queen, signs for Dover AFB and Rising Sun)    
Once on Route 10, take your first right onto Rising Sun Road.      
Travel approximately 1/2 mile to Traybern Development.     
Turn right onto Traybern Boulevard    
Make the next right onto Traybery Way    
Make first left onto Birkdale Lane    
Go to the end of Birkdale Lane and Mr. and Mrs. Bing’s house is the last house on the right before the cul de sac.    

Sussex County    
2:00 p.m. – 2:45 p.m.    
Future Development of Ms. Gail Jones*    
114 Truitt Avenue    
Shepherd’s Point    
Georgetown    
*Ms. Jones has completed a contract and is waiting for her new home.     

Directions:    

From North to South,    
Take Route 113 South to the Georgetown area    
From the intersection of Route 113 South & Route 18, take Route 113 South for 0.4 miles    
Make a right onto Ennis Avenue (At the sign for Howard T. Ennis School)    
Make an immediate left onto Truitt Avenue    
Follow Truitt Avenue until you see the grey model home on the right (#114)     

From South to North    
Take Route 113 North to the Georgetown area    
From the intersection of Route 113 North & Route 9, take Route 113 North for 0.7 miles to the left turn lane.     
At the Howard T. Ennis School sign, make a left to cross over Route 113 South onto Ennis Avenue    
Make an immediate left onto Truitt Ave    
Follow Truitt Avenue until you see the grey model home on the right (#114)    


# # #    
Home Counselor Online is a trademark of Fannie Mae.  Unauthorized use of this mark is prohibited.    ### Return