Senator Carper Visiting Middle East, Will “Blog” Daily
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         For Immediate Release: November 28, 2005
		Contact:                                                                                                                                                       
	New Senate Website Offers User-Friendly Layout and Weblog                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WASHINGTON (Nov. 28, 2005) – Senator Tom Carper will be visiting Iraq, Israel, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia as part of a congressional delegation fact-finding mission led by Senator Chuck Hagel (R - NE) from Monday, November 28, 2005 to Saturday, December 3, 2005.  Representatives Ellen Tauscher (D-CA) and Vic Snyder (D-AK) will also be attending.  
Carper will “blog” his trip daily.  The blog, called “Carper’s Corner,” is located on the Senator’s newly-designed website: http://carper.senate.gov.    
While a final schedule is still forthcoming, possible meetings include: Iraqi military and government officials, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei and President Mahmoud Abbas, Jordan’s King Abdullah and Prime Minister Adnan Badran and Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah bin Abd al-Aziz and Crown Prince Sultan bin Abd al-Aziz.  
“This trip will be an eye-opening experience, giving me a much better picture of what is really happening in Iraq and the Middle East.  Given recent developments, this trip will allow me to see first-hand the honor and courage our troops show each day while trying to secure peace and independence in the region,” said Senator Carper. “I am also looking forward to sharing my perspectives with constituents through my new blog.”    
There will be a mid-week press call from Senator Carper during the trip.  Details to follow.    
### Return