Senator Carper Visits Clayton and Dover on Wednesday, August 30th                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               For Immediate Release: August 29, 2006
		Contact: 
	

Participates in Ceremonial Signing Between Two Organizations  

Participates in Ribbon-Cutting for a Carper/City of Dover Home                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

Dover, DE- Senator Carper starts his day in Clayton, where he will participate in the ceremonial signing of an agreement between the Providence Creek Charter School and the St. Joseph’s Foundation at Providence Creek.  This event is being held primarily to thank Senator Carper for his role in facilitating the agreement.    

Senator Carper will head to Dover for the ribbon-cutting at 22 North Queen Street, a property purchased, renovated, and resold through the Carper/City of Dover Homeownership Initiative.    

He will join members of the Carper/City of Dover Homeownership Advisory Group, Mayor Speed, and the proud new owners of the house, Mr. and Mrs. Eli and Beryl Morris, who will talk about their experience with the Homeownership Initiative.    

This is the second home to be bought, renovated, and sold under the Carper/City of Dover Homeownership Initiative and the Dover Community Partnership. The Senator is a long-time advocate of homeownership and hosts homeownership workshops throughout the state to provide information and support for those hoping to own homes.   

Wednesday, August 30, 2006  

11:00 am – 11:30 am              Ceremonial Signing   
                                                Providence Creek/St. Joseph’s at Providence Creek  
                                                West Duck Road  
                                                Clayton  

  1:00 pm – 1:45 pm                Ribbon-Cutting  
                                                22 North Queen Street   
                                                Dover   

### Return