Sen. Carper Announces Nearly $600,000 in Grants for DTCC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        For Immediate Release: July 31, 2006
		Contact: 
	Funding to Help Identify and Assist Disadvantaged Youth in Attending College
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WASHINGTON, DC (July 31, 2006) – Sen. Tom Carper, D-Del., today announced that the Delaware Technical & Community College (DTCC) has awarded a grant from the Department of Education totaling nearly $600,000 to identify and assist individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds who have the potential to succeed in higher education.    

DTCC will receive the funding under the TRIO Talent Search Program.  The funding consists of two grants, with $290,786 awarded to the DTCC’s Georgetown campus and an additional $307,390 for going to the Wilmington campus.  The funding will be used by the Delaware Technical & Community College to provide services and educational activities including:    

Career exploration and aptitude assessment;   Academic, financial, career and/or personal counseling;   Tutorial services and mentoring programs;   Assistance in preparing for college entrance exams,   Workshops for families of program participants.        
The goal of the TRIO Talent Search Program is to increase the number of youths from disadvantaged backgrounds who complete high school and enroll in postsecondary education institutions.    

The program provides academic, career, and financial counseling to its participants and encourages them to finish high school and continue their education at a postsecondary school that best suits their interests.  The program also assists high school dropouts by encouraging them to reenter the educational system and complete their education.    

“A quality education is one of the most important things anyone can receive.  The uses for this funding are diverse and will help students excel toward their individual goals,” said Senator Tom Carper.     

In response to the notification of receipt of refunding for Trio Talent Search program for Wilmington and Owens, spokesperson for the college, Dr. Hope W. Murray, said, "Delaware Tech is pleased to have been awarded continued funding for this important program which exemplifies the college's philosophy of access, opportunity, excellence, and hope."    
### Return