SEN. VITTER DELIVERS REMARKS TO SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING ON HURRICANE CONTRACTING
  Thank you, Chairman Coburn, for holding this hearing. I appreciate your interest in helping us ensure that federal assistance in spent wisely and as intended. And thank you Sen. Carper for being here. Also, I want to thank Rep. Jindal and Sen. Landrieu for being here.  
   We have all heard lots of stories about waste, fraud, and abuse in Katrina contracting. I am particularly concerned about waste because we have to fight for every dollar we get to help us recover. We are scraping for funding to rebuild our levees, assistance to restore our infrastructures, and federal help for legitimate needs. Every dollar lost to waste, fraud, or abuse means one less dollar for emergency help or a temporary place to live for a hurricane victim. One of the biggest wastes I have discovered so far is the massive bureaucracy in the way of getting things done. Contracts for recovery work, like the blue roofs, trailers, and debris, have unnecessary tiers of waste. There has to be a better way. 
   To help trim these costs, I am drafting legislation that will help do away with unnecessary tiers of contracts and subcontracts. I think we need to reform the federal contracting process to eliminate incentives to create extra tiers of contracts that add nothing to getting work done, but instead add layers of administrative costs and slowness in getting work done. I will introduce this legislation after the Senate is back in session, and I look forward to using information from this hearing to further develop that legislation. 
   Also, I am drafting a bill that would allow more flexibility in the FEMA housing program. There are new products coming to the market - so-called "Katrina Cottages" and other options - to provide needed housing for hurricane victims. We have all read about the slowness and problems with the trailer program, including the thousands of trailers just sitting dormant in Arkansas while people sit in need for a place to stay in Louisiana. I have learned that at least one of the sites being using for trailer placement is costing $52,000 to prep a site for one trailer - that's before the cost of the $60,000 trailer itself. These new options coming out can provide quick housing for the same or even less than the trailers are costing now. But, because these new options can be considered "permanent," they can not be an option under the FEMA regulations or Stafford Act. So, I will be introducing a bill that will allow more options for housing as long as the cost is the same or less than the trailers are costing. If we can provide something better, something that may be safer if another storm comes, something that can be quickly delivered, and that will cost the same or less than the temporary trailers, then we should allow that option. 
   The federal government has a very important role in helping disaster victims, but we in Congress also have the responsibility to ensure that money is not wasted and that assistance is delivered in the most effective, most responsible way. Again, thank you Chairman Coburn for holding this hearing, and I look forward to the hard questions we will ask and hopefully the good answers the witnesses will give.
 
 