DEFENDING OUR MARINES
  We as Americans show great pride in our uniformed services, but the Marines in particular stand as a symbol of our nation throughout the world. Since the Revolutionary War, they have protected our shores and fought on behalf of freedom across the globe, and we hold them in high regard. In this time of war, we hope that all of our fellow citizens would show them the respect they truly deserve, and cities, states and local governments throughout the nation have sponsored special resolutions and bills doing just that. But last month, the City Council of Berkeley, Calif. voted to send a letter to the local Marine Corps Recruiting Command and Marine Corps Commandant General James Conway informing the Marines that they were "not welcome in this city." The council also voted to provide the radical, leftist protest group Code Pink with a free parking space in front of the Marines recruiting office once a week for six months.
   Berkeley Mayor Tom Bates was very specific with his position. "I believe in the Code Pink cause," he said. "The Marines don't belong here, they shouldn't have come here, and they should leave." 
   Last week, I joined a group of senators in introducing the Semper Fi Act of 2008 to address this outrageous action. The bill would rescind more than $2 million in earmarks for Berkeley, in the 2008 Omnibus Appropriations Bill and transfer the funds to the Marine Corps. One of the Berkeley earmarks provides $243,000 in taxpayer dollars for the organization Chez Panisse to create gourmet organic school lunches in the Berkeley School District. Another earmark would spend $975,000 in federal taxpayer dollars for the University of California in Berkeley Matsui Center for Politics and Public Service to create a new endowment and catalogue the papers of Congressman Robert Matsui. U.C. Berkeley already has a $3.5 billion endowment.
   In recent days, facing a firestorm of controversy and outrage, the City Council has attempted to backtrack from their original position, rescinding their previous vote to inform local Marine recruiters that are not welcome in the city. I have little doubt that this latest move represents more of an attempt to retain their earmarks and garner sympathy, rather than reflecting a change of heart over their actions. Even as they moved to rescind their initial letter, the council allowed Code Pink to retain their free parking spot in front of the recruiting station; let stand a resolution that applauded residents and organizations that impede recruiting efforts; and voted specifically not to apologize to the Marines for their comments. The Marines - as is indicative of their custom throughout history - have no intent to surrender their position and the recruiting station will remain in Berkeley. 
   The City Council of Berkeley went far beyond expressing their opinions; instead, they chose to disrupt military recruiters from doing their jobs. And the actions of the council stand in stark contrast to the beliefs of the vast majority of Americans who recognize and honor the service and sacrifice of our U.S. Marines. In these times, when our Armed Forces need all the funding - and more - that we can offer them, Berkeley institutions happily accept tax dollars for their own special programs and then disparage one of our most honorable and venerated institutions. This is simply unacceptable, and these funds could be better utilized by the Marine Corps. Louisiana has a proud history as a state with a strong military presence, and I will keep fighting in the U.S. Senate to support our brave service members.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 