SENATE PASSES SEN. VITTER'S AMENDMENT TO INCREASE PENALTIES FOR LAWMAKERS WHO FALSIFY FINANCIAL REPORTS
  Sen. David Vitter on Wednesday, Jan. 10 secured passage of an amendment to the U.S. Senate ethics and lobby reform legislation. His amendment will create criminal penalties for individuals, including members of Congress, who knowingly and willfully misrepresent or falsify information on their financial reports. 
   "My amendment creates criminal penalties for those who cheat on their financial reports. It is hopefully the first of many reforms that we will adopt if Washington is serious about cleaning up its act," said Vitter. "It is time we get serious about cleaning up the political process and restoring faith in government."
   Vitter's amendment allows the U.S. attorney general to file criminal charges against any individual, including members of Congress, who fails to comply with financial disclosure law. Violators could face criminal penalties of up to one year. Current law allows the attorney general to file a civil suit against these violators. Vitter's amendment will also increases civil penalties from $10,000 to $50,000.
   Examples of individuals required to file financial disclosure reports include the president, vice-president, members of Congress, high-level executive branch officials and employees, any employee of the Executive Office of the President appointed by the president, certain officers and employees of Congress and certain officers and employees of the Judicial Branch. 
   "If average American citizens falsify tax documents, they are in a heap of trouble with the IRS and the federal government. Public officials shouldn't be treated any differently when they falsify their financial information," said Vitter. "Our financial reporting should not be held to any different standard than the standard hard-working Americans are held to."
   Vitter's amendment passed with a vote of 93 - 2. He has also offered additional amendments regarding tribal contributions to campaigns, spousal lobbying, campaign and political action committee payments to family members and lobbyist disclosures to the ethics and lobby reform legislation.
 
 