PROVIDING SERVICES FOR LOUISIANA RESIDENTS
  As your Senator, in addition to writing legislation and voting on bills, my most important responsibility is to serve you. One of these duties is helping Louisiana residents when you have problems with a federal government agency. Getting in touch with the right person at an agency can be frustrating and time consuming. And that's why I have seven offices in Louisiana and one in Washington, D.C. - to be accessible to people throughout the state. My seven state offices are in Alexandria, Baton Rouge, Lafayette, Lake Charles, Metairie, Monroe and Shreveport. 
   If you're having a problem with or need assistance from a federal agency, such as Veteran's Affairs, Social Security, the Internal Revenue Service or the Corps of Engineers, you can meet me or with a member of my staff in one of my state offices to discuss the details and learn your options for resolving your problem. While I cannot petition a federal agency to decide a matter in your favor, I can ensure that you are treated fairly. 
   In addition to having offices across the state, I also host town hall meetings in each parish in the state. These meetings are open to the public and offer citizens the opportunity to share with me their views on current issues. These meetings are extremely valuable to my work in the Senate, and I enjoy hearing your thoughts on improving health care, growing good jobs in Louisiana, protecting Social Security, lowering prescription drug costs and other crucial issues impacting families in Louisiana. 
   In the U.S. Senate, I have committed to hold a town hall meeting in all 64 parishes every Congress. In March, I will hold town hall meetings in Claiborne, Jackson, Natchitoches, Red River and Vernon parishes. When I was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, I held numerous town hall meetings and forums, which I found was one of the best ways to learn about the top issues impacting Louisiana. 
   I realize that not everyone with a problem with a federal agency can travel to one of my state offices or wait for a town hall meeting in your area. And so I have satellite office hours in every parish to make it easier for residents to find help in dealing with the federal government. To find out when satellite office hours will be in your parish, please call my state office nearest you.
   Attending a U.S. Military Service Academy is an honor that is offered to only a few outstanding students. As a Senator, I can nominate students to one of the following academies: U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, N.Y.; U.S. Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.; and U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London, Conn., does not require a nomination.
   Students may first apply for a congressional nomination in their junior year of high school. To help students prepare and make an informed decision about a possible military education, I am hosting an "Academy Day" in Tangipahoa Parish in April to give students and families a chance to meet with me and representatives from each of the five academies.
   When the Senate is in session, I open up my Washington, D.C., office on Wednesday mornings to Louisianians visiting our nation's capital for a constituent coffee. I invite you to join me for coffee and friendly conversation at this casual get together the next time you're in Washington. My Washington office can also provide helpful information and resources as you plan your stay in our nation's capital, and we reserve tours for your family to see some of the sites around the city.
   Whether you're in the state or coming to Washington, I strive to provide you with excellent service. I appreciate the opportunity to serve you, and I look forward to meeting many of you in Washington, D.C., or in your hometown as I travel across Louisiana. 
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 