SEN. VITTER PROVISION INCLUDES PROTECTION FOR FUTURE PRESCRIPTION DRUG IMPORTS
  Sen. David Vitter announced that the final conference report to the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill included his provision that would block the U.S. Trade Representative from including provisions in future trade agreements to make it more difficult to import prescription drugs. 
   "This is a big win in our continuing battle to lower prescription drug costs for all Americans. By removing this obstruction created by the pharmaceutical companies and their army of lobbyists, we are one step closer to greater access to safe and cheaper prescription drugs," Vitter said.
   The past three U.S. trade agreements with Australia, Singapore and Morocco included language that would bar Americans from purchasing medications from those countries, even if the United States legalizes prescription drug reimportation. This legislation would prevent future trade agreements from including such provisions and allows Congress, not the U.S. Trade Representative, to determine whether reimportation can occur.
   "This legislation ensures that Congress can pass a law to allow the importation of patented U.S. prescription drugs without violating current and future trade agreements," said Vitter. "And it keeps future trade agreements free of patent-related provisions, which limit consumer access to cheaper prescription drugs."
   On July 28, 2005, Vitter introduced a stand-alone bill, "Protecting Free Trade in Pharmaceuticals Act of 2005," which is closely resembled in this final conference report. 
    "I voted for and pushed for drug reimportation in the U.S. House of Representatives, and I am pleased that my Senate colleagues understand why this provision is going to help lower the cost of prescription drugs, which is so important to helping seniors in Louisiana and around the nation," said Vitter.
   The U.S. House of Representatives has already passed the final conference report. The U.S. Senate is expected to approve the final conference report today, and then it will be sent to the president for his signature.
 
 