SEN. VITTER PUSHES FOR MORGANZA TO MOVE AHEAD DURING CORPS BUDGET HEARING
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today again pushed the Army Corps of Engineers to take action on the Morganza to the Gulf Project authorized in the 2007 Water Resources Development Act. Despite already significant delays, the Corps is proposing a re-evaluation of the project, which threatens to delay Morganza to the Gulf even further. 
   "WRDA was a great victory for the state of Louisiana," said Vitter. "Despite the passage of this legislation, and the subsequent authorization of the important projects it contains, the Corps has delayed further action on Morganza, which is vital for hurricane protection and will play a pivotal role in restoring local wetlands."
   The Corps contends that the authorization level for the project is too low and has called for further reevaluation and study. Vitter questioned Lieutenant General Robert Van Antwerp, Chief of Engineers with the Corps, about this disparity during today's U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing.
   "If the Corps was aware that the authorization for this project was too low, why did they not provide that information to Congress before the passage of the bill?" Vitter said. "The WRDA bill, already seven years in the making, was even further delayed by President Bush's veto, and Congress' subsequent overturn of that action. I am very curious to know why the Corps did not choose to communicate this discrepancy to Congress during any of that time."
   Vitter also inquired as to when the Corps determined that the cost of the Morganza project would exceed the authorization level in WRDA, and asked that the Corps move forward with portions of the project while they refined their feasibility studies, instead of holding up the entire project.
   "It's important that we understand why Morganza continues to be delayed. The Corps has saddled this worthy project with extraordinary delay, and it is time for them to step up and explain themselves. We need to move forward on the Morganza to the Gulf project and improve protection for the residents of Terrebonne and Lafourche."
   Vitter served as a Senate conferee on the final version of the 2007 WRDA bill.
 
 