SEN. VITTER OFFERS AMENDMENTS TO WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT BILL
  Sen. David Vitter this week offered several amendments to the U.S. Senate's Water Resources Development Act. Among Sen. David Vitter's amendments were provisions regarding the valuation of property after Hurricane Katrina, the closure of MRGO and the continuation of the state's coastal restoration efforts.
   "This WRDA bill addresses a number of priorities for Louisiana, but there are some areas where the bill needs to be refined to recognize the current state of our hurricane, coastal and flood protection systems in Louisiana, "Vitter said. "My amendments address some of these voids and also take proactive steps to help ensure that we are prepared for future events."  
   Vitter's property valuation amendment ensures that the Corps of Engineers can pay pre-Katrina fair market values when acquiring property. 
   "The flooding from Hurricane Katrina destroyed thousands of homes causing property values to decrease significantly," said Vitter. "Home owners should not have to shoulder the cost of devalued property in addition to other recovery challenges." 
   Vitter also filed an amendment that calls for an integration working group as part of a coastal, hurricane and flood protection task force. 
   "This integration team comprised of independent experts and experts from Louisiana are a key part of the process to ensure that Corps projects are being integrated and implemented in a cost-effective manner," said Vitter. "A number of credible organizations have performed thorough investigations on the causes of levee and floodwall failures in Louisiana, and it is vital that their recommendations be integrated into all future work. My amendment will ensure that happens." 
   Another Vitter amendment would accelerate the closure and restoration of MRGO. 
   "The bill makes important strides in closing the MRGO, but some of its provisions could actually prevent closure," said Vitter. "My amendment makes it clear that the MRGO is to be closed and that the Corps is to restore the ecosystem and prevent storm surge from reaching our homes. The MRGO is going to be closed - period. This amendment stops the games and finally closes this hurricane highway." 
   Vitter included a provision in the emergency appropriations bill last summer that directed the Corps to develop a closure plan for MRGO. Vitter's amendment directs the Corps of Engineers to implement this closure and include restoration of the MRGO ecosystem and the prevention of storm surge through the MRGO as part of the comprehensive plan. 
   Another critical issue addressed by Vitter's amendments is the need to provide a higher level of hurricane and flood protection. Vitter authored a provision in 2005 that resulted in a $20 million analysis and design for up to Category 5 hurricane protection for all of south Louisiana. Vitter's amendment would provide an expedited process to construct these improved protection measures, up to Category 5, for our state. 
   "Without recognition that Louisiana needs a higher level of hurricane protection, this bill has a huge void. My amendment allows for an expedited process to authorize up to Category 5 protection for our state so that we're not subject to more Corps bureaucracy," added Vitter.
   Vitter also offered a coastal protection amendment. 
   "The current manager's amendment does not clearly address all of our critical coastal restoration projects in Louisiana. The amendment will allow the Corps to carry out 10 additional coastal restoration projects totaling nearly $1 billion. Much changed as a result of the hurricanes. The Corps needs more flexibility to complete this important work, and my amendment provides that discretion," Vitter said. 
   Other Vitter amendments filed to the WRDA bill address improvements to the Houma Navigation Canal, reimbursement to the South Lafourche Levee District for work on the Bayou Lafourche lock, navigation at the port of Morgan City and a tax credit for building approved hurricane protection projects.
 
 