SEN. VITTER BILL TO PERMIT LOCAL GOVERNMENT ACCESS TO FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY DATABASES
  Sen. David Vitter introduced new legislation today that would allow Federal Emergency Management Agency to aid state attorneys general and state and local law enforcement in locating convicted sex offenders following a major disaster. 
   "With thousands of evacuees from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita scattered all over the state, FEMA databases could have helped Louisiana officials find and register the 354 sex offenders who failed to update their registration," said Vitter. "But because of privacy statutes, many convicted sex offenders can sneak into communities undetected and in violation of sex offender registration and notification statutes." 
   "I appreciate Caddo Parish Sheriff Steve Prator for calling to my attention his difficulty in obtaining information from FEMA on those evacuees living in the parish after the hurricane. My bill would help resolve this public safety issue," Vitter added.
   Vitter's bill would amend the Privacy Act to allow FEMA and federally-funded relief organizations to cooperate with state law enforcement and ensure full compliance with state and federal sex offender notification and registration laws. This legislation will help state and local officials to ensure that sex offenders do not slip through the cracks.
   An estimated 354 registered sex offenders failed to update their registrations after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Louisiana law requires any person convicted of committing or attempting to commit a sex offense or criminal offense against a minor to register with the state for at least 10 years. Registered sex offenders must notify the state's registry of any change of address within 10 days or be fined up to $1,000, face from one to five years imprisonment or both.
   "We owe it to our children - and to communities around the Gulf Coast that welcomed many evacuees into their neighborhoods - to make sure sex offenders cannot benefit from the chaos that follows a disaster of the magnitude of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita," Vitter said. "This bill would allow for faster apprehension of sex offenders who relocate without registering after future disasters."
   The bill will be referred to the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. Companion legislation is also in the U.S. House of Representatives, introduced by U.S. Rep. Ted Poe.
 
 