SEN. VITTER DELIVERS REMARKS TO SENATE COMMITTEE
  Sen. David Vitter today gave an opening statement at the Senate Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Disaster Prevention and Prediction hearing on the prediction of Hurricane Katrina and the work of the National Hurricane Center. The hearing was chaired by Sen. Jim DeMint of South Carolina. 
   The witnesses at the hearing were: Dr. Max Mayfield, director, National Hurricane Center; Windell Curole, general manager, South Lafourche Levee District; Dr. Marc L. Levitan, director, Louisiana State University Hurricane Center; Dr. Keith G. Blackwell, associate professor of meteorology, Coastal Weather Center, University of South Alabama; and C. Patrick Roberts, president, Florida Association of Broadcasters. 
   Following is the text of Vitter's statement as submitted for the record:
   "Mr. Chairman, at your June 26th hearing on hurricane prediction, I gave an opening statement describing a 'worst case scenario' - the hypothetical situation of a major hurricane having a direct hit on the parishes of St. Bernard and Plaquemines and on the city of New Orleans. 
   "We used posters showing the National Weather Service's predictions of inundation in these areas. Computer models showed up to 18 feet of water in the city of New Orleans. 
   "At that hearing I expressed my frustrations with the policy at every level of government being reactive to disasters instead of being proactive to prepare and prevent these disasters from ever occurring. My exact quote was 'we can spend millions now preparing for a disaster, or we can spend billions later responding to a disaster.' 
   "Finally, I said, 'it is not if we are hit by a hurricane, but when the disaster occurs.' 
   "Mr. Chairman, we know the 'when' - it was August 29th - two months to the day following your hearing. Both hell and high water came to Louisiana and Mississippi. Now we are spending the billions responding. 
   "This did not have to happen. It did not have to be this way. Hundreds (or thousands) did not have to lose their lives. Unlike the tragedy of September 11th or the tsunami last year in the Indian Ocean, there was no element of surprise. We knew what was going to happen, and we knew when it was going to happen. 
   "There has been an extraordinary amount of finger pointing and partisanship in the aftermath of Katrina. In all of this political posturing, some very bright lights have been ignored.
   "Due to the great work of Director Max Mayfield and his team at the National Hurricane Center, we knew exactly where Hurricane Katrina was going to make landfall 56 hours before the storm came ashore. That is enough time to drive from New Orleans to New York - twice - with a good night's sleep both times. Director Mayfield, as you know, hundreds of thousands of Louisianans did load up their families and evacuate. Thank you to you and your team for your hard work.
   "Another bright light back here today is Marc Levitan of the Louisiana State University Hurricane Center. Marc's team provided data predicting that the levees on Lake Pontchartrain would be topped a full 36 hours in advance of the storm. New Orleans is a bowl. A topped levee means widespread flooding.
   "Another witness here today, Windell Curole, has been expressing his concerns of Louisiana's hurricane preparedness for years. Windell brought this to our attention and helped Congress design the ongoing hurricane protection evaluation currently underway by the Corps of Engineers. 
   "Again, it did not have to happen this way.
   "Now we are moving toward the recovery and rebuilding phase of this disaster. Some estimates have exceeded $300 billion dollars, and a few Members of Congress have expressed reservations with the restoration price tag. For those that view this as a parochial issue or an unjustified need, let me assure you otherwise.
   "Every single one of your constituents have felt the pain of Hurricane Katrina through higher energy prices. Gasoline prices alone have escalated 90 cents a gallon in some areas due to the hurricane. Offshore Louisiana and our associated infrastructure provide 20 percent of this nation's energy. Our waters have provided this country with nearly $140 billion for the U.S. Treasury in the form of energy royalties. Our state also has 16 percent of the nation's refining capacity. 
   "The ports between Baton Rouge and New Orleans comprise the largest port system in the world. We provide 36 states with maritime commerce and mid-western farmers depend upon our ports and waterways to get their crops to market. 
   "Finally, Louisiana's offshore industry provides up to 30 percent of the domestic seafood consumed in this country - shrimp, crawfish, oysters and many more. Much of our ecosystem and fishing fleet is destroyed."
 
 