BRINGING COMMON SENSE TO THE U.S. CONGRESS
  In Louisiana we've learned many important lessons because of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The federal government should be a good steward of taxpayer dollars, but it still has a long way to go before common sense prevails in its response to disaster recovery. There is enormous waste and inefficiency on the federal level - and unfortunately, that money still gets counted against Louisiana.
   Based on the lessons we've learned, I recently introduced several bills that address some of the problems Louisiana has faced in our recovery to make the federal government more efficient in disaster response with a healthy dose of common sense. 
   Like many FEMA programs, its housing assistance program has been plagued with waste and inefficiency. To help remedy this problem, I introduced a common-sense bill that would allow residents displaced by hurricanes and other natural disasters to receive manufactured modular housing instead of FEMA travel trailers. 
   More than 100,000 people in Louisiana are living in 37,000 FEMA travel trailers that cost $70,000 each, and these travel trailers do not provide the most basic protection from high winds or severe thunderstorms, much less tornadoes or hurricanes. Spending $70,000 on temporary housing is wasteful when there are cheaper and better alternatives.
   Instead, FEMA could be using manufactured modular housing, which is much sturdier and a less expensive option for our taxpayers. For example, some Katrina cottages could cost as little as $35,000, or half the cost of the travel trailers that FEMA currently uses.
   Another common sense bill I introduced would reduce government waste associated with debris removal and demolition contracts awarded by FEMA during the recovery of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
   We can make the contract process more efficient by eliminating unnecessary layers of contractors. By hiring one corporation as a project manager, the work will get done more efficiently and save money. In addition, this bill will help increase the number of local businesses getting contracts by requiring the prime contractor to hire local subcontractors, except when local subcontractors are unavailable to perform the work. 
   However, federal dollars are not the only thing to fall victim to inefficiency. Our local law enforcement had difficulty obtaining information from FEMA on evacuees living in the parish after the hurricane. With thousands of evacuees from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita scattered all over the state, FEMA databases could have helped Louisiana officials find and register the 354 sex offenders who failed to update their registration. But because of privacy statutes, many convicted sex offenders can sneak into communities undetected and in violation of sex offender registration and notification statutes. 
   Recently, I introduced legislation to remedy this situation. My bill would allow FEMA to aid state attorneys general and state and local law enforcement in locating convicted sex offenders following a major disaster for faster and more efficient apprehension of sex offenders who relocate without registering after a disaster. 
   We owe it to our children - and to communities around the Gulf Coast that welcomed many evacuees into their neighborhoods - to make sure sex offenders cannot benefit from the chaos that follows a disaster of the magnitude of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
   The legislation I've introduced would bring some common sense and efficiency to the way the government responds to a disaster. I am interested in hearing your thoughts on how to inject more common sense into the federal government. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 