COASTAL RESTORATION AUTHORIZATION PASSES SENATE COMMITTEE
  Sen. David Vitter called committee passage of a $1.9 billion restoration framework for Louisiana's coast included in the Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA) of 2005 "a major breakthrough." The entire WRDA bill passed out of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee today. 
   "This legislation is a major breakthrough toward ensuring the future of our unique way of life in coastal Louisiana," said Vitter, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and an original cosponsor of the bill. "It is critical for this authorization to be included in WRDA so that Congress can aggressively appropriate federal funds to restore Louisiana's coast."
   Last year the Senate's attempt to pass WRDA included an authorization of $375 million for Louisiana coastal restoration. This year's WRDA includes a $1.9 billion framework with a long-term program established to restore the entire coast. Much of the detailed language was modeled on one of five bills in Vitter's COAST package, specifically "The Comprehensive Ecosystem And Security Enhancement Act," S. 721. 
   During the Committee meeting, U.S. Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.), EPW Chairman added, "I also want to recognize the leadership of Senator Vitter. This bill takes tremendous steps in dealing with Coastal Erosion in Louisiana - and that is in large measure due to the work and persistence of Senator Vitter. He told me from day one that this issue is his top priority and I believe that this Committee has responded to his efforts. And we will continue to do so." 
   Vitter added, "Coastal erosion is not a Democrat or Republican issue. It's a Louisiana issue. I look forward to continuing to work closely with Governor Blanco, Senator Landrieu, and all of our Louisiana congressmen to get this job done, and I thank them for all of their past and continuing efforts."
   Other important Louisiana projects in WRDA include: $800 million for the Morganza to the Gulf hurricane protection project in Lafourche and Terrebonne; $194 million channel for deeper water access to the Port of Iberia; $178 million for a flood damage reduction project in the Baton Rouge area; and authorization for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to acquire additional lands for restoration in the Red River Waterway.
 
 