SEN. VITTER ARGUES AGAINST PROPOSED BUDGET FUNDING FOR LOST
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today questioned U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice at a U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Hearing about aspects of the president's proposed State Department budget. Vitter specifically asked about the budget's allotment of $5 million for the Law of the Sea Treaty when the treaty has yet to be ratified. 
   "The U.S. Senate has not voted on LOST and therefore has never recognized that its entities are acceptable," said Vitter. "The United States is under no obligation to fund LOST. Even more, it is inappropriate to send taxpayer dollars to a new bureaucratic international organization that has not been endorsed by the U.S. Senate."
   The President's budget request includes approximately $5 million for LOST and LOST-created entities; despite the fact that the Senate has not ratified the treaty and the United States is neither a party to the treaty nor a participant in any of the organizations established by it.
   "I, as well as other senators and concerned citizens, have voiced opposition to the Law of the Sea Treaty because of the potentially disastrous ramifications it holds for American sovereignty and security. But there is no doubt that the administration and like-minded members in the Senate want to push forward with the Law of the Sea Treaty," added Vitter. "Without waiting for the U.S. Senate's constitutional right to formally ratify any such treaty, this year's proposed budget funds two of LOST's entities, the International Seabed Authority and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea."
   Vitter also highlighted the fact that neither of these entities has been previously funded.
   "LOST places the interpretation and application of the treaty's terms, such as 'military activities,' in the hands of international courts and tribunals," Vitter said. "This 'lawfare' holds grave repercussions for our rights as a country and provides the United Nations with simply too much authority over American interests and concerns."
   Vitter has been a vocal opponent of the treaty in the U.S. Senate and has raised multiple concerns about the treaty's sovereignty and international law ramifications. In previous Foreign Relations Committee meetings he has called for more hearings and testimony on the ramifications of the treaty. Vitter also called on other U.S. Senate Committees affected by the ramification of the treaty, like the Environment and Public Works Committee, to hold additional hearings to ensure that the full Senate is aware of all implications of the treaty's full ratification.
 
 