SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES $15 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR FORT POLK IN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. David Vitter announced that the U.S. Senate Veterans Administration Military Construction Appropriations Bill, which passed the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee today, included $15.9 million for Fort Polk.  
   "Fort Polk is home to thousands of soldiers who are working to defend freedom around the world," said Vitter. "These projects will improve the quality of life at Fort Polk and will provide additional resources to assist our troops." 
   $9.8 million of the total $15.9 million appropriated will go toward the construction of a new headquarters for the Fourth Brigade/10th Mountain Division at Fort Polk. This unit was activated in January 2005, and since that time the brigade combat team has operated out of a 30-year-old facility. As part of the brigade's transformation to a Brigade Combat Team of Action, a new state-of-the-art headquarters facility is essential to support the brigade's enhanced mission capabilities.
   "We need to provide a permanent home for the Fourth Brigade/10th Mountain District," said Vitter. "This federal money will strengthen Fort Polk's standing as an asset to our military."
   The remaining $6.1 million will go toward the construction of a child care facility to serve children ages 6-12 at Fort Polk. The availability of high-quality, affordable child care can have a significant economic impact on Army families by allowing Army spouses the ability to contribute to the household income. 
   "Child care is an important quality of life issue for many military families," said Vitter. "Support for military families, like affordable child care, is essential to the recruitment and retention of high-quality personnel."
   The Senate Veterans Administration-Military Construction Appropriations Bill will now wait for a full debate on the U.S. Senate floor.
   "I will continue to work with U.S. Rep. Jim McCrery to ensure that this funding for Fort Polk gets passed this year," Vitter said.
 
 