PROTECTING THE SECOND AMENDMENT FROM THE U.N.
  Believe it or not, there are international organizations that seek to pursue gun control measures that could infringe upon our constitutional right to keep and bear arms here in the United States. One well-known recipient of our federal tax dollars is the United Nations, which has a long history of seeking massive and intrusive anti-gun control polices. 
   Recently the U.S. Senate debated the U.S. Senate Foreign Operations Appropriations bill. This legislation provides federal funds to many of our international agencies and foreign programs overseas.
   During debate on this bill I offered an amendment to address growing concerns about those who are pushing for recognition of international laws and policies over our own American laws or even our Constitution. There is a concerted and organized effort among international governments and some sympathetic Americans to change or override American laws that they disagree with by forfeiting some or all of our constitutional rights over to foreign bodies. Their prime target is our right to bear arms.
   A strong majority of other senators share these concerns and voted to attach my amendment to the Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill that would prevent our taxpayer funding from going to foreign organizations, such as the United Nations, that pursue policies that would infringe on our Second Amendment rights.
   It is no secret that a sizable contingent of the international community wants to impose gun control measures on all nations, including the United States. As long as any international organization, such as the U.N., takes our federal dollars it should respect the founding principles of our Constitution.
   The U.N. General Assembly has been pursuing the issue of international gun control since 1995 and adopted a Program of Action designed to increase worldwide gun control measures in 2001. In addition, the U.N. has coordinated with the International Action Network on Small Arms to fully integrate their gun control initiative. IANSA is a well known advocate organization for greater gun control.
   As a member of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I will continue to ensure that foreign organizations, like the U.N., respect our laws and Constitution. And as ranking member of the Subcommittee for International Operations and Organizations, Democracy and Human Rights I have a chance to closely monitor our government's policies regarding the U.N. and these other international organizations.
   The U.S. Constitution is the law of the land in this country - period. International organizations should not try to impose their views and laws on Americans, especially when American taxpayers are providing them funding.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 