SEN. VITTER INTRODUCES NEW AVENUE FOR ROYALTY SHARING
  Sen. David Vitter made good on his promise to explore other avenues for royalty sharing by introducing new legislation today. Unlike previous offshore royalty measures, Sen. Vitter's legislation would be referred to the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, on which he serves. 
   "Louisiana cannot afford to keep running up against a brick wall time and time again. Time is not a luxury we can afford," said Vitter. "With this in mind, I am actively pursing a broad royalty-sharing bill for coastal states through the Senate Commerce Committee, since we have not had any luck moving this type of legislation through the Senate Energy Committee, despite Senator Landrieu's good work on that committee."
   Vitter's bill, the "Coastal Conservation and Habitat Restoration Act of 2006," would provide funding for Louisiana and 34 other coastal states and territories based on the amount of a state's offshore energy production and the length of its coastline. These funds would be used to implement Coastal Zone Management plans, to conserve coastal areas and reduce future losses and to restore fisheries and marine habitat in coastal ecosystems. 
   For the first 10 years, the funds available will come from excess revenue received from the federal government for spectrum auctions and offshore energy production. Afterward, the amount of money provided to states is equal to 50 percent of offshore energy revenues.
   "Louisiana and the other Gulf States have provided the infrastructure for oil and gas production, which supports the energy needs for the vast majority of the nation," said U.S. Sen. David Vitter. "This bill is a way that we can ensure that Gulf States are getting their fair share of the royalty revenues, which are critical for Louisiana to use for hurricane protection and coastal restoration."
   Vitter's bill will be referred to the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, one of the committees on which he serves. The bill is cosponsored by U.S. Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi.
 
 