SEN. VITTER APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF SECURITY AND FREEDOM ENSURED PORT ACT
  Sen. David Vitter today applauded the passage of the Security and Accountability for Every (SAFE) Port Act. Vitter secured passage of three amendments to the bill important to improving maritime security. 
   "This bill makes great strides toward better securing our ports. Louisiana ports are some of the largest and most active in the country," said Vitter. "In debating this legislation, I made sure that the issues important to Louisiana were addressed including port security grant eligibility, protection of offshore oil infrastructure and maritime worker security cards."
   Vitter's grant eligibility amendment adds a category for energy to the list of requirements that the secretary of DHS should consider a priority when awarding security grants. Louisiana's Port Fourchon, the Port of Plaquemines and many of Louisiana's fabrication facilities service offshore oil platforms within U.S. waters and play a critical role in our national energy security policy but have been ineligible for port security grants. Vitter's amendment will ensure that Louisiana's energy-related ports are able to compete for security funds and protect Louisiana's vital contribution to our national energy policy and this important economic engine for our state.
   The offshore infrastructure amendment requires DHS to expedite completion of rules requiring foreign vessels to report their presence on the outer Continental Shelf similar to reports required of domestic vessels. With the oil and gas activity in the outer Continental Shelf, the presence of unreported foreign vessels poses a serious gap in national security - this amendment addresses the gap. 
   Vitter's security card amendment requires DHS to create a quick check system - including referencing the terrorist watch lists - to allow new workers to be approved on an interim basis quickly while helping ensure that they do not pose a security risk. The bill requires that DHS finish the regulations for security cards by January 1, 2007.
   "Louisiana's ports are critical to both our national energy security and the economy," added Vitter. "This bill, with my amendments, helps ensure that our ports are properly protected."
   The SAFE Ports Act now goes to a House-Senate conference committee.
 
 