VITTER'S VIEW: CELEBRATING NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH
  November is National Adoption Month, and Saturday, November 17th marked the observance of the eighth annual National Adoption Day. During this time we recognize the giving spirit of those who have opened their hearts and homes to a child in need and work to raise awareness about adoptions and the adoption process. 
  Since its inception in 2000, more than 17,000 children have been placed in permanent homes as a result of activities relating to National Adoption Day, and each year volunteers from the ranks of foster care professionals, child advocates, judges and attorneys come together to help finalize thousands of adoptions throughout the country. 
   National Adoption Day activities are organized and coordinated in partnership between the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute, the Alliance for Children's Rights, Children's Action Network, Casey Family Services, Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption and the Freddie Mac Foundation. Every year these organizations come together and provide resources and guidance to help promote adoptions in cities throughout America. During last year's celebration, more than 300 events took place in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and more than 3,300 foster children were adopted into loving families.
   Today, more than 100,000 children who have been placed in foster care as a result of abuse, neglect or abandonment currently await adoption, and each of them needs a loving home. Through no fault of their own, many of these children may never be adopted and will remain in foster care until they are forced to leave on their own at age 18.
   The families who welcome these children into their homes help give them a brighter and happier future. This week the U.S. Senate passed a resolution expressing support for National Adoption Day and National Adoption Month to promote awareness of the adoption process and celebrate adopted children and their adoptive families. This National Adoption Day I join all Louisianans in honoring the generous spirit of adoptive families. Giving a child a loving home truly epitomizes the very best that we as Americans have to offer.
   If you are interested in learning more about National Adoption Day or the adoption process, please visit www.nationaladoptionday.org for more information. Please contact me on this or any other federal matter at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 