FIGHTING FOR LOUISIANA'S INTERESTS
  From the time I first came to the U.S. Congress in 1999 to my now second year in the U.S. Senate, I have been fighting to get our fair share of federal funds for Louisiana. I have consistently supported a fiscally responsible budget, but as your voice in Congress, I'm working to get Louisiana its fair share.
   One success we had last year was to increase Louisiana's share of transportation funds from 90.5 cents on the dollar up to 92 cents on the dollar. It is still not even - we need to go further to $1 - but it is a dramatic improvement. This increase will provide Louisiana with $2.9 billion in federal highway money over the next five years, funding that is critical to ensure that work continues on one of our state's major corridors, I-49, and other highway projects.  
   This month, the Pentagon put out a proposal to cut the number of B-52s from 94 to 56, which would affect Louisiana's Barksdale Air Force Base, in Bossier City, which is home to all but one squadron of the nation's B-52 fleet. Along with other members of the Louisiana Congressional Delegation, I was able to get the full funding included in the Senate budget for the maintenance and upgrade of all 94 B-52 bombers. It's a matter of national security to have these long-range strike bombers available to our military, as they are the only efficient long-range bomber in the Air Force's arsenal.
   Many of our state's ongoing challenges are related to the devastation wrought on our state by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. And I am continuing to work with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to get help for communities around Louisiana that are still dealing with reimbursement needs from taking in evacuees displaced by these hurricanes. 
   But while our recovery is a slow process likened to a marathon, rather than a sprint, we are having some successes at getting federal resources directed to Louisiana. Most recently, the Senate accepted some amendments that I offered to secure critical funding in the federal budget for coastal restoration, hurricane protection and small business issues in the Senate's final budget package.
   This is great news for Louisiana. These amendments will divert a greater share of future federal revenue to help meet our coastal needs, provide another avenue for levee protection and address key small business issues. In addition, they are done in a reasonable way to help meet Louisiana's needs, and are fiscally responsible and a part of the federal budget.
   The first amendment would create a reserve fund from excess federal revenue to help coastal states like Louisiana meet their needs. The excess revenue would come from three areas: future revenues from offshore energy production that aren't currently part of the federal budget; a significant portion of the federal share of Alaska National Wildlife Refuge energy production, upon future passage by the U.S. Congress; and a portion of digital television revenues that exceed the current projection for spectrum auctions. 
   The reserve fund created by this amendment prioritizes how future revenue will be spent. In this case, it will be used by coastal states for coastal conservation, mitigation and resource protection.
   This is a vital first step that can get us on the path to self-sufficiency, to taking care of these crucial needs without constantly having to ask Congress for direct federal appropriations. Rather than having to come back to Congress every two or three months for additional appropriations, it would be far better to have a stable revenue source that can help us meet these needs directly. This amendment helps to achieve that goal.
   I have also introduced a bill to provide funding for Louisiana and other coastal states based on the amount of a state's offshore energy production and the length of its coastline. This particular royalty sharing bill is unique because it will pass through the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, on which I serve, since we have not had any luck moving this type of legislation through the U.S. Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in the past. 
   Because Louisiana and the other Gulf States have provided the infrastructure for oil and gas production, which supports the energy needs for the vast majority of the nation, this bill would give Louisiana our fair share of the royalty revenue.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 