LOUISIANA NEEDS CONGRESS TO FINISH WHAT IT STARTED
  The 109th Congress is quickly coming to a close. Following this month's congressional elections, the 110th Congress will look very different from the current Congress. With these changes come new challenges - specifically for finishing this year's legislative work. I am working hard to complete two provisions very important to Louisiana's recovery agenda before the window of opportunity closes. 
   One bill that I am pushing for is the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) revenue sharing bill. This legislation would provide Louisiana with its fair share of the profits made from oil and gas activity in the Gulf of Mexico and create more domestic oil and gas, lessening our dependence on foreign sources of energy. 
   Both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate passed their own version of this legislation, but so far a compromise between the two versions has not been reached. I fear that this bill will not be a legislative priority for next year's Congress, considering the House Democratic Leadership - including liberal Speaker of the House-elect Nancy Pelosi - voted against final passage of the House bill. But I have had very productive meetings with colleagues in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives about passing this legislation and I am optimistic we will take concrete action on this issue before the end of the year to keep Louisiana's recovery moving forward.
   Similarly, a considerable amount of work has gone into the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). This congress, I had the unique opportunity to serve as a U.S. Senate conferee for WRDA. This legislation addresses crucial Corps of Engineers reforms and other vital hurricane, flood and coastal protections for our state. Much of these improvements, such as increased levee protection for Terrebonne and Lafourche parish, improved flood protection for East Baton Rouge and further development of the Red River Waterway in northwest Louisiana, could be difficult to redo next Congress because of the large coalition of varied individuals it required to get this current bill close to passage.
   As a U.S. Senate conferee, I advocated for these and other Louisiana needs. We have marched this bill to the five-yard line, but several of the current coalition members will no longer be in those influential positions next Congress. Our best opportunity to pass the WRDA bill and these important reforms for Louisiana may be this year, and I am continuing to negotiate and advocate for its passage before Congress leaves town.
   Members of Congress are given the privilege to serve their constituents and to work for what's best for the people of this country. Unfortunately, some members of Congress have chosen to either lick their wounds of defeat or pursue their own personal agendas instead of finishing the important work we started. This behavior is not productive and is not good government. I am working to remind Congress that we have a job to finish and a duty to the American people. 
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 