GEARING UP FOR A PRODUCTIVE YEAR
  Congress returns to work this month after a holiday recess, and I look forward to continuing to work this year on strengthening our state's economy, improving access to health care and promoting Louisiana's interests in the U.S. Senate.  
   Concerns over illegal immigration remain at the forefront of many Americans' minds, and it is important that Congress continues to work to combat this problem. Each year, hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants enter the United States and disappear into urban areas and rural communities, allowing them to live completely "under the radar." In recent months, I have sponsored several bills dealing with this issue including legislation that cracks down on banks that provide credit cards and bank accounts to illegal aliens. I also worked with Parish President Joey Durel of Lafayette to stop the Mexican government from granting ID cards to illegal aliens in Acadiana. This year I will push for further enforcement reform to more effectively address our illegal immigration problem.
   Access to affordable, quality health care also continues as a critical priority for our state. Quality hospitals, physicians and affordable insurance plans are essential to ensure the wellbeing of families across Louisiana. And I am working to promote better health care by pushing for major reforms that focus on the patient and put medical decisions in the hands of you and your physician, not bureaucracies, insurance companies or worse - the federal government.
   As concerns about the economy build, protecting Louisiana jobs and encouraging growth in industry are also vital priorities this year. I was recently named ranking member of the Subcommittee on Space, Aeronautics and Related Sciences, which provides our state a unique and advantageous position to build on our relationship with NASA. 
   NASA has a significant presence in Louisiana, and thousands of Louisianans are employed at its facilities at the Michoud Assembly Facilty and the Stennis Space Center. I look forward to working on this subcommittee on the issues that are important to Louisiana industry and to our continued presence at the forefront of space and aeronautical sciences. 
   Of course, continuing to support our troops in Iraq and to promote our hurricane and coastal recovery will also remain at the forefront of our work this year. And I will also continue my work to break the old New Orleans public housing system's cycle of poverty by promoting new tenant-based housing policies. I am excited to continue this and all of our important work on behalf of Louisiana families.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 