SEN. VITTER SECURES FEDERAL COMMITTMENT FOR HURRICANE PROTECTION
  Sen. David Vitter announced that he has reached an agreement with the Bush Administration for the federal government to pay for repairing and rebuilding damaged levees and protection infrastructure without requiring a state or local match.  
   "Our towns, cities, levee boards and state will not have to pay to restore hurricane protection in southeast Louisiana. Requiring state and local governments to pay a portion of these costs would hold up the restoration of our hurricane and flood protection systems," said Vitter. "This agreement will allow the communities of southeast Louisiana to focus their funds and attention on other priority recovery efforts."
   Vitter met with top White House officials including Office of Management & Budget Director (OMB) Joshua Bolton to address these critical issues. Yesterday afternoon Vitter secured a commitment from the Bush Administration to repair and rebuild damaged levees and protection infrastructure at full federal expense. 
   "After many discussions with officials in the White House and the OMB about the urgency of repairing and rebuilding our levee system in southeast Louisiana, I was very pleased and relieved to receive a commitment from the federal government to eliminate the cost share that our state and local governments cannot afford," Vitter said.
   Virtually all of the levee systems in southeast Louisiana are still under construction. The Lake Pontchartrain and Vicinity, Westbank, New Orleans to Venice, Southeast Louisiana and other flood and hurricane protection systems have uncompleted components and would normally require a non-federal cost share to restore the infrastructure.
   Under current law, repairs and restoration work performed on levees damaged due to hurricanes or other disasters require state and local governments to pay 20 to 35 percent of the costs if the projects are still under construction. Because the state and local governments are unable to meet these financial obligations, 15 construction contracts to implement repairs and reconstruction of these hurricane protection levees have been stalled, leaving Orleans, Jefferson, St. Charles, Plaquemines, St. Bernard and areas of the Northshore vulnerable to further flooding damage. 
   In addition, Vitter reaffirmed his commitment to provide a greater level of hurricane protection in Louisiana. 
   "There is one thing that is certain; I am not going to let the Corps build back our levees the same as before," Vitter said. "First, we are going to build a smarter, better protection system, and then we are going to continue to move forward with an even greater level of hurricane, flood and coastal protection for Louisiana. Our citizens deserve to have full confidence in our protection systems, and I'll keep working to ensure it happens."
 
 