SEN. VITTER QUESTIONS TIMING OF D.C. VOTING RIGHTS BILL BEFORE WRDA
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today spoke on the U.S. Senate floor calling again for the U.S. Senate to schedule time to vote on the final passage of the Water Resources Development Act Conference Report. Vitter specifically questioned the timing of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's decision to consider the D.C. Voting Rights Bill before WRDA. 
   "I again call upon my colleagues and Majority Leader Harry Reid to quickly schedule time to consider the water resources conference report. I am particularly disappointed this week because we are moving forward on the D.C. Voting Rights Bill instead of the WRDA Conference Report," Vitter said. "I strongly disagree with the Democratic leadership's decision to put the D.C. Voting Rights Bill ahead of a piece of legislation that affects life and death concerns like the flood, hurricane and coastal protections for Louisiana in the WRDA Conference Report."
   Vitter said that WRDA has a more urgent timeline than other issues like D.C. voting rights and needs priority consideration in the U.S. Senate.
   "The entire country, including the national media just recently paused for a moment to commemorate the second anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, and in a short time we will take some time to commemorate the anniversary of another one of the largest hurricanes in recent history, Hurricane Rita. But in the midst of the 2007 hurricane season - at the peak of that season - the WRDA Conference Report has been trumped by political scheduling for other measures like the D.C. Voting Rights Bill," said Vitter.
   Vitter previously wrote a letter to Majority Leader Harry Reid on Sept. 6 requesting the U.S. Senate consider and pass the WRDA Conference Report before the end of September.
   "The country and this body have shown great compassion and provided great assistance to our recovery efforts, but passing this water resources conference report is vital to continuing that recovery work. I again urge my colleagues to renew their commitment to our recovery and to quickly consider and pass this water resources conference report," added Vitter.
   Vitter is a member of the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which drafted the legislation, and represented Louisiana as a Senate negotiator in the House-Senate legislative conference.
 
 