CLEANING UP WASHINGTON
  Vitter's View: Cleaning Up Washington 
   This week the U.S. Senate passed its ethics and lobbying reform legislation. During the debate, I tried to promote some real reform measures to clean up Washington, and I am pleased to report that we had some successes. 
   One of those successes was my amendment to stop spouses of members of the Senate from lobbying any other U.S. Senator. If a senator's spouse is hired as a lobbyist, special interest groups have the opportunity to place large amounts of money directly into that senator's family bank account. A senator who uses his office to increase his income is a fundamental problem at the heart of this debate. This amendment puts an end to that loophole so it cannot be abused.
   I also secured another amendment that creates criminal penalties for federal officials who knowingly misreport information on their financial disclosure reports. If average American citizens falsify tax documents, they are in a heap of trouble with the IRS and the federal government. Federal officials shouldn't be treated any differently when they falsify their financial information, nor should their financial reporting be held to any different standard than the standard hard-working Americans are held to.
   Additionally, I secured an amendment that would increase the fines on lobbyists who violate the current lobbying disclosure laws. Current law states that lobbyists who do not comply with the requirements of the Lobbying Disclosure Act and fail to remedy the situation within 60 days are subject to a fine of no more than $50,000, depending on the severity of the violation. My amendment changes the maximum penalty limit from $50,000 to $200,000. Increasing these fines will make those who abuse the rules truly feel the impact of their actions rather than simply receiving a slap on the wrist. 
   Although I am pleased with the amendments that were passed, I am disappointed that some of my other amendments did not pass. One of those amendments deals with Indian tribes. Currently, Indian tribes can contribute to campaigns directly from the tribal treasury, which often includes money from gambling revenues. My provision would have closed that loophole and required those tribes to follow the same rules about financial disclosures as all other organizations that wish to impact elections, such as labor unions, trade associations and corporations.
   I will keep looking for ways to push this provision and other reforms. We need to hold people accountable for their actions. And if we are serious about changing Congress, then these amendments will hopefully be just the start of cleaning up the murky area of influence between special interests and federal officials. Adopting this provision would have shown the American people that Congress is serious about cleaning up its act. 
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on ethics and lobbying reform in Washington. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 