SEN. VITTER SECURES $841 MILLION FOR MORGANZA
  Sen. David Vitter today praised passage of Water Resources Development Act in the U.S. Senate. Included in this legislation is authorization for the Morganza to the Gulf hurricane protection program.  
   "Louisiana's hurricane, flood and coastal protection took a giant leap forward today with the passage of WRDA. As Louisiana's only member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, I was in a unique position to be able to secure authorization of more than $841.1 million for Morganza to the Gulf," said Vitter.
   "As chairman of the EPW Committee, I worked closely with Senator Vitter on the development of these provisions in WRDA that will go a long way to providing strong hurricane, flood and coastal protection for Louisiana. I want to thank Senator Vitter for bringing these ideas to my attention," said U.S. Senator James Inhoffe (Okla.), chairman of the Senate EPW Committee.
   WRDA provides for authorization of $841.1 million for the Morganza to the Gulf hurricane protection program for Terrebonne and Lafourche parishes. Of that, $546.3 million will be federal, while $295.8 million is non-federal. It directs that all operations and maintenance of the Houma Lock be funded at 100 percent federal cost and provides credit to the Terrebonne Levee and Conservation District for the portions of the Morganza project that they have performed to date.
   This authorization builds upon the $30 million Sen. Vitter provided in the recent Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill and approves construction of 72 miles of levees, 12 floodgates, 12 water control structures and the lock on the Houma Navigation Canal.
   "This is tremendous news for Terrebonne and Lafourche. After the damage and flooding caused by recent tropical storms and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, it was important to get this critical project federally authorized. Passage of WRDA will go a long way toward making the completion of Morganza to the Gulf a reality sooner rather than later," said Vitter.
   WRDA now goes to a House-Senate conference committee.
 
 