SEN. VITTER PUSHES FOR PASSPORT IMPROVEMENTS AT FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. David Vitter participated in the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on International Operations and Organizations, Democracy and Human Rights hearing on the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative and the national passport backlog. Sen. David Vitter is the ranking Republican member on the subcommittee. Maura Harty, assistant secretary for Consular Affairs at the U.S. Department of State testified before the committee. 
   "Our country is experiencing a huge passport processing backlog that is threatening our national security and causing major problems for Americans traveling abroad," said Vitter. "Our country is experiencing a huge passport processing backlog that is threatening our national security and causing major problems for Americans traveling abroad," said Vitter. "We shouldn't water down our national security requirements, but government should be competent and process this more efficiently so that we do not have this unbelievable log jam."
   The State Department recently delayed the regulation that requires passports for re-entry into the United States from Canada, South or Central America and the Caribbean because the backlog problem delayed so many American citizens waiting to receive their passports. 
   "I have had constituents apply for passports more than three months in advance for a church trip, but they still had to go to a FedEx depot to get their passports the day before leaving the country. I had another constituent who drove seven hours to the passport agency in New Orleans, only to wait in line for several more hours and then had to drive the seven hours home - all the day before her wedding - so that her honeymoon would not be cancelled. And those are the so-called success stories," Vitter said. "This situation is inexcusable, and something needs to be done now."
   The passport backlog is resulting in citizens having a very difficult time receiving their passport, even when they follow the three month waiting period rule. 
   "At a time when the Senate is debating a bill that would register, track and provide visas and IDs for 12 million illegal immigrants, I find it particularly disturbing that the department totally failed to process a one-time influx of passports, an event which it claimed to be prepared for," Vitter added.
 
 