SEN. VITTER'S CORPS COUNCIL IN WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT
  Sen. David Vitter today praised passage of the Water Resources Development Act in the U.S. Senate. Included in the legislation is Sen. David Vitter's effort to reform the Army Corps of Engineers through his Louisiana Water Resources Council.  
   "This legislation adopts my Louisiana Water Resources Council and provides an expedited approval process for our Corps projects. This will give us the certainty that we need to ensure that our hurricane, flood and coastal protection projects are done and done right," said Vitter.
   "As Chairman of the EPW Committee, I worked closely with Senator Vitter on the development of these provisions in WRDA that will go a long way to providing strong hurricane, flood and coastal protection for Louisiana. I want to thank Senator Vitter for bringing these ideas to my attention. The approval process (adoption by resolution) and the Louisiana Water Resources Council in the WRDA bill are comparable to that proposed in S.2421, a bill Senator Vitter introduced earlier this year," said U.S. Senator James Inhoffe (Okla.), Chairman of the Senate EPW Committee.
   The Senate-passed WRDA includes Vitter's Louisiana Water Resources Council as envisioned in S. 2421, which was introduced earlier in the year. 
   "This WRDA provision sets up a Louisiana Water Resources Council composed of four outside, independent experts in hurricane protection, coastal restoration, engineering and geology, as well as one representative of the Corps. Together, this five-person council will have active oversight and peer review authority over all Corps projects in South Louisiana," said Vitter.
   As the legislative language states, the council is designed to manage and oversee each aspect of implementation of a system-wide, comprehensive plan for projects of the Corps of Engineers that addresses hurricane protection, flood control, ecosystem restoration, storm surge damage reduction or navigation in the Hurricanes Katrina and Rita disaster areas in the state of Louisiana.
   The Council review of the Corps' projects will be integrated into the project development and implementation process so as to be performed concurrently with the ongoing process so as to remain an efficient "peer review" of the Corps of Engineers. In addition, it requires an annual, full financial disclosure of project status, costs and projected completion date.
   "The Corps failed Louisiana. They have repeatedly failed to meet self-imposed deadlines and goals. This common sense peer review through my Louisiana Water Resources Council is a big step toward fixing this problem," said Vitter.
   WRDA now goes to a House-Senate conference committee.
 
 