STRENGTHENING THE STATE OF OUR UNION
  The Constitution requires that the president "shall from time to time give to Congress information of the state of the union," and traditionally the president does so each year in January. This year marked the final State of the Union address for President Bush, and I was particularly pleased to hear him outline an active and involved agenda for his remaining year in office. The consensus among many Americans is that not much gets done in Washington - and especially in Congress - during an election year, but I want to help prove that wrong and will continue to press forward on priorities for Louisiana. 
   I know many Louisianans share the concerns the president expressed on the economy. To encourage positive economic growth and create new jobs we need to make the tax cuts permanent. I believe there is no greater elixir to address the health of our economy than providing small businesses and entrepreneurs with the capability to expand and grow jobs. Tax relief and fewer burdensome regulations free up more money for businesses to hire more workers and create jobs. The same government that runs the passport office should not be meddling in our economy; instead, it should create opportunities and freedom for businesses to make the decisions necessary to be successful and expand - as that benefits both the local economy and job seekers.
   And I agree with the president that we have a lot more work to do to get federal spending under control. In some instances, earmarks have been horribly abused, and that is why we needed the earmark reform we were able to pass last year - and why we need further tightening and reform.
    also believe that it is very important that we continue to pursue real reforms in health care this year to enable patients to seek the best care at the most affordable price. Health care should focus on the patient and put medical decisions in the hands of you and your physician. These important, and potentially life-altering, decisions should be made by you, not by bureaucrats, businesses or the federal government.
   I was also pleased to hear the president specifically mention Louisiana during his speech, and I was very excited about his announcement of an upcoming North American leaders' summit to be held in New Orleans. This event will serve as a reminder of our ongoing recovery efforts and a testament to how far we have come since the hurricanes. Recovery is still ongoing in many parts of our state, and throughout the Gulf region, and there is much work left to be done.
   The state of our union remains strong, and I am optimistic that both Louisiana, and our nation as a whole, will make important advances in these vital areas this year.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
  David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 