SUPPORTING NATIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE
  In February, the U.S. Navy fired an SM-3 missile fired from an Aegis-equipped cruiser, destroying a spy satellite that had malfunctioned soon after its launch last year and was poised to fall to Earth. The missile's impact broke the satellite into hundreds of small, harmless pieces and destroyed the vehicle's fuel tank, which contained harmful chemicals and fuel and threatened human lives. This event serves as a successful example of our nation's missile defense capabilities and highlights the effectiveness of a program that we need to promote. 
   Ronald Reagan was once mocked for his mission and drive to establish a national missile defense system. Termed "star wars" by the media, former president Reagan never backed down from the pressure and ridicule, and in many ways his position was vindicated by the success of this mission.
   Over the past year I have authored or co-sponsored several bills designed specifically to strengthen our nation's security through missile defense. Despite the end of the Cold War, terrorist organizations throughout the globe remain intent on seeking nuclear weapons. And rogue nations like Iran are attempting to "go nuclear" with missile programs of their own. These threats cannot be overlooked, and missile defense initiatives are an effective means to prevent a nuclear attack on our nation.
   On the floor of the U.S. Senate and in committee hearings I have repeatedly spoken out in favor of expanding our missile defense program and have taken proactive steps to strengthen our security in this area. Last year, I filed the Defense Against Regional Threats Act. This bill stated the intent of the United States to provide for the expedient deployment of effective missile defense systems with the capability of defending Israel and all member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization from an Iranian ballistic missile attack. It also outlined the intent of the United States to enter into agreements with NATO members to share the costs related to the development and deployment of such missile defense systems.
   Last year, I joined Sen. Sessions and other colleagues on a bipartisan amendment to the 2008 Defense Authorization Bill that called for the authorization of an additional $87 million for Aegis missile defense systems - the same system that successfully destroyed the spy satellite last week. We need to continue to work on these important defense programs and promote further awareness of this issue. The risks are simply too high to ignore, and it is time that we took the necessary steps to ensure that our nation - and our allies - are protected from the specter of a rogue nuclear adversary.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 