FIGHTING HIGH ENERGY COSTS
  Vitter's View: Fighting High Energy Costs 
   As another summer approaches, many of us are already thinking about school vacation, outdoor barbeques and vacation travels. But the rising cost of our gasoline is going to be an issue this again summer. As you plan a family trip to the beach or a long drive to visit family, we will all feel the sting of higher gas prices.  
   Since coming to Congress in 1999, I have been fighting to ensure that our energy prices remain reasonable. In 2005, I helped draft an energy bill that provided more opportunity to produce domestic energy resources. This common sense, broad-based energy bill encourages domestic production of oil and gas, restores our energy independence and promotes the use of energy-efficient technology all while helping our economy and increasing good jobs in Louisiana. And in the long run increased production will bring prices down.
   Last year, I, along with the Louisiana congressional delegation, fought extremely hard to secure a its fair share of offshore royalties from oil and gas activity in the Gulf of Mexico for Louisiana. These revenues will help pay for important coastal, flood and hurricane protections. They also give the state a much needed source of revenue as we continue rebuilding from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and these funds will provide the necessary resources to finish critical transportation and infrastructure projects throughout the state.
   There is evidence that these measures are already bearing fruit. Recently, the U.S. Department of Interior announced that Louisiana will receive $127.5 million over the next two years to be used for coastal protection and restoration in relation to offshore energy exploration. In addition, the Department of Interior also announced that it will open new areas of the Outer Continental Shelf to expand energy production in the Gulf of Mexico and off the coasts of Alaska and Virginia. These new areas will increase domestic energy production and decrease our dependence on foreign oil, which is largely responsible for the erratic price spike in energy costs. According to a Department of Interior study, the Gulf of Mexico alone could produce more than 8.5 billion barrels of oil and 29.3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, and Louisiana will receive a portion of the revenues. 
   I know how important it is to keep energy costs down. From cooling our homes in the summer heat to filling up our gas tanks every week, energy prices have a big impact on our lives. Nobody should have to pay these outrageous prices for a gallon of gas, and I will continue to fight for our energy security and independence. 
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on energy. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or at my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 