SEN. VITTER HIGHLIGHTS RECOVERY PROGRAMS BUT STRESSES WORK TO BE DONE
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today held a U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship hearing entitled Rebuilding the Gulf Coast: Small Business Recovery in South Louisiana in Lake Charles, La. The hearing focused on issues relating to businesses affected by Hurricane Rita and assessed small business recovery programs at the federal, state and local levels. U.S. Sen. Mary Landrieu co-hosted the hearing. 
   "Despite the immense challenges Southwest Louisiana faced after Hurricane Rita, it was the independent initiative and resilience of its people that allowed them to begin to recover," said Vitter. "There are challenges that still exist, and they cannot be forgotten or overlooked. That is why this hearing was so important."
   At the hearing, Vitter highlighted disaster loan improvements that recently passed the U.S. Senate. This legislation will help improve assistance to businesses and homeowners after a disaster. It does so by increasing the maximum disaster loan amount, creating expedited disaster assistance business loans and permitting the federal government to process disaster loans more quickly.
   "This legislation is geared to streamline the process and enable people affected by disasters, like Hurricane Rita, to get the assistance they need to move forward with recovery," added Vitter.
   At the hearing Vitter also heard testimony from a wide variety of individuals with experiences to share about the small business recovery including parish officials, representatives from the Louisiana Department of Economic Development, members of the Chamber of Commerce for Southwest Louisiana and local small business owners.
   "Southwest Louisiana residents illustrated that they are get-it-done people, but the small business recovery process must address some of the concerns raised at today's hearing if we plan to create opportunities and incentives to allow for progress to continue," added Vitter. "I am working on the U.S. Senate Small Business Committee to create ways that help our business owners and residents recover and, ultimately, grow stronger."
 
 