SEN. VITTER OFFERS AMENDMENTS TO ENERGY BILL
  Sen. David Vitter today offered two amendments, with direct impact on Baton Rouge, to the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007 currently being debated on the U.S. Senate floor.  
   Vitter's first amendment would give the EPA discretion to not hold downwind areas accountable for ozone transported from other areas or states. Air markers have indicated that Baton Rouge air quality is impacted by pollutants from Houston. 
   "Baton Rouge should not be held accountable for Houston's bad ozone, but this is exactly what's happening since the courts threw out EPA's policy," said Vitter. "My amendment would give the EPA the discretion to extend the attainment date for areas adversely impacted by pollution from other areas. This could help prevent costly sanctions on Baton Rouge that would burden its ability to foster economic growth." 
   Vitter also offered another amendment that would remove the double penalty for air quality standards in Baton Rouge.
   "Due to the circuit court's decision, cities like Baton Rouge may be forced to pay double penalties and could be subjected to double sanctions for air quality standards they can not realistically meet," added Vitter. "My amendment would strip the double penalty and remove the unfair standard placed on Baton Rouge. It does not waive the Baton Rouge area's obligation to meet stringent air quality standards, rather it clarifies that only the higher standard is in place."
   In 1997, the EPA phased out its one-hour air standard in favor of a more accurate eight-hour standard. The revised standard was overturned in court, but doing so created a complication for cities like Baton Rouge, which is subject to penalties from both standards - creating a double penalty. 
   "Air quality and environmental protections are important to our quality of life, but the rules and standards must be within reason. Double penalties and non-attainment issues that are a result of poorly written policy and court rulings are not within that reasonable range," added Vitter.
 
 