SEN. VITTER VISITS LOUISIANA TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter this week traveled to Afghanistan as part of a Congressional delegation trip with U.S. Sen. John Barrasso. 
   "It was important to me to have the opportunity to visit troops with Operation Enduring Freedom in order to have a clear and thorough understanding of the situation in Afghanistan," said Vitter. "Given the upcoming Congressional testimony of General David Petraeus, this trip was very timely."
   Vitter traveled to Bagram, Afghanistan where he had a briefing with Brigadier General Joseph Votel, Deputy Commanding General of the 82nd Airborne Division and Combined Joint Task Force 82, which holds responsibility for operations in NATO's Regional Command East and overall responsibility for Operating Enduring Freedom operations in Afghanistan. Vitter also visited the Craig Joint-Theater Hospital, which treats American and Afghani soldiers.
   "Task Force 82 has consistently pursued a strategy designed to strengthen the ability of the Afghani government to build effective national security protocols," said Vitter. "The troops interact with local civilians on a routine basis and have initiated programs designed to build trust among the Afghani people in their government and institutions."
   Vitter also met with a contingent of Louisiana troops serving with Task Force Rugged at Forward Operating Base Sharana and at the United States Embassy in Kabul.
   "I was particularly proud to talk with some Louisiana soldiers," Vitter said. "Their commitment to the task at hand is inspiring, and I appreciated having the chance to meet with them face to face and thank them for their tireless service and sacrifice on behalf of our great state and for America."
   During the CODEL, Vitter met with General Dan K. McNeill, Commander of the International Security Assistance Force, a multi-national force consisting of over 35 contributing nations, and with William Wood, who was named U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan in April 2007. The CODEL also met with Major General Robert Cone, who is overseeing the training of the Afghani National Army Forces and the national police force. Vitter also toured downtown Kabul, Afghanistan's capital city.
   "It is absolutely vital that, as members of Congress, we proactively seek out opportunities to obtain the most accurate view of the situations faced by our brave troops. If we are to make accurate and effective decisions, there is no better place to gather the information we need than out in the field with American men and women in uniform," said Vitter.
 
 