INCREASING BREAST CANCER AWARENESS
  My family, like many Louisiana families, is all too familiar with the devastating disease of breast cancer. At age 6, my wife Wendy lost her mother to breast cancer. Wendy's personal tragedy is part of the reason why I continue to actively support legislation raising awareness about screenings and treatment for breast cancer.  
   October is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. I believe we should use this month as a time to reflect on a disease that has touched almost everyone's life. More than 200,000 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in the United States this year alone. And one out of seven American women will develop breast cancer in her lifetime. 
   The key to fighting this disease is early detection - which has been proven to help save lives. In fact, leading breast cancer research and advocacy organizations, such as the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, stress that the sooner breast cancer is detected, the less likely a highly invasive treatment will be needed. Most important, early detection increases chances of survival. 
   While important advances have been made in treating breast cancer, we still lack the scientific knowledge of what causes this disease, or how to stop it. To further this important research, I cosponsored the Breast Cancer Environmental Research Act in the U.S. Senate, which would provide grants to researchers studying the causes of breast cancer. Continuing research is critical because once we understand the disease, we are better equipped to prevent breast cancer, treat it more effectively and create a cure.
   Last month, I met with the Louisiana members of the American Cancer Society and signed their pledge to join their continued fight against cancer. I pledged to support the reauthorization of the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program, which helps low-income and uninsured women gain access to early detection screening programs. I also pledged to help increase funding for continued cancer research and programs. We must advance research if we want to beat this life-threatening disease, and I will continue working in the U.S. Senate to increase federal resources to win this fight.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on how we can provide additional federal resources in the ongoing battle against breast cancer. Please contact me on this or any other federal matter at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 