SEN. VITTER SPEAKS AGAINST AMNESTY IN DREAM ACT
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today spoke on the U.S. Senate floor against the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act. 
   "This summer they called it earned citizenship and now they are calling it a dream, but these new names are just creative cover for the what 'it' really is - amnesty," said Vitter.
   The DREAM Act would create a path to citizenship for people brought illegally to the United States by their parents as children or before they were the age of 16.
   "There seems to be no age limit to apply for this retroactive amnesty," added Vitter. "The DREAM Act merely requires an illegal alien to demonstrate that he entered the U.S. illegally before the age of 16. But how can an individual with no paper trail or records demonstrate this? It's a cover provision for mass amnesty."
   In addition, the bill would grant illegal aliens who meet certain requirements the eligibility to apply for a temporary (six year) conditional residence permit, which would allow them to live legally in the United States. The only condition is that they meet one of a few educational requirements, such as receiving a degree from a two year community college, completing at least two years toward a four-year degree or serving at least two years in the uniformed services. Examples of the uniformed services include the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps and the US Public Health Service Commissioned Corps.
   "These illegal immigrants are already receiving millions in federal taxpayer dollars in Social Security, health care and other welfare programs, but now the DREAM Act wants American taxpayers to pay for their college tuition as well," Vitter said.
   The DREAM Act would grant Legal Residence Status immediately to eligible applicants - allowing illegal aliens to become legal residents of the state they filed in and therefore becoming eligible for in-state college tuition benefits - including access to federal student loans and federal work-study programs. Currently, legal U.S. citizens in one state are not eligible for another state's resident college tuition benefits.
   Vitter offered an amendment to the DREAM Act provision to address some these concerns.
   "My amendment would only require what Congress mandated in 1996 - that the entry-exit system, known today as U.S. VISIT, be fully operational. This program was authorized more than 10 years ago, but it's still not up and running," said Vitter.
   The Vitter amendment would require that the U.S. VISIT system be fully functional before the DREAM ACT could become law.
   "The loopholes in this DREAM Act are just as bad as the amnesty bill we defeated earlier this year," added Vitter.
   This summer, Vitter joined a small group of senators in leading the opposition that derailed the Kennedy amnesty bill. Many of the provisions he advocated during the immigration debate were included in the emergency border security funding bill that passed the U.S. Senate in July.
 
 