PROTECTING THE SECOND AMENDMENT
  I believe one of our most fundamental rights is our right to keep and bear arms, which allows us to protect our families, our property and ourselves from harm. Our founding fathers granted this right in the Second Amendment of our Constitution, and it should always be upheld, especially in a state of emergency.  
   To help protect our Constitutional rights I authored an amendment to the Homeland Security funding bill that will prohibit the use of any federal Homeland Security dollars for the seizure of firearms based solely on the declaration of a major disaster or emergency. 
   Following Hurricane Katrina, while local and federal law enforcement officials were overwhelmed by the growing tragedy, criminals quickly took advantage of the situation by committing crimes against lawful citizens and their property. However, instead of allowing private citizens to defend themselves under the Second Amendment, the city of New Orleans and some law enforcement officers confiscated more than 1,000 firearms from private citizens. This incident was a clear and frightening violation of our Second Amendment rights. While I have great respect for our law enforcement officers, I do not think their judgment or discretion should trump the Constitution. 
   I understand that our law enforcement officers are under intense pressure to protect and serve, and I value their call to duty with great respect. Thus, my amendment would not prevent funding to those who confiscate guns from convicted felons or other prohibited persons. And it will not affect legitimate seizures outside of a major disaster or emergency. 
   I am grateful that the National Rifle Association, Gun Owners of America and the Fraternal Order of Police, a leading law enforcement organization with more than 324,000 members, supported my amendment, which passed with overwhelming support in the U.S. Senate, marking an important victory for protecting our Second Amendment rights. A Conference Committee of U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives members will now decide whether the final Homeland Security bill will contain my gun protection provision, and I will keep working to allow law abiding Americans to protect themselves without fear of the government intruding upon their Second Amendment rights. 
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts regarding our Second Amendment rights. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   To view my speech on the Senate floor about rights of gun owners visit http://vitter.senate.gov/?module=pressroom/media#
 
 