SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF FISHERIES ACT
  Sen. David Vitter announces that the U.S. Senate this week passed the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act with several provisions to benefit Louisiana fishermen. This act would ensure the productivity and sustainability of Louisiana's fishery resources. 
   "I'm pleased that several provisions that I authored were passed in committee and are included in the final Senate bill. The Magnuson-Stevens Act provides some solutions to the serious challenges Louisiana's fishing industry faced before the hurricanes and new challenges that resulted from the storms," said Vitter. "As the second largest producer of domestic seafood in the nation, restoration of Louisiana's fisheries and habitat is critical to our nation's economy."
   As a member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, Vitter worked with Chairman Ted Stevens of Alaska throughout the bill drafting process to include provisions that would help address the needs of Louisiana fishermen. In particular, Vitter included provisions requiring a report detailing the impact of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma on the fishing industry and providing for a study to evaluate turtle excluder devices and their effects on the shrimping industry. In addition, Vitter secured an authorization of $105 million in federal funding for the shrimp fisheries hurricane assistance program in the bill.
   Also, Vitter authored a provision providing fishery disaster assistance of up to $15 million to those with fishery finance program loans, which will help keep people employed as the state rebuilds from the hurricanes and get operations back underway.
   "I am hopeful that this bill will help meet the most urgent needs of our fishermen," said Vitter. 
   The act also includes a provision that will bring the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration to the table as an additional partner to Louisiana's restoration effort and brings its expertise of fisheries and complex ecosystems. The provision authorizes the restoration of coastal habitat, which is consistent with Vitter's Together-Immediately Defeating Erosion (TIDE) Act, which was part of his COAST legislative package introduced last year. 
   Vitter also played a role in negotiating guidelines for the nomination and selection of voting members to the Gulf of Mexico Regional Fisheries Management Council to ensure a balanced and fair membership from the recreational and commercial sectors and a member knowledgeable in conservation and management of fishery resources.
   In addition, the Magnuson-Stevens Act addresses fishery infrastructure issues by providing immediate relief to the fishery sector when a region is afflicted by a catastrophic fishery disaster through the creation of a Regional Coastal Disaster Assistance, Transition and Recovery Program. The program would offer economic assistance for meeting immediate shoreside infrastructure needs, financial assistance and job training for fishermen in a fishery that may be temporarily closed as well as funding for a capacity reduction program.
   "Restoration of Louisiana's fishery infrastructure and habitat is not only essential to our nation's economy, but also to our way of life and to our dinner table," Vitter said. 
   The corresponding bill in the U.S. House of Representatives passed the House Resources Committee last month and is awaiting a floor vote.
 
 