ADVOCATING FOR NASA AND THE SPACE SHUTTLE PROGRAM
  I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to witness the launch of the space shuttle Endeavour this past week. NASA has a significant presence in Louisiana, and Louisiana has a significant role in this shuttle mission. 
   Thousands of Louisianans are employed at NASA facilities at the Michoud Assembly Facility and the Stennis Space Center. Employees at Michoud assemble the orange external tanks on the shuttle. And a Louisianan is commander of this mission. 
   Given our state's strong connection to the space shuttle program, I was particularly excited to be a part of this historic launch.
   On Tuesday, March 11, the Endeavour left Kennedy Space Center for a 16-day mission, carrying a multi-national crew to the International Space Station. The astronauts hail from Russia, Europe, Japan, and Canada, and are led on this mission by Mission Commander Dominic Gorie, who was born in Lake Charles. The Endeavour carried a payload that included components of the Canadian Space Agency's robotic system and the first section of a Japanese laboratory. Endeavour's mission is the longest to the space station and will include a record five space walks as the crew works to install its cargo components and continue the assembly of the station. 
   The space shuttle program has captured the imagination of Americans for more than 25 years. As ranking member of the subcommittee that holds oversight of NASA and the space program, I will continue to work to strengthen the relationship between NASA and our great state. The future of the space program holds great promise for America and for Louisiana.
   In the coming decades, the program will evolve in sync with NASA's new goals and objectives, and Louisiana will be there to help our astronauts reach new and distant destinations.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 