GETTING SERIOUS ABOUT OUR ENERGY POLICY
  Like many Louisianans, I am concerned about our nation's rising energy prices. The U.S. Senate spent much of this month debating reforms to our energy policy, but I am disappointed that a bill was passed by the Senate without taking significant action to ease the pain at the pump now. The thrust of the bill focuses on long term energy policy that relies heavily on renewable and alternative energy sources. While I believe our nation's energy strategy should incorporate sensible alternative and renewable sources, it is critical that we recognize that there is a current need for an increase in domestic supply to solve our short term energy crunch.
   According to a report recently issued by the Heritage Foundation, the Senate proposal would actually increase gasoline prices to $6.40 gallon over the next ten years. That means in 2017, Louisianans will be purchasing gas well over $6 a gallon. These gas prices rival costs with Paris, France - which is currently $5.54 a gallon according to CNN. The explanation for this dramatic jump in prices is that much of the energy policy is focused on long term, renewable sources that will be incredibly costly to put into place in a short timeframe.  
   I offered multiple amendments to the bill that recognize the need to move toward clean, renewable sources of energy in the future without balancing the cost of such goals on the backs of the average consumer. 
   One of my amendments would have increased domestic energy production, which would help alleviate the rising energy costs in the near term. The provision would allow the U.S. secretary of the Interior to initiate energy production on federal lands and waters at the request of a state. To initiate this oil, gas or alternative energy production, the following conditions would have to be met.
   First, the national average gasoline price must reach $3.75 a gallon, and imports on foreign oil must exceed 65 percent of our total oil consumption. Also, the governor of the state must request that the secretary of Interior produce energy within or offshore of the state. Finally, no less than 20 percent of the revenues of the production must be dedicated to alternate energy research - ensuring that even though we increase domestic energy production now, we still look to other sources of energy for the future. 
   Another of my amendments would have provided incentives for the conversion of offshore platforms to renewable energy production facilities. The Gulf of Mexico has the highest concentration of offshore platforms in the world. As we continue to integrate renewable energy into our energy portfolios, these converted offshore platforms could play a key role in our production of energy from wind, solar, wave, thermal, ocean current and many other sources of energy. 
   Our energy policy has an impact on more than just our gas prices - it influences everything from the cost of our produce in the grocery store to the shape of our environmental regulations for small businesses. I will continue to make sure that we take practical steps toward the next generation of energy use.
   Please let me know your thoughts on our energy policies and about any other issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov. 
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 