SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY AGRICULTURAL CENTER
  Sen. David Vitter announces that the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Bill, which passed out of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee today, includes $1.774 million for research programs at the Louisiana State University Agricultural Center. 
   "I am grateful that my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee understand the importance of the research conducted at the LSU Ag Center," said Vitter.
   The bill provides $326,000 for aquaculture research to enhance crawfish harvesting technology, to further develop tools to facilitate genetic improvement of cultured finfish, to evaluate alternative catfish cultivation methods, to refine fish nutrition and feeding practices, to protect cultured aquatic species from disease and to develop new aquaculture food products and waste byproducts.
   The LSU Ag Center would also receive $495,000 in the bill for research to develop alternatives to traditional tillage in southwest Louisiana rice production. Alternatives are needed to improve floodwater quality, reduce soil erosion and reduce production costs. 
   In addition, the bill directs the U.S. Department of Agriculture to work with the LSU Ag Center in studying the best management and practices on improving water quality. Additional research is needed to define the effects of agriculture and forestry production practices on water quality and identify the technology needed to reduce any adverse impacts. The USDA will spend $396,000 on this project.
   The bill also includes $557,000 for research into genetic improvement strategies to establish wetland plant species over large areas of threatened and reclaimed coastal wetlands, including large-scale marsh testing of planting methods that will aid in coastal restoration. Marsh research will allow researchers to investigate beneficial use of dredge material, sediment nourishment of deteriorating wetlands and factors influencing vegetative response. Louisiana experiences one of the highest rates of coastal erosion in the world and developing a system for utilizing native vegetation to protect and restore eroding wetlands can be a big help in addressing coastal erosion.
   "While committee passage is only the first step in the legislative process, it is an important one for securing funding for these LSU Ag Center projects," Vitter said. "I will continue to work with my colleagues to help keep this federal funding in the final bill."
   The Senate Agriculture Appropriations Bill is expected to move to the Senate floor for a vote later this year.
 
 