COMING TO THE NATION'S CAPITAL
  My family just spent a week here in Washington after my kids started their summer vacation, and I know how difficult it can be to travel with small children. That's why I want to provide you with helpful information and resources as you plan your stay in Washington. Please let me know if you are planning a trip and I'll send you a book, "Welcome to Washington," which is filled with useful information related to all government buildings, historical attractions, monuments and museums. 
   Our nation's capital offers many historical and cultural resources for visitors. From the museums of the Smithsonian Institution to the monuments and memorials to the parks and gardens, there's something for nearly everyone in the family. And while many major cities charge for their attractions, many of Washington's most famous tourist destinations are open to the public free of charge.
   Many of our capital's popular buildings offer guided tours, some of which are open to the public and others require reservations well in advance of the tour date. I am also able to reserve tours for Louisiana families to see the Capitol, the White House, the Supreme Court, the Library of Congress, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, the Kennedy Center and the State Department on a first-come, first-served basis. Some tours have size limits and time constraints, and while we may not be able to fulfill all requests, you can be assured that we will make every effort to obtain all the tours that you request.
   When the Senate is in session, I open up my office on Wednesday mornings to Louisianians visiting our nation's capital for a constituent coffee. I invite you to join me for coffee and friendly conversation. I enjoy hearing about your trip to Washington and meeting fellow Louisianians. If you know you're coming to Washington for business or pleasure, please call ahead to let us know you'll be here for this casual get together.
   Whether you're in the state or coming to Washington, I strive to provide you with excellent service. I appreciate the opportunity to serve you in the U.S. Senate, and I look forward to meeting many of you in Washington, D.C. or in your hometown as I travel across Louisiana. 
   Please let me know about issues of importance to you and your families by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 