SEN. VITTER APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today applauded the passage of the final Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which was approved by the U.S. Senate with a vote of 80-14. 
   "After months of politics, we finally have a supplemental that we can pass through Congress and get signed into law," said Vitter. "Both our troops in the field and the people of Louisiana will finally receive the funding they need."
   In this final version of the emergency supplemental the controversial language that set timetables for our troops in Iraq was removed. This legislation also contained critical provisions for hurricane recovery.
   "I am pleased that this bill has the critical funding and flexibility for the Army Corps of Engineers that I have been pushing for in meetings with the Senate Appropriations Committee and others," added Vitter. "The $1.3 billion in funding to cover Corps budget shortfalls and flexibility for the Corps to ensure that they can efficiently address key hurricane protection issues in the Greater New Orleans area are vital to our continuing recovery." 
   The Emergency Supplemental also contains more than $24 million in federal funds for emergency Louisiana law enforcement needs. 
   "My focus has been to place more federal agents in New Orleans and to get them to immediately coordinate with local law enforcement on the ground," said Vitter. "To end the reign of fear, we must protect our citizens and enable them to assist law enforcement." 
   Much of this funding will be used to fight the recent crime escalation in the Greater New Orleans area. Vitter also fought to add language to forgive Community Disaster Loans.
   "The Community Disaster Loan forgiveness language and the waiver of the 10 percent match will provide additional resources four our recovery efforts and remove the wasteful bureaucratic hurdles tied to the state match requirement. I am pleased that all of these provisions remained in the final bill," added Vitter. 
   The Community Disaster Loan forgiveness language allows the president to forgive loans that were given to local governments immediately following hurricanes Rita and Katrina to provide basic services. The emergency supplemental also provides a waiver of the 10 percent match to remove the wasteful bureaucratic hurdles tied to the state match requirement. This waiver will free up millions in federal Community Disaster Block Grant funding already appropriated for disaster housing recovery. 
   "The waiver of the 10 percent match in this supplemental frees up more than $700 million in federal funds that can be used to address the pressing deficit in the Road Home program," Vitter said.
 
 