SEN. VITTER HIGHLIGHTS LOUISIANA'S EFFORTS TO CURB DRUNK DRIVING
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter, ranking member of the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Transportation Safety, Infrastructure Security and Water Quality, today highlighted Louisiana's efforts to combat drunk driving in the subcommittee's hearing on drunk driving prevention programs. The hearing examined the use of these programs and their effectiveness in reducing drunk driving arrests, repeat offenders and fatalities. 
   "Drunk driving, unfortunately, impacts thousands of individuals throughout the United States each year, and countless lives are lost at the hands of drunk drivers. Tragically, last year in Louisiana, 475 people lost their lives due to drunk driving," Vitter said. "It is important that we take steps to lessen the tragic impact of drunk driving on American families. Louisiana's recent legislation authorizing an interlock device law has placed it in the company of just three other states that use this program. By authorizing the use of these devices for first-time offenders convicted of driving with blood alcohol levels of .08 or higher, we can save lives and prevent these individuals from repeating this dangerous behavior," Vitter said.
   Alcohol ignition interlocks prevent impaired drivers from operating a motor vehicle by requiring that they breathe into an alcohol detection device before the engine can be started. If a pre-set level of alcohol is detected, the engine will not start and the vehicle is immobilized. Louisiana is one of only four states to have passed such a law. Arizona, Illinois and New Mexico have also enacted similar legislation.
   "The interlock device program can serve as a benchmark for other states. We need to continue our efforts to reduce the number of drunk driver-related tragedies that hurt too many American families and provide incentives that encourage states to adopt effective drunk driving laws," Vitter said.
   Several witnesses gave testimony relating to the dangers of drunk driving and the efficacy of programs designed to combat this problem at today's hearing including Thomas Barnett, deputy secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation; Mark Rosenker, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board; and Glynn Birch, president of Mothers Against Drunk Driving.
   Of particular concern to Sen. Vitter was the number of instances relating to teenaged drunk-driving offenders.
   "Sadly, teenagers account for a growing number of drunk-driving deaths. Despite not being legally able to drink, this population accounted for almost 11 percent of alcohol-related fatalities in 2005. We must encourage states to take steps to ensure that teens are properly educated about the dangers of drunk driving," Vitter said.
 
 