REMEMBERING RITA
  As Washington and the national media continue to focus their attention on the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, I'd like to take a moment to remember the other devastating storm to hit Louisiana - Hurricane Rita. During my numerous town hall meetings and visits to Calcasieu, Cameron, and the other southwest parishes, I have been vividly reminded of the extensive damage caused by Rita.
   Rita was the fourth-most-intense Atlantic hurricane ever recorded and the most powerful tropical cyclone observed in the Gulf of Mexico. This storm caused the loss of power in 700,000 homes in Louisiana and totaled an estimated $9.4 billion in damage, making Rita the ninth-costliest storm in U.S. history. Rita was one of the most destructive hurricanes of our time, yet it has not received the attention her victims deserve. 
   I cannot logically explain the lack of reporting or attention surrounding Rita, but I plan to continue advocating on behalf of her victims - the residents of southwest Louisiana. Last March, I introduced a resolution acknowledging Rita's six month anniversary. This resolution commended the resiliency of the people of southwest Louisiana and called upon Congress to stand by them in their rebuilding effort and to provide them with necessary resources. 
   In addition, I have worked to expand relief packages, grants, and tax credits to aid those affected by Rita. In the hurricane relief packages, I fought to secure $1.6 billion for students and schools in the regions devastated by Rita and Katrina. Also, we provided $12.1 billion in Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) to help spur economic improvement and aid homeowners in Louisiana with rebuilding or repairing their homes. Because business development is another important key to recovery, I also worked with Congress to provide significant tax incentives to welcome businesses and jobs back to devastated regions.
   My pursuit to reform and improve FEMA continues, as the bureaucrats in the organization failed to include any of the southwest parishes affected by Rita in its debris removal reimbursement extension. I have joined with other members of the Louisiana delegation in calling for an investigation of this decision. I find it outrageous that FEMA would deny debris removal assistance to Rita victims, and I find it ridiculous that they will not provide any documentation explaining their rationale in this decision. This latest FEMA failure is just another example that supports my demand for a major overhaul of the organization.
   I believe that reform must be part of a successful recovery. While I continue my fight to reform FEMA, I am also working to reform the nation's offshore oil and gas royalty sharing laws. With the recent passage of the U.S. Senate's offshore leasing legislation, Louisiana would finally get its fare share of the oil and gas profits earned from the Gulf of Mexico. That funding will assist with coastal conservation, and which is vital to protecting south Louisiana from hurricanes of Rita's potential.
   One of the central lessons learned in the aftermath of Hurricanes Rita and Katrina is that we need bold, innovative approaches to doing things. I promise to continue fighting tirelessly for Louisiana while constantly searching for ways to reform and improve the rebuilding process.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 