SEN. VITTER CALLS FOR ALTERNATIVES TO OLD NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC HOUSING SYSTEM
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today called for changes to the current Gulf Coast Housing Recovery Act sponsored by U.S. Sens. Chris Dodd and Mary Landrieu. That bill is before the U.S. Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. The GCHR bill follows closely with its companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives, which is authored by U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters of California .  
   "One of the more stark lessons of Hurricane Katrina was exactly how ineffective our past approach to public policy served our poor. We need to modernize that policy to fit the needs of the 21st century," said Vitter. "Instead of rebuilding old project housing that perpetuated the cycle of poverty and crime, we need to create new environments that promote self-improvement and, ultimately, home ownership."
   The GCHR plan requires the immediate reconstruction of 3,000 temporary or permanent housing units, regardless of the number of families wishing for an immediate return to New Orleans. These units will include rehabilitated public housing projects and once rehabilitated, the temporary units will likely become permanent, ultimately rebuilding the old New Orleans housing projects system. 
   New Orleans City Councilwoman Stacy Head has expressed concerns with the GCHR bill as well. Her ward is home to many of the housing projects slated for rehabilitation under the GCHR plan. 
   "We currently have over 650 public housing units and hundreds of Section 8 apartments located all over the city ready but unoccupied. Why would we spend taxpayer money to rebuild horrid units in broken communities?" said Head. "Every other city in the United States has redeveloped their barrack-style housing projects and ended the concentration of poverty. Why would the Senate sentence New Orleans to maintain this backward structure?"
   Head has been passionately advocating that the Senate not rebuild the old style of project housing.
   "This bill wants to recreate the New Orleans housing projects exactly as they were, but they were poorly designed, offered barely any quality services to residents and, most importantly, isolated the residents from the rest of the city. The old system perpetuated a cycle of crime and poverty, which broke the spirits of the residents throughout the area instead of lifting and inspiring them," Vitter said. 
   The GCHR bill would require a one-for-one replacement of demolished public housing units that were unoccupied at the time of the hurricane - wasting valuable resources that could be better used to efficiently address housing needs. It would also require the one-for-one replacement of the demolished public housing units. 
   "Even prior to the hurricanes the Housing Authority of New Orleans had already begun to revitalize New Orleans public housing with a goal of developing stable mixed income communities. Let's continue to move forward with this new approach to public housing - not reverting back to a broken welfare society," Vitter said. 
   GCHR's plan places restrictions on demolitions that were approved even before Hurricane Katrina. HANO's revitalization plan, which follows the recommendations of the Office of Housing and Urban Developments, has been in the place for more than 18 months and provides a sound mix of affordable housing opportunities. The HANO plan was created in consultation with residents and local advocacy organizations. 
   Vitter also has expressed concerns about the lack of support for the GCHR bill from gulf coast senators.
 
 