SEN. VITTER ISSUES STATEMENT ON PASSAGE OF SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. David Vitter today made the following statement regarding the passage of the 2007 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Bill: 
   "Our troops have gone over 70 days without the immediate emergency funding they need, and yet the majority is adamant about playing politics with the passage of this veto-bound bill. This bill's withdrawal language weakens the morale of our soldiers in Iraq and will lead to a veto by the president - delaying much needed funding for both our troops in the field and vital hurricane recovery projects," said Vitter.
   In this Emergency Supplemental, Vitter pushed for $1.3 billion in funding to cover Army Corps of Engineers budget shortfalls and to provide the Corps with flexibility to ensure that they can efficiently address key hurricane protection issues in the Greater New Orleans area. He also fought to add Community Disaster Loan forgiveness language, which would allow the president to forgive loans that were given to local governments immediately following hurricanes Rita and Katrina, and for a waiver of the 10 percent match to remove the wasteful bureaucratic hurdles tied to the state match requirement. 
   "With this bill being nothing more than a practice round, I urge my colleagues to get down to business on the real Emergency Supplemental that we intend to actually pass into law. Today, I wrote a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee leadership to reiterate the importance of keeping vital hurricane protection projects in the final version and I hope they recognize these critical needs for southeast Louisiana," added Vitter.
   Vitter sent a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee leadership to request that critical emergency hurricane provisions remain in the new Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill that will be drafted following the president's impending veto of this current bill. He specifically urged for the retention of all the provisions that were in this veto-bound bill, including the need for provisions to expedite the study for a concrete plan to close the Mississippi River-Gulf Outlet. 
   Click here to view a copy of the letter.
  http://www.vitter.senate.gov/forms/04-26-07%20Supp%20Letter.pdf.
 
 