SEN. VITTER DELIVERS REMARKS ON SUPREME COURT NOMINEE SAMUEL ALITO TO SENATE
  Sen. David Vitter spoke to his colleagues on the floor of the U.S. Senate today about his support of U.S. Supreme Court Nominee Samuel Alito.
   The submitted text of his remarks follows:
   "Mr. President, today I rise in support of the nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito to be an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court.  
   "I will support Judge Alito's nomination, because he is superbly qualified to serve on the Supreme Court and because he possesses a conservative judicial philosophy, which I believe to be an essential quality for any federal judge. 
   "Mr. President, the Appointments Clause, Article II, Section 2, Clause 2 of the Constitution, gives the President the plenary power to nominate certain high-level officials and bestows upon the Senate the role of advice and consent.
   "I take my constitutional duty to provide advice and consent very seriously - I owe it to the people of Louisiana to do so. Thus, I will neither provide a 'rubber stamp' of approval for all of President Bush's nominees; nor a 'rubber stamp' of disapproval for any Democratic president's nominees. 
   "I have studied the qualifications and legal writings of all nominees to determine whether they possess a consistent and well-grounded conservative judicial philosophy.
   "And, after studying Judge Alito's record, meeting with him personally, and watching his confirmation hearings, I believe that he is imminently qualified to serve on the Supreme Court; and that he has a consistent and well-grounded conservative judicial philosophy.
   "Both Judge Alito's academic achievements and his distinguished career in public service demonstrate that he is imminently qualified to serve as an Associate Justice on the U.S. Supreme Court. 
   "Judge Alito holds a bachelor's degree from Princeton University and a Juris Doctorate from Yale Law School. 
   "After graduating from law school, Judge Alito began his career in public service as a clerk for Judge Leonard Garth on the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals, who is now his colleague on that court. 
   "He also served as Assistant U.S. Attorney, Assistant to the U.S. Solicitor General, Deputy Assistant Attorney General in DOJ's Office of Legal Counsel, and U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey. 
   "He has argued 12 cases before the U.S. Supreme Court and at least two dozen court of appeals cases. 
   "In 1990, President George H.W. Bush nominated Judge Alito for the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals and he was confirmed by unanimous consent by this same body. He has served as a Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit for the last 15 years.
   "After being nominated to the Supreme Court, the ABA rated Judge Alito 'well qualified' - it's highest rating - which some of my colleagues refer to as the 'gold standard' for assessing the qualifications of judicial nominees. 
   "He also delivered an impressive performance during his confirmations hearings displaying humility and an in-depth understanding of legal matters, and maintaining his composure in an extremely partisan confirmation hearing. 
   "As I stated after my meeting with Judge Alito, I believe that he has a conservative judicial philosophy, which, in my opinion, is the most important quality for a judicial nominee to possess. 
   "Throughout the debate over judicial nominees this notion of whether a nominee possesses a conservative judicial philosophy has been asked a lot. Some may ask what this term means and why it is so important. Does a conservative judicial philosophy mean that when deciding cases a judge must always reach a politically conservative result? Not at all. I believe that a conservative judicial philosophy means a commitment to the rule of law - a commitment to the Constitution as written by our founding fathers and a commitment to the statutes enacted by Congress. 
   "It requires a judge to open-mindedly analyze the facts of each case based on the Constitution and the law as written without imposing his own views to reach a politically popular result. A judge with a conservative judicial philosophy understands the proper role of the judiciary, which is not to make new law based on his personal opinions, but to follow the law as enacted by the legislature.
   "Judge Alito demonstrated his conservative judicial philosophy and his unwillingness to change the law to fit his personal beliefs, when he stated, 'There is nothing that is more important for our republic than the rule of law. No person in this country, no matter how high or powerful, is above the law, and no person in this country is beneath the law.'
   "During his Judiciary Committee hearing, Judge Alito further confirmed my belief that he possesses the right judicial temperament when he recognized that although the judiciary has the important job of protecting rights, its role should be limited. He stated that judges should constantly ask themselves whether they are overstepping their bounds, in other words, whether they are making policy decisions, generally reserved for the legislature, rather than interpreting the law.
   "Mr. President, it has troubled me that throughout this confirmation process some of my colleagues, many interest groups, and many members of the press have treated Judge Alito more like a candidate for political office than a judicial nominee by keeping a running total of how many times he decided 'for' or 'against' a given side. They have criticized him as rarely ruling in favor of criminal defendants, illegal immigrants, women and employment discrimination plaintiffs. 
   "Other than the fact that many of these characterizations are false - Judge Alito has decided in favor of employment-discrimination plaintiffs in 22 percent of cases which is well above the 13 percent overall success rate for federal employment-discrimination cases - it troubles me that the public is being led to believe that the majority of judges are results-oriented politicians who will - and should - impose their personal views on the parties before them.
   "The role of the judiciary is to interpret the law and to apply it to the facts of each case. The elected representatives of the legislative branch, not judges, are vested with the power to make results oriented policy decisions. Thus, a judge should not base his ruling on the make-up of the parties before him, instead he should rule in favor of the party whose legal claim has merit - as determined by applying neutral legal principles to the facts of the case.
   "In his confirmation hearing, Judge Alito described his disagreement with keeping a scorecard of how many times a judge rules for or against a particular party, he stated, 'I don't think a judge should be keeping a scorecard about how many times that judge votes for one category of litigant versus another in particular types of cases. That would be wrong. We are supposed to do justice on an individual basis in the cases that come before us.'
   "Mr. President, it saddens me to think that the environment of the U.S. Senate has become so partisan and politically divisive that my colleagues from across the aisle have talked of potentially filibustering this very qualified nominee, because he is a Bush nominee and their assessment of his personal views on certain issues. 
   "Many Democratic Senators, at the urging of special interest groups, have even threatened to deny Judge Alito the up-or-down vote that he deserves if he fails to commit to uphold their personal political agenda. However, the Constitution gives Congress, not judges, the authority to make results-oriented policy decisions. Judges should not be in the business of making policy decisions.
   "In today's partisan environment, there is absolutely no way that Justice Ginsburg would have received 96 votes and Justice Scalia would have received 98 votes.
   "Mr. President, as I stated earlier, I believe that Judge Alito is imminently qualified and he has demonstrated the right judicial temperament to serve as an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Therefore, I will vote in favor of his confirmation. 
   "I urge my colleagues to take their Constitutional duty to provide advice and consent seriously and to base their determination of whether to support or oppose his confirmation on Judge Alito's qualifications, his record as a judge on the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals, and on his performance during his confirmation hearings. Every one of us has the right - and the Constitutional duty - to vote for or against Judge Alito. However, Judge Alito does deserve - as all nominees do - an up-or-down vote."
 
 