REFLECTING ON THE STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Vitter's View: Reflecting on the State of the Union Address 
   The president delivers a State of the Union address every year as the U.S. Congress begins its new legislative session. This year in particular, Congress and the president are faced with many challenges in both our own country and across the world.  
   President Bush set bold, concrete initiatives addressing many key domestic issues like energy and health care. On the health care front, the president spoke about expanding health saving accounts, decreasing the number of uninsured Americans and passing medial liability reform to protect doctors from foolish lawsuits. I agree that these are all very important issues that need to be addressed in order to reform the health care system in this country. Very recently I introduced an amendment to assist small businesses in acquiring better health insurance for their employees. It is my hope that Congress will pass provisions like this to help reduce the number of uninsured Americans.
   In terms of energy, President Bush wants to enhance our nation's energy security by increasing the use of alternative fuels, reducing America's dependence on foreign oil and increasing domestic production of oil in the United States. The Gulf Coast is the nation's energy coast, and Louisiana is a large contributor to our nation's energy supply and security. Over the next few years as these energy initiatives are implemented, Louisiana's role as a leader in energy production will increase and become even more important.
   I also liked the strong tone the president took when addressing the global war on terrorism. President Bush understands that he has to work with the new Congress in fighting Islamic extremism, and he is seeking cooperation. The entire Congress, I along with my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate, must work with the president and pursue policies that will lead to success in Iraq, protect our country and protect our brave men and women in our Armed Forces.
   I look forward to working in the U.S. Senate to address these new initiatives, and I am interested in hearing your thoughts on these issues. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 