SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR LAKE PONTCHARTRAIN BASIN RESTORATION ACT
  Sen. David Vitter on Monday, March 26, 2007, announced that the EPA - at Sen. David Vitter's urging - has directed $1.5 million in funding to Lake Pontchartrain restoration work. This funding was provided to the EPA as part of a larger lump sum in the 2007 appropriations continuing resolution.  
   "I have been working with EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson and others to recognize this need and allocate this funding," said Vitter. "Before Hurricane Katrina a great deal had been accomplished since the passage of the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Restoration Act, and this funding will ensure that the progress in cleaning up the lake can continue." 
   Vitter's Lake Pontchartrain Basin Restoration Act granted Lake Pontchartrain the same status as the Great Lakes and Florida Everglades restoration efforts. This legislation also created a partnership between the federal government and local stakeholders to further clean up the lake. 
   "The Pontchartrain Restoration Program is more important than ever. The good news after Katrina is that Lake Pontchartrain's water quality recovered rapidly. The bad news is that the storm devastated much of our coast and its natural lines of defense against storm surges like Barrier Island, marsh land bridges and coastal ridges. Levees alone are not enough, New Orleans and the region require a strong coast for hurricane protection. The PRP is helping provide guidance to restore our coastal lines of defense. This is a necessity to make New Orleans and southeast Louisiana truly sustainable again," said Carlton Dufrechou, executive director of the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Foundation. 
   This decision by the EPA to allocate funding to this important work will provide the means for the Lake Ponchartrain Basin Restoration Act programs to continue. 
   "The Pontchartrain Restoration Program encompasses 16 parishes in south Louisiana, and this funding will not only help restore one of our nation's estuary treasures, it will also help local communities address the water infrastructure problems facing those16 parishes," added Vitter.
 
 