PROTECTING OUR CHILDREN
  Vitter's View: Protecting Our Children 
   April is National Child Abuse Prevention Month. Nothing is more important to Wendy and me than providing a safe and healthy environment for our children to grow up in, and this month is a good time for all of us to reflect on ways we can prevent child abuse and provide a better future for generations to come. 
   Our children are precious treasures, and we must work hard protect them from the potential dangers of our unpredictable world. Educators, coaches, spiritual leaders and family members also play an important role in providing a stable, loving environment for our children to thrive in. 
   I have worked hard for Louisiana families while serving in the U.S. Senate. Last Congress, I authored a provision in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that helps state attorneys general and state and local law enforcement track criminals after major disasters such as hurricanes Rita and Katrina. This new legislation revised the privacy law to allow FEMA and other related organizations to share any information they have on evacuees with law enforcement officials in order to identify illegal conduct, check for registered sex offenders and convicted felons and address other public safety concerns. After any major storm or disaster, criminals such as sex offenders scatter to new communities, and our law enforcement must be informed about any potential threats to public safety.
   I also supported the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, which passed into law in July 2006. The Adam Walsh Act was created to protect our children from sexual predators by establishing a national sex offender registry, strengthening penalties for crimes against children and enhancing federal resources needed to combat child crimes. 
   This Congress, new legislation that been introduced called the "Protecting Children in the 21st Century Act." It would require schools and libraries to prohibit child access to chat rooms and pornography via the Internet, prevent sexually explicit websites from displaying this content on the first page and require these websites to display warnings on every page thereafter with an exemption for password-protected web pages. I plan to use my position on the U.S. Senate Commerce Committee to actively follow this bill. I have also been in contact with the U.S. Department of Justice and local law enforcement regarding how I can help provide them with the tools that they need to capture and prosecute sexual predators who threaten our children.
   Children are vulnerable, and we need to do all we can to protect them. As your U.S. Senator, I will continue to fight for important legislation that helps keep our children safe. 
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on child safety. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or at my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 