PRESCRIPTION DRUG SAFETY
  Lowering the cost of prescription drugs for Louisiana's families is a priority of mine, and has been even before my days in the U.S. Senate. I believe that reimporting safe prescription drugs will help increase our access to cheaper prescription medicines. In fact, the first bill I introduced in the U.S. Senate was the Pharmaceutical Market Access Act, a bill to allow reimportation and put affordable prescription drugs within the reach of all Americans.
   Step by step we are making important advances in making reimportation - and cheaper prices for prescription medicines - a reality. One positive step we made last fall was the passage of my amendment to ensure that the U.S. Congress can pass a law to allow the importation of patented U.S. prescription drugs without violating current and future trade agreements.  
   Many of the big drug companies cite safety concerns as a reason not to move further toward reimportation of prescription drugs. I recently introduced the Reducing Fraudulent and Imitation Drugs (RFID) Act, which is aimed at preventing counterfeiting prescription drugs through anti-counterfeiting technology. This legislation addresses many safety concerns and would move us even closer toward having access to more affordable drugs through reimportation.
   This legislation directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to require manufacturers to use counterfeit-resistant technologies in the packaging of prescription drugs. Such required technologies include radio frequency identification tagging technology or a similar track-and-trace technology. Track and tracing technology will allow packages to be inspected throughout the supply chain to determine a shipment's authenticity. In addition, the bill requires tamper-indicating technologies and blister security packaging when possible, such as shrink wrap, blister packs, package labels, package seals, bottles and boxes.
   These technologies will make it more difficult to counterfeit prescription drugs and will help verify the pedigree of a prescription drug by implementing inventory control, tracking and tracing prescription drugs, verifying shipment or receipt of prescription drugs and authenticating finished prescription drugs.
   With advances in technology come the need to ensure we are protecting privacy, and rightfully so. As a result, the RFID Act includes extra measures to ensure consumers' privacy. In fact, the required technologies will be used exclusively to authenticate a prescription drug and are strictly prohibited from containing or transmitting any personal information that may identify a health care practitioner or consumer.
   Along with anti-counterfeiting technology to protect consumers from counterfeit prescription drugs, the bill requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to publish a list of prescription drugs that are most often subject to counterfeiting in the United States. The prescription drugs that are more susceptible to counterfeiting would be required to implement the track-and-trace technology first, but these safeguards would be in place by the end of 2010 for all prescription drugs.
   This bill has also been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by U.S. Reps. Gil Gutknecht of Minnesota and Dan Burton of Indiana, who have both been leaders in the U.S. House on the drug reimportation issue. Passage of this bill would bring us another step closer to having prescription drug reimportation and reducing the price Louisiana families pay for prescription drugs. I will continue to push this issue in the U.S. Senate until prescription drug reimportation is a reality.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on additional ways that we can make prescription drugs more affordable. Please contact me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 