SEN. VITTER REMOVES HOLD ON CORPS NOMINEE
  Sen. David Vitter today announced that has officially removed his hold on the nomination of Army Corps of Engineers Chief Engineer Nominee Lieutenant General Robert L. Van Antwerp, Jr. After Van Antwerp's U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works nomination hearing, Sen. David Vitter sent Van Antwerp additional questions and concerns in writing.  
   "Following Lt. Gen. Van Antwerp's EPW nomination hearing, I had some reservations about whether he truly understood and was committed to solving the enormous challenges facing the Corps in south Louisiana, so before I lifted my hold I wanted further information," said Vitter. 
   Vitter submitted an official letter with additional questions for Van Antwerp on April 24, 2007, and received Van Antwerp's reply on April 26, 2007. Copies of both letters are attached to this release.
   "I found his answers to my questions very assuring. Specifically, I was encouraged to hear him commit to the full 100 year level of protection, express support for the Morganza project and support the closure of MRGO. Most important, Lt. Gen. Van Antwerp expressed support for my plan to expedite and streamline the approval process for important coastal restoration and protection projects," added Vitter.
   Van Antwerp has committed to make a trip to south Louisiana as his first official field visit as Chief of Engineers prior to hurricane season. He has also agreed to review the current command framework of the New Orleans district and division to ensure that we have an effective organizational structure through this intense period of the year.
   "Without the confirmation of General Van Antwerp, the Corps will be left leaderless as it enters the 2007 hurricane season. I hope that he receives quick Senate approval and gets settled at the Corps before hurricane season begins on June 1st," Vitter said. 
   The current Chief of Engineers, Lieutenant General Carl Strock, will step down on May 17th. The official hurricane season begin June 1st.
 
 