PROMOTING OUR SHARED LOUISIANA VALUES
  A prominent Louisiana value is the value for life. I firmly believe that all human life is sacred and that life begins at conception, which is why I have always been adamant in my support of pro-life and pro-family measures. And as a father of four, I will continue to work hard in Congress and with President Bush to advance a culture of life, including banning partial-birth abortions, outlawing abortion drugs, fighting against taxpayer funding of abortions and strongly supporting adoption and crisis pregnancy centers. 
   On this front, I recently introduced a bill, the "Title X Family Planning Act," which would prohibit the distribution of taxpayer dollars, through Title X family planning funds, to those that provide abortions.
   In 1970, Congress enacted Title X of the Public Health Service Act, which is a program designed to make contraceptive supplies and family panning services available to those unable to afford them without government assistance. Originally, family planning services were not allowed to include abortions, and currently, federal dollars cannot directly fund abortions.
   When Title X funds go to clinics that perform abortions, even though the money cannot directly fund abortions, it is being used to indirectly facilitate abortions. As an example, abortion providers are using Title X funding to offset operational costs, which frees them to use monies that would otherwise pay for operational costs, for funding abortion.
   My bill would restore the original intent of Title X by prohibiting the distribution of Title X family planning money to grantees that perform abortions and to grantees whose subgrantees perform abortions, unless a physician certifies that the abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother. The bill specifically exempts hospitals, so a hospital's level of federal funding would not be affected.
   The rationale behind this bill is simple: when abortion is so divisive an issue, when so many Americans have grave moral reservations about it, why should we sustain and underwrite private abortion providers with taxpayer funds?
   The Title X Family Planning Act denies no one family planning services. In every locality where a private abortion provider is receiving Title X funds, there are alternative sources for family planning services, including both public and private agencies that do not offer abortions. 
   This bill does not cut one penny from family planning funds, rather it ensures those funds are used for actual family planning services. It does not infringe upon the right to free speech. In fact, it does not contain language regarding counseling, advocacy, information or expression.
   What this bill does is prevent our federal tax dollars from going to abortion providers, when so many Louisianians and Americans oppose it. 
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on how Congress can further advance a culture of life in America. Please contact me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 