SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT ON WRDA BILL
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today announced a final agreement has been reached on the House-Senate legislative conference negotiations for key Louisiana provisions in the Water Resources Development Act. As a member of the U.S. Senate's Environment and Public Works Committee and as U.S. Senate negotiator for the House-Senate legislative conference on the bill, Vitter worked to secure these critical priorities for Louisiana in the legislation.
   "This conference report, when signed into law, will pave the way for major improvements in hurricane and flood protection projects for Louisiana. It closes and restores MRGO, authorizes the full 100-year level of protection for the greater New Orleans area, expedites the authorization process for up to category 5 hurricane protection for all of south Louisiana and initiates comprehensive coastal restoration for our state," said Vitter. 
   The final WRDA agreement will include Vitter's proposed Louisiana Water Resources Council comprised of independent experts to peer-review all Army Corps of Engineers planning and engineering. It also creates an integration team to analyze construction plans and ensure efficient and cost-effective implementation and proper project performance.
   "Hurricanes Katrina and Rita reinforced how important integration, prevention and getting it right the first time can be to avoiding disastrous flooding and storm damage," said Vitter.
   The Louisiana Coastal Area provisions in WRDA represent the first comprehensive restoration program for coastal Louisiana, establish a science and technology program of at least $100 million, require consistency and integration in all of the programs and ensure that they work together.
   "We're losing a football field every 38 minutes and lost 217 squares miles of coastal wetlands and land in merely two days - the days that Hurricanes Katrina and Rita hit our coast," added Vitter. "These LCA provisions authorize 16 coastal restoration and protection projects in south Louisiana totaling billions of dollars and lay the groundwork to continue the long-term efforts to save and protect Louisiana's coast." 
   The WRDA conference report also authorizes nearly $900 million for the Morganza to the Gulf hurricane protection project. This authorization builds upon the $30 million Vitter provided in the recent Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill and approves construction of 72 miles of levees, 12 floodgates, 12 water control structures and the lock on the Houma Navigation Canal.
   Other important provisions Vitter secured in the final WRDA agreement to strengthen south Louisiana's coastal, flood and hurricane protection, include:
   * $90 million in improvements to the hurricane protection system in Lafourche Parish 
   * $100 million for hurricane protection in Jean Lafitte and lower Jefferson Parish 
   * Language to require the Corps of Engineers to expedite work on the Inner Harbor Navigation Canal lock project. 
   Negotiators also agreed on an expedited authorization process for future hurricane protection and coastal restoration projects to be authorized in the U.S. Senate through the category 5 study to be released in December. 
   "Prior to the provisions in this agreement, a mechanism to address pressing protection needs with flexibility and expedited authority did not exist. This conference agreement lays a foundation for future hurricane, coastal and flood protection measures," said Vitter. 
   The conferees also agreed to retain Vitter's MRGO amendment, which requires the closure of the MRGO, restoration of the lost wetlands and improvements to prevent storm surge from reaching St. Bernard and Orleans parishes. 
   "As a Senate negotiator on this legislation, I pushed extremely hard to ensure that the Louisiana provisions in the Senate bill remained, and we were actually able to negotiate additional important projects on top of those already approved by the Senate," said Vitter. "We also succeeded in removing harmful provisions threatening the health of Lake Pontchartrain and holding hostage billions of dollars in coastal and hurricane protection work in our state for the out of date Bonnet Carre diversion."
   Vitter was one of 11 of U.S. Senate conferees on WRDA. He was joined by Sens. Boxer, Inhofe, Baucus, Isakson, Lieberman, Carper, Clinton, Lautenberg, Warner and Voinovich as well as U.S. Rep. Richard Baker as conferees on this important legislation. 
   The final WRDA agreement could receive a vote as early as next week.
 
 