PROTECTING HUMAN LIFE
  Recently a bill came before the U.S. Senate that would have allowed the federal funding of research that requires the killing of human embryos. As a committed pro-life advocate, I strongly opposed this legislation and supported President Bush as he vetoed it. At a time when many Americans believe that killing human embryos is immoral, I do not believe that the federal government should use taxpayer money to fund research that would do so. 
   I have always fought to preserve the sanctity of human life; and a human embryo, while in the initial stages, is still a human life. Neither Congress, nor independent researchers, nor any other human being should be allowed to play God by determining that one life is inherently more valuable than another.
   Supporters of embryonic stem cell research argue that this research only kills human embryos that will be discarded anyway. But there are many cases where families have adopted or given birth to children from frozen embryos. These beautiful children are referred to as 'snowflake babies' because they came from frozen embryos and each is a unique child. 
   In addition, adult stem cell research shows far more medical potential than embryonic stem cells ever have. Adult stem cells have been used to perform at least 72 successful treatments for disorders and diseases, such as brain cancer, ovarian cancer, Parkinson's disease, stroke damage and sickle cell anemia. For example, researchers have shown that patients suffering from chronic heart failure have experienced significant improvement when the patient's adult stem cells are added along with bypass surgery. Congress should not consider funding embryonic stem cell research when so many Americans have serious moral issues with killing one life for another and when we have no evidence that embryonic stem cells can successfully treat human patients. 
   The bottom line is that taxpayers should not have to fund the destruction of human embryos when alternative and more successful methods of research exist. I believe we can develop a common sense policy that will meet the delicate balance between the need for advanced medical research and the need to respect human life, without compromising our values. I know there is great medical potential in stem cell research, and I believe scientists can find alternative methods of research without feeling pressure to compromise the moral values they hold so dear. 
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on stem cell research. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   To view my specch on the Senate floor on stem cell research visit http://recap.fednet.net/archive/Buildasx.asp?sProxy=80_sflr071806_015.wmv,80_sflr071806_016.wmv,80_sflr071806_017.wmv&sTime=00:03:24.0&eTime=00:02:58&duration=00:09:35.0&UserName=senvitterla&sExpire=1.
 
 