SEN. VITTER HIGHLIGHTS BARKSDALE AIR FORCE BASE'S EMERGING NATIONAL SECURITY ROLES
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today traveled throughout Northwest Louisiana on a tour that highlighted Barksdale Air Force Base and its significant roles in national security. Vitter praised the "Fly and Fight in Cyberspace Symposium," beginning Wednesday and continuing into Thursday at the Shreveport Convention Center. Civilians, military personnel and representatives from industries and business related to cyberspace were in attendance as were a number of schools and universities from throughout the country. Vitter introduced keynote speaker Lt. Gen. Elder, Commander of the 8th Air Force at Barksdale Air Force Base, who addressed the attendees on the Air Force's cyber operations efforts and their impact on national security. 
   "This is an important event that showcases Louisiana's strengths in this area," said Vitter. "The 8th Air Force, here at Barksdale Air Force Base, is leading the way in cyber operations, an emerging realm that is of great importance to our national security. As our enemies get smarter, we face new threats from within our borders and throughout the rest of the world. A terrorist with the right tools and skillset could infiltrate our internal databases and gain access to our security secrets and key internal procedures. This symposium highlights the steps that are being taken to address these threats and secure our vital infrastructure."
   The Cyberspace Symposium is sponsored by several entities involved in the creation of the Air Force's first Cyberspace Command, temporarily housed at Barksdale Air Force Base. More than 1,500 attendees were expected at the event, including a representative from the Estonian Ministry of Defense who was invited to address Estonia's recent response to a cyber-attack initiated by Russian hackers angered by Estonia's removal of a Soviet war memorial from the capital city of Tallinn.
   "The Cyberspace Symposium brought together nationally recognized experts from multiple areas and industries related to the realm of cyberspace. I am pleased that Northwest Louisiana was able to serve as host of this event, and I am particularly proud of Barksdale's efforts as a leader of this important movement. I have been working closely with Air Force officials to make the basing of the Cyberspace Command at Barksdale permanent, and I will continue to do all that I can to keep the command here in Louisiana," Vitter said.
   The 8th Air Force and the Cyber Innovation Center were two of the sponsors for the symposium. Vitter recently worked with U.S. Rep. Jim McCrery to secure $4 million in funding for the Cyber Innovation Center in the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, which was signed into law earlier this month. The center will serve as a hub for businesses, education and training relevant to the Cyberspace Command.
   As part of his tour throughout the region, Vitter also attended the opening of a new operations building at the Air Force Reserve's 93rd bomb squadron. The $4.8 million, 20-thousand-square-foot facility will support the Air Force Reserve's only B-52 bomber squadron which is stationed at Barksdale. While serving as a House-Senate negotiator on the Military Construction Appropriations conference committee, Vitter held the funding for this facility in place for its final approval.
   "I was very pleased to help celebrate the new addition to the 93rd Bomb Squadron's facilities," Vitter said. "We are very proud of our military units and their service to our nation, and Northwest Louisiana ? and Barksdale Air Force base in particular ? play key roles in our national security."
   Vitter also stopped at the Arc of Caddo-Bossier and Goodwill Industries of Northwest Louisiana today and received a tour of their facilities. During his visit, Vitter met with staff members at these organizations and praised their efforts to assist local communities.
 
 