SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR NATCHITOCHES AREA IN SENATE INTERIOR & ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. David Vitter announces that the Senate Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which passed out of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee today, includes $2.7 million in federal funding for Natchitoches area groups. The National Center for Preservation Technology and Training received $1.9 million, and the Cane River National Heritage Area received $800,000 for continuing preservation and conservation efforts. 
   "The Senate recognizes the importance of these projects to Louisiana and to our nation," said Vitter. "The National Center for Preservation Technology and Training and the Cane River National Heritage Area each do an outstanding job to preserve our resources and improve the quality of life in the Natchitoches area."
   The NCPTT received $1.9 million in federal funding to increase its preservation research and technology for the National Park Service. The center was created in 1992 to develop and distribute skills and technologies that enhance preservation, conservation and interpretation of prehistoric and historic resources across the United States. 
   The Cane River National Heritage Area in northwestern Louisiana partners with more than 40 local, state and federal entities to assist in the preservation and enhancement of the cultural landscape and traditions of the Cane River Region. Designated by Congress in 1994, the Cane River National Heritage Area works to complement the Cane River Creole National Historical Park and to improve the quality of life of current residents by increasing economic benefits through promotion of the heritage area. This $800,000 in funding will go toward operations, projects and programming costs.
   "While committee passage is only the first step in the legislative process, it is an important one for securing funding for this project," Vitter said. "I will continue to work with my colleagues to help keep this federal funding in the final bill."
   The Senate Interior Appropriations Bill is expected to move to the Senate floor for a vote later this year.
 
 