SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $250 MILLION IN FEDERAL OFFSHORE REVENUE ALLOCATIONS
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today announced that more than $250 million in offshore energy revenues has been allocated to Louisiana as part of the Department of the Interior's first expenditures through the Coastal Impact Assistance Program. Of that amount, 35 percent goes to the coastal parishes for critical flood, restoration and infrastructure projects. 
   "I was excited to hear the news from Secretary Kempthorne when he called me about the planned allocations," said Vitter. "This funding is a great down payment for critical water and coastal infrastructure projects in our coastal regions."
   Vitter worked with other energy producing states to include the Coastal Impact Assistance Program in the 2005 Energy Bill to help ensure that coastal regions of Louisiana received revenues from offshore drilling leases. This funding is specifically designated for coastal restoration, flood protection, storm surge prevention and other critical infrastructure projects. Department of the Interior Secretary Kempthorne's approval is the first allocation under the new law. It provides Louisiana with more than $125 million a year in offshore revenue allocations for a four year period. The Department of the Interior's approval includes the first two years of funding.
   "With the provisions I included in WRDA, the state can actually use these federally allocated revenues to pay their share of the cost to fund the critical coastal, hurricane and flood protection projects in these coastal regions - saving the state considerable amounts of money and providing the cash on hand necessary to begin work much sooner," added Vitter. "This is just one of the many vastly important provisions that were enacted when WRDA became law."
   Vitter's CIAP provision in the Water Resources Development Act, which is now law, enabled the state of Louisiana to use these federally allocated revenues to meet its share of the cost required to fund the water infrastructure projects authorized in the legislation. Therefore, the state has the ability to use federal dollars to meet these requirements instead of using money from the state treasury.
   Vitter joined the rest of the Louisiana delegation in pushing the Outer Continental Shelf legislation through Congress last year and led the delegation in this year's charge to pass WRDA.
 
 