KEEPING COMMUNITIES SAFE AFTER NATURAL DISASTERS
  In the wake of hurricanes Rita and Katrina, Louisianans were displaced all over the country. Sadly, some of those displaced by the hurricanes were criminals and threats to public safety. As we continue to locate and reunite Louisiana residents scattered throughout the United States, we should ensure that all necessary law enforcement officials have the ability to find and apprehend these displaced criminals.  
   It was brought to my attention by Caddo Parish Sheriff Steve Prator that FEMA and other relief organizations were not initially cooperating with federal, state and local authorities in sharing information about potential public safety threats because of overly restrictive privacy laws. I thought it was ridiculous that he and others had such difficulty in obtaining information from FEMA on evacuees living in their parishes after the hurricanes. FEMA's nonsensical, bureaucratic roadblocks were impeding their ability to maintain public safety and protect the children of their parishes. 
   As part of my pursuit to reform the inept bureaucracy of FEMA, I added a provision to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that helps state attorneys general and state and local law enforcement track criminals after major disasters like hurricanes Rita and Katrina. This new legislation revises the current privacy law to allow FEMA and other related organizations to share any information they have on evacuees with law enforcement officials in order to identify illegal conduct and address public security. 
   Originally, I proposed a bill that allowed FEMA and other federally-funded relief organizations to cooperate with state law enforcement and ensure full compliance with state and federal sex offender notification and registration laws. FEMA databases could have helped Louisiana officials find and register the 354 sex offenders who failed to update their registration after the hurricanes. Because of these restrictive privacy statutes, many of these criminal elements were able to sneak into communities undetected.
   In the final version of the Homeland Security bill that was sent to the president, the scope of my legislation was expanded from sex offenders to include more public threats - including parole violators, escaped convicts and wanted criminals. This important change will further assist our law enforcement in tracking and detaining threats to public safety and security. 
   We owe it to our children - and to communities around the Gulf Coast that welcomed many evacuees into their neighborhoods - to make sure that sex offenders and other criminals cannot benefit from the chaos that follows a disaster of the magnitude of hurricanes Rita and Katrina. 
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 