FUELING THE ECONOMY
  Vitter's View: Fueling the Economy 
   Small businesses are the backbone of Louisiana's and America's economy. I make it a point to visit as many small businesses as possible when I'm home traveling through the state to hear what's on the minds of our local entrepreneurs and workers. 
   In order to prosper in the twenty-first century, Louisiana must have a successful, growing small business community, and that's why I am so focused on efforts to help our small businesses. I have fought to end the death tax - a tax that robs too many family farms and small businesses of the great American dream of passing on their business to their children. And I am working to reform regulations and enact programs that help small businesses deal with expensive, bureaucratic government regulations. 
   Recently, the U.S. Senate debated a bill that would increase the federal minimum wage. I introduced two amendments to the bill to help small businesses grow. 
   My first amendment would grant relief to small businesses for first-time violations of an agency's paperwork requirements. At times, businesses can make unintentional mistakes when filing the vast number of different paperwork requirements that federal agencies require. The Environmental Protection Agency, Army Corps of Engineers, Coast Guard, Small Business Administration, Department of Labor, IRS, and Customs, just to name a few, all have certain paperwork requirements. The compounded effect of all these levels of regulation can be suffocating to the entrepreneurial spirit of small business owners. My amendment would give those small businesses a second chance to correct first-time errors in their paperwork, as long as their error did not affect public health or safety. 
   My second amendment would allow small businesses to band together to purchase health insurance for their employees. The high cost of buying health insurance for employees is too stifling for small businesses to get decently-priced health care coverage for their employees, and as a result, many small businesses cannot afford health insurance for their employees. My amendment would establish a framework and process for small businesses to pool together to form groups helping them afford health insurance for their employees. 
   I am disappointed to say that we were not able to vote on my two amendments, but the bill will be returning to the U.S. Senate for further debate, and I am hopeful that at that time my two amendments will be given consideration. Small businesses are crucial to our economy so we must continue to support and encourage their growth. It is time for Congress to take a serious look at the problems they are facing and help them grow jobs and our economy.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on all issues. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 