WORKING TO SUPPORT LOUISIANA WOMEN AND FAMILIES
  Vitter's View: Working to Support Louisiana Women and Families
   March is Women's History Month so it is a good time to reflect on the importance of women and families, especially in Louisiana. Growing up with two sisters and now raising three daughters, it is clear to me that women are going to play a huge role in shaping Louisiana's future. 
   One way I reach out to women and their families is through my annual Women's Leadership Forum, which I host with my wife, Wendy. Going back to my service in the U.S. House of Representatives, we have hosted these forums focused on the issues important to Louisiana women and their views and needs. 
   Past forums have given me invaluable input on education, health care and other key issues for Louisiana families. And I always welcome feedback about initiatives women want me to address in the U.S. Senate as well as specific work we can pursue together in the community. 
   In regards to health care, I recognize that there are diseases that are more prevalent among women like heart disease, colorectal cancer, Alzheimer's disease and, of course, breast cancer. My family, like many Louisiana families, is all too familiar with the devastating disease of breast cancer, which is why I have supported crucial legislation to ensure genetic nondiscrimination, access to cancer therapies and research tools to understanding the environmental causes of cancer. 
   I have also worked to promote entrepreneurship among women, especially after the devastating effects Hurricanes Katrina and Rita had on Louisiana's economy. Women play an instrumental role in Louisiana's economy and small business community, and I am committed to standing alongside the entrepreneurial women of Louisiana to assist them in their energetic advance. 
   In the month of March, I hope that you will remember the women who have made Louisiana a better place. Women like Lindy Boggs from New Orleans who was the first woman to represent Louisiana in the U.S. House of Representatives and who dedicated her life to public service as an eight-term congresswoman and an ambassador. And Sherian Grace Cadoria from Marksville, a decorated Brigadier General who, at the time of her retirement in 1990, was the highest ranking African American woman in the United States Armed Forces and one of only four female Army generals. As women continue to play an important role in Louisiana's future, March is a good time to thank those women who make a difference in your life.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on all issues. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 