SEN. VITTER AMENDMENTS INCLUDED IN HURRICANE EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL BILL
  Sen. David Vitter today announced that he secured passage of three amendments in the U.S. Senate hurricane emergency supplemental bill. 
   "Including these amendments in the hurricane emergency supplemental bill will help our recovery from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. These amendments will be a tremendous help to local governments that are struggling to rebuild tax revenues, small business owners that are having trouble getting contracts and fisheries that are still trying to recover from the storms," said Vitter. 
   Vitter's first amendment deals with Community Disaster Loans (CDL). Currently, CDL assistance is capped at 25 percent of a local government's annual revenue. Given the catastrophic damages to local government tax revenue, 25 percent is not enough to keep many local governments up and running. The amendment will increase the cap to 50 percent for local governments that have lost more than 25 percent of their tax revenue. This formula change will allow the city of New Orleans, as well as neighboring governments in St. Tammany, St. Bernard, Jefferson, Cameron and Plaquemines parishes, to gain access to loans required to keep local government running into the foreseeable future while tax revenue regenerates.
   Vitter's second amendment would help encourage more federal contracting opportunities for small businesses by declaring areas affected by Hurricanes Katrina or Rita as a Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone). Also, it would waive the Competitive Demonstration Program Act for the area. By waiving this program, small businesses will be able to receive more federal construction contracts, helping agencies better reach small business contracting goals.
   The hurricane emergency supplemental includes $100 million for direct assistance to fisherman for cleanup activities and facility repair. Vitter's amendment allows a portion of these funds to be used for vessel repair.
   "We are another step closer to making these crucial amendments a reality. I look forward to working with the Senate leadership to pass this important hurricane supplemental this week," said Vitter.
 
 