FINISHING I-49
  Vitter's View: Finishing I-49 
   Our highway infrastructure is vitally important to our economy and our day to day lives. Shipping trucks, commuter travel and shopping access are just a few examples of the importance our highway and interstate system has in daily life. If a truck shipment does not make it to a store on time, grocery and merchandise prices, as well as sales, could be greatly affected. And this has an immediate impact on us - the consumers. 
  When the U.S. Congress passed a highway bill that provides much-needed funding to improve our highway system in this country, I fought for critical federal funding and authority to finish I-49. The completion of I-49 will provide a major transportation corridor connecting Mid-America and Canada to the deep-water ports of Louisiana. 
   A key part of this broader project is the I-49 Northern extension from Shreveport to the Arkansas state line. I-49 North is critically important not only for Northwest Louisiana but for Louisiana as a whole. It will have a great impact on the economic activities of thousands of businesses and organizations across Louisiana and will bring jobs and opportunities to our state for decades to come. 
   Because of the importance of I-49 North, I made it a priority when the final version of the bill was being drafted, and I personally worked with U.S. Rep. Jim McCrery to secure $200 million specifically for completion of I-49 North. We also secured the highest level ever of federal formula funds for Louisiana, which will bring in another $2.9 billion for the state over the next five years. Additionally, I-49 was designated a "high-priority corridor" by the Federal Highway Administration, which opens the project up for even further federal funding. 
   This funding creates a great opportunity to make substantial progress toward finishing I-49 North. I have encouraged the state to move forward with improvements quickly so we can capitalize on the important impact I-49 has on our economy and highway system in general, and I will continue working with local, state and federal leaders to complete this vital project. We need to make full completion of I-49 a reality sooner rather than later so that Louisiana can benefit from the improvements it will bring. 
   Please let me know your thoughts on this issue or other issues important to you by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov. 
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 