SEN. VITTER TO UNVEIL LEGISLATION TO HELP RESTORE LOUISIANA'S COAST
  Today, Sen. David Vitter unveiled a comprehensive package of legislation to save Louisiana's coast. The five-bill package "COAST" creates a framework for completing the near-term plan of the Louisiana Coastal Area (LCA) study and uses this framework to continue coastal restoration efforts by making more federal resources available to Louisiana. 
   "Louisiana loses a football field of land every 38 minutes - and the clock never stops ticking," said Vitter. "This isn't another study; it's an action plan to build on our successes and move forward. These five different, specific bills address the challenge of coastal erosion in a detailed, comprehensive way."
   The five bills in the COAST plan are as follows:
   The Comprehensive Ecosystem and Security Enhancement (CEASE) Act provides a solid state-federal framework for the implementation of a long-term, multi-billion dollar plan to restore Louisiana's coast, including by authorizing up to $1.9 billion in federal funds to implement coastal restoration activities over the next few years. Enacting this bill is necessary to ensure that future funds appropriated by Congress for coastal restoration in Louisiana or those obtained from energy royalties are spent according to a cost-effective, coordinated, comprehensive plan.
   The Offshore Fairness Act (OFA) would correct an injustice in current law by making the seaward lateral boundaries of the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama - currently at about three geographical miles - equal to those of Florida and Texas - at about nine geographical miles. 
   The Alternative Energy Enhancement (AEE) Act has two purposes. The first is to encourage alternative uses of our federal offshore waters. The second is to set up a royalty-sharing mechanism by which states, such as Louisiana, would receive a new source of revenue associated with offshore alternative energy production.
   The Secure Energy Reinvestment Fund (SERF) will provide for more equitable revenue sharing of offshore oil and gas royalties. If this bill is enacted, the federal government would have to return a larger percentage of the royalties derived from offshore oil and gas production to offshore energy-producing states, such as Louisiana.
   Together - Immediately Defeating Erosion (TIDE) Act also has duel goals. First, the bill authorizes up to $800 million in additional funding for the full participation of the federal resource agencies to contribute to the restoration of coastal Louisiana. Second, the bill provides the authority needed to ensure there is maximum coordination and sharing of resources between the agencies involved in this restoration.
   "I have carefully put together this action plan to avoid past pitfalls that kept legislative solutions for saving Louisiana's coast from passing, and through the my service on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, and the Senate Commerce Committee, I'll work to shepherd these bills through," said Vitter. "This is a crucial issue to Louisiana, and to the nation.".
 
 