SEN. VITTER INTRODUCES MILITARY RECRUITERS BILL
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today introduced legislation that would strengthen the law pertaining to military recruiters and their access to the basic contact information of students. Vitter authored the original provision in the No Child Left Behind Act, which the president signed into law in 2002. 
   "If our high schools allow businesses, colleges and other organizations access to schools for recruitment, why should we not allow our armed forces that same access?" said Vitter. "The military offers employment, training and education to students who, without access to recruiters, would not be aware of such opportunities." 
   Current law requires any high school that receives federal funds to provide military recruiters the same access to the school campus that is provided to businesses and institutions of higher education. 
   "My bill further clarifies a parent's right and authority to choose whether to opt-out their child from the recruitment measures, ending campaigns by activists who try to supersede or go around a parent's authority," Vitter said. 
   Vitter's new bill further clarifies how or when a student can choose to opt-out and make their basic contact information unavailable to military recruiters. The current law requires schools to notify parents of their right to opt-out of the program. Parents who choose to opt their student out are required to make a written request that their child's contact information not be released to military recruiters. This bill preserves and strengthens current opt out protections by clearly defining parental authority, further clarifying the opt-out process and addressing violations to the law. 
   "The secretary of education is the best suited official to work with school districts in the event of a violation or dispute," added Vitter. "My bill enables the Department of Education to help facilitate these matters - freeing up the Department of Defense from these lengthy consultation process."
   Also in the bill is a provision that strikes the redundant and lengthy process required by the secretary of defense when school districts violate the law. Vitter's bill would enable the Department of Education to address this law violation with the school district and adds that the Department of Education must notify the government of violations in coordination with the state's governor - completely refocusing the authority away the Department of Defense. 
   "Our talented and intelligent young people are the backbone of our armed forces. And in an increasingly technology-driven military, the very brightest minds and most talented individuals are helping our country meet the dangerous and evolving security threats we face," added Vitter.
   Vitter's legislation has received strong support from the Pentagon.
 
 