ENFORCING IMMIGRATION LAWS
  Along with many other Louisianians, I am proud to be the descendent of immigrants to this country. Both my mother's and father's parents came to the United States from Europe. But as the descendent of legal immigrants, I believe failure to enforce immigration laws is offensive to both U.S. citizens and to those immigrants who have followed legal channels to come to the United States.
   At my recent town hall meetings across Louisiana I heard from many constituents who, like the majority of Americans, support stronger enforcement of our immigration laws. As the debate over immigration reform continues in the U.S. Congress, we must remember that enforcement of our current laws is an essential part of broad immigration reform. 
   Enforcing our laws is critical to our democratic form of government, because without proper enforcement, written laws mean nothing. Failure to enforce these laws has allowed at least 10 to 12 million illegal aliens to live and work in the United States.
   Adequate border security and enforcement of our immigration laws are essential to our national security, and are especially important following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Studies have shown that 15 of the 19 hijackers from 9/11 should have been denied visas, and at least three of them overstayed their visas. Clearly, lax border security and the failure to adequately enforce our immigration laws contributed to this tragedy. As we continue to wage the War on Terror, it is even more important that we control our borders and enforce our immigration laws.
   Some may argue that all who illegally cross our borders are not terrorists plotting to kill thousands of American citizens; however, the number of criminal aliens in the United States is startling. A government report from April 2005 shows the number of criminal aliens that are in jail in the United States increased by 15 percent from 2001 to 2004. These criminal aliens make up about 27 percent of all federal prisoners. The estimated cost to taxpayers to keep criminal aliens in prison was about $1.2 billion in 2004 alone.
   As you can see, illegal immigration costs our taxpayers an enormous amount of money. Only strong enforcement can put an end to the growing cost associated with criminal aliens. In addition to the financial costs, criminal aliens are straining our court system. There are an estimated 85,000 criminal aliens walking the streets of this country, many of whom are not detained until deportation. They are simply released with a notice to appear in court on a certain date. However, as you can imagine, between 70 and 90 percent do not show up for their court date.
   These examples highlight the need for comprehensive enforcement, which includes both border security and enforcement of immigration laws within the United States. We must be able to both secure our borders and enforce current immigration laws before we even begin to talk about enacting any type of guest worker program. How can we expect a new program to work when we do not enforce our existing immigration laws? We must make securing our borders and stopping the flow of illegal immigrants into our country our principal focus.
   The U.S. Senate is considering a border security bill proposed by U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and supported by U.S. Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts. I oppose this bill and believe we need legislation that has strong enforcement provisions, such as increased Border Patrol Agents, a strategic border fence and increased worksite enforcement. I think improving enforcement should be the starting point for a debate on comprehensive enforcement of current immigration laws.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts as we consider stronger enforcement of our current immigration laws and reforms to immigration policy. Please contact me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 