SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES HURRICANE RITA RESOLUTION ON SIX MONTH ANNIVERSARY
  Sen. David Vitter today announced the U.S. Senate's passage of his resolution recognizing the victims of Hurricane Rita six months after the disaster, commending the resiliency of the people of southwest Louisiana and committing to stand by them in their relief and rebuilding efforts. 
   "Last week marked the six month anniversary of Hurricane Rita's wrath on southwest Louisiana. We can't let Washington forget how Hurricane Rita destroyed Louisiana's coast," said Vitter. "To help prevent 'Rita amnesia,' I wanted to bring this resolution to the floor of the Senate and remind folks here in Washington about our ongoing efforts to rebuild."
   Following is the text of the resolution:
   "Recognizing the victims of Hurricane Rita six months after the disaster, commending the resiliency of the people of Southwest Louisiana and Southeast Texas, and committing to stand by them in their relief and rebuilding efforts. 
   "Whereas, on September 24, 2005, Hurricane Rita reached landfall causing extensive and significant damage along the Louisiana and extreme southeastern Texas coasts;
   "Whereas Hurricane Rita was named the fourth-most-intense Atlantic Hurricane ever recorded and the most intense tropical cyclone observed in the Gulf of Mexico;
   "Whereas the storm caused the loss of power in 700,000 homes in the State of Louisiana;
   "Whereas the total damage is estimated at $9.4 billion, making Hurricane Rita the ninth-costliest storm in U.S. history;
   "Whereas the cost in human suffering is ongoing for thousands of people who have lost loved ones, homes, and livelihoods; 
   "Whereas immediate humanitarian aid is still critically needed in many of the areas affected by Hurricane Rita; 
   "Whereas federal, state, and local first responders, the National Guard, and many ordinary citizens have risked their lives to save others; 
   "Whereas the American Red Cross, the Salvation Army, local religious organizations, and other volunteer organizations and charities continue to supply victims with necessities; 
   "Whereas the State of Texas and numerous other States have welcomed thousands of victims from Louisiana and continue to provide them with aid and comfort; and
   "Whereas thousands of volunteers and government employees from across the Nation have committed time and resources to help with recovery efforts: Now, therefore, be it 
   "Resolved, That the Senate-
   (1) expresses the condolences of the Nation to the victims of Hurricane Rita;
   (2) recognizes the six month anniversary of the disaster;
   (3) commends the resiliency and courage of the people of the States of Louisiana and Texas; and
   (4) commits to provide the necessary resources and to stand by the people of the States of Louisiana and Texas in the relief, recovery, and rebuilding efforts in the areas impacted by Hurricane Rita."
 
 