REPUBLICAN SENATORS START CONVERSATION ON HEALTH CARE REFORM
  This week, U.S. Sen. David Vitter (R-La.) kicked off an eight-week initiative to discuss health care reform with a speech on the U.S. Senate floor. Vitter is part of a group of Republican freshmen senators who have joined together to discuss common-sense health care ideas that don't require big government intervention, like that proposed by the Democratic presidential candidates.
   U.S. Sens. John Thune (R-S.D.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), Jim DeMint (R-S.C.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) make up the rest of the group and will join Vitter in speaking on the U.S. Senate floor and in other activities over the next eight weeks to discuss health care reform and important, common-sense conservative proposals in the health care debate, including ways to address the rising overall cost of health care. 
   Vitter: "In this important presidential election year, all of the candidates will be discussing their ideas for addressing our health care challenges, but it will be our job in Congress to draft the legislation. While all of the pundits and media experts focus on universal and big government health care as the only possible solution, we will be speaking on the Senate floor and elsewhere to educate our colleagues and the American people about ways to reform health care without giving away personal choice, paying more in taxes or expanding and empowering an already inefficient, bloated government," said Vitter.
   Isakson: "Health care is on the minds of many Americans today, and Congress has a responsibility to address the issue. A lot of people talk about it, but I've seen very little action and no consensus. By bringing attention to this important issue, my colleagues and I are taking the first step in the right direction. As a member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, I am committed to enhancing our nation's health care by addressing the issues of cost, quality, coverage and accessibility. In finding a way forward on these issues, it is vital that we empower individuals to take charge of their own health care," Isakson said.
   DeMint: "I am proud to be a part of this group that is working to make health care affordable and accessible to all Americans. Bad tax policy, frivolous lawsuits, and government regulations are reducing access to care and drastically increasing health care costs. It's time for Republicans to draw a line in the sand. Our Democrat colleagues are intent on walking down the road to socialized medicine where rationing of health services, lack of access to modern medical technology, and government intervention in the doctor-patient relationship are commonplace. The time is now for Republicans to stand up and fight for every American to control their own health care decisions, not Washington."
   Burr: "I believe our goal should be to make sure that every American has access to quality health insurance. During this election season, we have seen a real contrast in the approach to health care policy. Instead of having the federal government control our health care decisions, we need to work to make health care affordable to individuals through tax reform and more consumer choice. The nation's health is too important to be left to Washington bureaucrats."
   Coburn: "The health care system in America is broken. Costs are rising at an unacceptable rate. Too many doctors are torn between practicing medicine and practicing insurance. The federal government continues to add excessive red tape and stifle competition. But although this system has major problems, it also has major potential. We have the best doctors in the world, the best scientists in the world and the best hospitals in the world. I'm pleased to work with this group to harness the power of individual freedom and the free market system to create the best health care system in the world. Advancing these common sense principles is the best way to avoid a government-run system that will ration care, limit choices and lower the quality of care for all Americans."
   Several of the participating members will be attending a kickoff event at the Heritage Foundation today at 2:00 p.m.
 
 