SEN. VITTER REQUESTS POWELL TO RESPOND TO LOUISIANA'S CONCERNS IMMEDIATELY
  Sen. David Vitter today sent a letter to Federal Recovery and Rebuild Chairman Don Powell requesting the Chairman to immediately address the Louisiana delegation's concerns over the additional $6 billion cost for levees and requests immediate release of flood maps.  
   Following is the text of the letter:
   April 3, 2006
   Chairman Donald E. Powell
  Federal Coordinator of Gulf Coast Recovery
  245 Murray Lane
  Washington, D.C. 20528-1250
   Re: $6 Billion Levee Certification Issue
   Dear Chairman Powell:
   Thank you for attending the emergency meeting which I called last Thursday with Corps of Engineers leadership, FEMA representatives, and the Louisiana Congressional Delegation. I thought it was necessary in light of the surprise $6 billion announcement of the day before and all of the questions which it provoked.
   As I said at the conclusion of the meeting, I think it is incumbent on the Administration to present a plan immediately to deal with this new challenge. This challenge cannot be met without the President's personal leadership and commitment.
   Since I have not heard from you, let me suggest the outline of such a plan:
   (1) The Administration requests in writing full authorization for this work. At the same time, the Administration announces a date certain, such date to be by May 15, that the FEMA flood maps will be issued for all of South Louisiana so that homeowner and other private rebuilding activity can move forward. (As we discussed, the mere request for authorization will allow the issuance of the maps.)
   (2) The Administration requests the appropriations related to this, some in the Hurricane Relief Supplemental Appropriations Bill (the "Supplemental") currently before Congress and the remainder in the FY 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, to be marked up soon.
   (3) Looking to the longer term, you focus discussion in the Administration in support of a strong, achievable royalty-sharing proposal. As we discussed, this could involve new drilling only so that it does not take present federal revenue off the table and increase the deficit, as long as past production plays some role in the allocation formula. This could dramatically reduce the federal government's responsibility not only for this $6 billion levee issue, but other major levee and coastal restoration projects that will come on line in the next few years.
   I urge you to announce points 1 and 2 above immediately. As you know, everyone in the disaster area anxiously awaits issuance of the FEMA flood maps, and Congress is in the midst of acting on the Supplemental now.
   Sincerely,
   David Vitter
  United States Senator 
   CC: The Louisiana Congressional Delegation.
 
 