HELPING FAMILIES ACCESS CHEAPER PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
  Americans deserve access to the same quality but cheaper prescription drugs in other countries like Canada that we pay twice as much for at home. And over the last two and a half years I have authored several amendments that have sought to break down the barriers against reimporting prescription drugs from Canada. 
   Last year I passed an amendment into law that prohibited the U.S. Custom and Border Protection from seizing legal prescription drugs from American citizens crossing the border returning from Canada. 
   This July the U.S. Senate made a huge leap toward lessening restrictions on reimportation when it included another amendment I authored as part of the U.S. Senate Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. This amendment went well beyond the language that was passed into law last year by allowing the importation of prescription drugs from Canada through the internet and mail order and allowing more than a 90-day supply.
   This is another important victory in the fight for comprehensive prescription drug reimportation. This amendment will provide more access to affordable prescription drugs for residents of Louisiana and other states that aren't close to the Canadian border.
   The support for drug reimportation in Congress continues to build even as the big drug lobby continues to ratchet up pressure against it. We have now passed my reimportation provisions to the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill two years in a row, indicating growing support for taking up broader reimportation legislation. And I will continue the fight to bring Americans more relief from the high prices of prescription drugs.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on helping families with the high cost of prescription drugs. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or at my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 