SEN. VITTER, REP. ALEXANDER APPLAUD OPENING OF GREATER OUACHITA PORT FACILITY
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter and U.S. Rep. Rodney Alexander today joined with local officials to applaud the opening of a new intermodal container handling facility on the Ouachita River. The $23-million facility includes a container dock, rail facilities and support equipment that will connect the Ouachita Region to international trade and commerce. This additional infrastructure will serve as an economic boon to the area - attracting new businesses and commercial traffic and spurring the creation of over 600 new jobs. 
   "The introduction of this facility is a positive and productive step for the Ouachita Region," said Vitter. "This project has been in the works for some time and I join local officials, businesses and working Louisiana families in celebrating today's opening. Connecting the region to the global economy will support both local business development and our state industry as a whole."
   Alexander, a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, agreed that the opening of the new facility will give Ouachita Parish an economic boost.
   "To thrive in today's global economy, we have to look to our strengths as a state and take full advantage our natural resources," Alexander said. "Expanding the use of our waterways by making improvements to our ports, such as this addition to the Port of Ouachita, will position Louisiana to capitalize from increased trade on a world-wide level."
   The maritime industry has a large, positive impact on Louisiana, and our ports account for a significant percentage of total gross state product. In addition to providing incentives for economic growth, the facility will provide another means of transport for goods through Louisiana - potentially relieving congestion on our roads and highways.
   "The opening of this facility translates into positive growth and jobs for the Ouachita region," Vitter said. "Regional business owners will also benefit from the proximity of the facility by saving on considerable packing and transport costs that they would usually have to pay to transfer their product to a more distant port."
   Since 2002, Vitter has secured over $7 million in federal funding for this project with an additional appropriation of $500,000 currently awaiting final approval in the FY08 Transportation-HUD appropriations bill. Alexander worked to include funding for this project in the U.S. House version of the Transportation-HUD bill.
 
 