ALITO CONFIRMED TO U.S. SUPREME COURT
  On January 31, the U.S. Senate confirmed Judge Samuel Alito to the U.S. Supreme Court with a vote of 58-42. I was very pleased that Judge Alito received a fair up-or-down vote from the Senate, as all nominees deserve. And because I believe that Alito will uphold the rule of law, I was proud to cast my vote for his confirmation. 
   I voted to confirm Judge Alito because he is superbly qualified to serve on the Supreme Court and because he possesses a conservative judicial philosophy, which I believe to be an essential quality in a federal judge.  
   I take my constitutional duty to provide advice and consent very seriously - I owe it to the people of Louisiana to do so. I have studied the qualifications and legal writings of all nominees to determine whether they possess a consistent and well-grounded conservative judicial philosophy. And, after studying Alito's record, meeting with him personally, and watching his confirmation hearings, I believe that he is eminently qualified to serve on the Supreme Court and that he has a consistent and well-grounded conservative judicial philosophy.
   Alito has impeccable legal credentials and a well-grounded, conservative judicial philosophy--just what so many, including me, consider most important. I had a very good one-on-one meeting with Alito last year. It was a great chance for me to ask him a lot of questions directly and get a much fuller sense of his judicial philosophy. 
   The Senate Judiciary Committee held confirmation hearings on Alito, during which I continued to be impressed with him. Alito showed remarkable patience, enduring 18 hours of testimony and answering some 700 questions from the committee. He also displayed humility and an in-depth understanding of legal matters, and maintaining his composure in an extremely partisan confirmation hearing.
   Both Alito's academic achievements and his distinguished career in public service demonstrate that he is eminently qualified to serve as an associate justice on the U.S. Supreme Court. He has argued 12 cases before the U.S. Supreme Court and at least two dozen court of appeals cases. In 1990, President George H.W. Bush nominated Alito for the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals, and he was confirmed by unanimous consent by the Senate. He has served as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit for the last 15 years.
   He's very smart, has the right temperament for the court and a lot of experience. But it is important that he knows what the proper role of judge is, which is not to make up opinions based on his personal opinions, but rather to follow the law as enacted.
   Throughout the debate over judicial nominees this notion of whether a nominee possesses a conservative judicial philosophy has been asked a lot. Some may ask what this term means and why it is so important. Does a conservative judicial philosophy mean that when deciding cases a judge must always reach a politically conservative result? Not at all. I believe that a conservative judicial philosophy means a commitment to the rule of law - a commitment to the Constitution as written by our founding fathers and a commitment to the statutes enacted by Congress.
   It's really troubled me that throughout this confirmation process, some of my colleagues, many outside interest groups and members of the press have really demonstrated a different view of the role of a judge. And one way they've demonstrated that is to treat Alito more like a candidate for political office than a nominee for the highest court in our land.
   They've talked about judges taking sides, being on one side versus another side. By talking in these terms, I believe, many members of the Senate, the liberal interest groups and many members of the press have demonstrated a completely different view of the role of a judge, which is completely inappropriate, in my opinion. It troubles me that the public is being led to believe that we should think of judges like legislators, that it should ever be a results-oriented discussion.
   The role of the judiciary is to interpret the law and to apply it to the facts of each case. It requires a judge to open-mindedly analyze the facts of each case based on the Constitution and the law as written without imposing his own views to reach a politically popular result. A judge with a conservative judicial philosophy understands the proper role of the judiciary, which is not to make new law based on his personal opinions, but to follow the law as enacted by the legislature. 
   Judge Alito has demonstrated his conservative judicial philosophy, and I expect he will use this philosophy as he serves on the Supreme Court. 
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on the Supreme Court nomination or any other federal matter. Please contact me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 