RESTORING INTEGRITY IN CONGRESS
  In the past year in particular, the confidence of the American people in Congress has been shaken by some very real and deep and serious scandals with regards to interactions with lobbyists. When you think of the role of Congress in our Constitutional system and how important it is that that role be held in high regard and confidence by the American public, this issue certainly takes center stage as a very important one that we need to address very boldly and very directly.
   We in Louisiana come to this set of issues with quite a bit of experience. These sorts of issues have been at the center of our political debate for quite some time because, quite frankly, we have fought with our own challenges in terms of integrity and credibility. We have had a political culture and history riddled with corruption and cronyism, and so many of us are working very hard to get beyond that.  
   Before I began serving in the U.S. House of Representatives in 1999, I served in the Louisiana Legislature, and while I was there these sorts of issues - reform issues, lobby reform, campaign finance reform - were at the very top of my agenda, because again, what could be more important than building the confidence of citizens in the integrity of their government. And certainly, when I stepped into the Louisiana Legislature in January 1992, that credibility and that integrity absolutely needed bolstering.
   In part because of that background and because of that experience, I was very interested in being involved in these ethics reform and lobby reform efforts on Capitol Hill. And very early on I joined the working group in the U.S. Senate that was focused on these important issues, and it was a very strong, very sincere bipartisan working group focused on looking hard at these crucial questions. In working with this group, we discussed a lot of issues and really tried to hone in on the key abuses and, therefore, the key reforms we thought we needed to address.
   And we worked on meaningful lobby reform in key areas of public officials taking gifts, meals or travel from lobbyists; of the abuses that can occur when members are allowed to earmark federal appropriations and of the revolving door between private lobbying and public service. Meaningful lobby reform, particularly with regard to these areas is clearly needed. 
   I also truly believe we need to address reforms in three additional areas in a bold and direct and forceful way to gain the confidence of the American people. 
   I am working on reforms to the very important matter of Indian tribe campaign contributions. Now this, as everyone knows, is not some theoretical or abstract concern. This is an issue that has been at the heart of recent scandals that have plagued the Congress and the country with regard to lobby reform and campaign contributions. The fundamental problem as I see it is that the rules are very different and very tilted for Indian tribes as opposed to other donors because there is no aggregate limit in terms of how much money an Indian tribe can give to federal political campaigns. And unlike most donors, any Indian tribe can write a check from its treasury without having to disclose in any meaningful way where the money came from or where it's going.
   The second issue I am working on is the ability of some members of Congress to pay their spouses or dependent children for work on their own political campaign. That is a fundamental problem in my opinion because it gives members of Congress the ability tin increase their salary if they want to abuse that right to write checks to their own personal bank account from their campaign account by "hiring" a spouse or even a dependent child or both. 
   This has been a practice in the past and is to at least a limited extent a practice now. Now there may be some spouses or some kids who do a lot of work for that paycheck, who do a full day's work for a full day's paycheck. But clearly this is an area that is wide open to abuse and in my opinion has been abused in the past. To gain the confidence of the American people, we need to fix this in a very simple and direct way - by completely banning spouses or dependent children from being on the payrolls of a member's campaign or on the payrolls of a member's leadership PAC. 
   I am also working to address the issue of members' spouses being able to lobby Congress. In the real world, in the heartland of America, this causes average citizens and average voters a lot of concern, and the concern is obvious. A member's spouse has a unique ability to lobby, number one. And, number two, that relationship, if a member's spouse is on the payroll of a lobbying firm, means that the lobbying firm is writing a check that basically goes directly into the family banking account of that member. 
   I think we need to be careful to address this responsibly and carefully and also to take into account the fact that some spouses may have been a true lobbyist with true expertise earning an honest day's work before they were ever spouses of a member of Congress. And so I believe the way to address it is to ban that activity if the spouse was not a registered lobbyist a year or more before the member was elected to Congress or before a marriage between a spouse and a member occurred. I think that is a responsible, fair way to address a very real concern and a very real issue in the hearts and minds of the American people. 
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on how Congress can tackle the issue of lobbying reform or any other federal matter. Please contact me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 