SEN. VITTER REQUESTS POWELL VISIT TO TOUR RITA AREA
  Sen. David Vitter sent a letter to Federal Recovery and Rebuild Coordinator Don Powell requesting a visit to southwest Louisiana to tour the areas damaged by Hurricane Rita. 
   Following is the text of the letter: 
   March 2, 2006 
   Chairman Donald Powell
  Coordinator for Recovery and Rebuilding in the Gulf Coast Region
  Department of Homeland Security
  Washington, DC 20528 
   Dear Chairman Powell: 
   As you know, Hurricane Katrina was not the only storm to hit Louisiana last year. Shortly after Hurricane Rita came ashore along the western coast of the state causing severe flooding, enormous storm surge, and crippling wind damage. 
   Parishes such as Cameron, Vermillion, Jefferson Davis, and Calcasieu took direct hits that have rendered their communities in disarray. Rita's devastating winds slammed low-lying fishing villages along the coast, as well as shrimping ports and ranches with water up to 9 feet deep, while seawater pushed as far as 20 miles inland, drowning acres of rice, sugarcane fields and pasture. Once thriving communities like Holly Beach and Abbeville have been completely wiped off the map, with only scattered ruins remaining behind to validate their existence.  
   Here in Congress, I am constantly fighting to ensure that the federal government does not forget about the victims of Rita. As you will recall, I took you on a flyover of these communities shortly after you were named to lead the Gulf Coast recovery effort. Since then I have visited with my constituents from southwest Louisiana several times to listen to their concern and attempted in every way to assist with the recovery process. However, to this point, it is my understanding that you have not returned to survey and advise the President on the recovery efforts in southwest Louisiana.  
   With that in mind, I am requesting that you to visit the Rita affected areas as soon as possible to listen to our citizens concerns and assist them through the work of the federal government on best route to a full recovery. I look forward to working with you to fully address the concerns of southwest Louisiana as we strive to recover from Hurricane Rita. 
   Sincerely,
  David Vitter
  United States Senator.
 
 