GETTING OUR FAIR SHARE OF OFFSHORE ROYALTIES
  Since coming to Congress in 1999, I have been fighting to get Louisiana its fair share of offshore royalties from oil and gas activity in the Gulf of Mexico. Recently I helped negotiate a deal in the U.S. Senate proposing a historic royalty sharing agreement, and I am extremely happy to say the bill passed with an overwhelming number of votes. This bill will share billions of dollars in offshore energy revenues with Louisiana and other Gulf producing states. 
   This deal is a historic breakthrough for Louisiana and other Gulf producing states, providing us with a fair share of offshore royalties for the first time ever. The federal funding will be used for projects, such as comprehensive hurricane protection, coastal restoration and infrastructure needs for the future. In addition, it will create an enormous incentive for more domestic energy production and will reduce our nation's dependence on foreign energy sources and increase energy security. 
   Currently the Gulf states do not receive revenue directly from offshore oil and gas production in the Gulf. However, states that produce oil and gas onshore receive a direct share of their production. It is well past time for the Gulf producing states will get their fair share of offshore royalties that they deserve.
   The Department of Interior recently released a study showing that there are more than 8.5 billion barrels of oil and 29.3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico that have been untapped for years. This bill would open up those areas to production and ensure Louisiana receives a portion of the revenues.
   As a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, I helped pass royalty sharing legislation four times, so I am happy to have been part of negotiating this compromise in my first term as U.S. Senator. This bill is at the heart of securing our coast, and along with it, a strong, stable future for Louisiana. 
   While this is good news, it is not the end. I look forward to working closely with the U.S.House of Representatives and my Louisiana colleagues to ensure we deliver a bill to President Bush that recognizes the vital role Louisiana plays in our national energy security. 
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov. 
   To view my speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate in favor of royalty sharing visit http://recap.fednet.net/archive/Buildasx.asp?sProxy=80_sflr080106_056.wmv,80_sflr080106_057.wmv,80_sflr080106_058.wmv&sTime=00:02:42.0&eTime=00:04:10&duration=00:11:24.0&UserName=senvitterla&sExpire=1
   To listen to the audio of my additional comments on the proposal visit http://www.vitter.senate.gov/Audio/vitter.07.12.06.mp3
 
 