SENATE PROVIDES HELP FOR HURRICANE VICTIMS IN BUDGET RECONCILIATION BILL
  Sen. David Vitter announced that the U.S. Senate passed the Budget Reconciliation Act yesterday, which included help for victims of this year's hurricanes. The bill included help for Louisiana families in three major areas, including coastal restoration, health care and education. 
   "Yesterday's Senate action is a good example of government being fiscally responsible while helping to meet the needs of Louisiana caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The Senate was able to prioritize key Louisiana needs and still meet our savings goals by reducing the deficit," said Vitter.
   The Senate adopted an amendment offered by Vitter that would provide $1.2 billion for coastal restoration efforts in the Gulf States. The funding will come from the sale of analog spectrum that will become available upon the transition to digital television. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the auction of this spectrum will yield $10 billion, but outside industry experts project the revenue to be between $20-$30 billion.
   Another amendment included $1.66 billion in an emergency education package to provide elementary and secondary education assistance to students and schools impacted by the hurricanes. The bill includes $1.2 billion for temporary emergency assistance for displaced students, with public and non-public schools receiving a maximum $6,000 per student (or $7,500 for students with disabilities) per displaced student that the school accepted from a hurricane devastated community. 
   This amendment also helps schools directly impacted by the hurricane reopen their doors by providing $450 million in grant assistance. Ten million dollars from this bill would include assistance to local education agencies serving homeless children and youths displaced by the storms.
   In addition, the bill provides 100 percent reimbursement for any Medicaid claims paid on behalf of an individual living in an impacted parish. This relief will last from August 28, 2005, until May 15, 2006. 
   "I am grateful to my colleagues in the Senate for supporting these efforts to help us rebuild south Louisiana," said Vitter, a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, which will hold a field hearing in New Orleans on revitalizing the economy of south Louisiana on Monday. "This week's legislation and next week's hearing show the Senate is focused not only on our immediate needs, but also our long-term economic recovery."
 
 