SEN. VITTER URGES QUICK ACTION ON WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT ACT
  Sen. David Vitter today wrote U.S. Senate Majority Leader Sen. Harry Reid and U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairwoman Barbara Boxer urging completion of the critical recovery priorities he negotiated in the Water Resources Development Act. 
   "The WRDA bill was a step away from becoming law last year, and therefore its completion must be at the top of the agenda for this year," said Vitter. "Specifically, I have been advocating the Morganza to the Gulf project since my days in the U.S. House and actually authorized $30 million for its first down payment in the Fourth Supplemental Appropriations bill last year. This key project is just one of the many that illustrate why the passage of WRDA is not a luxury or even a priority for the people of Louisiana. It is a necessity." 
   In the letter Vitter detailed the extensive agreements he negotiated on Louisiana priorities in the WRDA bill, including full authorization for the Louisiana Coastal Area restoration program as well as the entire Morganza to the Gulf hurricane protection project for the protection of Terrebonne and Lafourche parishes, progressing the closure of the MR-GO and full authorization for flood and hurricane protection for nearly all of the greater New Orleans area to the true 100 year flood protection. 
   "These bipartisan agreements between the House and Senate were reached on virtually all issues pertaining to Louisiana in the bill, and as we continue deliberations on the WRDA bill this year, negotiations must build from these previously-settled agreements," he said.
   Vitter also said he looks forward to the upcoming EPW field hearing in Louisiana.
   "Chairwoman Boxer, pursuant to our conversation several weeks ago and as a member of the EPW Committee, I look forward to our committee briefings and field hearing in Louisiana early this year to further explore the hurricane, flood and coastal protection, energy, navigation and environmental goals in the state," he said.
 
 