FIGHTING CORRUPTION AND CRONYISM IN GOVERNMENT
  Vitter's View: Fighting Corruption and Cronyism in Government 
   The recent news headlines of kickbacks and scandals involving members of the U.S. Congress have highlighted longstanding problems of corruption in politics. The behavior of the Congress has tarnished the faith of the American public in their elected officials.  
   From the beginning of my career in the Louisiana Legislature, I have fought for clean, responsible government. I had countless battles against the good ol' boys that were comfortable with abusing the power entrusted to them by Louisiana families for their own financial and personal gain. From challenging Edwin Edwards to fighting for term limits to break the cycle of cronyism, we achieved real reforms. 
   Now, to further those reforms and promote honesty in the federal government, I am working on ethics reforms in Congress - focused on reducing the corruption that results from money and nepotism.
   As the U.S. Senate begins to debate ethics reform legislation, I will resubmit three reform measures that I introduced last year. These provisions address the problems dealing with Indian tribe campaign contributions, spousal lobbying and members of Congress paying their families with campaign funds. In addition, I want to bring greater scrutiny to the role of money in politics through earmark reform, controlled federal spending and increased penalties for violating ethics and lobbying rules.
   Currently, Indian tribes can contribute to campaigns directly from the tribal treasury, which often includes money from gambling revenues. My provision would close that loophole and require these tribes to follow the same rules about financial disclosures as all other organizations that wish to impact elections, such as labor unions, trade associations and corporations.
   I also believe spouses and children of members of Congress should not be able to play off their family relationship. We need to restrict family members of senators and congressmen from lobbying other members of Congress. In addition, spouses and children of members of Congress should not be compensated by a candidate's political campaign, and I have introduced a bill to prevent that. 
   Penalties for violating current ethics and lobbying laws should also be increased, and the political use of charter flights needs to be clarified. If influence peddlers continue to abuse these ethical rules, then the fines should be increased. Also, members, employees and officers of the U.S. Senate should pay fair market value when they are lent a private or charter plane for political use. Members of Congress need to remember that we are public servants, not celebrities.
   We need to reform and restore our faith in government, and these provisions provide a strong foundation for us to build from.
   Please let me know your thoughts on these or other issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 