IMPROVING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
  Many Louisiana families, like families across the nation, are struggling with today's health care costs. Since 2000, insurance premiums for family coverage have increased nearly 60 percent. The cost of health care is high while access to quality care is becoming more difficult, and many people are not having their needs met by the current health care system.  
   Concerns about the current and future state of health care are frequent topics of conversation at my town hall meetings around the state - from the high cost of prescription drugs to the lack of affordable health insurance and the difficulty in accessing quality health care in some rural areas. 
   The national insurance crisis of skyrocketing medical professional liability insurance rates are ravaging the nation's health care system, causing major insurers to drop coverage or raise premiums to unaffordable levels. And as a result, some doctors and other health care providers have been forced to abandon patients and their practices. High-risk specialties are particularly affected by the skyrocketing rates, including medical professionals in the areas of emergency medicine, neurology and obstetrics and gynecology. And what's worse is that the cost of these lawsuits is being passed along to you and me.
   This week, I joined my colleagues in the U.S. Senate in introducing two bills that would help reform our medical liability system, while preserving Louisiana's own liability protections. The Medical Care Access Protection Act would set reasonable limits for non-economic damage awards. Passing this bill would ensure that people with actual health care injury claims receive fair and adequate compensation, including reasonable damages for pain and suffering.
   The Healthy Mothers and Healthy Babies Access to Care Act would specifically target this model of liability reform to doctors who provide obstetrical and gynecological services. And both of these bills would limit the fees an attorney could collect in these types of medical malpractice suits to ensure that the awarded funds actually go to the patients.
   I support both of these bills because they address our nation's current medical liability crisis that is forcing physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers to move out of high-liability states, limit the scope of their practices and even close their doors permanently.
   The overall goal of this legislation is to lower the quickly-rising cost of health care. I believe that with limits placed on medical liability, insurers will lower costs incurred by consumers and health care costs will begin to drop. I will keep working to find solutions that protect patients, access and quality.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on how to make our health care system more affordable and more accessible to Louisiana families. Please contact me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 