DEMANDING CHANGES TO NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC HOUSING POLICY
  One of the more stark lessons of Hurricane Katrina was exactly how ineffective our past approach to public policy served our poor. A product of the New Deal that was greatly expanded during President Lyndon Johnson's Great Society initiative, public housing projects began as a temporary relief for people who needed to get back on their feet but ultimately fostered poverty and crime instead of relieving it.
   As we rebuild from the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina, we need to modernize that policy to fit the needs of the 21st century. Instead of rebuilding old project housing that perpetuated the cycle of poverty and crime, we need to create new environments that promote self-improvement and, ultimately, home ownership. 
   Currently, the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs is drafting a bill called the Gulf Coast Housing Recovery Act. I am concerned that the GCHR bill will recreate the New Orleans housing projects as they were. These old projects were poorly designed, offered barely any quality services to residents and, most importantly, isolated the residents from the rest of the city. The old system fostered crime and furthered poverty, which often trapped residents with no way out.
   New Orleans City Councilwoman Stacy Head has also raised questions about the GCHR bill. Her ward is home to many of the housing projects slated for rehabilitation under the GCHR plan, and she pointed out that there are currently more than 650 public housing units and hundreds of Section 8 apartments located all over the city ready but unoccupied. Councilwoman Head also has said that she does not understand why the U.S. Senate wants New Orleans to maintain their barrack-style housing projects when every other city in the United States has redeveloped these out-dated structures. 
   The GCHR bill would require a one-for-one replacement of demolished public housing units that were unoccupied at the time of the hurricane and place restrictions on demolitions that were approved even before Hurricane Katrina - wasting valuable resources that could be better used to efficiently address housing needs. 
   I believe we should remove this one-to-one replacement ratio for houses that were demolished prior to Katrina because they were unoccupied as well as follow the suggestion of Councilwoman Head that we not build new temporary public housing units until we have exhausted pre-existing resources and all vouchers available. 
   The GCHR approach goes against and possibly reverses what the Housing Authority of New Orleans was doing even prior to the hurricanes to revitalize New Orleans public housing with a goal of developing stable mixed income communities. It is important that we not turn back the clock on what HANO had begun implementing prior to the storms and that there are no more delays in the rebuilding and redevelopment process. We must continue the work already started by HANO prior to the hurricane 
   HANO's revitalization plan, which follows the recommendations of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, has been in the place for more than 18 months and provides a sound mix of affordable housing opportunities. The HANO plan was created in consultation with residents and local advocacy organizations, while the GCHR plan is being written in Washington. 
   Let's continue to move forward with a new approach to public housing like the ones offered by HUD and HANO that promote homeownership and help bring people up from poverty - not reverting back to a broken welfare society that continues the cycle of crime and poverty.
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 