SEN. VITTER SECURES AUTHORIZATION FOR LOUISIANA COASTAL RESTORATION EFFORTS
  Sen. David Vitter today announced that he secured more than $1.9 billion restoration framework for Louisiana's coast in the Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA) through his position on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. 
   "This is the first time in history that we have authorization for comprehensive restoration of Louisiana's coast," said Vitter. "This authorization isn't just another study; it includes hundreds of millions of dollars for actual construction projects to protect and restore our coast."
   "As chairman of the EPW Committee, I am pleased to announce that Senator David Vitter has secured this provision in WRDA to fight coastal erosion in Louisiana. As a new member of the Committee, Senator Vitter has educated and demonstrated to the Committee the complex nature of Louisiana's crucial fight against coastal erosion," said U.S. Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.), EPW Chairman. "It is through his intensive and persuasive efforts that this program was included in the bill."
   This WRDA authorization language for Louisiana is modeled on one of the bills in Vitter's COAST package, "The Comprehensive Ecosystem And Security Enhancement Act." Last week, Vitter unveiled his five-bill "COAST" package, which provides the framework and billions of dollars in funding to achieve comprehensive restoration of Louisiana's coast. 
   Added U.S. Sen. Kit Bond, Chairman of the EPW Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure, "As I drafted this important legislation, Senator Vitter was constantly calling and meeting with my office to express his strong desire to include coastal restoration for Louisiana. This bill provides a plan for the comprehensive restoration of coastal Louisiana. Louisiana is well represented on our committee."
   "I applaud the leadership of Senators Inhofe and Bond for their work to include coastal restoration funding for Louisiana in WRDA," said Vitter. "This is truly a big win for Louisiana to have the state's coastal restoration efforts included in Subcommittee Chairman Bond's bill. I will continue to work to see this authorization included as the bill continues along the legislative process." 
   Last year the Senate's attempt to pass WRDA only included an authorization of $375 million for Louisiana coastal restoration, but this year's WRDA includes a more than $1.9 billion framework with a long-term program established to restore the entire coast. Vitter will continue to push his comprehensive action plan to increase the amount of federal funding to help Louisiana's coastal restoration efforts.
   In addition, Vitter consulted with the Governor's office, the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources, Senator Landrieu's office and the House delegation to receive their input before the legislation was filed.
   "This legislation represents a historic step forward toward ensuring the future of our unique way of life in coastal Louisiana," added Vitter.
 
 