SEN. VITTER ANNOUNCES CLARIFICATION OF FEMA FLOOD MAP POLICY FOR LAFAYETTE PARISH
  U.S. Sen. Vitter today announced that his office has received clarification from FEMA regarding the Lafayette Consolidated Government's use of preliminary flood zone maps. FEMA' s clarification enables Lafayette to move forward with its planned development projects without fear of penalty from FEMA. 
   "Prior to FEMA's clarification, the city of Lafayette was stuck in a holding pattern regarding potential development that was costing time and money. Now, the city can move forward as planned without fear of penalty from FEMA and the National Flood Insurance Program. This is great news for Lafayette and the economic growth its planned development will spur," said Vitter.
   Confusion regarding the new maps resulted in the delay of development projects throughout the Lafayette area, including a multi-million dollar project located at the intersection of I-10 and Louisiana Avenue.
   In response to an inquiry from Sen. Vitter, FEMA Regional Administer William Patterson wrote, "the community is not required to use the information in the Preliminary Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps until an effective map date has been issued and identified in a Letter of Final Determination has been issued." This LFD cannot be issued, however, until all appeals from the community have been issued. At present, no time frame has been given for the completion of this process. According to FEMA, no retroactive penalties will be applied to projects that were applied before the completion of the appeals process and existing structures would be "grandfathered."
   "This is a step in the right direction," Vitter said. "These projects are valuable to Lafayette parish, and I know that many local businesses and families are anxious to see their completion."
   In response to Sen. Vitter's inquiry, a Consultation Coordination Officer meeting with community officials is scheduled for December 18, 2007.
  The preliminary Flood Digital Flood Insurance Rate maps were released on September 28, 2007.
 
 