SEN. VITTER URGES EPW COMMITTEE TO EXPEDITE FLOOD PROTECTION FUNDING
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today sent a letter to U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee leadership urging them to adopt a resolution to allow for additional funds, including the $5.8 billion in federal funding provided by the president's budget, needed to meet the updated 100-year level protection standard for the greater New Orleans area. He also today introduced a resolution recognizing the need and importance of federal funds for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to move forward with critical hurricane, flood and coastal protection projects in Louisiana. 
   "The 2007 WRDA bill was the first signed into law in the last seven years - even though Congress is supposed to pass one every two years," Vitter said. "To avoid continued bureaucratic roadblocks from the Corps and political obstruction from Congress, I added a provision to WRDA that provides the committees in both houses of Congress with a mechanism that allows for additional appropriations to be made for the 100-year level of hurricane protection work in Louisiana. I urge the committee to take this first step to ensure that the $5.8 billion for Louisiana is authorized and approved."
   Since the president's announcement that his budget would include $5.8 billion in federal funding for the 100-year level of hurricane protection project, Vitter has called for the funding to be added to an emergency supplemental to ensure the funds are approved as quickly as possible.
   "We appreciate the commitment of the federal dollars, but this funding will not meet the 2011 deadline if it continues to go through the conventional appropriations process," said Vitter. "It is of the utmost importance that we attach this funding to an emergency supplemental - especially as the possibility of passing any appropriations bills this year shrinks as the presidential race heats up."
   Vitter is a member of the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which authored the 2007 WRDA bill. The 2007 WRDA bill authorized vital hurricane, flood and coastal protection projects throughout the state. He was also the only Louisiana Senate negotiator in the House-Senate legislative conference on the final bill.
 
 