REFORMING THE FAILED NEW ORLEANS HOUSING PROJECTS
  Louisiana is in the midst of an opportunity to dramatically reform the failed, old-style housing projects and implement a new approach to housing that will introduce choice to the system and enable lower-income families to live in the areas that are of most benefit to them, instead of crowding them together in project housing.
   As we move forward in our recovery from the devastating effects of the hurricanes, it is important to remember that another form of damage began to take place in New Orleans long before the impact of the storms. The public housing developments sponsored by the federal government allowed for the concentration of poverty, crime and drug abuse in densely- packed spaces. In effect, they did not work and trapped families in dangerous and substandard environments. 
   Progress had been made toward a new housing system for New Orleans, but that progress is under threat from a comprehensive housing bill that now stands before the U.S. Senate Banking and Housing Committee. Right now, this bill's language would delay or even derail a housing redevelopment plan crafted by the New Orleans community and put into motion prior to Hurricane Katrina.
   The bill in its current form would undo all the progress that has been made on this plan by voiding contracts and forcing everyone to go back to the beginning and draft a new plan that might ultimately be very similar to the one that is already in motion. This would waste vast sums of money, time and resources that could be used elsewhere. Also, if the housing bill's policies are enacted into law, the tax credit and financing incentives presently in place will most likely expire before a new plan, mandated by the bill, can begin. Currently, these tax credits are available to help ease costs and create incentives for the development of mixed income and other public housing options. But if these tax credits are allowed to expire, financing options for rebuilding will be limited.
   I believe we should make sure the current redevelopment plan moves forward and work to supplement it through tenant-based vouchers. A tenant-based voucher system would help low-income families choose where they wish to live according to their own desires and needs as to schools, work, location of other relatives and other important factors. But the housing bill does not effectively enable the tenant to seek housing on their own terms, and instead forces them to stay within the state public housing system.
   The national trend for other state governments and municipalities is to move away from the project-based housing model and introduce choice through tenant-based models. I believe that this is the right direction for New Orleans. By allowing choice, we can prevent a "one-size-fits-all" solution to a complex problem that affects so many people, and we can help more families move away from housing projects that concentrate poverty and crime.
   I have offered many important improvements to the bill to help foster this reform. We must continue to look for ways to move forward with a suitable housing bill that does not undo work already in progress, waste valuable resources and, ultimately, encourage the continued existence of these concentrated centers of poverty and crime. We need a policy that promotes homeownership and helps bring people up from poverty, instead of reverting back to a broken welfare system.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on the housing issue. Please contact me on this or any other federal matter at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 