SEN. VITTER APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF STIMULUS PACKAGE
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today applauded the U.S. Senate's passage of the U.S. House of Representatives' economic stimulus package. The package included an amendment co-sponsored by Vitter, which extended relief to seniors and disabled veterans and closed the illegal immigration loophole.  
   "Last week, the House passed an economic stimulus bill negotiated by members on both sides of the aisle, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi," said Vitter. "While this bill is not perfect and I would have liked to see more pro-growth policies to help the economy for the long term, it is a bipartisan effort that is a good start in easing fears about the economy."
   Today, Vitter joined a group of other Republican senators in a press conference where they outlined the need to pass more long-term, pro-growth policies that go beyond the short-term relief provided by the stimulus.
   "This stimulus provides important short-term relief, but to truly rejuvenate our economy we need to push for bolder, stronger tax cut and pro-growth policies," added Vitter. "For starters, we need to make the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent - including the complete elimination of the death tax."
   Vitter also promoted legislation he has co-sponsored that would create federal tax credits to help ease the burden on homeowners. The bill, S.2566, would provide a $5,000 a year tax credit for three years for the purchase of a single-family home. Homes eligible for the tax credit include new homes where the building permit was issued and construction began on or before September 1, 2007, owner-occupied homes whose first mortgage loan is in default and single-family homes that have been foreclosed on and are owned by the mortgagor or its agent.
   "This bill could help rejuvenate the housing market the right way, creating incentives for homebuyers and others in the housing market. I will push for this policy to move forward to further help the overall economy," Vitter said.
 
 