SEN. VITTER APPLAUDS PRESIDENT'S CALL FOR SENATE TO ADDRESS PENDING NOMINATIONS
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter applauded President Bush's speech today calling for the U.S. Senate to give all of his nominees an up-or-down vote. Vitter has been advocating for one of the president's Louisiana nominees, David Dugas, to receive a U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee hearing - much less an up-or-down vote on the nomination itself. Dugas's nomination for the Middle District Court of Louisiana is still pending because U.S. Sen. Landrieu has not turned in her "blue slip."
   "The president could not have been more direct in his speech today calling on the Senate to move forward with an up-or-down vote on his nominees - many like Louisiana judicial nominee David Dugas - who have been waiting for almost a year or more," said Vitter. "Every nomination deserves a fair up-or-down vote. Many of these delays are the result of nothing more than pure partisanship, and the American people are clearly fed up with partisanship in Congress."  
   Vitter has been working closely with U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Arlen Specter to move Dugas's nomination forward. 
   "It is time for us to call a truce in the partisan grudge match that has done such a disservice to judicial nominees, to the legal system, and to the Senate itself. At a bare minimum, qualified nominees like David Dugas deserve a Committee hearing and a vote before the end of 2008," said Specter. "If there's any place that needs to fill a vacancy in the district court, it's Louisiana with their backlog in litigation from the hurricanes."
   The Senate Judiciary Committee has not scheduled a hearing because Senator Landrieu has not returned her "blue slip." Last week Vitter sent a letter to U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy asking that he meet with Senator Landrieu and encourage her to return her "blue slip" or, alternatively, move forward and schedule a hearing without it. 
   Today, Vitter sent a second letter to Chairman Leahy and Sen. Landrieu outlining his intention to call next week for a unanimous consent agreement for the U.S. Senate to move forward with Dugas's nomination.
   As the president highlighted in his State of the Union address and reiterated in today's speech, the Senate should move forward with up-or-down votes on his nominees, and David Dugas's case is no exception," added Vitter. "To continue to block this qualified nominee is nothing more than partisanship and obstructionism - exactly what the American people want to see Congress rise above."
   Mr. Dugas was nominated to the Middle District Court of Louisiana by the president on March 19, 2007. He currently serves as a U.S. Attorney - a position he was unanimously approved for by the U.S. Senate, including Sen. Landrieu. Dugas has also received the American Bar Association's highest rating.
   "There is an urgent need to fill this vacancy at the Middle District court, and a debilitating backlog threatens to create a judicial emergency," Vitter said. "David has established himself as an extremely qualified jurist who would greatly serve Louisiana. He deserves to have his nomination heard - not slow walked and left in a holding pattern for nothing more than national partisan politics."
   A copy of Vitter's letter to Chairman Leahy and Sen. Landrieu can be viewed at: http://vitter.senate.gov/forms/David%20Dugas%20Follow-Up.pdf
 
 