SEN. VITTER CRITICIZES U.N.'S CONTINUED MEDDLING IN NEW ORLEANS HOUSING ISSUE
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today reacted to a report released by the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination criticizing Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts and voicing its concerns with the racial makeup of citizens displaced by the storms. 
   "Once again, the U.N. has decided to inject itself into the New Orleans public housing debate, even though some of the U.N. advisors who have been critical of the recovery process have never actually been on the ground to see things firsthand," said Vitter. "I find today's report particularly bewildering, especially given the human rights track records of some of the committee's member countries. Enough is enough. I intend to call for a hearing in the Foreign Relations Committee to investigate whether the U.N. is focusing on the right priorities, especially since much its funding comes from our American taxpayer dollars."
   The U.N. report recommended that adequate and affordable housing be made available to displaced individuals, something that Vitter has been working diligently toward since the storms. Further, the U.N. report called for local authorities to consider the input of displaced individuals in determining issues regarding residency.
   I've been working in the Senate to bring about a commonsense resolution to the New Orleans public housing issue," Vitter said. "And even without the input and assistance of the U.N., it is apparent that the old, New Orleans public housing system was broken. Recent news reports have noted that the majority of former residents surveyed stated that they have no desire to return to those conditions."
   A study by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development found that 86% of the residents who previously resided in New Orleans' "Big Four" housing would prefer to live elsewhere. Vitter has been working to bring about a new, tenant-based voucher system that promotes homeownership and safe, mixed-income neighborhoods that would help bring people up from poverty, instead of reverting back to a broken housing system.
   "What the U.N. has said here today is nothing new, nor does it offer any reasonable or constructive assistance to bring about a successful resolution to this issue. It simply serves as another reminder that this organization is out of touch," said Vitter. "Thankfully, this report has no authority. But this report does serve one purpose: it serves as a useful glimpse of what the future holds if we allow the Law of the Sea Treaty to be ratified. The LOST treaty would grant international organizations like the U.N. the legal authority to interfere in our matters - with possibly drastic consequences."
 
 