EMERGENCY FUNDING FOR PARISH GOVERNMENTS, LOCAL HOSPITALS PASSES HOUSE, SENATE
  Sen. David Vitter succeeded today in gaining U.S. Senate passage of $750 million in emergency funding to help local governments and hospitals in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The bill also passed the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon. 
   "This is great news that will help jump-start our Louisiana recovery .These needed funds will sustain the lifelines of our communities - police, firefighters and the like," said Vitter.
   "I commend our Louisiana House delegation for their leadership and hard work. Bringing 435 members together for this important legislation, in one day, is truly impressive," Vitter said. 
   Vitter added, "This is the leadership model we must use for the future - not long speeches full of political posturing and whining, but building confidence, partnering effectively with the federal government, getting the job done."
   The funds will be transferred from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund to the Community Disaster Loan program to assist parish governments in Louisiana, county governments in Mississippi and Alabama and not-for-profit hospitals in the greater New Orleans area that remained open during and after Hurricane Katrina.
   "The services provided by our local governments and local hospitals are critical to the rebuilding process," Vitter said. "Because of the lost tax revenue, local governments need federal assistance, and the hospitals that stayed open during the storm need help with the increased challenges they faced. Without help, they will have to shut down, which will devastate local jobs and severely delay the rebuilding process."
   The aftermath of Hurricane Katrina left Louisiana's most severely affected parish governments with very little, if any, local tax revenue for the foreseeable future. The tax revenue is generated on a monthly basis and is used to pay the salary of parish employees, including emergency personnel and teachers, and keeps local governments operating.
   Community Disaster Loans apply to localities suffering decreased tax revenue as a result of a disaster. In light of the extraordinary circumstances surrounding Hurricane Katrina, Vitter requested that $750 million be reallocated from FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund to this program to keep local governments and hospitals operating and to avoid layoffs. He also succeeded in waiving a mandate that these funds cannot exceed $5 million per entity.
   "We are using the funds that Congress has already allocated for aiding the victims of Hurricane Katrina and targeting the money where it is needed most without creating new spending," said Vitter.
 
 