CONTINUING THE FIGHT FOR REIMPORTATION OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
  One of my top priorities when I arrived in the U.S. Senate was to help make prescription medications more affordable, and I am working hard to fulfill that pledge because I understand the incredible burden the high price of prescription drugs places on Louisianans, especially our seniors.
   As I hold town hall meetings across the state, many seniors tell me stories of their struggles to afford the high price of prescription medications in our country. I believe one way to make prescription drugs more affordable for all Americans is to allow the reimportation of safe prescription drugs from Canada and other countries. 
   For years, many Americans, most of whom are seniors, have chosen to buy their medications from licensed Canadian pharmacies. These medications - approved by our own Food and Drug Administration - are available for significantly lower prices than they are in the United States. 
   It is no secret that America bears the cost of producing prescription drugs and that Americans pay more for necessary medication than any other industrialized nation. For example, constituents tell me their Lipitor, a cholesterol-lowering drug, costs 40 percent less in Canada than it does in the United States. The ulcer medication Prevacid costs 50 percent less when purchased just a few miles north of our border. 
   In the U.S. Senate, I have taken every opportunity to press this important issue with my colleagues. I have been working to pave the way for comprehensive drug reimportation, and I am pleased to report that we have made great strides toward this goal. 
   When Congress was in the process of writing the Homeland Security Appropriation Bill, I authored and passed an amendment that stops Customs and Border Protection agents from confiscating legal prescription drugs from Americans at our borders. Medicines that have passed rigorous testing and clinical trials by the FDA and are accompanied by a valid prescription should not be taken away from Americans when they are returning to the United States. I am pleased to report that when the president recently signed this bill into law the Customs and Border Protection agency was forced to change its policy and allow Americans to bring their prescription drugs across the border. 
   I also fought to amend the Senate Agriculture Appropriations Bill to allow American citizens to import FDA-approved drugs from Canada through mail order and the internet This new legislation would have built on the previous law that prohibits the Customs and Border Protection agency from stopping individuals from importing a small amount of prescription drugs carried on their person from Canada. Although this new policy has not yet become law, I will continue to push my colleagues until it is implemented.
   I am very pleased with the considerable progress we have made in my first two years in the U.S. Senate in the fight to allow the reimportation of safe prescription drugs from Canada. Of course, much more needs to be done, and I will not rest until we have a comprehensive prescription drug reimportation policy in place.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on how the U.S. Senate can make prescription drugs more affordable and accessible. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   To view my Senate floor speech earlier this week on prescription drug reimportation visit http://recap.fednet.net/archive/Buildasx.asp?sProxy=80_sflr120506_053.wmv,80_sflr120506_054.wmv,80_sflr120506_055.wmv&sTime=00:02:45.0&eTime=00:03:36&duration=00:10:49.0&UserName=senvitterla&sLocation=G&sExpire=1
 
 