SEN. VITTER INTRODUCES BILL TO ALLOW SALE OF LOUISIANA PET TURTLES
  Sen. David Vitter on Thursday, Feb. 8, introduced legislation that requires the Food and Drug Administration to permit the sale of baby turtles as pets as long as the seller uses proven methods to prevent salmonella. 
   "I have been working with Louisiana pet turtle farmers for years trying to get the bureaucrats at FDA to change its flawed policy. The FDA is holding pet turtles to a standard that is impossible to reach - one that even food products are not expected to attain - but this bill would allow Louisiana farmers to sell their pet turtles."
   The FDA banned the sale of pet turtles in the 1970s, and since then Louisiana turtle farmers have developed scientifically proven methods to keep the turtles safe and free of salmonella. Vitter's legislation does not ask the FDA to lift its ban, but it would allow turtle farmers to sell these pets as long as they follow the appropriate safety measures. 
   "There has been 32 years of discrimination against pet turtle farmers and pet turtles because of salmonella. But now we will be the leader in bio-safety to keep pet turtles safe, and we are going to set the standards for all other pets," said Eddie Jolly, President of the Independent Turtle Farmers of Louisiana. "We appreciate Senator Vitter's help and the help of the entire delegation on this issue."
   The turtle farmers would be required to submit their safety plan to the FDA for approval, and the FDA would be required to make a decision on that plan within 30 days of the submission. If the safety plan is rejected, the FDA must provide explicit reasons for their refusal. To help ensure safety, turtle sellers would be required to provide the buyer with a disclosure explaining the potential dangers associated with the pet turtle.
   "Currently the only market for these turtles is China where they pay about 30 cents a turtle, which barely covers the cost these farmers take on to raise and transport them," said Vitter. "Farmers estimate that domestic sales would be about $3 a turtle. If they receive half of their foreign market numbers domestically, our Louisiana turtle farmers could contribute up to $300 million annually to our economy."
 
 