SENATE OVERRIDES PRESIDENT'S WRDA VETO
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter today helped override President Bush's veto of the Water Resource Development Act in the U.S. Senate as the veto was overturned by a vote of 79-14. The U.S. House of Representatives voted to override the president's veto on Tuesday. The Senate vote clears the way for the authorization of millions of dollars in infrastructure funding for Louisiana in WRDA to become law.
   "I was optimistic that we would override the WRDA veto with room to spare, and the 21 commitments I secured from my Republican colleagues in the Senate helped swing this vote in our favor," said Vitter. "This WRDA bill is historic. It authorizes major improvements in hurricane and flood protection projects for Louisiana. It closes and restores MRGO. It authorizes the full 100-year level of protection for the greater New Orleans area. It expedites the authorization process for up to category 5 hurricane protection for all of south Louisiana, and it initiates comprehensive coastal restoration for our state." 
   WRDA includes Vitter's proposed Louisiana Water Resources Council, which consists of independent experts who will peer-review all Army Corps of Engineers planning and engineering. It also creates an integration team to analyze construction plans and ensure efficient and cost-effective implementation and proper project performance.
   "Hurricanes Katrina and Rita reinforced how necessary integration and prevention are to preventing and avoiding disastrous flood and storm damage," said Vitter.
   The Louisiana Coastal Area provisions in WRDA represent the first comprehensive restoration program for coastal Louisiana, establish a science and technology program of at least $100 million, require consistency and integration in all of the programs and ensure that they work together.
   "We're losing a football field every 38 minutes and lost 217 squares miles of coastal wetlands and land in merely two days - the days that Hurricanes Katrina and Rita hit our coast," added Vitter. "These LCA provisions authorize 16 coastal restoration and protection projects in south Louisiana totaling billions of dollars and set the groundwork for the continued long-term efforts to save and protect Louisiana's coast."
   WRDA also authorizes nearly $900 million for the Morganza to the Gulf hurricane protection project. This authorization builds upon the $30 million Vitter provided in the recent Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill and approves construction of 72 miles of levees, 12 floodgates, 12 water control structures and the lock on the Houma Navigation Canal.
   Other important provisions Vitter secured in WRDA to strengthen south Louisiana's coastal, flood and hurricane protection, include:
   * $90 million in improvements to the hurricane protection system in Lafourche Parish.
   * $100 million for hurricane protection in Jean Lafitte and lower Jefferson Parish.
   * Language to require the Corps of Engineers to expedite work on the Inner Harbor Navigation Canal lock project.
   Vitter also secured agreements on an expedited authorization process for future hurricane protection and coastal restoration projects to be authorized in the U.S. Senate through the category 5 study to be released in December.
   "Prior to the provisions in this final bill, a mechanism to address pressing protection needs with flexibility and expedited authority did not exist. This bill lays a foundation for future hurricane, coastal and flood protection measures," said Vitter.
   The bill also retains Vitter's MRGO amendment, which requires the closure of the MRGO, restoration of the lost wetlands and improvements to prevent storm surge from reaching St. Bernard and Orleans parishes.
   "As a Senate negotiator on this legislation, I also worked to remove harmful provisions threatening the health of Lake Pontchartrain and holding hostage billions of dollars in coastal and hurricane protection work in our state for the out-of-date Bonnet Carre diversion," added Vitter. "We can now begin to move forward on critical projects that will help repair past damage and protect our state in the future. The passage of this bill is a great win for Louisiana."
   Vitter is a member of the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which wrote WRDA. He also served as a conference negotiator on the House-Senate Conference Committee that finalized WRDA.
 
 