5 YEARS SINCE SEPTEMBER 11TH
  September 11, 2006 marks the five-year anniversary of the worst terrorist attack on the United States. Suddenly and violently, Americans awoke to the serious threat of terrorism, and learned that this threat is merciless and relentless. Since September 11, 2001, we have taken many steps to ensure the safety and security of our nation, our freedom, and our values, and strong national defense must remain our nation's top priority. 
   In the five years since the attacks, I have joined with Congress and the president in taking great strides to make America safer. First, I supported the creation of the Department of Homeland Security and continue to push for reforms and improvements within the office. Second, I voted for legislation that enacted many of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission including the reorganization of the intelligence community under the director of national intelligence. I also supported the removal of Saddam Hussein - a major sponsor of islamo-facism and terrorism in the world - from power.  
   I strongly believe more must be done to strengthen our national defense. Adequate border security and enforcement of our immigration laws are essential to our national security and are especially important following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Reports have shown that 15 of the 19 hijackers from 9/11 should have been denied visas, and at least three of them overstayed their visas. Lax border security and the failure to adequately enforce our immigration laws contributed to this tragedy, demonstrating how important it is that we control our borders and enforce our immigration laws.
   Another issue of extreme importance, especially to Louisianans, is port security. Louisiana has one of the largest port systems in the United States, and has 5 of the 15 busiest ports in our nation. Half of all agricultural exports and imports come through Louisiana's ports, and Louisiana accounts for nearly 30 percent of domestic oil and gas production. Having a secure port system is one of the key components of assuring our nation's energy security.
   Securing our ports is critical for Louisiana and the nation. If terrorists attacked a Louisiana port or the mouth of the Mississippi river, all waterborne commerce from Louisiana's Gulf Coast to Minnesota would be cut off for weeks or even months. The protection of our ports - and the thousands of cargo containers that flow through them each day - needs to be a critical focus area of our homeland security. Improving our port security is at the forefront of my work in Washington, and the U.S. Senate will soon take up legislation to help us achieve this goal. 
   Although there are critical needs for improvement, we must remember that no terrorist attack has been successful in America since 9/11. This gives hope that our War on Terror has been effective, but we must continue to increase our national defenses. We also must not forget the sacrifices of those who protect our freedom. I was able to thank our brave Louisianans in person during my recent visit to Iraq. They are the key to defending our nation and have performed exemplary. 
   Please let me know about any issues of importance to you and your family by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
 
 