STRENGTHENING LOUISIANA'S HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
  Vitter's View: Strengthening Louisiana's Health Care System 
   As we continue to rebuild from the tragedy of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita we have decisions to make about how our health care delivery system should be rebuilt - and we have an opportunity to enact real change and positive reforms.  
   Recently, I wrote a letter to both Governor Kathleen Blanco and U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Alphonso Jackson urging them to ensure that federal hurricane relief funds for Louisiana health care be used in a way that supports reform and patient choice. 
   Health care money should go to people, not buildings or institutions. Specifically, federal dollars and state funds should not flow solely into public hospitals like Charity but should follow the patient to a variety of health care settings to provide real choice. In doing so, all Louisiana citizens - including our poor - should be guaranteed access, quality and choice in health care services.
   On January 19, the Joint Budget Committee of the Louisiana Legislature voted to spend $300 million in federal hurricane relief funds to build a new, large Charity Hospital in New Orleans even though it is contrary to the recommendations of the Louisiana Recovery Authority. If this plan goes into motion without a sound business plan, it will kill the prospects for fundamental health care reform in Louisiana. 
   As our medical and health care community continues to rebuild, we have a choice of reinstating the old two-tiered system of care where care for the poor is segregated or enabling patients to seek the best care available at a wide variety of settings. I support that type of bold reform because we must ensure that the outdated and flawed Charity system is reformed to meet the demands of the 21st century. We should carefully chart a new direction - a new, reformed, and improved system where the money follows the patient and all patients are offered access, quality, and choice.
   I am interested in hearing your thoughts on providing access to health care for Louisiana citizens or any other issues. Please contact me with your ideas at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov.
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 