SEN. VITTER PRESSES SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION ON BUDGET REQUEST
  Sen. David Vitter was an active participant in today's U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship hearing on the president's budget and legislative proposal for the Small Business Administration (SBA). Vitter serves on the Small Business Committee.  
   The proposed budget includes a measure allowing the SBA to increase the fees of disaster loans after five years beginning with disaster events occurring in 2007. Such increases would make these loans out of reach for so many people who lose everything after a disaster.
   Following are Vitter's remarks from the hearing: 
   "Thank you, Madam Chairman for this important hearing on the SBA budget. And thank you, Administrator Barreto for being here. Obviously, I guess it goes without saying that I'm particularly focused on the SBA and this proposed budget with our recent disaster experiences, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita - we always need to underscore that there's enormous need and challenge in the Rita devastated area - in mind. And certainly, I am going to work with you on this budget with all of those needs in mind. 
   "I have to say we continue to be frustrated in the disaster area with the lack of speed and lack of efficiency in terms of getting approved SBA loans to the people that need it. It has been ramping up, and I thank you for that, but we have much further to go. I'm looking carefully at this budget to see how it can improve that dramatically and get us there.
   "With that in mind, I do want to focus on one very specific issue that the Chairwoman mentioned, which I also have grave problems with, and that is the proposal to raise interest rates on disaster loans after the first five years in the future. I have to tell you flat out in the present context and with the recent experience on the Gulf Coast of the last year. I really find this proposal offensive, quite frankly. I think it has no place in our continuing challenge to get needed help to those businesses.
   "Now I realize that it's prospective, I realize it won't impact the immediate Gulf Coast need. But again just as a gut reaction, in light of the failure of the SBA to meet the enormous challenge, which I understand it is of historic proportions unlike the SBA has ever faced, I just think that proposal in particular is offensive and it's certainly unacceptable to me. 
   "So with that in mind, I'll certainly be proposing a budget resolution amendment to reverse that."
 
 