I WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU
  Vitter's View: I Want to Hear from You
   Keeping in touch with you is one of the most important parts of my job. I am always eager to hear about what issues are important to you and how I can better serve you as your U.S. Senator. To ensure that we maintain an open dialogue I have come up with a number of different ways for you to reach me and my staff. 
   Every Congress, I host town hall meetings across Louisiana. My town hall meetings are free and open to everyone. I encourage you to attend one of these meetings when I am in your parish. These meetings are a way for me to let you know what is going on in Washington, D.C., and for me to hear from you on the issues that matter the most in your parish. To find the next town hall meeting near your area, check for my town hall meeting schedule on my website at vitter.senate.gov. 
   In addition to town hall meetings, I host forums on a variety of different topics. In past years, I have hosted a Women's Forum, an Agricultural Forum, a Seafood Forum, an Economic Development Forum and a Seniors Forum. At these forums I bring in panels of experts to address issues regarding each specific topic. For example, at the Women's Forum, breast cancer and child internet safety are some of the issues that we have discussed, and at the Seniors Forum, Medicare and Medicaid issues were addressed.
   Besides town hall meetings and forums, members of my staff hold satellite office hours across the state. In addition to my seven main offices located throughout the state, members of my staff travel to all of our parishes to offer concerned constituents an opportunity to have a sit-down meeting and discuss their concerns. If you are having trouble with a government agency, please attend one of my satellite office hours and my very capable staff will do all they can to assist you. For further information please contact any of my state offices to find out when satellite office hours might be hosted in your parish. 
   My website is also a great resource if you need information about what I am doing and how you can get in touch with me or my staff. It offers contact information for my seven Louisiana offices and my Washington, D.C. office. It also has information on my views on the important issues facing Louisiana and the nation. The website also has informational links to multimedia and educational resources that can assist your own personal research about an issue or help a student learn more about the government. I encourage you to visit my website and explore all of these different items as well as find links for information about my Women's Forum, my Corruption Hotline and my E-update newsletter. 
   Please let me know about issues of importance to you and your families by contacting me at any of my state offices or in my Washington office by mail at U.S. Senator David Vitter, U.S. Senate, 516 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510, or by phone at 202-224-4623. You can also reach me on the web at http://vitter.senate.gov. 
   David Vitter serves Louisiana in the United States Senate.
 
 