SEN. VITTER POINTS TO FLAWS IN WATERS-DODD-LANDRIEU HOUSING BILL
  U.S. Sen. David Vitter recently wrote an editorial in the Times-Picayune? outlining the current flaws in a housing bill before Congress sponsored by Democrats Rep. Maxine Waters of California, Sen. Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and Sen. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana. Below is a copy of that editorial in its entirety:
   Point of View: Housing Recovery Act endangers reform 
   Times-Picayune Saturday, October 06, 2007 by U.S. Sen. David Vitter
   Recently, a U.S. Senate committee held a hearing on the Gulf Coast Housing Recovery Act, a housing bill before Congress sponsored by Democrats Rep. Maxine Waters of California, Sen. Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and Sen. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana. I believe this legislation, in its current form, would derail important public housing reform now under way. 
   Let me be crystal clear about where I'm coming from. I believe that the federal government's infliction on New Orleans of large, concentrated public housing developments destroyed our city in the past as much as the corps' flawed levees did during Hurricane Katrina. The damage was slower and more gradual, but no less deadly. 
   Those projects concentrated poverty and, with it, problems like crime and drug abuse, in densely packed spaces. They trapped innocent residents in a destructive environment and cycle of dependency from which they rarely escaped. 
   That is why I strongly support HUD and HANO's current plan to dramatically redesign those projects. The HUD/HANO plan would rebuild the C.J. Peete, St. Bernard, B.W. Cooper and Lafitte developments in a much less dense way with a mix of residents in terms of income - a third who would traditionally qualify for public housing, a third who need limited rental assistance and a third who would pay full market rate. And the agencies are already supplementing this with other low-income housing, including market-based vouchers. 
   This plan was in the works well before Hurricane Katrina. Now, over two years after the storm, it's finally fully funded and moving forward. As part of the transition, 1,800 families have been returned to public housing and another 6,000 families have received market-based vouchers. HUD/HANO has another 400 public housing units available right now. 
   The Gulf Coast Housing Recovery Act would derail this reform. 
   First, the bill would stop the HUD/HANO redevelopment plan dead in its tracks, voiding all of the contracts and agreements presently in place and establishing a moratorium on demolition and redevelopment. Work could only happen once a brand new, bureaucratic consultative process with former and prospective residents was performed and a whole new redevelopment plan was developed and approved. 
   Second, this brand new plan would have to include a one-for-one replacement of all public housing units that existed before Hurricane Katrina. This includes units that weren't even occupied then. And market-based vouchers could not be used to meet that goal. 
   This is all fundamentally inconsistent with the HUD/HANO redevelopment plan and its financing package. It would cause enormous delay, which would be bad because the need for housing is immediate, but doubly bad because a big part of the financing package we've worked hard to secure - the low-income housing tax credits - expires if actual construction is not completed by the end of 2010. It would also threaten the fundamental elements of the HUD/HANO redevelopment plan that would dramatically lower the density of the complexes and mandate a mix of residents by income. 
   Some supporters of the bill, like my colleague Sen. Mary Landrieu, say they support the lower density/mixed income model. If that is true, let's all allow the HUD/HANO plan to move forward without delay and work together to supplement it with additional capacity, including through additional market-based vouchers. 
   Others, like U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters of California, the bill's lead author in the House, clearly want to scrap the HUD/HANO model altogether. She's against any demolition anytime soon. Self-appointed housing advocates share her views, which was made clear when they brought HUD/HANO to court to try to block their plan. 
   In an effort to forge a consensus, I gave Mary Landrieu and many others six clear objections to the bill with amendments to resolve them months ago. To date, five have been rejected. 
   Do we really want to empower folks like Maxine Waters and support their efforts? Do we really want to greatly delay redevelopment and put the key reform elements of the HUD/HANO plan at grave risk? 
   Hurricane Katrina will go down in New Orleans history as the biggest tragedy to befall our city. We can't change that. 
   But it will also go down as our biggest opportunity for fundamental change. Let's take advantage of this opportunity by blocking or greatly amending the Gulf Coast Housing Recovery Act and allowing the HUD/HANO redevelopment plan to move forward - now.
 
 