
WASHINGTON - U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) and U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent today reacted to the news that the U.S. Geological Survey has completed its review of the decision to consolidate USGS Mapping Center operations in Denver and to close the Rolla MidContinent Mapping Center.  USGS simultaneously announced it will go ahead with its initial plans.     Rep. Emerson: "I am extremely frustrated that, after all this effort and examination of the USGS decision, they still feel this is a process they can pursue without even a pang of conscience. The process is clearly flawed, it is obviously biased against Rolla, and it totally ignores their responsibility to a rural community with exceptional qualifications to be a part of the USGS mission. I would describe what has taken place as nothing less than incompetence.     "This is government at its most arrogant, to think that the jobs and livelihoods of working people in Rolla are unimportant enough to ram through a decision of this magnitude which is misguided to this degree."     "Even though we feel like the door has been slammed in our face, I want to try to open that door once again. I want to review the paperwork regarding the USGS internal review, which has not yet been provided to me, and I want to see the outcome of the Inspector General's investigation. Senator Talent, Senator Bond and I are going to continue in our good-faith effort to get a fair shake for Rolla, because Rolla hasn't gotten a fair deal yet, that I can see," Emerson said.     U.S. Senator Kit Bond:    "This is a wrongheaded and completely unjustified decision resulting from a flawed process. It is now clear that the Interior Department's game-plan all along was to push this through at all costs. It is irresponsible and highlights a severe lack of accountability at the agency, to both the community and the facts, that must be addressed. Sending these jobs to Denver will result in a loss to taxpayers and will only serve to disrupt the lives of dedicated Rolla employees."     U.S. Senator Jim Talent:     "I believe this process had a predetermined outcome and this additional review was nothing more than a paper shuffle," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent. "I am frustrated and disappointed with this decision. The USGS employees at Rolla deserve a fair opportunity in the site selection process. We will review the report when it becomes available and I will continue working with Sen. Bond and Rep. Emerson to fight the implementation of this decision."
