
COLUMBIA, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today outlined his priorities for the upcoming year.  Bond talked about his health care and education goals and provided an update on his continuing efforts to pass a federal highway bill.    	"This year will be full of challenges for both Missouri and our nation," said Bond.  "When Congress returns we will be working on a number of important issues such as intelligence reform, supporting our troops in the field, veterans issues, the Missouri River and reigning in out-of-control litigation."    	Bond stressed that he will focus on three domestic issues that have an enormous impact on the quality of life and well-being of Missourians: expanding the Parents as Teachers program, doubling the number of people served in Community Health Centers, and passing a federal highway bill.   	Expanding Parents As Teachers (PAT), a program Bond began as Governor, is another top priority for Bond this year.  PAT provides parents with the support they need in laying a strong foundation for their child's success.  His legislation, the Education Begins at Home Act, proposes a bold federal investment in parents by establishing the first dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of PAT at the state and local level.     	Bond has long emphasized that access to health care is the nation's largest health care challenge.  He pledged to finish the job of doubling the number of people served in Community Health Centers and expand access.  In addition to doubling the number served, this year Bond will be working with the President to launch his new initiative to ensure that the poorest communities in the country are served by a health center.    	Bond, as Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, is jointly responsible for the re-authorization of the federal highway bill.  Although the bill was eventually killed by partisan politics, Bond secured Senate passage of a good bill last year.  He emphasized that highway and safety needs in Missouri and across the nation are going unmet and he means to see a highway bill signed into law.  Already this year Bond has pressed leadership in Congress to work with him to complete the job.    	Earlier this week Bond was officially sworn-in to the 109th Congress as Missouri's senior United States Senator.  Previously Bond served the state during two terms as Governor and will be in his fourth term as Senator.
