
	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent today announced that they secured $1.5 million in federal dollars for a critical water quality project in Southwest Missouri, making good on their pledge to fund the initiative.    	“Water quality is a critical environmental issue facing Southwest Missouri.  This project is an important step in addressing this problem as we work together to protect this precious natural resource,” said Senator Kit Bond, a long-time advocate for a common-sense approach to conserving land and safeguarding the environment for our families and communities. “The quality of the water in our streams and lakes is important not only to the future of our environment but is also integral to the regional tourism economy.”    	“Water quality in the Southwest region is the No. 1 environmental issue facing Missouri,” said Sen. Talent.  “I’ve been working with local water quality organizations to find long term solutions and protecting our water resources.  We are committed to providing additional resources to protect the water in the Ozarks region and I will continue to work in the Senate to make certain the funding remains in the bill.”     	Bond and Talent secured the $1.5 million for the project in the fiscal year 2006 Interior Appropriations bill.  In addition, the Senators secured an additional $500,000 for the Ozarks Environmental and Water Resources Institute at Southwest Missouri State University in the bill.  The spending bill passed the Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon.  Before being signed into law the bill must be passed by the full U.S. Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill.   	Last year Bond and Talent announced a multi-million federal water quality project for the region. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond pledged to continue funding for the Water Quality Improvement project (WQIP) over the next five years in the spending bill that funds the Environmental Protection Agency.    	Today’s funds are the second installment of the water quality initiative.  Last year Bond and Talent secured $2.5 million for the project.    	The WQIP in Southwest Missouri is a collaborative partnership to gain knowledge, monitor waters, collect data, work with stakeholders to test solutions, and implement results to clean the region's water.
