
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today was honored with the Institute of Food Technologists 2005 Congressional Science Award for his efforts to advance food science and technology.    	“Thank you for this recognition.  It is imperative that people be reminded of the role technology plays in improving the human condition around the world,” said Bond.  “As we look at the challenges and the opportunities ahead of us in this new century, we must initiate a new commitment to research and development.  With your support and the joint effort of our food producers and technologies providers, we will increase our nation’s investment in food, and agricultural research necessary to improve public health, environmental protection, and economic opportunity.”    The IFT Congressional Support for Science Award acknowledges distinguished service by legislators, policy-makers or advocates for advancing the role of science and technology in food and agricultural policies.      “Senator Bond clearly recognizes the benefits of creating nutritious and sustainable foods utilizing modern methods,” said IFT President Herbert Stone.  “These benefits are improving the lives of everyone in our country, and hold the promise to accomplish the same for others around the world.”    In the Senate, Bond has been a leading advocate of the new biotechnology revolution and its presence in Missouri. As Chairman of the Senate VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, he has earmarked over $450 million for plant genomics. He secured $34 million for the Life Sciences Center dedicated today and millions more for facilities in Kansas City, St. Louis and Bootheel, including the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, Missouri Botanical Garden and University of Missouri Greenhouse.     In addition to the federal funding Bond has poured into the development of biotechnology, he has also been a strong voice of behalf of the revolution both in the United States and abroad. He has encouraged foreign countries to be receptive to the technology and has urged the inclusion of sound science in public debate on the topic.
