
WASHINGTON, DC B U.S. Senators Kit Bond (R-MO) and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) today announced the reintroduction of their Alzheimer’s legislation.  Bond and Mikulski were joined by David Hyde Pierce, actor and national board member of the Alzheimer’s Association and Karen Rivera, an Alzheimer’s family caregiver from Missouri.    “This bill will serve as a living tribute to President Reagan and offer hope to all those suffering from the disease today,” said Senator Bond.  “As we celebrate the life and legacy of Ronald Reagan, we are inspired by his legendary optimism and hope, and today we move forward to confront this expanding public health crisis with renewed vigor, passion, and compassion.”    In honor of the legacy of the 40th President, Ronald Reagan, Senators Bond and Mikulski are reintroducing the Ronald Reagan Alzheimer’s Breakthrough Act.  This legislation would double the funding for Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health, provide critical support for caregivers and launch a public education campaign to get the word out on the latest advances in research and prevention.    Last year, numerous experts testified that increased funding for NIH research over the next year would help scientists make important breakthroughs in the discovery of methods to detect, prevent and treat the disease.    David Hyde Pierce also stressed the importance of investing in research for Alzheimer’s:   “I am one of the millions whose family is impacted by Alzheimer’s.  If we do not accelerate research for Alzheimer’s right now, the costs of the disease will eclipse anything else we have on the agenda.”     In February Bond conducted a statewide tour of Missouri to raise awareness on the need for further Alzheimer’s research and to stress the importance of his and Senator Mikulski’s legislation.    The provisions of the Bond-Mikulski bill will:1) Double funding for Alzheimer’s Research at the National Institute of Health;   2) Increase funding for the National Family Caregiver Support Program to $250 million;   3) Reauthorize the Alzheimer’s Demonstration Grant Program that provides grants to states to fill in gaps in Alzheimer’s services such as respite care, home health care, and day care;   4) Authorize $1 million for the Safe Return Program to assist in the identification and safe, timely return of individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias who wander off from their caregivers; 	  5) Establish a public education campaign about prevention techniques;   6) Establish a $3,000 tax credit for caregivers to help with the high health costs of caring for a loved one at home; and   7) Encourage families to prepare for their long term needs by providing an above-the-line tax deduction for the purchase of long term care insurance.
