
	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $1.75 million for the Missouri Sheriffs Methamphetamine Relief Team (MOSMART) to combat Missouri’s methamphetamine problem.    	"Our law enforcement officials are on the front line of the meth battle and these funds will help them meet critical equipment, clean-up and manpower needs," said Senator Kit Bond, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.  “I will remain committed to help Missouri's dedicated law enforcement fight the battle against this dangerous drug threatening our communities."    	Located in the middle of the country, with many small towns, national forest acres, the rural makeup and the number of interstate highways, Missouri is a draw for methamphetamine cookers, distributors, dealers and smugglers. In recent years Missouri has become known as the “meth capitol” of the United States.    	The $1.75 million in federal funds for MOSMART are part of the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations Conference Report.  The legislation was approved yesterday in the House and is expected to pass the Senate today.    	In 2000 Bond secured the seed money to start MOSMART in order to combat the state’s meth problem.  Since this program began Bond has secured more than $15 million for MOSMART, including the funds announced today.    	MOSMART has successfully coordinated efforts with regional drug task forces and sheriff departments from throughout the state to fight meth Missouri-wide.  Around 10,000 arrests have been made for possession of meth since the program began.    	"The success of the bipartisan Missouri Sheriffs Methamphetamine Relief Team (MOSMART) can be attributed one important player, U. S. Senator Kit Bond," stated Cape Girardeau County Sheriff John Jordan.  "Since 2001 when MOSMART was first implemented, Senator Bond has repeatedly stepped to the plate to provide essential federal funding for the program to fight methamphetamine and the labs that produce it.  Missouri drug task forces and local law enforcement are grateful for his commitment to our efforts as we continue our fight to rid our state of this terrible drug."    	Recognizing the severity of the state’s drug problem, Bond has also secured millions in federal funds for Missouri law enforcement, anti-drug programs and the state's crimes labs.
