
ST. LOUIS, MO   U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $3.5 million to advance biodefense and infectious diseases research at St. Louis University.    AThe work done at this center will advance the University's, Missouri’s and nation's research capabilities and will help to make our country a safer place,” said Bond.   	“I want to thank Sen. Bond for his leadership and support for SLU’s state-of-the-art biomedical medical research building,” said Saint Louis University President Lawrence Biondi, S.J. “This new appropriation, championed by Sen. Bond, ensures that we can expand vital research that will help save lives and make our country safer.”    	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond was able to secure the $3.5 million for the biomedical research building in the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations Conference Report.  The legislation was approved yesterday in the House and is expected to pass the Senate some time today.   Bond has partnered with the Institute for Bio-Security since its inception in 1999.  The Institute has been instrumental in medical and public health research as well as providing front line emergency workers with the education and training materials needed for preparedness, response, recovery and mitigation efforts in the event of a bioterrorist attack or other possible public health threats.      The new Research Building will expand research capabilities for the Institute whose materials have been used by the Centers for Disease Control after the September 11th attacks and by the U.S. Senate during the 2001 anthrax scare.   Located in midtown St. Louis, the $67 million, 10-story building is part of an $80.5 million project -- the largest building project in the University's history.  Bond stressed that this new center is another building block in securing SLU=s role as a national leader in biodefense and emerging infectious diseases.    Bond has provided critical federal dollars for the Institute, including the initial $1 million that created the Institute.  In all, Bond has secured $7.6 million for the Institute for Bio-Security since its creation, including $5.3 million for the new building.  Bond is hopeful to secure additional money for the SLU building in the remaining fiscal year 2006 spending bills.
