
Queen City, MO- U.S. Senator Kit Bond today visited the Schuyler County R-1 Elementary in Queen City to stress the importance of math and science education.    Future job and economic growth in the areas of health care, life sciences, industry, defense, agriculture and transportation is directly related to scientific advancement, said Bond. Americas wealth and leadership in the world depends on our mastery of math and science, which means we need to do more. It is critical that we make these disciplines relevant to kids.   Bond told the students at Schuyler Country R-1 Elementary that when it comes to science and math, they will use what they learn later in life. Bond pointed out to the students that math and science made advances we all take for granted possible  like e-mail. Science is a fast moving field, said Bond. In the last hundred years, science has taken us from the Wright Brothers first flight to manned space flight, from Henry Fords first car to todays vehicles hosting full-fledged entertainment systems and Global Positioning Systems. Science is moving even faster now, whether the field is space exploration, engineering technology, information systems, or biotechnology. In order for this country to retain its global competitive edge American students must be able to succeed in math and science.   More programs like the NASA Education Resource Centers (ERC) are needed to make math and science relevant to kids, said Bond. NASA ERC assists K-12 teachers statewide in math, science, and technology education enhancement. Working with Missouris Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, the NASA-ERC has Resource Agents in St. Louis, Kansas City, Kirksville, Columbia and Springfield. This program has helped more than 6,700 teachers through workshops and presentations, Bond pointed out. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the initial funds to establish Missouris statewide NASA-ERC network.   It has been a treat for me to be a part of helping this program get started and grow with federal seed money. I look forward to seeing kids continue to improve their skills in math and science, said Bond. The students here are our next generation of astronauts, engineers and mathematicians. There is no more important job than training them up to be the best they can be. ###  
