
LEES SUMMIT, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Kokam officials, Mayor Karen Messerli and members of the Lees Summit Economic Development Corporation to break ground on the new Kokam America Technologies Inc. facility in Lees Summit. Bond was briefed on the plans for the new facility and told the batteries produced at Kokam will save troops lives.  Kokam America is developing Superior Lithium Plymer Batteries that will save troops lives by improving and extending the operability of their equipment, said Bond. I have long believed that what happens on the battlefields of Iraq or Afghanistan in part depends on what happens here in our high technology plants at home.  During the ceremony, Bond stressed that men and women in harms way depend on the creativity and workmanship of the scientists and engineers who create the technology, protective gear and weaponry essential to our troops. Victory on the battlefield is linked to the technology and ingenuity that both small and large businesses contribute to the warfighter, said Bond. Kokam America will also create new high-tech jobs for hardworking Missourians in Lees Summit, emphasized Bond.   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond requested $3 million for lithium-ion cell development for Kokam America in the Senate-passed fiscal year 2008 Defense spending bill. These funds will be used to establish a state of the art fully automated manufacturing facility in Lees Summit to support the production of lithium polymer batteries for the U.S. Air Force, Navy and Army who wish to upgrade their aircraft with these batteries.  Bond also requested $2 million in federal funds for the Missouri Transportation Institute (MTI), which will work in partnership with Kokam and Kansas City to assist in the implementation and study of a battery-powered transit vehicle fleet. The Missouri Transportation Institute (MTI) is a multi-modal and multi-disciplinary consortium of 11 public and private Missouri universities and the Missouri Department of Transportation (MoDOT) housed at the University of Missouri-Rolla. Bond secured the funds in the Senate-passed fiscal year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development spending bill.   Kokam America offices are based in Lees Summit and are headed by University of Central Missouri graduate Don Nissanka. Kokam develops new battery technologies and manufactures processing equipment for the lithium polymer battery industry and LCD-polarized film industry. Kokam is the only battery company in the world to have the widest range of lithium polymer cells in production today. Kokam is also the primary manufacturer of the patented Superior Lithium Polymer Battery (SLPB). SLPBs have an improved life cycle, lighter weight, wider operating temperature range and require less maintenance than most batteries. ###  
