
MEMPHIS , MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today celebrated the opening of the Northeast Missouri Regional Planning Commission and Rural Development Corporations (NEMORPC) additional office space. Following the ribbon cutting, Bond gave an update to the corporations executive board on a number of legislative issues including the economy, health care and defense.     During this time of rising mortgage rates, high gas prices and spiraling health care expenses, Congress must ensure that hard-working families keep more of their paychecks, said Bond. I will continue to push for lower taxes and responsible spending, stated Bond.    During the update, Bond talked about his efforts, along with Senator Dodd (D-CT) to help to help homeowners facing foreclosure. The new measure would require the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to provide grants for mitigation assistance to public, private and non-profit entities to assist borrowers.The grants can be used for both conventional and subprime loans and help homeowners modify or refinance their mortgages, or to obtain counseling to examine other options to keep them in their homes.    Last week, before breaking for the Columbus Day work period, the Senate passed the State Children Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for needy children and pregnant women. Bond expressed his support for strengthening and extending SCHIP. Bond stressed that every American should have access to affordable health coverage. Congress should also provide families that are self employed or work for small businesses access to the same type of high quality health care that employees of unions and corporations currently enjoy through Association Health Plans (AHP).  Bond reported that Congress passed the long overdue Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). WRDA authorizes the nations flood control, environmental restoration, and navigation projects. Bond pointed out that Missouri communities rely on these projects for affordable water transportation, flood protection, energy production, environmental protection, and recreation opportunities. The WRDA bill includes Bonds lock and dam provision which authorizes $1.95 billion in federal funds for seven new locks and an additional $1.72 billion for environmental restoration. The Missouri Rivers are the Midwests arteries to world markets, and we need to replace the aging locks and dams so farmer and manufacturers can bring their products to market more efficiently, said Bond.   Congress also passed the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization bill which included two of Bonds provisions to improve the treatment of returning American troops. The first provision, led by Senators Bond and Obama (D-IL), limits the Pentagons use of personality disorder discharges. This amendment adds additional safeguards to discharge procedures and require a thorough review of the discharge process by the Government Accountability Office (GAO). The second provision, spearheaded by Bond and Coleman (R-MN), will improve mental health services for military personnel and their families.    As the Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Bond stressed passing comprehensive reform to our nations intelligence laws is critical to national security. Bond expressed disappointment in recent discussions about the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act  or FISA -- where critics have managed to take the American publics attention off terrorism and on over-exaggerated risks to the constitutional liberties of law-abiding Americans. Bond emphasized that Congress can pass bipartisan legislation to protect terrorist surveillance  a critical early warning system  while protecting civil liberties of ordinary Americans  ###  
