
ST. LOUIS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today provided area residents and community leaders in Clark County with a legislative update and outlined last year’s major legislative accomplishments.      	“Supporting our men and women in uniform in the War on Terror, keeping the economy growing through common-sense tax reform and restraining federal spending will continue to be among my top priorities,” said Bond.  “Also, I will continue to use my Appropriations Subcommittee Chairmanship to secure Missouri’s fair share of federal resources for local priorities.”     Despite last week’s roadblocks, Congress has recently made progress on important issues, said Bond.  Last month, the President signed the Patriot Act reauthorization, an important tool in the War on Terror.  The Patriot Act has already helped law enforcement officials break up terror cells and prosecute terrorists in many states, said Bond.  Also, the legislation will continue information sharing between law enforcement and intelligence agencies which did not exist prior to 9/11 and gives law enforcements agents the same tools they already use against organized crime, drug dealers and tax evaders.      	Congress has also made progress on tax relief with a February passed reconciliation bill, said Bond.  In order to keep the economy’s momentum going, Congress needs to act now and make the tax cuts permanent while keeping federal spending under control.    	Bond pointed to the Senate’s January confirmation of President Bush’s second Supreme Court Nominee, Samuel Alito. Both he and new Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts possess great legal minds, and are eminently qualified.  Also, Alito and Roberts will hold to the highest standards of judicial integrity and not legislate from the bench, said Bond.    	There are still a number of pressing priorities for 2006, said Bond.  Bond will continue to support the President in the War on Terror, stressing that the most important job is keeping Americans safe.  So far there has been real progress in Iraq, including a new constitution, free elections, and a stronger Iraqi military and police force.      	Bond defended the Administration’s “early warning” terrorist surveillance program.  Surveillance programs serve as a critical early warning system to prevent another horrific 9/11 attack on American soil.  Also critical to this effort is intelligence reform.  In the new age of homicide bombers, we must know information before any terrorist plot is executed, said Bond.  Good intelligence not only serves to protect our citizens, it makes our men and women in uniform even more effective.    	Bond touched on 2005’s accomplishments as well.  As chairman of the Senate Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee, Bond coauthored the federal highway bill which was signed into law.  The bill will generate new jobs, economic growth and help fix the nation’s crumbling infrastructure.  For Missouri the federal highway bill was particularly good news, including $1.3 billion in new funding for Missouri highways and bridges over the life of the bill.   Bond pointed out that for first time in Missouri history, the state will receive more in federal highway funds than paid in gas taxes.     	In addition to the highway bill, Bond praised passage of the energy bill, which includes emphasis on alternative fuels.  This is good news for corn and soybean rich Missouri.  The energy bill includes a number of positives to make the nation less dependent on foreign oil, such as Senator Talent’s renewable fuels standard and an ethanol tax credit.
