
 WASHINGTON (Tuesday, Dec. 11, 2007) -- Senate National Guard Caucus Co-Chairs Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Kit Bond (R-Mo.) Tuesday announced key victories for the National Guard in the National Defense Authorization Act, which the Senate is poised to pass later this week. The defense policy bill, which emerged from House-Senate conference in recent days, includes a provision to strengthen the National Guards voice in Pentagon decision making that affects the Guard, and it will repeal changes made last year to the Insurrection Act, which made it easier for Presidents to federalize the National Guard and use the entire military for law enforcement. Both provisions are drawn from legislation introduced by Leahy and Bond.   The Leahy-Bond National Guard Empowerment Act  a bipartisan effort cosponsored by more than half the Senate  was introduced earlier this year and would give the Guard more bureaucratic muscle in the Department of Defense. Leahy and Bond were able to secure key elements of the Empowerment Act in the final version of the Defense Authorization bill, including elevating the Chief of the National Guard to the rank of four-star general, making the Chief the principal military advisor to the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff on National Guard matters, and ensuring that the deputy head of the United States Northern Command comes from the ranks of the National Guard. Representatives Gene Taylor (D-Miss.) and Tom Davis (R-Va.) led a companion House effort with identical legislation.  The final Defense Authorization bill includes another Leahy-Bond measure, also drawn from legislation they introduced earlier this year, to restore the Insurrection Act to its original form. Last years Defense Authorization Act included language making it easier for Presidents to assume control of the National Guard and use the entire military in domestic law enforcement. These changes were made despite unified opposition from the nations governors, who have command and control of National Guard units in their states. Earlier this year, key national military and law enforcement officials testified against last years changes in a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing organized by Leahy.   Both measures have the support of the National Governors Association, the National Guard Association, the Adjutants General Association, and several other organizations.   The National Guard is a 21st Century military organization, coping under a 19th Century organization chart, said Leahy. The Pentagon bureaucracy has failed to keep pace with the Guards dynamic contributions at home and abroad. It is frustrating that the Guard has had to fight for every policy improvement and scrap of equipment spending, while their vital expertise is often overlooked or ignored when it comes to dealing with domestic emergencies. These far-reaching reforms will begin to give the Guard the seat at the table that the Guard needs. This is an important milestone on the path to fully modernizing the force.   These reforms will finally help put the National Guard on an equal footing with decision makers inside the Pentagon, said Bond. The Guard will now be more empowered to obtain the equipment and implement the policies needed to fulfill their mission whether its responding to a hurricane, securing the border, enhancing security in Iraq or providing agricultural assistance to farmers in Afghanistan. This is a long overdue victory.  The final bill should pass the House and Senate this week, after which it will be sent to the President, who is expected to sign it.   # # # # # 
