
JOPLIN, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined county commissioners from 14 counties across southwest Missouri, where he provided an update on recent Senate action and current events to the local Chamber of Commerce. Bond covered a range of topics with the commissioners, from the economy, war on terror, to energy. We have captured terrorists, used new tools to learn their secrets, connected the dots of their conspiracies and foiled their terror attack plans. We need to keep doing that, said Bond. Some want to tie the hands of our terror fighters by handcuffing our law enforcement and intelligence agents, releasing and spreading our secrets and giving terror suspects our fighting methods and techniques. That is suicide, and it is not an option in my book.   Bond opened his remarks to the Southwest Area County Commissioners noting that despite Democratic efforts to filibuster much of the Chambers important work, the Senate has made progress this year on several important issues, particularly when it comes to the economy. This spring, Congress passed a tax bill that will spur economic growth and create more jobs. Thanks to this important economic and tax package, millions of Americans now have lower income tax bills. More than 5.8 million jobs have been created since August 2003, with Missouri creating 54,800 jobs since 2005. Congress needs to continue to enact policies that keep taxes low and regulations sane, so that businesses can create jobs, said Bond.   Bond told the commissioners that regardless of what is reported in the news, the United States is making progress in the war on terror. The al-Qaida network has been significantly degraded: most of those responsible for the September 11th attacks have been captured or killed; operational terrorist support cells have been disrupted around the world; and the U.S. and allies have disrupted several serious plots against Americans since 9/11. Bond stressed that the war in Iraq continues to be a central front in the worldwide struggle against radical Islamists. Now more than ever it is important that we stay the course in Iraq, and finish the job.   In September, Bond voted in favor of terrorist detainee tribunal legislation which will allow the CIA to move forward with its critical interrogation program. He pointed out that the United States has had successes in the war on terror because of our terror fighting tools and efforts, including the CIA program.   Bond continued his update with concern over the public exposure of interrogation methods and continuing leaks to the media of classified information, which has damaged intelligence efforts to track activities of suspected terrorists. In order to prevent these leaks Bond introduced legislation to crack down on leaks by government employees or contractors by making it easier to prosecute and punish them.   In closing, Bond told the commissioners leaders that while gas prices have fallen, Americans should not be lulled into a false sense of security. The Middle East, a primary source of oil, remains unstable. Bond praised the Senate passage of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act, part of the comprehensive energy policy the nation needs. He also applauded Senator Jim Talent for his success in including a renewable fuels provision in last years energy bill which allows for the production of 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2012. Missouri farmers and businesses are part of this increased production, with 3 ethanol plants already in operation and 5 more in the construction and planning stages.  ###  
