
ST. LOUIS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Alphonso Jackson, Congressman Lacy Clay and other local officials and housing advocates to celebrate the completion of Phase I of St. Louis’ Renaissance Place.    	“Today is a great day for St. Louis.  Today we celebrate the conclusion of long-anticipated construction of many new homes and the beginning of more to come,” said Bond.    	In 2001 Bond announced $35 million in federal HOPE VI funds to revitalize Renaissance Place (formerly named Blumeyer).  These funds were used to leverage 3.5 times the amount in private funding for a total of $166 million for the project. The new housing complex is a mixed-income, intergenerational community.  In addition to redeveloping a physically and socially isolated public housing development into an attractive, safe and economically integrated community, the plan also includes job training, employment, education and healthcare.      Bond pointed out that the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina showed all of America what happens when people do not have a place to call home:  chaos, confusion, instability, and insecurity.  The Senator said the homeless plight of many in New Orleans and other parts of the Gulf region is not so different from the situation of many people right here in St. Louis, and in many other parts of the state.      	As Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds housing programs, Bond works to ensure that all residents, regardless of income, background or health status have access to good housing.  In a tight budget year, Bond has fought to protect other housing and community development programs critical to St. Louis and other cities nationwide.      	In particular Bond stressed the importance of the federal HOPE VI grant, which leverages public and private investment through the replacement of obsolete public housing with new mixed income and public housing, resulting in a positive environment with new opportunities for the families who live there.  Bond included $150 million for the HOPE VI program for next year.  In St. Louis Renaissance Place Darst-Webbe, Carbane Court; Webbe Elderly; Cochran Gardens; Vaughn Elderly and Euclid Plaza Family have all benefited from HOPE VI.    	“I am a strong supporter of HOPE VI.  The program has been a godsend for housing in St. Louis, transforming many distressed communities into revitalized neighborhoods with new jobs and economic investment,” said Bond.    	Bond also noted the progress made in revitalizing north St. Louis and the strong partnerships – faith-based organizations, local communities and government – that made the success possible.  With the Grace Hill Community Health Center all levels are working hard to end lead paint poisoning of St. Louis children.  Bond, for his part, promised to find $15 million in the federal budget within three years.  Several months ago Bond was in St. Louis to announce the second installment of $5 million to clean up houses.
