
NEVADA, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today congratulated Prairie Pride for winning $300,000 in federal grant dollars to build a new biodiesel plant in southwest Missouri.  At the ceremony at the Vernon County Courthouse, Bond stressed the importance of alternative fuels to Missouri and America’s economic future.    "Renewable fuels like bio-diesel and ethanol will play an increasingly important role in meeting America’s energy needs,@ said Bond.  AWe need to think and act creatively about our energy future.  Prairie Pride is helping to lead the way."    Prairie Pride secured the $300,000 competitive grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)’s Rural Development agency.  The USDA’s Value-Added Producer grant will be used to construct a state-of-the-art soybean extraction and biodieseI facility that will process over 21 million bushels of soybeans annually and create 40 high paying jobs.     	Bond noted that renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel will play an increasingly important role in meeting America’s energy needs. Renewable fuels are cleaner than traditional fuels, and safer for the environment.      “The emphasis on renewable fuels is an important part of the comprehensive energy policy we need to address the high cost of energy, provide additional opportunities for energy production and U.S. jobs, and reduce our growing dependence on foreign oil,” said Bond.    Bond praised Senator Jim Talent for his success in including a renewable fuels provision in last year’s energy bill which requires refiners to blend in 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2012.  Talent’s renewable fuels standard has already opened up opportunities for producers and businesses, like Prairie Pride.  In Missouri, 3 ethanol plants are already in operation and 5 more in the construction and planning stages.      As a strong supporter of renewable fuels, Bond worked with Senator Talent to establish the Volumetric Ethanol Tax Credit (VEETC) which provides an incentive of 51 cents for every gallon of ethanol used in fuel. This credit has caused ethanol production to increase significantly.      A key author of the recent highway bill, Bond included funding in bill for research on bio-diesel feedstocks and byproducts and funded a bio-diesel training program to ensure that petroleum refiners, terminal operators and distributors blend and handle the bio-diesel properly.
