
FAYETTE, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond visited the Fayette Rotary Club today to update local Missourians and area officials on the latest news in Washington. Bond talked to the Rotary Club about a number of legislative issues including the economy, health care and education.     During this time of rising mortgage rates, high gas prices and spiraling health care expenses, Congress must ensure that hard-working families keep more of their paychecks, said Bond. I will continue to push for lower taxes and responsible spending, stated Bond.    Bond talked to the Rotary Club about his efforts, along with Senator Dodd (D-CT) to help to help homeowners facing foreclosure. The new measure would require the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to provide grants for mitigation assistance to public, private and non-profit entities to assist borrowers.The grants can be used for both conventional and subprime loans and help homeowners modify or refinance their mortgages, or to obtain counseling to examine other options to keep them in their homes.    Last week, before breaking for the Columbus Day work period, the Senate passed the State Children Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for needy children and pregnant women. Bond expressed his support for strengthening and extending SCHIP. Bond stressed that every American should have access to affordable health coverage. Congress should also provide families that are self employed or work for small businesses access to the same type of high quality health care that employees of unions and corporations currently enjoy through Association Health Plans (AHP).  Early education is one of Bonds long-time priorities, he told the Rotary Club. Earlier this year, Bond introduced the bi-partisan Education Begins at Home Act with Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY). The bill makes a federal investment in early education by establishing the first dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of Parents as Teachers (PAT) at the state and local level. PAT, established in Missouri by then-Governor Bond, is an early education program that provides information, support and encouragement to parents to help their children develop optimally during the crucial early years of life. The new bill authorizes $500 million in federal funds over three years to expand services to more than 2.7 million additional families nationwide.  Bond also informed local residents that Congress is beginning the process of reviewing and reauthorizing No Child Left Behind (NCLB). Bond stated that the NCLB needs to evolve and respond to conditions and circumstances raised by educators in the real world. Bond explained that Congress will have to consider and address many important issues such as expanding state and local control, achievement measures, testing and minimizing paperwork for educators.    ### 
