
MALTA BEND, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today visited the Mid-Missouri Energy Malta Bend Ethanol Plant to tout the importance of American home-grown alternatives to gasoline. Following the tour, Bond gave an update to the Malta Bend board, co-op members and local officials on energy issues.    Our energy future is in Middle America, not the Middle East, said Bond. Renewable fuels like ethanol are playing an increasing important role in meeting Americas energy needs. Fuels produced at home from renewable resources is fuel that does not need to be imported.   During the update, Bond praised Missouris third farmer-owned ethanol plant which processes 15 million bushels of corn annually to produce 40 million gallons of ethanol. Bond stressed that America must continue to develop domestic sources of ethanol production to meet our energy needs. America uses energy about forty times faster than we produce it and the Middle East, a primary source of oil, remains unstable, warned Bond. Plants like the Malta Bend plant not only help to increase domestic supply, but also provide more jobs and economic growth for our state as well as the local community, added Bond.   Bond stressed he is continuing to work hard on policies in the 2005 energy bill that promote renewable fuels in Washington, which include a strong renewable fuels provision and allows for the production of 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2012. The Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) is critically important to the long-term success of the U.S. ethanol industry, said Bond. Bond mentioned that RFS streamlines the patchwork of fuel regulations we have across the country. States, regions and in some cases cities have different fuel requirements. The RFS allows renewable fuels to be used where they make the most sense, instead of forcing the production of many different boutique fuels, said Bond.  Long-term goals for ethanol use sends a signal to ethanol producers, farmers and investors that ethanol will be a central part of the nations energy strategy. Bond touted the Volumetric Ethanol Tax Credit, which provides an incentive of 51 cents for every gallon of ethanol used in fuel. This credit has caused ethanol production to increase significantly. Ethanol is not the only answer to Americas energy needs, but it is part of the overall solution, said Bond.  Following the discussion on energy, Bond gave an update on the progress of the current farm bill, which expired last month. Both the Senate and House passed a continuing resolution that will give the Senate Agriculture committee more time to come up with a bill. Bond expressed concern that less than 15 percent of the current farm law addresses hardships faced by the American farmer. Bond stressed the need to see a new farm bill that includes a safety net for Missouri fruit and vegetable producers, grants more energy incentives, and encourages new research initiatives.   ### 
