
	ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined federal, state and local officials to mark the transfer of ownership of the former Abram federal building to the City of St. Louis.  At today’s event Bond also observed the fifth anniversary of the September 11th attacks on the United States   	“On this September 11th, we remember the sacrifices of those who have died for their country, and we look ahead to a brighter future in this great American city,” said Bond.     	Today, the United States will remember the nearly 3,000 Americans who suffered and died simply going about their business on September 11, 2001.  Bond emphasized that while terrorists destroyed a symbol of the United States economic power, partially destroyed a symbol of our military power, and attempted to destroy a symbol of our representative government, they could not destroy the American spirit of hope and optimism.    	Bond also praised the brave men and women in the military abroad and the FBI here at home for keeping America safe.  Bond pointed out that our military and law enforcement officials are using the tools Congress and the President gave them, such as information-sharing authorized by the Patriot Act, terrorist finance tracking and terrorist surveillance programs, to prepare for and disrupt terrorist plots in the United States and around the world.   	While today is a day of remembrance, Bond pointed out that it is also a day of celebration for the City of St. Louis.  “On this day while we solemnly look back, I believe we also honor the memory of those who died by looking ahead to the future.  Today we celebrate progress in economic development for the City of St. Louis,” said Bond.   	Bond stressed that today’s deed transfer is important to St. Louis’ economic future.  After years of work and negotiation, today the General Services Administration conveyed the deed of the Abram building, located at 1520 Market Street, to the City of St. Louis.  The building is located within an important redevelopment area for the City of St. Louis.  The City will use the building as a multipurpose structure with 760 parking spaces, city office space, and an arts and education space.   	“Today’s conveyance marks continued progress for the City of St. Louis as it will realize better office facilities for city departments,” said Bond.   	Since 1961, the 1520 Market Street building has housed many federal tenants including the FBI, CIA, VA and USDA.  On July 2, 1992, legislation, proposed by Congressman William Clay, Sr., designated the 1520 Market St. property as the “L. Douglas Abram Federal Building” in honor and remembrance of Special Agent L. Douglas Abram.  Agent Abram was shot and killed while serving in the line of duty in 1990.	  						# # #
