
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today introduced legislation that will make crucial investments in agriculture research and technology to keep producers in the United States on the cutting edge.     “The leading competitiveness of our U.S. producers is only as solid as our willingness to invest in forward-looking investments and build upon our historic successes,” said Bond.  “This legislation seeks to lay the foundation for tremendous advances in the future.”    Bond’s bipartisan legislation, including cosponsors Senators Mikulski, Talent, Harkin, Roberts and Coleman, establishes a Division of Food and Agriculture Science within the National Science Foundation and authorizes additional funding for fundamental agricultural research.    Past experience has demonstrated that new technology has opened doors to novel uses of renewable agricultural products in the fields of energy, medicine, and industrial products.  Bond stressed that with the right investments, in the future, farm fields and animals can be used as factories for everyday products, fuels and medicines in a way that is more efficient and can better preserves our natural resources.      Bond’s legislation stems from findings and recommendations produced by the group of scientists working on the Agriculture Research, Economics and Education Task Force and their report and proposal for a National Institute for Food and Agriculture.  Led by St. Louis’ Dr. William Danforth, the team of scientists concluded that, although the U.S. has led the world in agriculture innovations and production, American agriculture must now surmount many new challenges, including increasingly efficient foreign producers, rising concerns about food safety, the need to preserve the environment, and American dependence on foreign sources of oil.    The U.S. is not using current scientific opportunities to speed agricultural innovation, the scientists found.  Also, federal funding for agricultural research has grown little in the last 20 years, despite the increase in both need and opportunity, the report said.  The low levels of funding have not only delayed scientific progress, the report said, but have also eroded the reputation of agriculture research.    The report stated that, “… the need for fundamental research grows every day.  Opportunities for progress have been lost.  America cannot wait to be surpassed by other countries that use less expensive labor to make effective use of past American innovations, to deplete our supplies of fresh water, or be struck by bioterrorism…We are  convinced that – for the good of the nation—action must be taken now.”    Bond stressed that this investment is necessary to reinvigorate the focus on the U.S.’s technology to meet the responsibilities of our time.  This action is critical for the world’s consumers, the protection of our natural resources, the standard of living for Americans who labor in rural America, and for the well-being of the hungry and needy people throughout the world.    “This is a tremendous opportunity to improve agriculture and its benefits to all our populations,” said Bond.
