
WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, in a letter sent to the head of the United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service, members of the Missouri congressional delegation expressed their opposition to the agency’s plan to sell National Forest lands, including portions of Missouri’s Mark Twain National Forest.  The Forest Service has proposed selling more than 20,000 acres of the park across nearly 30 Missouri counties.    In the letter, U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Claire McCaskill and U.S. Representatives Ike Skelton, Jo Ann Emerson, Kenny Hulshof, Todd Akin, Wm. Lacy Clay, Russ Carnahan, Emanuel Cleaver urge the Forest Service to abandon their plan, and asserted the need to find other ways to provide new funding for rural schools, conservation and national forests.      “I will continue to fight against proposals that sell off timeless resources for short term gain," said U.S. Senator Kit Bond.  "Missouri's national forests and resources they surround, like Table Rock Lake, are true treasures that we must protect against those looking for more money for government programs.”     “Under no circumstances should we shortchange our children and their children by selling any of our beautiful forest.  The funding from the sale would soon be gone, and but we could never get back what we lost by letting this land go,” U.S. Senator Claire McCaskill said.  “Generations of Missourians have cherished hunting, camping, fishing, and hiking on this land, and that’s simply not something we can put a price tag on.”      "National Forests are treasures, and they should not be put up for sale to fill gaps in the federal budget,” said Congressman Ike Skelton.  “The Administration's plan to do so would be only a temporary funding solution and it would set a dangerous precedent if enacted."    "Using income from the sale of National Forest land as a one-time piggybank for the Secure Rural Schools program is reckless and shortsighted,” Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson said.  “Rural school districts face uncommon challenges in keeping their tax bases strong to support local education opportunities. We should be examining a long-term solution to fund the operations of our federally-impacted rural schools," said U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson, whose Eighth Congressional District includes the majority of the Mark Twain National Forest.”    "Selling this land is a bad idea and a bad deal for Missouri and everyone who enjoys our national forest lands," Congressman Kenny Hulshof said.  "It is detrimental to one of our state's important environmental treasures.  We do not want to get into the habit of selling important public lands to the highest bidder as a means of temporarily plugging gaps in the budget.  This idea should be abandoned once and for all."     "The sell-off of parts of this magnificent national forest is outrageous and I strongly oppose it,” Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay.  “We owe it to future generations of Missourians to preserve this precious natural asset.  It is simply irreplaceable."   "Obviously many reasons exist for concern regarding the proposed sale , but most of all is the apparent disregard shown to those who use, live next to, and enjoy Mark Twain Forest,” Congressman Russ Carnahan.  “There's no buying back these lands once sold and many like myself who grew up near this area understand that a way of life is in jeopardy as well."   “I am appalled by this plan to sell portions of the public’s land to make a quick buck.  Let me stress, this is the public’s land,” said Congressman Emanuel Cleaver.  “It is our duty to hold this land in trust for our children and our children’s children to enjoy.  While the Mark Twain National Forest is not in my district, as a former mayor, I know how critical it is to preserve and protect every inch of public land.  After all, once land in this magnificent Missouri forest is sold, it is gone forever.  I applaud Senators McCaskill and Bond for taking the lead in saving this national treasure.  I am proud to stand with them to hold on tight to this important piece of Missouri’s natural heritage.”
