
(Washington D.C.) President Bush declared Missouri counties affected by severe storms and flooding disaster areas today. Federal assistance to help people and communities recover from the severe storms and flooding that occurred will now be made available.Individual Assistance (assistance to individuals and households) was granted to Andrew, Atchison, Buchanan, Carroll, Chariton, Clay, Daviess, DeKalb, Gentry, Holt, Jackson, Lafayette, Livingston, Morgan, Nodaway, Osage, and Platte Counties.  FEMA said that residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by registering online at http://www.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. (local time) Monday thru Sunday.  Public Assistance (assistance to state and local governments) was granted to Andrew, Atchison, Bates, Carroll, Cass, Chariton, Daviess, Gentry, Grundy, Harrison, Holt, Howard, Livingston, Mercer, Nodaway, Platte, Ray, Saline, and Worth Counties.  This is great news for the Missourians who were hit hard by this latest disaster. I have continued to stress to the President the importance of federal assistance to help homeowners, business owners, and farmers recover. The funds available after today's announcement are a good start, said U.S. Senator Kit Bond.  Hundreds of peoples lives were disrupted by the recent flooding, and some are still struggling to recover, said U.S. Senator Claire McCaskill. This disaster declaration will allow the federal government to help Missourians put their lives back in order and prevent such flooding damage in the future.  I spoke with FEMA Administrator Paulison and the White House about the importance of this declaration on Monday, said U.S. Congressman Sam Graves, who serves on the Subcommittee that oversees FEMA. Im glad that assistance is on the way so that we can begin to clean up after this disaster. A lot of people have lost an awful lot and they can use this help.  This is a good example of leaving partisanship at the door to roll up our sleeves and help the people we were elected to help. The Presidents disaster declaration will bring much needed federal money to assist our communities who have lost so much. I know this money will be put to good use in the hands of those who are trying to get their lives back to normal, said U.S. Representative Emanuel Cleaver, II.  # # #  
