
COLUMBIA, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Kenny Hulshof today toured and inspected the Harry S Truman VA Hospital where they announced the approval of almost $26 million for improvements to the hospitals operating rooms. Bond and Hulshof also met with VA staff, veterans and veterans service organizations.These funds will create a much-needed state-of-the-art operating room at Truman VA and ensure that the care our veterans receive is on the cutting edge, said U.S. Senator Kit Bond. American soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines have been called upon in large numbers to support the war on terror. Those who are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan severely wounded are paying a high price on behalf of the rest of us. The very least we can do for these heroes is to take care of them when they come home.   The men and women defending our freedom deserve the best care possible, Hulshof said. Unfortunately, weve seen too many recent examples of that not being the case and that is unacceptable. The improvements that were announcing today for Truman are long overdue. They will enhance the quality of care available to veterans in mid-Missouri. That is a common goal we all share and Im pleased that we have been able to secure these necessary funds.   Bond and Hulshof first secured the authorization of the $25.8 million for the Truman VA Hospital in the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006. In February, they were successful in including the almost $26 million for the hospital renovation project in the fiscal year 2007 Continuing Resolution, which was signed into law in February.   The renovation of the operating rooms at Truman VA are critical, said Bond and Hulshof. Truman VA has an open-heart referral designation and is the only in-house source for open-heart surgery in the VA Heartland Network. The current operating room suites at Truman VA have not been renovated since the medical center opened in 1972. The operating area has frequent electrical failures, which require a shut down for repairs several times a year and cancellation of surgeries.   Bond and Hulshof praised the VA health care facilities in Missouri as being some of the best in the country, but also pointed out that there is always room for improvement. They toured the Truman VA Hospital to assure our active-duty forces, their family members, veterans and the public that in Missouri returning soldiers and veterans are receiving the care the need. They were joined by Dr. Peter Almanoff the VA VISN 15 Director, the Director of Harry S. Truman Memorial Veterans Hospital, representatives of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, the Vietnam Veterans of America, the Disabled American Veterans, and the Paralyzed Veterans of America.   Bond toured the Walter Reed VA facility last week and will tour VA facilities in Kansas City later today.  
