
KANSAS CITY, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today toured the Kansas City VA Hospital and met with VA staff, veterans and veterans service organizations. Earlier in the day, Bond toured the Harry S Truman Memorial VA Hospital in Columbia.American soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines have been called upon in large numbers to support the war on terror. Those who are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan severely wounded are also paying a high price on behalf of the rest of us, said Bond. The very least we can do for these heroes is to take care of them when they come home.   Bond praised the VA health care facilities in Missouri as being some of the best in the country, but also pointed out that there is always room for improvement. He asked the local leadership for a tour of the Kansas City veterans facility to assure our active-duty forces, their family members, veterans and the public that in Missouri returning soldiers and veterans are receiving the care the need. Bond was joined by Dr. Peter Almanoff, Director, VA VISN 15, the KCVA Director and representatives of the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion.   The situation at Walter Reed Army Hospital as recently reported by the Washington Post illustrates that the government is not doing right by all of our returning soldiers, said Bond. The conditions at Walter Reed  substandard living conditions, insufficient medical personnel, excessive delays in the delivery of care and in the medical and physical disability evaluation process - were nearly identical to conditions Senator Bond and Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) found when they investigated military health care problems at Ft. Stewart, Ft. Knox, and Ft. Carson beginning in 2003.   The conditions at our medical facilities must, and will, improve, stressed Bond. It is critical to determine the extent of the problem throughout the system, and what issues specifically need to be addressed. He pointed out that, anecdotally, soldiers are very pleased with the quality of medical care they receive in the military hospitals and in Missouris veterans facilities. The problems seem to occur when they are sent to military facilities or barracks to recover from their injuries or surgeries, when they are in what is called medical hold status.   It takes more than 200 days  nearly 7 months  to assess the fitness for duty for injured forces. Clearly, the red tape at the Pentagon needs to be cut and the process for evaluating disabilities needs to be expedited, said Bond. Also, personnel shortages such as case workers and health care workers, negatively impacts the quality of care and lengthens the time necessary for injured forces to recuperate. To address this shortage, Bond is working on plans to add around $500 million to the fiscal year 2007 emergency supplemental appropriations bill to provide funds for additional key personnel.  
