
BOWLING GREEN, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined members of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and local officials to announce more than $3 million dollars in federal funds for the City of Bowling Green to help improve the citys water system and provide life-saving equipment to the fire department.  Good projects are about more than money, said Bond. Today we celebrate a community rallying together to meet a challenge. It is about the people of Bowling Green working toward a common goal to improve their community. This kind of support is vital to long term community growth and it is clear that this project has that support.  Bowling Green will receive $1.24 million in grant money and over $2 million in loans to provide upgrades to the citys water system through the USDAs Rural Development program. The funds will provide for a new 300,000-gallon storage tank, elevated storage tank, replace 9,560 feet of old cast iron mains and install new water lines and a back-up generator.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $500,000 in federal funds for the Clarence Cannon Wholesale Water Treatment Plant in the fiscal year 2006 Interior Appropriations bill. The plant treats and monitors several parameters of raw water from Mark Twain Lake. The water plant needed to be upgraded to handle the growing population of nearby communities. The funds Bond secured upgraded the water treatment plant and will provide the capacity to connect the City of Bowling Green.   Todays announcement highlights the importance of a safe, affordable drinking water supply and the need to invest in infrastructure to sustain that supply, stressed Bond. He commended the staff at USDA Rural Development, the City of Bowling Green and the Clarence Cannon Wholesale Water Commission for their hard work and quick response to upgrade the local water system.   Bond also announced that the USDA will release $3,000 to the Bowling Green Fire Department under its Economic Impact Initiative grants program. The Bowling Green Fire Department will use the funds to upgrade their Jaws of Life equipment. Jaws of Life is a term that refers to piston-rod hydraulic rescue tools including cutters, spreaders, and rams that are used by emergency rescue personnel to pry open vehicles for trapped crash victims. Bond stressed the importance of USDA Rural Development in identifying opportunities to bolster public safety and to meet the challenges of homeland security in rural communities.   September 11th reminded the nation of the unique risks that firefighters take to protect our communities from all manners of threats, said Bond. It is our responsibility to ensure that our fire departments and firefighters have the best training and equipment available as well as the capacity to meet the threats that terrorism poses to our nation and our freedoms. # # # 
