
HERMANN, MISSOURI  U.S. Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Kenny Hulshof today joined Missouri Department of Transportation officials and local community leaders to celebrate the Hermann Bridge dedication.  This bridge is about the future of mid-Missouri. The new bridge will bring jobs, economic development and opportunity to this part of Missouri, said Bond. It will connect rural mid-Missouri with the rest of the state. Most important, it will make travel safer for school students, residents and tourists.    This bridge is going to be a significant boon for the areas economy, Hulshof said. Even more importantly, it is a long-overdue upgrade in safety. I am confident that the new bridge will make the trip across the Missouri River on Highway 19 a bit less stressful. Everyone who had a hand in making this bridge a reality deserves to celebrate on this very special day.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $14 million in federal funds for the Hermann Bridge project. The bridge would not have been possible without the support of Congressman Hulshof, who made the new bridge a top transportation priority. Hulshof also secured $1.5 million for the planning and design of the bridge.  The old Hermann Bridge, dedicated today as the Christopher S. Bond Bridge, was originally built in 1930 and runs over the Missouri River in Hermann City, between Gasconade and Montgomery Counties. The old bridge was in serious need of replacement and was unsuitable for todays large school buses, tractor trailers and tourist buses. The funds were used to close open sides, widen narrow lanes and add shoulders to the bridge.   The people of Missouri are fortunate to have Sen. Kit Bond's leadership in Washington D.C., said MoDOT Director Pete Rahn. He is a strong advocate for better, safer roads and bridges. Sen. Bond's leadership helped make the dream of a new Missouri River Bridge in Hermann a reality. It is fitting that this bridge will carry his name.   # # # 
