
 WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today addressed the Midwest Area River Coalition 2000 (MARC 2000) annual meeting where he stressed the importance of improvements to our nation’s waterways and infrastructure.   	“I congratulate MARC 2000, labor, agriculture, and your waterways allies for helping make the case to modernize our water infrastructure,” said Bond to the group.  “We will rely on labor and the waterways coalition to help everyone understand that safety and our economic future are both short and long-term imperatives that are worthy of investment and that we defer at our own peril.”    	As chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Transportation Infrastructure Subcommittee, Bond has pushed for passage of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA).  WRDA provides long overdue funds for the Corps Engineers and critical projects to modernize our nation’s waterways and restore the environment.  The legislation has passed the House and the Senate EPW Committee.  Bond told MARC 2000 that there is strong bipartisan support to see WRDA and the Locks modernization project signed into law.      	In addition to Bond’s plans to modernize the Missouri and Illinois lock and dam system, WRDA includes very important initiatives for Louisiana, including the historic Coastal Louisiana Project and is ready to accommodate additional features in response to recent events.    	Bond stressed that the recent tragedy of Hurricane Katrina reinforced the value the Corps of Engineers.  In Missouri, the Corps levees all withstood the incredible 1993 flood and saved Missourians from an estimated $19 billion in flood damage.  Nationwide, since 1928, $801 billion of damage has been prevented, and lives lost annually from floods have been reduced from 126 per year during the 1970s to 83 annually in the 1990s.     	While Corps of Engineers projects are long-term investments, the benefits are felt for decades whether its flood control, navigation, recreation, or environmental protection.  Bond pointed out that the Corps operates and maintains 12,000 miles of inland navigation channels, which handle 2.4 billion tons of freight.  Unfortunately, over half the lock chambers in the U.S. have exceeded their 50-year design lives.  Clearly, Bond emphasized, modernization is needed, particularly for future commercial growth and job creation.
