
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond announced that the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) passed the full Senate Environment and Public Works Committee today. WRDA includes Bond’s bipartisan legislation to modernize locks on the upper Mississippi River.    “This legislation passed an important hurdle today, but there is still much work to do to ensure WRDA is signed into law,” said Bond.  “Congress has not passed a water resources bill for 5 years.  For five years, critical projects to modernize our nation’s waterways and restore the environment have been on hold.  The time to pass this crucial legislation is now.”   “If we do what we did last year with policy issues, we will end up where we did last year and that is with no bill.  Communities rallied against the bill last year because they said the regulations were too costly and burdensome and time-consuming and prejudicial against new projects.  In this bill, we have a bi-partisan approach that provides independent peer review and tightens mitigation requirements,” added Bond.    	Bond emphasized that passage of WRDA, which authorizes the nation’s flood control, ecosystem restoration, and navigation projects is long overdue.  For the Midwest, where farmers depend on the lock and dam system to move their products to market, Bond’s lock and dam bill is an essential part of WRDA.   	Bond’s bill would authorize $2.475 billion in federal funds for seven new locks, including $1.58 billion for ecosystem restoration.  In addition to replacing the aging infrastructure and environmental restoration, Bond’s bill is a critical jobs initiative, creating 48 million man-hours of construction work.    	"By investing in the locks today, we are securing our region's economic future for tomorrow," said Bond. "Modernizing our lock and dam system will produce economic benefits now, including good-paying construction jobs for Missouri workers. This project will make U.S. producers more efficient and more competitive, while protecting jobs here at home."     	Bond, who chairs the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, said it is important to improve the aging lock and dam system in order to maintain the 1,000 miles of Missouri and Mississippi River shoreline and inland ports, which serve as Missouri’s arteries to world markets.     	These improvements to the nation's water transportation system are long past due, Bond stressed. The current water transportation system, designed for paddlewheel boats and to last 50 years, is nearly 70 years old.      	Also, updating the locks and dam system will prepare the country for the projected growth in freight shipping. Highway traffic growth is expected to grow from 11 billion tons to 19 billion tons and rail traffic from 2 billion to 3.7 billion tons.  While our highways are not prepared for this level of growth, waterways are an alternative. One medium-size tow on the river can carry the same weight as 870 trucks, or two diesel engines in exchange for 870 diesel engines, which makes water transportation more efficient, safe, fuel efficient and environment-friendly.
