
WASHINGTON, DC. - U.S. Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Kenny Hulshof announced today that Congress has authorized $25 million for improvements at Truman VA Hospital in Columbia.  The authorization was part of S. 3421, the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006, which was approved by the House prior to adjournment.  The funding is for renovations to Truman's operating room suites.   "Veterans across the region rely on Truman VA to provide the best care possible," said Hulshof.  "The improvements are overdue and will be a benefit to veterans who seek care at Truman.  I'm pleased that my colleagues have seen the importance of offering quality care to those who have spent their life defending our nation."   The operating room suites at Truman VA have not been renovated since the medical center opened in 1972.  According to reports, the operating area has frequent electrical failures, which require it to be shut down for repairs several times a year.  As a result, surgeries are either cancelled or rescheduled.   "Our veterans deserve quality care," said Bond.  "These funds will create a much-needed state-of-the-art operating room at Truman VA and ensure that the care our veterans receive is on the cutting edge."   The Truman VA Medical Center has an open-heart referral designation and is the only in-house source for open-heart surgery in the VA Heartland Network.  If the operating rooms were forced to close, most surgical cases would be sent to the community.  This could cost an estimated $41 to $46 million annually.   "At a time when our nation is fighting terrorism abroad, we are all acutely aware of the sacrifices our men and women in uniform make for our freedom," Hulshof stated.  "In return, they deserve our deep respect, gratitude, and the best health care we can provide.  This project would go a long way in substantially enhancing the quality of care offered to veterans at Truman VA."   S. 3421 has been forwarded to the White House for the President's signature.  The authorization for Truman VA in S. 3421 by law makes funding for operating room improvements a VA funding priority when federal appropriations are allocated.   -30-
