
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured more than $11 million in federal funds for critical transportation projects in Southeast Missouri.  Improving our transportation infrastructure is vital to the rural communities in Southeast Missouri, said Bond, ranking member of the Senate Transportation-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee. Getting this funding approved in committee was a critical step. I will continue to use my position on the Appropriations Committee and as Missouris senior Senator to send federal dollars back to the state to fund local priorities.  As the ranking member of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured more than $11 million in federal funds for Southeast Missouri transportation projects in the subcommittees fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee. Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  For over three decades I know of no single individual who has had more determination to build Missouris infrastructure than our senior United States Senator, Kit Bond, stated Steve Duke, Executive Director of Bootheel Regional Planning Commission (BRPC). Throughout my years as a Transportation Planner for Missouri Department of Transportation, and in my present position with BRPC, Kit Bond has done more to develop Missouris multi-modal assets than anyone. While we are grateful for his steadfast efforts to build Missouris many transportation assets, we are even more appreciative for the improved safety, jobs and new commerce Senator Bond has sought to bring to southeast Missouri by seeking federal funding for these important projects.  Bond secured funds for the following critical transportation projects:   $2,500,000 for Route D Road/ Multi-modal Improvement Project in Caruthersville (Pemiscot County Port). Funds will provide for repair, maintenance and construction along Route D road.   $1,000,000 for Route EE Road/ Multi-modal Improvement Project in New Madrid (New Madrid County Port). Funds will provide for repair, maintenance and expansion.   $1,000,000 for Route AB/Nash Road in Scott City (Southeast Missouri Regional Port). Funds will provide for street repair, maintenance and expansion.  - MORE     $760,000 for Route AB Road in Cape Girardeau. Funds will provide for repair, maintenance and expansion of the route.   $3,000,000 for Highway 67 (Wappapello Bridge) in Greenville. Funds will facilitate expansion and safety improvements along the bridge   $1,000,000 for Route Y Road in Dexter. Funds will provide for repair and safety improvements.   $500,000 for Caruthersville Infrastructure Road Redevelopment in Caruthersville. Funds will provide for roadway repair, maintenance and expansion.   $1,000,000 for the Southeast Missouri Transportation Service (SMTS) in Fredricktown. Funds will facilitate access to health care, training, business and employment opportunities.   $250,000 for Poplar Bluff Historic Depot Restoration Corporation in Poplar Bluff. Funds will restore and preserve the Popular Bluff Historic Depot to protect its historic significance in the community.  Bond also secured funds for the following statewide project:   $2,000,000 for the Missouri Statewide Bus  Bus Facilities.  # # #  
