
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured more than $21 million in federal funds for critical transportation projects in the Kansas City region.  Improving our transportation infrastructure is vital to the Kansas City region, said Bond, ranking member of the Senate Transportation-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee. Getting this funding approved in committee was a critical step. I will continue to use my position on the Appropriations Committee and as Missouris senior Senator to send federal dollars back to the state to fund local priorities.  As the ranking member of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured more than 21 million in federal funds for Southwest Missouri transportation projects in the subcommittees fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee. Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  Bond secured funds for the following critical transportation projects:   $3,000,000 for the Highway 13 Bypass in Warrensburg, MO. Funds will construct a new Bypass.   $2,000,000 for the Uptown St. Joseph Transportation District. Funds will provide for repair, preservation and construction of roads for revitalization efforts within the district.   $750,000 for the Joe Dice Bridge in Warsaw, MO. Funds will provide for the renovation of the historic Swinging Bridge.   $500,000 for the Downtown Square Street Improvement Project in Grant City, MO. Funds will to upgrade and repair roads within the Downtown Square.   $750,000 for the Heart of America Bridge in Kansas City, MO. Funds will retrofit the Bridge to provide a barrier-separated crossing for bicyclists and pedestrians crossing the Missouri River from North Kansas City to Kansas City.   $750,000 for the Paseo Street Corridor in Kansas City, MO. Funds will facilitate the repair, maintenance and construction of roadways along the Corridor.   $1,000,000 for the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA) in Kansas City, MO. Funds will provide for the replacement of transit buses to meet fuel efficiency and clean air standards.   $2,500,000 for the Kansas City Light Rail Alternative Analysis in Kansas City, MO. Funds will initiate the planning process for the light rail.   $6,260,000 for the Troost Corridor Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in Kansas City, MO. Funds will expand public transit services within the region.   $1,380,000 for the Max B. Swisher Skyhaven Airport Development in Warrensburg, MO. Funds will update and expand the Swisher Skyhaven Airport facilities and runway.   $750,000 for Synergy Services, Inc in Kansas City, MO. Funds will design and construct a homeless youth shelter and campus that will double the number of homeless youth currently served.   $1,000,000 for the City of Kansas City, Kansas City, MO. Funds will provide for redevelopment in the 11th and Grand Neighborhood in downtown Kansas City.  Bond also secured funds for the following statewide projects:   $2,000,000 for the Missouri Statewide Bus  Bus Facilities.  # # #  
