
  WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured more than $6 million in federal funds for critical transportation projects in the St. Louis region.  Improving our transportation infrastructure is vital to the St. Louis region, said Bond. Getting this funding approved in committee was a critical step. I will continue to use my position on the Appropriations Committee and as Missouris senior Senator to send federal dollars back to the state to fund local priorities.  As the ranking member of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured more than $6 million in federal funds for transportation projects in the subcommittees fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee. Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  Bond secured funds for the following critical transportation projects:   $1,500,000 for the South Bridge in Herculaneum. Funds will provide for the construction of a new bridge out of the 100 year flood plain.   $1,000,000 for the Forest Park Circulator/I-64 Closure Alleviation in St. Louis. Funds will facilitate bus purchasing and operation between downtown St. Louis and Forest Park.   $3,000,000 for the Center for Aviation Safety Research at St. Louis University. Funds will provide for the creation of a national aviation safety research center for safety management systems.   $500,000 for the St. Louis Area Food Bank, Inc. in St. Louis. Funds will renovate a food distribution warehouse and purchase distribution equipment which will serve 500 hunger relief organizations in the community.   $750,000 for the World Impact St. Louis. Funds will renovate the former St. Louis North YMCA building to serve more urban youth and families in the inner city.  Bond also secured funds for the following statewide project:   $2,000,000 for the Missouri Statewide Bus  Bus Facilities.  # # # 
