
  WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured more than $6 million in federal funds for critical transportation projects in Southwest Missouri.  Improving our transportation infrastructure is vital to the communities in Southwest Missouri, said Bond. Getting this funding approved in committee was a critical step. I will continue to use my position on the Appropriations Committee and as Missouris senior Senator to send federal dollars back to the state to fund local priorities.  As the ranking member of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured more than $6 million in federal funds for Southwest Missouri transportation projects in the subcommittees fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee. Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  Bond secured funds for the following critical transportation projects:   $500,000 for Highway 13 at Broadmoor Intersection in Springfield. Funds will provide for the repair and expansion of ingress and egress lanes at the intersection.   $3,000,000 for Route 266  I-44 Interchange in Greene County. Funds will upgrade Interstate 44 and Route 266 interchange to serve the Springfield-Branson National Airport Relocated Midfield Terminal.   $750,000 for the U.S. 60 Corridor west of Republic. Funds will provide for the design, construction of lanes, safety and congestion improvements.   $2,000,000 for the City Utilities of Springfield Intermodal Transfer Facility in Springfield. Funds will construct a new intermodal transfer facility for the city's public transit system.   $500,000 for Camp Barnabas in Purdy. Funds will provide for the construction of new handicap accessible cabins for children with special needs.  Bond also secured funds for the following statewide projects:   $2,000,000 for the Missouri Statewide Bus  Bus Facilities.  # # #   
