
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today toured LaBarge Products, Inc. in St. Louis and joined employees in announcing a multi-million contract with the U.S. Army.  LaBarge expects the new contract to result in the doubling of the 65 jobs at the small manufacturing company.     	“LaBarge Products is an American small business success story. As the former Chairman of the U.S. Senate Small Business Committee I learned the value of small businesses in America and what they mean to our communities and our economy.  There is no doubt that small businesses, as represented by outstanding firms such as LaBarge Products, are the catalysts that make the nation’s economy run,” said Bond.  “Let me congratulate all the employees of LaBarge Products who are an integral part of supplying essential equipment to our warfighters.”    	“Senator Bond has demonstrated his personal commitment to supporting service men and women with the finest equipment possible, and his commitment to Missouri manufacturing by his interest and involvement in the progress of the Assault Hoseline System.  LaBarge Products and the U.S. Army express their appreciation to Senator Bond for his unwavering commitment to this critical system,” said Charlie LaBarge, company founder and former active and reserves Naval officer.    	Bond, LaBarge employees and officials, and Army representatives celebrated LaBarge Products contract award for its Assault Hoseline System, a rapid deployment bulk fuel transfer system.  The system can transfer nearly 500,000 gallons of fuel a day to supply the needs of advancing troops.  Also, the system requires fewer soldiers to service and can be deployed over any terrain navigable by the Army’s 5-ton truck.    	The Army made an initial order of 34 systems, valued at $9 million, and is expected to order additional units, up to almost $120 million for the St. Louis company.  LaBarge officials expect to hire 50 additional employees as a result of the initial contract and even more if the Army orders the additional units.    	When bureaucratic delays with the Army contract threatened LaBarge’s operating capabilities, Bond intervened on behalf of the St. Louis small business. Bond today thanked the Army for recognizing the importance of the contract by completing the testing and awarding the initial contract for the first 34 systems.
