
	JEFFERSON CITY _ U.S. Sens. Kit Bond and Jim Talent and Gov. Matt Blunt today expressed serious concerns about the Pentagon’s recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission.     	``We are extremely disappointed by the Pentagon’s recommendations to Base Realignment and Closure Commission to reduce Missouri's military missions by 3,679 military and civilian jobs. We are very disturbed by the proposed closure of the 131st Fighter Wing in St. Louis and the closing of the Defense Finance and Accounting Offices in St. Louis and Kansas City. We plan to vigorously oppose these harmful recommendations. At the same time, we are pleased that the important missions at Fort Leonard Wood will not be adversely impacted and that Whiteman Air Force Base and Rosecrans will see modest gains. The news that Scott Air Force Base will see a boost in mission is a positive development for the St. Louis area.’’    Gov. Blunt:  ``I am extremely disappointed by the recommendations made by the Pentagon to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. These decisions will have a significant impact on the lives of thousands of Missourians and I pledge to work with our congressional delegation to reverse these harmful recommendations. While I am pleased that Fort Leonard Wood, Whiteman Air Force Base and Rosecrans will not be significantly impacted, I am prepared to oppose the reductions of more than 3,600 military and civilian jobs at installations throughout our state.''      Sen. Bond:  “I am deeply disappointed and troubled by today’s announcement. This misguided recommendation makes absolutely no sense and jeopardizes both jobs and the safety of our state.     “The 131st’s Fighter Wing’s role in homeland security is critical. While the impact on local jobs is a serious concern, the Pentagon has also made a drastic mistake in eliminating the 131st, creating a dangerous “vulnerability gap” that weakens our ability to protect critical regional infrastructure.     “I have always been a supporter of the BRAC process but the realignment of the 131st goes beyond saving money and inhibits our ability to perform one of our fundamental duties of homeland protection.      “The BRAC Commission is designed to give communities an appeal process. I intend to take full advantage of the process to reverse this flawed decision.”     Sen. Talent:     “I am concerned about the overall impact of these recommendations on Missouri, though a positive aspect is that through the efforts of civic and government officials, Fort Leonard Wood, Whiteman Air Force Base and Rosecrans are being maintained.  This is the beginning of the process, and I will work with the Governor, the Missouri delegation and state officials in a bipartisan fashion to make the case for our military installations and our workers.”
