
MEXICO, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined members of his extended family for the dedication of the new Green Estate Park and the reopening of the property’s historic Churchill Gates.    	“What a treasure it is to live in a town where you grew up, where you know your neighbors, and where there is a great community spirit,” said Bond. “I hope the people of Mexico and around the State will come to this park often, and will enjoy the beauty of this land as much as I have throughout my life.”      	Late last year, 143 acres of the original Green Estate was given to the City of Mexico by Renny and Tiina Smith, who purchased the property in 2002 from AP Green Refractories and its parent, Harbison-Walker. Mr. Smith is a great grandson of Mr. and Mrs. Allen P. Green.     	Mr. and Mrs. Smith, their family, and the City of Mexico today dedicated the southern portion of the property as the Green Estate Park and will feature a 7/8 mile walking trail. The City is in the planning process for residential development of the northeast section of the property.    	On the southern part of the property the City of Mexico plans to develop a suburban arboretum with planting of native trees, grasses, and shrubs to educate Missourians on the native flora of the State. Mr. Green, when he developed the property initially, planted one of each species of trees growing in Missouri on the property, and many of those survived to the present day.      	It is the hope of the donors and the City of Mexico that this will provide a great educational opportunity for Missourians, as well as a pleasant park setting for relaxation and recreation.    	In 1946, England’s former Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, delivered his historic “Iron Curtain” speech at Westminster College in Fulton. In anticipation of a visit to his home by the Prime Minister and President Harry S. Truman, Mr. Green built a formal entrance on the west side of the Estate, featuring wrought iron gates and brick masonry walls. President Truman decided on the day of the speech that Sir Winston should accompany him back to Saint Louis.  As a result, the Churchill Gate was not opened for its honored guest.  The Gate, which is known as the ‘Churchill Gate,’ has remained closed until the opening of the Park.    	Including Senator Bond, grandson of Mr. and Mrs. Green, over 60 members of the Green family traveled from across the United States to attend the dedication of the Park.
