
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Kit Bond announced that he secured more than $11 million in federal funds for critical transportation projects in Southeast Missouri.   These dollars will mean safer and more efficient roads and bridges and healthier communities in Southeast Missouri, said Bond. As this states senior Senator one of my top priorities is to ensure our state receives the resources needed for critical projects that will improve the lives of Missourians.  As the ranking member of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured more than $11 million in federal funds for Southeast Missouri transportation projects in the subcommittees fiscal year 2008 spending bill. The bill passed the Senate yesterday by a vote of 88-7. Before being signed into the law the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version.   Bond secured funds for the following critical transportation projects:   $2,500,000 for Route D Road/ Multi-modal Improvement Project in Caruthersville (Pemiscot County Port). Funds will provide for repair, maintenance and construction along Route D road.   $1,000,000 for Route EE Road/ Multi-modal Improvement Project in New Madrid (New Madrid County Port). Funds will provide for repair, maintenance and expansion.   $1,000,000 for Route AB/Nash Road in Scott City (Southeast Missouri Regional Port). Funds will provide for street repair, maintenance and expansion.   $760,000 for Route AB Road in Cape Girardeau. Funds will provide for repair, maintenance and expansion of the route.   $3,000,000 for Highway 67 (Wappapello Bridge) in Greenville. Funds will facilitate expansion and safety improvements along the bridge   $1,000,000 for Route Y Road in Dexter. Funds will provide for repair and safety improvements.   $500,000 for Caruthersville Infrastructure Road Redevelopment in Caruthersville. Funds will provide for roadway repair, maintenance and expansion.    $1,000,000 for the Southeast Missouri Transportation Service (SMTS) in Fredricktown. Funds will facilitate access to health care, training, business and employment opportunities.   $250,000 for Poplar Bluff Historic Depot Restoration Corporation in Poplar Bluff. Funds will restore and preserve the Popular Bluff Historic Depot to protect its historic significance in the community.  Bond also secured funds for the following statewide project:   $2,000,000 for the Missouri Statewide Bus  Bus Facilities.  # # #   
