
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senator Kit Bond announced that he secured more than $10 million in federal funds for critical transportation projects in the Mid-Missouri region.  These dollars will mean safer and more efficient roads and bridges and healthier communities in the Mid-Missouri, said Bond. As this states senior Senator one of my top priorities is to ensure our state receives the resources needed for critical projects that will improve the lives of Missourians.  As the ranking member of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured more than $10 million in federal funds for transportation projects in the subcommittees fiscal year 2008 spending bill. The bill passed the Senate yesterday by a vote of 88-7. Before being signed into the law the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version.   Bond secured funds for the following critical transportation projects:   $1,000,000 for the U.S. 63 Overpass in Columbia. Funds will provide for the expansion and maintenance of the Overpass at U.S. 63 and Gans Road.   $1,000,000 for the U.S. 54 Corridor Expansion in Audrain and Pike Counties. Funds will provide for the construction of a 48-mile, four-lane expressway along Missouri Route J and U.S. 54.   $1,750,000 for Federal Lands Highways. Funds will provide for the Safety Project on the Environmental Effects of Dust Suppressant Chemicals.   $2,700,000 for the Columbia Regional Airport in Columbia. Funds will extend the main runway in order to accommodate future air cargo needs and to accommodate larger aircraft at Columbia Regional Airport.   $420,000 for the Eldon Model Airpark in Eldon. Funds will construct runway 18/36- Phase 1.   $500,000 for Mid-America Research and Development Foundation in Jefferson City. Funds will provide equipment to produce emerging plant-based economic development options for rural communities.   $2,000,000 for the Missouri Transportation Institute in Rolla. Funds will provide for research on alternative sources of energy to power transit vehicles.   $240,000 for the Newburg Bridge Replacement in Newburg. Funds will replace the undersized Wolf Pride Drive Bridge.    $1.75 million for a Research on theEffects of Dust Suppressant Chemicals at the University of Missouri Columbia. The project will evaluate the toxicity of dust suppressants to ensure the suppressants are used and applied in a manner that will protect the animal, plant and aquatic systems while reducingn dust particulate matter for cleaner air and safer driving conditions on unpaved, public gravel roads.    Bond also secured funds for the following statewide projects:   $2,000,000 for the Missouri Statewide Bus  Bus Facilities.  # # #       
