
 WASHINGTON, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today praised the Senate passage of the nations defense policy bill, which authorizes funding for the troops fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, improves the treatment of our National Guard, our wounded warriors, and military families.  We have a responsibility to fund our troops in the field, support our military families, and care for the brave volunteers who have served our nation in combat. The improvements in this bill will help us keep those commitments, said Bond.  The fiscal year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act passed the Senate today with a vote of 90 to 3. Passed earlier this week by the House, the bill is expected to be signed into law by President. Bond praised the inclusion of the full authorization of the $189 billion in supplemental funding for the troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Also, Bond worked with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to include provisions in the bill to empower the Guard, supplement support services for military families, and improve the mental health care of troops suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI).  National Guard Empowerment Earlier this year National Guard Caucus Co-Chairs Senators Bond and Leahy (D-VT) introduced the National Guard Empowerment Act, which would give the Guard more bureaucratic muscle in the Department of Defense. Leahy and Bond were able to secure key elements of their legislation in the Defense bill, including elevating the Chief of the National Guard to the rank of four-star general, making the Chief the principal military advisor to the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff on National Guard matters, and ensuring that the deputy head of the United States Northern Command comes from the ranks of the National Guard.   The bill also includes the Bond-Leahy provision to restore the Insurrection Act to its original form. Last years bill included language making it easier for Presidents to assume control of the National Guard and use the entire military in domestic law enforcement. These changes were made despite unified opposition from the nations governors, who have command and control of their states National Guard units.   Improved Care for Troops Wounded Warriors - The bill includes the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, which Bond cosponsored. This provision requires the Secretaries of Defense and Veterans Affairs to develop a comprehensive policy on the care, management and transition from the military to the VA and civilian life of service members with combat-related injuries. The provision authorizes $50 million for improved diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of service members with TBI or PTSD and requires the development of a comprehensive plan on prevention, diagnosis, mitigation and treatment of TBI and PTSD; requires the development two centers of excellence, one each for TBI and PTSD; and the establishment of a protocol for pre-deployment assessment and documentation of cognitive function of members that can be used for comparison after deployment to assist in diagnosis of TBI.   Access to Mental Health Care - In response to a recent reduction in reimbursement rates received by mental health professional who treat military service members, Senators Bond, Coleman (R-MN), Lincoln (D-AR), Domenici (R-NM), and Inouye (D-HI) included a provision in the Defense bill to ensure access to mental health care. The provision gives the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase mental health reimbursement rates for TRICARE, the healthcare program for members of the military and their families, if access to mental health services is threatened.   Protect Troops with PTSD and TBI - Bond spearheaded an effort to protect troops who may be suffering from PTSD or TBI from being misdiagnosed and discharged with a personality disorder. Senators Bond, Boxer (D-CA), Lieberman (ID-CT), Lincoln (D-AR), McCaskill (D-MO), Murray (D-WA), Obama (D-IL), and Sanders (I-VT) included a provision that mandates temporary safeguards on personality disorder discharges, including a high-level review ofcases beforeservice members can be discharged, as well as a GAO review of the Pentagons current policies and procedures related to this diagnosis.   Military Family Support Bond secured authorization for the Parents as Teachers (PAT) Heroes at Home program that will provide support to the families of servicemen and women through valuable parenting information shared in personal home visits and interactive group meetings. Earlier this year Bond secured $2.4 million for PATs Heroes at Home Program in the Defense spending bill to expand and enhance services for the four PAT program sites currently serving military families at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.; Fort Riley, Kan.; Fort Leavenworth, Kan.; and Fort Hood, Texas.Also, new sites will be established at 12 additional Army installations.     ### 
