
WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today praised the passage of the federal Farm Bill. The Farm Bill contains critical protections for farmers and increases the federal investment in our nations domestic production of energy. The bill also includes provisions Bond sponsored to increase our commitment to agriculture research and helps ensure families use food stamps for nutritious foods.    By including Senator Harkins and my agriculture research provision in the Farm Bill this Congress is making a commitment to American agriculture, said Bond. It is critical that we invest now to keep our farmers competitive tomorrow.   The Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy Act of 2007 passed the Senate by a vote of 79-14. Before the Farm Bill is signed into law, the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version, which passed in July. Bond praised the bill for including a safety net for producers. Bond emphasized that these protections are critical to keep farmers in business in the case of a bad year. 2007 has been a perfect example of the uncertainty that Missouri producers face due to weather implications, pointed out Bond.    Earlier this year Senators Bond and Harkin (D-IA) introduced legislation to create the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) to boost the federal investment in agriculture and help keep Americas farmers competitive in the world market. The Senate passed Farm Bill includes Bond and Harkins proposal. Bond stressed that NIFA will help provide consumers with a safe, affordable and nutritious food supply. NIFA will be similar to the successful research programs at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Science Foundation (NSF), but not replace U.S. Department of Agricultures (USDA) current research, extension, and education programs.   The ability of U.S. agriculture producers to maintain our world leadership is only as solid as our willingness to commit to forward-looking investments, noted Bond. The Bond-Harkin provision will lay the foundation for tremendous advances in the future and keep American agriculture on the cutting edge.   The Farm Bill also includes Bonds food stamp amendment, which instructs the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a study that ensures families use food stamps for nutritious foods. Bonds amendment saves taxpayer dollars in the long-term due to the high costs of healthcare. Bond pointed out that recent studies show Congress spends $40 billion a year on obesity related illnesses in Medicaid and Medicare funds.    If Congress is going to spend an extra $5.2 billion on food, it should be nutritious food, said Bond. This provision not only reduces government costs but helps people to lead happy, healthy and productive lifestyles.   While Bond praised the overall passage of the bill, he expressed disappointment that his amendment, the Red Tape Reduction Act, was not included in the bill. The amendment would give farmers a voice in federal rulemaking whenever a new regulation threatens to impose severe economic pain on farmers. Bond promised to introduce the amendment as a stand alone bill. ###  
