
  JEFFERSON CITY, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $66 million in federal funds for a new federal courthouse in Jefferson City.  These funds will build a safer, more modern facility, said Bond. Long after we are gone, cases will be decided in the new courthouse that will have an impact on all of our citizens. I am proud to be a part of this effort.  The $66 million Bond secured will be used for site work, foundation and construction of a new federal courthouse in Jefferson City. Bond stressed that Jefferson City and Missouris Western District federal court system need a new courthouse. The current courthouse does not provide enough space to meet current and future needs. Also, the new courthouse will improve the safety and security of the public, judges and law enforcement officers. The current courthouse has some safety concerns, like judges and criminals sharing the same elevators. After deadly attacks over the last few years in Atlanta and other courthouses, improving courthouse safety is a priority for Bond.  Bond emphasized that new courthouse can be a catalyst for economic and community growth in downtowns. The new courthouse will be built on the site of the former Missouri State Penitentiary, at the corner of Lafayette and State Streets. Bond expects the new courthouse to spur development in downtown Jefferson City.  Cole County is excited that Senator Bond has acquired initial funding in the Senate appropriation bill. The new federal courthouse provides for increased courtroom security and sets a visionary example for our Missouri State Prison Redevelopment efforts. As the keystone to our public service campus, the courthouse will be the catalyst for continued redevelopment at MSP. Cole County is very thankful for Senator Bond's continued support for a secure new federal courthouse in Jefferson City, said the Cole County Commission.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $66 million in federal funds for the Jefferson City Federal Courthouse in the Financial Services and General Government fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee earlier this week. Before being signed into law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  Bond previously secured $5.2 million for site selection, planning and design of the new courthouse and additional funds that determined the need for the courthouse in previous fiscal years. Bond also thanked Representative Ike Skelton for his efforts to make the new courthouse possible. In 2002, Representative Skelton asked the federal judiciary to reevaluate the courthouse project in order to speed construction of this important facility  As a long-time advocate of local, state, and federal law enforcement, Bond has been instrumental in securing federal funds to build new courthouses in St. Louis, Kansas City, and Cape Girardeau and crime laboratories in Springfield, Cape Girardeau and Joplin.  ###   
