
JEFFERSON CITY, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined members of the Missouri National Guard and the Missouri School Board Association (MSBA) at the National Guard Training Center to demonstrate the National Guard=s new video satellite technology.    "This exciting new technology will provide our National Guard with secure communications in disaster or terrorism response situations," said Senator Bond.   "Also, this system is capable of providing our citizen soldiers the opportunity to speak with their loved ones and connect schools and hospitals across Missouri to the internet."    As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee Bond secured the initial $3.8 million for the video satellite system, V-Sat, in the fiscal year 2005 Defense spending bill.  V-Sat, will offer a secure and economical alternative for transmitting data, creating interoperable communications networks, and for natural disaster or terrorism response situations.  The system, through the National Guard Bureau, will also eventually lead to the connectivity of all 54 state/territory National Guard Headquarters.     This important satellite system will function even if commercial power and telecommunications systems are not working, connecting local officials with the National Guard, state, and federal authorities at multiple end points.     V-Sat will also benefit Missouri schools and hospitals, many of which are without adequate bandwith or any internet service at all.  Particularly for schools and hospitals in rural Missouri, this technology will provide new educational opportunities for students and telemedicine capacity for doctors and first responders.    "This capability will open up significant new educational opportunities for both students and staff in school districts throughout Missouri," said MSBA Executive Director Dr. Carter Ward. "We are very appreciative of Senator Bond's efforts to secure the appropriation that will allow schools and other facilities to install a system that is so critical both to emergency communications and to education."    At today's event the technology was demonstrated by connecting deployed Missouri National Guardsmen to their families here at home.
