
MONTGOMERY CO., MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond visited Montgomery County today to update local officials on the latest legislative news in Washington.  Bond also addressed local issues, like the recent flooding that has devastated communities throughout Missouri.       “I will do everything I can to help with federal disaster assistance,” said Bond.  “I am working with other members of the Missouri delegation so we can speak with one voice in getting Missouri families and businesses the help they need to begin rebuilding.”  Bond expressed deep concern over the flooding in Missouri.  Last week, Bond and the entire Missouri Congressional Delegation asked the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to expedite the Governor’s request for preliminary damage assessments in the affected counties, which will speed federal assistance.  Bond told the public officials in attendance that he will also continue to fight to secure funding in Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee to bring dollars home for Missouri flood protection projects.  While the flood water has damaged communities across the state, Bond pointed out that it is fortunate the Fish and Wildlife Service’s ill-conceived Spring Rise had not been triggered or Missouri would have been dealing with another 500-year flood.    As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Bond said he will continue to work to ensure Missouri receives the resources needed for key programs and that the state’s transportation infrastructure is up-to-date.  The new federal highway bill, which Bond co-authored, is providing Missouri with much-needed resources, including $1 billion in new money – more than $4 billion in total funding.    Congress needs to pass the long over-due Water Resources Development Act (WRDA).  WRDA will modernize the lock and dam system, which is critical to farmers and producers who depend on our waterways to get their goods to market.  This important bill was on the floor of the Senate this past week and Bond expressed hope for final passage.    As the Vice-Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Bond last weekend led a Congressional fact finding mission to Iraq.  He met with intelligence and defense officials, key leaders, and troops on the frontlines.  Bond cautioned that while it is too early to tell whether the new Iraq plan will be successful, he is pleased to see signs of progress. Notably, violence in several major areas has dramatically decreased now that local leaders are siding with Coalition forces in pursuing Al Qaeda.  Bond mentioned that the soldiers he met with expressed frustration that new equipment production for Iraq is being delayed.  Bond firmly stated that Congress needs to pass a bill to fund the troops and that Congress cannot and should not, micro-manage the war in Iraq.    Bond also talked to the local officials and businesses about his efforts to promote Missouri overseas.  Missouri is home to a strong agriculture economy, biotechnology companies, aerospace and transportation manufacturers – all of which have growing markets overseas.  In February, Bond visited several Asian capitals where he met with political and business leaders to promote Missouri’s interests overseas.  	# # #
