
(Washington, D.C.)  Today, the United States Senate moved forward the process of naming the postal facility at 4320 Blue Parkway in Kansas City the, Wallace S. Hartsfield Post Office Building. The Congressional action comes in recognition of the great accomplishments of Reverend Doctor Wallace S. Hartsfield, Sr. a minister, dedicated community activist, civil servant and compassionate role model. Rev. Hartsfield will retire as Senior Pastor of the Metropolitan Missionary Baptist Church on January 1, 2008 after more than 40 years of service to Metropolitan and more than 55 years as a minister of faith. The measure to rename the post office on Blue Parkway in Rev. Hartsfields honor has already passed the House of Representatives as H.R. 3572 sponsored by Congressman Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05), a long time friend and fellow pastor. Senators Bond and McCaskill sponsored the Senate companion measure S. 2150. This afternoon, the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee voted to move the measure to the full Senate for consideration. Once passed and signed by the President, the United States Postal Service will conduct an official renaming ceremony at the Blue Parkway Post Office, a fitting tribute to Rev. Hartsfield whose legacy continues in his ministry, teachings, and goodwill.  Rev. Hartsfield is affectionately referred to as the Dean of Kansas Citys ministers by all denominations. A friend and honored minister, he was dubbed by Congressman Cleaver the Godfather of Preachers because of his vast ministerial knowledge and oratorical skills. It is hard to imagine the thousands of lives touched, guided, and transformed by Rev. Hartsfield. He has been my dear friend and mentor for most of my adult life. Renaming this post office is a small gesture, but post offices are where communities gather, friends keep in touch and good news is found, all things I associate with my friend. Decades from now, I hope children will look at his name on this post office and ask, Who was Wallace Hartsfield? The answer will be a teaching moment about a pillar of faith whose life was devoted to loving his fellow man, said Congressman Cleaver. Rev. Hartsfield has dedicated his life to helping others. His service to Kansas City, its neighborhoods and its citizens are legendary and worthy of this honor. I am proud to call him a friend, said Senator Bond. Rev. Hartsfield is a true community leader, and renaming this post office in his honor is a worthy tribute. I was proud to help move this bill forward today as a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Senator McCaskill said. Rev. Hartsfield celebrated his 50th wedding anniversary with his wife Matilda Hopkins on August 28th. They are the proud parents of four children, Pamela Faith, Danise Hope, Ruby Love, and Wallace S. Hartsfield, II who will succeed him as Pastor of Metropolitan Missionary Baptist Church. ###  
