
INDEPENDENCE, MISSOURI  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Mayor Don Reimal and local city and business leaders to attend the groundbreaking ceremony for the Little Blue Parkway at the intersection of 39th Street and Selsa Road in Independence.   Today we celebrate a prime example of what can happen when a community works together and stays focused on a project, said Bond. My philosophy has been that the best ideas come from local community leaders. Washington should not dictate local priorities. The men and women in the community know what is important, and know how to get it done. And that is why I have always tried to listen and work on behalf of local projects.   During the groundbreaking, Bond praised the Independence community leaders for their commitment to the project. In June of 2003, Bond traveled the state to listen to community leaders about their priorities related to the reauthorization of the highway bill. Independence leaders convinced Bond they had a plan, local support and a local funding match to make the Little Blue Parkway a reality.    As a key author of the legislation, Bond was instrumental in securing $30 million in federal funds for the Independence project in the federal highway bill. The new highway is expected to ease traffic and create a new dynamic in the area by increasing access and shortening trips by connecting I-70 to Highway 24. According to the Independence Economic Development organization, the new highway will also add to previous redevelopment efforts by adding an estimated 20,000 new people, 7,000 new homes and 5,000 new jobs, noted Bond.   The Little Blue Parkway is a segment of the Lewis  Clark Expressway project, which is a combined effort of three city governments including Independence, Kansas City and Sugar Creek. According to a recent report, the work is divided among the cities through a concept called the independent utility. Independent utility easies the burden of coordinating projects and allows pieces of a project to gain approval and move forward independently. The Independence piece of the parkway will extend roughly seven miles between 39th Street and Highway 24, with the most advanced area running from 39th Street to R.D. Mize Road.    # # # 
