
WARREN COUNTY, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond visited Warren County today to give an update to local Missourians and area officials on the latest news in Washington. Bond talked to local officials about a number of legislative issues including the current energy bill before the Senate, immigration, and the War in Iraq. Summer is here and gas prices are again going up, up, up. We are all feeling pain at the pump and searching for relief, said Bond. Unfortunately as gas prices increase, so has the rhetoric of some of my colleagues. The solution is not a simple fix, we need long-term changes in energy policy, stated Bond.This week the Senate has been debating one of the most pressing issues facing our nation  energy dependence. Bond expressed disappointment that instead of working for real solutions to the energy problem, many of his colleagues were using the debate to make partisan votes. Bond cautioned that while price gouging should not be tolerated, the Federal Trade commission investigated allegations of price gouging last year and found no evidence. When it comes to high gas prices, Congress cannot repeal the laws of supply and demand, and should focus instead on creating policies to increase supply and reduce demand.  There are a number of important ways Congress can act to increase the domestic energy supply. First, the U.S. needs to increase refining capacity. High costs, regulatory red tape, and public opposition have prevented a new refinery from being built in 30 years. Last year, Bond joined with Senator Inhofe (R-OK) in pushing a bill to streamline the permitting process, cutting the time down to bring new refineries on line while accounting for all of the important environmental concerns. Unfortunately, Democrats blocked this important provision last year and again this year, lamented Bond.  It is critical to increase the supply of energy in other ways as well, stated Bond. Many crops that are produced in Missouri could be usedsuch as corn, soybeans, and possibly switch grassto produce ethanol and biodiesel. The U.S. also needs to explore and invest in new technologies like converting coal-to-liquid. Bond proposed that in addition to increasing our nations energy supply, there needs to be a focus on conservation measures to reduce demand. Just yesterday, Bond introduced a bipartisan amendment to the energy bill that would increase fuel economy standards, clean technology usage, and the amount of clean fuels available to consumers. Following the discussion on energy, Bond turned to the immigration debate stalled in the Senate. He stressed that the current immigration laws are broken and must be fixed. He pointed out that he would support a bill that improves our border security and better enforces our immigration laws, but will not support any bill that rewards those who broke the law to enter or remain in this country with citizenship.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond stressed that he will continue to use his position to deliver funds for critical local projects, like the $400,000 he secured for the Wright City Water Tower project. He stressed that making sure that Missouris transportation infrastructure is up-to-date is important to jobs and economic development and the future of the state. Bond mentioned that the 2005 highway bill he co-authored is providing much-need resources to improve Missouri roads. Those funds total more than $4 billion for Missouri.  As the Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Bond traveled to Iraq in May, where he met with the commanding officers in Tikrit, Baghdad, Ramadi and Balad. Bond cautioned that while it is too early to tell whether the new Iraq plan will be successful, he was impressed with the progress being made. Bond expressed frustration  shared by the troops -- that the progress in Iraq is not being covered by the U.S. media. ###  
