
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that they secured almost $8 million in federal funds in the Senate Military Construction spending bill for three critical projects at the Ft. Leonard Wood base.  “As Missouri’s senior Senator, securing resources for our military bases is a priority for me.  These federal dollars will ensure our warfighters will receive the training they need and improve the quality of life for our military families.” Bond secured the $7,860,000 in federal funds in the fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee this week.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version. 	Bond secured funds for the following projects:•	$500,000 for the Regional Training Institute at Fort Leonard Wood.  The funds will provide for the design and planning of a facility to meet the shortage of training facilities for the National Guard and Reserve forces.  There are no other suitable facilities in Missouri to provide the necessary training. •	$360,000 for the Sapper Leader Course General Instruction Building at Fort Leonard Wood.  The funds will provide for the design and planning of a facility to support the training of combat engineering skills to include demolition’s mine/booby traps, waterborne, mountain, and air operations.  The Sapper Leader Course has been at Fort Leonard since 1986 and is currently housed in multiple facilities that are in such a serious state of disrepair that it is not economical to repair them. •	$7,000,000 for the Child Development Center at Fort Leonard Wood. 	The funds will provide for the construction of a quality, state of the art Child Development Center for children ages 6-10 years, serving children of military and Department of Defense civilians at the base.  The old Center does not meet the current or future demand for childcare services on the base and provides inadequate space for activities.  The new Center will provide a before and after school program and a full-day program during school holidays and summer. 	Bond also fought to include language in the bill that provides $15 million to the Pentagon to continue to search for answers to the problems associated with Gulf War illness.  In May, Bond joined Senators Murray (D-WA) and John Rockefeller (D-WV) in renewing their calls for the Departments of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Defense (DoD) to notify and care for Gulf War veterans who may have been exposed to dangerous sarin nerve gas in 1991. 								###
