
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Kit Bond (R-MO) and Christopher Dodd (D-CT) today introduced the Vision Care for Kids Act of 2007 to combat undiagnosed and untreated vision problems in school-aged children.     	“Good vision is critical to learning.  This important legislation will improve vision care for children to better equip them to succeed in school and in life, said Senator Bond.  “With the support of the American Academy of Ophthalmology, the American Optometric Association and the Vision Council of America, together we will make a difference in the lives of children across the country.”       “There is nothing of greater importance than the health and well being of our nation’s children, and good vision care is a critical component of quality health care,” said Senator Dodd.  “Left undiagnosed or untreated, vision problems can seriously affect a child’s ability to complete their schoolwork and interact with their peers.  This bill will help ensure that children get the vision care they need, and will help improve the quality of life for children across the country.”    	Undiagnosed and untreated vision problems for children are serious issues, stressed Bond and Dodd.  Vision problems can affect a child’s cognitive, emotional, neurological and physical development.  While vision disorders are considered the fourth most common disability in the United States, two-thirds of all children entering school have never received a vision test.  For the one-third of children who do receive a vision test, approximately 40-67 percent who fail the test do not receive the recommended follow-up care.     	The Vision Care for Kids Act of 2007 establishes a grant program to compliment and encourage existing state efforts to improve children’ s vision care and educate parents, teachers and health care professionals about healthy vision.   	“There is nothing more important than helping children see their way into adulthood,” said Michael X. Repka, M.D., professor of ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University and Academy secretary for government affairs. “This act helps kids do just that.”    	“The Bond-Dodd Vision Care for Kids Act is an important assignment for the new Congress, and a timely reminder for America of what needs to be done to help concerned parents and teachers ensure that no child is left behind in the classroom due to an undiagnosed or untreated vision problem," said C. Thomas Crooks, III, O.D., and president of the AOA.  "Optometry is proud to support true leaders like Senator Bond and Senator Dodd in the effort to provide states with the resources - the Federal dollars -- they need to make children's vision and classroom learning a top priority."     	“The Vision Council of America applauds Senators Bond and Dodd's leadership and ongoing commitment to strengthening the vision health of the nation's children,” said Andrea Gluck, Chairman of the Vision Council of America. “We strongly support and commend the Senators for crafting a very thoughtful and achievable piece of legislation that will have a great impact for generations to come.”  	# # #
