
WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Kit Bond today re-introduced his legislation to ensure the continued growth of biotechnology in the United States by restoring access to critical Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) grants. 				    	"Thanks to biotechnology, the United States is the world leader in innovation,” said Bond.  “However, a strong partnership between the federal government and the private sector is critical to fostering growth and commercialization in the hope that one day we will uncover  cures and medicines that were once thought to be inconceivable."    	Biotechnology research suffered a major set-back when the Small Business Administration (SBA) determined that venture-backed biotechnology companies can no longer participate in the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program.  Bond’s legislation, which he re-introduced today, will ensure that the biotechnology industry has access to these crucial grants, leveling the playing field to ensure that SBIR grants are given to small businesses based on fruitful science and nothing else. 	    	Previously, the SBIR program was an example of a highly successful federal initiative to encourage economic growth and innovation in the biotechnology industry by funding the critical start-up and development stages of a company.    	Traditionally, to qualify for an SBIR grant a small-business applicant had to meet two requirements: one, that the company have less than 500 employees; and two, that the business be 51% owned by one or more individuals.  However, in recent years the SBA determined that the term “individuals” only means natural persons.  Prior to this decision, for the past 20 years the term "individual" included venture-capital companies.  As a result, biotech companies with 51 percent or more venture-capital backing can no longer participate in the program.    	Bond, who has been an advocate for biotechnology since he served as Missouri’s Governor, stressed that the biotech industry is like no other in the world because of the long span of time and intense capital expenditures required to bring a successful product to market.  According to a recent study completed by the Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development, it takes roughly 10-15 years and $800 million dollars for a company to bring just one product to market.     	For the past 20 years, the SBIR program has been a catalyst for developing our nation’s most successful biotechnology companies.  In addition to these important government grants, venture-capital funding plays a vital role in the financial support of these same companies.    	Senator Talent joined Bond as a cosponsor of his legislation.
