
	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $30 million in federal funds for the nation’s 28 Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) teams, $23 million over the President’s request.   	“The front-lines used to be overseas, but now emergency responders in every city and town in America must be prepared, said Bond.  “These dollars are critical in fulfilling the federal government’s responsibility to see that our urban search and rescue teams have the equipment and training they need to respond to potential threats.”    	Bond stressed this level of funding is critical as a result of the new roles played by local fire fighters and other emergency responders along with the 28 USAR teams in disaster and terrorism response.  Many of the USAR teams, including Missouri Task Force One, deployed to Ground Zero in New York City and the Pentagon immediately after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.      	Prior to the September 11th attacks, the federal government contributed only $150,000 to each USAR team, for a total of $4.2 annually, even though each team is responsible for 60,000 pounds of rescue gear worth $1.8 million. [See http://www.fema.gov/usr ] That forced teams to meet their national mission requirements by borrowing mainly from local fire and other emergency agencies.    	In the fiscal years following 9-11 Bond fought to secure the funds needed to train and equip the USAR teams to work safely in areas hit by weapons of mass destruction, such as biological, nuclear or chemical attack.    	The following states have Urban Search and Rescue teams: Arizona, California (8 teams), Colorado, Florida (2 teams), Indiana , Massachusetts, Maryland, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Nevada, New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia (2 teams) and Washington.   	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the nearly $30 million for the USAR in the Department of Homeland Security spending bill. The spending bill passed the Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon.  Before being signed into law the bill must be passed by the full U.S. Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill.
