
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced the Mark Twain Community Alliance is receiving almost $500,000 in federal funds for a new education and arts community center in north St. Louis City.    “This new center will provide community outreach to some of the neediest neighborhoods in the St. Louis area,” said Bond. “This community is committed to providing children and families in the city a chance to succeed and I am proud to be a part of this important effort.”     	City Alderman, Charles Quincy Troupe said, “Senator Bond's record has always been one of inclusion of all of his constituents in the State of Missouri.  He extended himself to include the black community in a way that no other governor, before him or after him, did.  As the senior U.S. Senator and statesman, he continues to exercise inclusion whether it is biodiesel in southeast Missouri or the development of a youth and family center in north St. Louis.  Kit Bond has always been there for all of the citizens of Missouri and that is why he continues to serve.  We are very happy and blessed to have his support for making north St. Louis a safer place for women and children.”   	Mrs. Marguerite Ghant, Mark Twain Community Alliance Chairman said, “We are overjoyed to receive this grant from Senator Bond.  The Mark Twain Community really needs a facility to keep our youth off the street.  These funds will go a long way to provide space for our seniors, youth and young adults.  We thank Senator Bond for his involvement in the Mark Twain neighborhood.”    	As chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured the $495,000 in federal funds for the Mark Twain Community Alliance in the fiscal year 2006 Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill.    	The almost $500,000 in federal dollars will be used by the Mark Twain Community Alliance to renovate a building that will become the Redevelopment, Arts, Culture and Educational Center in St. Louis.     	Specifically, the center will help residents living in the most disadvantage zip codes in St. Louis City and County (63115, 63113, 63120).  Children in these zip codes are exposed to numerous risk factors such as poverty, single parent households, teen pregnancy and violence.  Drop out rates here are also among the highest in the city. The center will take a holistic approach that offers intervention and alternatives, including educational, arts and cultural programs.
