
CARUTHERSVILLE, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined local, state and federal officials in southeast Missouri to survey the damage caused by severe storms and tornados that swept through the state earlier this month and received briefings on recovery efforts.      	“Pemiscot County has experienced the tragic loss of life and extensive property damage.   My thoughts and prayers are with the families in these communities,” said Sen. Kit Bond.  “The President’s approval of a disaster declaration for the hardest-hit towns was much-needed good news.  Communities and individuals will now be able to receive the resources they need.  I will continue to work with local, state and federal officials to ensure these families receive the help they need as they rebuild their homes and lives in the wake of these devastating storms.”    	Bond toured two of the communities hit the hardest from the April tornados in Pemiscot County, Braggadocio and Caruthersville.  In addition to surveying the extensive damage, Bond received briefings on community and agriculture cleanup.      	Immediately following the March 29 – April 2nd tornados, the second severe storm system to hit Missouri communities in less than a month, Governor Blunt, Senators Bond and Talent, and Congresswoman Emerson asked the President to declare the affected communities federal disaster areas.   	On April 5th, President Bush approved the federal disaster declaration request.  Bond stressed that this declaration from the President is critical.  The declaration will speed the flow of federal dollars so these communities can start rebuilding.    	For individuals, assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.      	Federal funding also is available to state and eligible local governments, as well as certain private nonprofit organizations, on a cost-sharing basis in the counties of Andrew, Pemiscot, and Pettis for debris removal and emergency protective measures.   	Also, Bond announced additional good news for southeast Missouri.  Today, President Bush approved Missouri’s request to increase the disaster declaration for affected counties.  Andrew, Butler, Dunklin, Pettis, St. Francois and Stoddard counties were added under the Individual Assistance Program and Pemiscot will now be eligible for additional public assistance.      	Last week, Senators Bond and Talent asked President Bush to increase Pemiscot county’s disaster declaration categories to include C through G federal assistance.  This change, approved by the President today, will make funds available to affected communities for a number of additional needs, including repairs to road systems and bridges; water control facilities; buildings, contents, and equipment; utilities; and parks and recreation.
