
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined local Jewish leaders at the St. Louis Jewish Federation for a roundtable on the current situation in the Middle East.   	“I support Israel in defending its borders. The Hizballah attack from Lebanon was clearly aimed at destabilizing the region and putting additional pressure on Israel. I think the Israeli response to Hizballah’s incursion is right on.  Israel is totally within its rights to go after its captured soldiers,” said Bond to local leaders.   	On Monday, Bond released a letter he has written and began circulating to his colleagues in the Senate urging the President to stand by Israel.  Earlier this week Israeli soldiers were ambushed, kidnapped and killed by Hizballah.  Also, Hizballah fired missiles at Israeli civilians from the Syrian-controlled country.   	 “We stand firmly in support of your policy affirming Israel’s right to exist and protect its borders,” Bond said to the President in his letter.    	“Israel stands on the front lines of the protection of the democratic values and principles which we all cherish, in the fight against radical Islam.  What is irrefutable is that Israel stands alone, surrounded by hostile enemies that have been all too willing to allow their lands to offer safe refuge to terrorist organizations, and to launch attacks upon Israeli soldiers and civilians,” Bond’s letter said.   	Peace in the Middle East is only possible if civilized nations strongly oppose attacks like those taken by Hizballah.  In his letter Bond expressed hope that Israel’s neighbors will take the necessary action to disarm military terrorist and extremist groups and finally work to stabilize the region.   	At the roundtable, where he was joined by Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Bond said “The turmoil in the Middle East is of great concern to many Americans. The recent unprovoked capture of Israeli soldiers by Hamas and Hizbollah militants is totally unwarranted and cannot be overlooked by Israel or the international community. However, the ultimate responsibility for the current conflict rests with Iran and Syria, as pointed out in recent days by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. John Bolton.  Iran and Syria continue to support terrorist activity and undermine any effort in the region to establish the rule of law and order.”
