
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today was honored by the AIDS Alliance for Children Youth and Families with a Public Policy award for his legislative efforts on behalf of children, youth and families with HIV/AIDS.  At the award ceremony Bond announced that he and Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) will reintroduce their Children and Family HIV/AIDS Research and Care Act later today.    	“We have made great strides in our efforts to improve care and treatment to people living with HIV/AIDS,” said Bond.  “As a result of our federal investment in biomedical research as well as advances in medical care, pharmaceuticals and support services, access to new drugs and new treatments are offering hope and enhancing the quality of life for those who are affected by HIV/AIDS. But there is still work that needs to be done.”   	Bond praised the significant reduction in the number of mother-to-child HIV transmission.  According to the AIDS Alliance for Children Youth and Families, the number of newborns infected with HIV has decreased dramatically to fewer than 200 cases per year.  Washington University’s Project ARK reported that 39 babies in their program were HIV exposed, but not HIV infected in 2004.      	When it comes to HIV/AIDS prevention, research, care, and treatment, children and youth are not simply small adults, Bond stressed.  The Dodd-Bond bill would reauthorize and expand Title IV of the Ryan White CARE Act which focuses on the exceptional needs of children and adolescents infected with HIV.  Specifically the Dodd-Bond bill will:    *	Expand outreach, care and prevention services for HIV positive young people;    *	Enhance support for services devoted to reaching women, infants, children and youth;  *	Increase efforts to prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission through comprehensive care programs for HIV positive pregnant women; and   *	Ensure that biomedical and psychosocial research efforts – including research into a preventive HIV vaccine – take into account the special needs of pediatric and youth populations.    	Title IV of the Ryan White CARE Act is a lifeline for more than 53,000 women, children, and youth affected by HIV/AIDS served annually by Title IV-funded projects. Through 91 grants in 35 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, Title IV projects provide medical care, case management, support services, mental health, transportation, child care, and other crucial services to families affected by HIV/AIDS.    	There are two Title IV grantees in Missouri -- Kansas City Free Clinic and Project ARK at Washington University Medical School.  Representatives from both the Kansas City Free Clinic and Project ARK were present to honor Bond today, along with Missouri families and children served by the programs.      	“The President has called on Congress to renew the Ryan White CARE Act and Sen. Dodd and I want to make sure that the unique needs of children, youth and families are not left behind in this effort,” said Bond.
