
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) Missouri Governor Matt Blunt and U.S. Senators Jim Talent and Kit Bond tonight announced that President Bush has approved the Governors’ request for a federal disaster declaration for affected Missouri counties after severe storms and tornadoes swept through the state March 11-13.  Senators Talent and Bond sent a letter to the President this week requesting quick approval of the Governor’s request.    	“I am pleased the President responded to Missouri’s call for assistance,” said Governor Blunt.  “Eleven lives were lost to these devastating storms along with hundreds of destroyed homes, businesses and other properties.  This financial assistance will help Missourians get back on their feet and rebuild their communities.  I am grateful to the President and his administration for the compassion they have shown our state and to our fine congressional delegation for supporting my request for assistance.”    	“I’m very pleased that Missourians who were hurt by these storms will now have additional resources behind them,” said Sen. Talent.  “The storms and tornadoes devastated many areas of the state and this declaration will help provide new federal resources to help individuals and business owners recover from this disaster.  Sen. Bond and I have been working all week with the Governor’s office, the State Emergency Management Agency, local law enforcement and the Red Cross to provide assistance for Missourians who were affected by the storms and we are very pleased the President approved our request for additional help.”    “For Missouri communities that have experienced the tragic loss of life and extensive property damage, the President’s approval of this disaster assistance is welcome news,” said Senator Kit Bond. “It will give communities and individuals the resources they need to start rebuilding their homes and their lives in the wake of these devastating storms.”   The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in the counties of Christian, Hickory, Johnson, Monroe, Perry, Pettis, Randolph, Ste. Genevieve and Saline.    Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.    Federal funding also is available to State and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis in the counties of Bates, Christian, Howard, Jefferson, Monroe, Montgomery, and Washington for debris removal and emergency protective measures.
