
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured over $3 million in federal funds for Missouri projects in the Senate's Commerce-Justice-Science spending bill.  These funds are an investment in a safer and healthier Missouri, said Bond. From combating meth, to fighting sexual abuse and gang violence, to increasing education, these dollars will strengthen and improve our communities.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured more than $3 million in federal funds in the fiscal year 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science spending bill, which passed the Senate yesterday. Before being signed into the law, the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version, which passed in July.   Bond secured funds for the following law enforcement and science projects:   $1 million for the Missouri Sherriffs Methamphetamine Relief Team (MOSMART). The funds will provide resources to help Missouri law enforcement fight against meth.     $250,000 for the Metropolitan Organization to Counter Sexual Assault (MOSCA) Creating a Safer Future Program in Jackson. The funds will support child abuse treatment, sexual assault advocacy and intervention, and sexual violence prevention and education. The new funding will also help to support expanded community services and staff, increasing victim advocates by 60 percent.     $100,000 for the Area Resources for Community and Human Services (ARCHS) programs in St. Louis. The funds will provide for the expansion of the ARCHS Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T.) partnership with St. Louis area law enforcement. The partnership will use police officers as a positive influence for St. Louis area children through interaction in elementary and middle school.     $1 million for the Missouri NASA Education Program at Southeast Missouri State University. The funds will assist the NASA Education Program at Southeast Missouri State and enhance kindergarten through 12th grade science, mathematics, and technology education throughout the state.     $1 million for the NASA Immunology Research Program at St. Louis University. The funds will support immunology research that will complement NASA research on maintaining a healthy immune system, a significant problem for astronauts exposed to microgravity.    ###  
