
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined economic development and University of Missouri officials to announce $2.5 million in federal funds for a Life Sciences Business Incubator.    	“It is great to be here to celebrate yet another milestone in Missouri’s journey to become the premier biotechnology corridor of the United States and the world,” said Bond.  “The Life Sciences Business Incubation Center is a key step in creating the biotechnology corridor. Through it we hope to attract private investment and employers who will create high-paying jobs for this area and advance the life sciences in Missouri.”    	Bond announced that he secured $2.5 million in federal funds for the University of Missouri Life Sciences Business Incubator in the Economic Development Administration (EDA) reauthorization.  As chairman of the Environment and Public Works Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, Bond oversees the EDA.    	Bond stressed that the Life Sciences Business Incubation Center is a key step in creating the biotechnology corridor.  Bond and other supporters hope the center will attract private investment and employers who will create high-paying jobs for this area and advance the life sciences in Missouri.   With research showing that $1 of public investment in a business generates approximately $30 in tax revenue, the possible growth for Missouri is significant.     	The partnership between Missouri universities and business can also provide more than economic growth, potentially answering some of the world’s most challenging problems.  Scientific advancement in biotechnology is already feeding the hungry and healing the sick, Bond pointed out.  Already, hundreds of millions of people worldwide have been helped by the biotechnology drugs and vaccines approved by FDA with many more drugs and vaccines currently in clinical trials targeting more deadly diseases.  In agriculture, hundreds of millions of acres in the world have been planted with high technology crops.     	In the U.S. Senate, Bond has been a leading advocate of the new biotechnology revolution and its presence in Missouri, earmarking over $450 million for plant genomics.  He secured $34 million for the Life Sciences Center at the University of Missouri and millions more for facilities in Kansas City, St. Louis and Bootheel, including the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, Missouri Botanical Garden and University of Missouri Greenhouse.    	In addition to the federal funding Bond has poured into the development of biotechnology, he has also been a strong voice of behalf of the revolution both in the United States and abroad. He has encouraged foreign countries to be receptive to the technology and has urged the inclusion of sound science in public debate on the topic.
