
SEDALIA, MO – U.S, Senator Kit Bond today met with Missouri farmers and ranchers at his annual agriculture advisory lunch at the Missouri State Fair, where Bond updates farm leaders on his work in the Senate on behalf of Missouri agriculture and hears first-hand farmers’ concerns.     	“With the passage of the federal transportation bill, a new comprehensive energy policy, and expanding trade, I am pleased to bring you good news from Washington this year,” said Bond.  "As always, your advice and guidance has allowed me to work on behalf of Missouri’s farmers and ranchers.  As your senior Senator I will continue to fight for policies and opportunities to strengthen and expand Missouri's agriculture industry."      	Bond told farm leaders that after more than three years of work, his efforts to improve Missouri's transportation system have finally met with success.  As Chairman of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Senate Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, Bond was one of the key authors of the federal highway bill, which was signed into law last week.  A big win for Missouri, the bill provides $1.3 billion in additional highway funding for the state over the life of the five-year bill.  Also, Bond successfully fought to increase Missouri’s share to 98 cents on the dollar.  In addition to creating new jobs and increasing safety on the nation’s roads and highways, Bond emphasized that the new law will also mean greater efficiency for shippers and exporters.     	Bond also praised the recently signed energy legislation, which included his amendment calling for a common sense approach to fuel efficiency. Bond said the legislation is key to developing a national, comprehensive energy policy.   	The Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which was signed into law earlier this month, is also good news for farmers who export $1.2 billion to Central American countries.  Before CAFTA, American imports faced no tariffs while exports faced stiff tariffs.  With the passage of the trade agreement, these tariffs will be phased out.  Also on the trade-front, Bond stressed the need to continue to open markets with Cuba.  Bond, and other agriculture friendly legislators, are working to roll back new Treasury Department regulations, which are currently threatening U.S. exports to Cuba.  As chairman of the Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond included pro-trade language in his spending bill.    	Another initiative Bond authored as chairman of the EPW Subcommittee is legislation to update the aging locks on the Mississippi River.  His bill, which authorizes $2.3 billion for seven new locks, including $1.46 billion for ecosystem restoration, passed the EPW committee and the full House.  Bond said for Missouri's agriculture industry, this modernization is especially important, and he will continue his efforts to see the legislation signed into law.      	Bond also told farmers that he introduced legislation to initiate a new commitment to food and agriculture research.  Currently, investment in this critical area falls short.  As always, the Missouri River will continue to be a battle ground, Bond also reminded farmers.  While agriculture advocates saw success with the averting of the summer low flow, Bond pointed out that the fight will continue each year.							 
