
NEOSHO, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today was joined by U.S. Senator Jim Talent, local officials, environmental and water quality advocates and Crowder College representatives in Neosho to announce new water quality projects in southwest Missouri.     	“We cannot afford not to protect our water resources,” said Bond.  “We all have a role:  federal, state and local government, farmers, sportsmen, and homeowners.  That is why Senator Talent and I have worked to bring the Water Quality Improvement Project to the area.”    	Since fiscal year 2005, Bond and Talent secured $5 million for southwest Missouri water quality projects.  WQIP is a partnership to improve and protect water quality while enhancing economic development for municipalities, agriculture and tourism.  To date, WQIP has completed a number of projects that focused on agricultural land use and better management practices throughout southwest Missouri.   	Bond thanked the Environmental Resources Coalition, the Elk River Watershed Improvement Association, Shoal Creek Watershed Improvement Group, Crowder College and the City of Noel for their hard work in making the four projects announced today a reality.   	Bond stressed that there are a number of issues that affect our water resources.  While population growth, construction, tourism, agriculture all contribute to the booming regional economy made possible by the unique resources in southwest Missouri, the growth also taxes the quality and even the quantity of our water resources.     	Bond pointed out that the ongoing drought has stressed water resources further. From September of 2005 to September of 2006, rainfall was 9 inches below normal.  Also, there were more 90 degree days in October than September, which has only happened once since 1963.  Water quality is also affected by non-point source runoff from parking lots, gardens, and lawns, which deliver used motor oil, pet waste and fertilizer to our water, said Bond.     	Bond praised the work done by local volunteers who are working in urban and rural areas to manage pollution from urban runoff, from septic tanks, and from animal agriculture.  Also, Crowder College is expanding their services to provide education about septic system installers.   	“It is exciting to see citizens in southwest Missouri taking the responsibility and the initiative to prevent and resolve water quality degradation,” said Bond.  ###
