
	BUFFALO, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined community leaders, county and city officials in Buffalo, where he provided an update on recent Senate action and current events.     	“We have captured terrorists, used new tools to learn their secrets, connected the dots of their conspiracies and foiled their terror attack plans.  We need to keep doing that,” said Bond.   “Some want to tie the hands of our terror fighters by handcuffing our law enforcement and intelligence agents, releasing and spreading our secrets and giving terror suspects our fighting methods and techniques.  That is suicide, and it is not an option in my book.”   	Bond opened his remarks to the local officials and community in Buffalo noting that the 110th Congress will convene in January with new leadership.  Bond has pledged to work with Senator McCaskill and all members of the Missouri delegation - regardless of party - on issues of importance to the state.    The Senate made progress this year on several important issues, particularly when it comes to the economy, said Bond.  This spring, Congress passed a tax bill that will spur economic growth and create more jobs.  Thanks to this important economic and tax package, millions of Americans now have lower income tax bills.  Congress needs to continue to enact policies that keep taxes low and regulations sane, so that businesses can create jobs, said Bond.   Bond pointed out that regardless of what is reported in the news, the United States is making progress in the war on terror.  The al-Qaida network has been significantly degraded:  most of those responsible for the September 11th attacks have been captured or killed; operational terrorist support cells have been disrupted around the world; and the U.S. and allies have disrupted several serious plots against Americans since 9/11.  He stressed that Iraq Study Group report confirms what we have known for some time: that the situation in Iraq right now is a difficult one and we need to be flexible as we move forward. Iraq is a key element to the war on terror and the United States cannot afford to walk away.    	Central to our efforts on terror are intelligence improvements and reform, Bond said.  During the next Congress, Bond will serve as the lead Republican on the Intelligence Committee.  He stressed that bipartisan cooperation will be the key to transforming and reforming our intelligence capabilities in the next few years, including boosting human intelligence and improving the sharing of intelligence among agencies.    	Bond told Buffalo leaders that while gas prices have fallen, Americans should not be lulled into a false sense of security.   The Middle East, a primary source of oil, remains unstable.  Bond praised Congress’ recent passage of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act, part of the comprehensive energy policy the nation needs.      In closing, Bond detailed that the new federal highway legislation he coauthored – which was signed into law last summer -- will provide more than $1 billion in new money for Missouri to help the state repair crumbling roads and bridges.   Bond delivered funds for critical transportation projects, including $20 million to extend 4 lanes of Highway 65 from Springfield to Buffalo.     ### 
