
KANSAS CITY, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond, Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, today toured the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) facility in Kansas City to receive a briefing and tout the importance of the facility to the national defense and Missouri economy.   “Here in Missouri, our workers, engineers, and researchers have a long and proud history of providing for our nation’s defense,” said Bond.  “The U.S. military is the best in the world in large part because of our technical superiority.  I’m proud that all of you here at the NNSA that are putting your skills to work for the security and protection of our nation.  Our fate depends on your workmanship.”  Bond cited the importance of the nuclear plant as a major contribution to Missouri’s economy.  Recently, the NNSA considered closing the Kansas City plant and moving its operations elsewhere. The NNSA is undergoing a strategic reorganization of its eight nuclear facilities around the United States.  Bond, and the rest of the Missouri delegation, worked with the General Services Agency and NNSA to keep the plant in Kansas City.   Currently, a $500 million replacement is being planned at a new site in south Kansas City near the Richards-Gebaur Memorial Airport.  The present 3 million-square foot Bannister facility in Kansas City employs 2,600 people. According to federal officials, the new facility will occupy a 185-acre campus, include 3 to 4 buildings totaling 1 million square feet and more importantly continue to provide jobs and economic growth to many in the local Kansas City area.  	The Bannister NNSA facility in Kansas City, managed and operated by Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, manufactures over 100,000 parts per year ranging from nuts and bolts to complex radar systems.  The facility also provides technical support from the conceptualization through production stages for equipment.  These services, products and systems are developed for homeland security, the Department of Defense and other government agencies.   	Bond praised the workers at the facility for their important contribution to the nation’s defense.  H pointed out that what happens on the battlefield often depends on what happens in the high-tech plants here at home, like the work done at Honeywell.  The weapons systems and intelligence products made for the men and women in the military must be state-of-the-art, expertly engineered and carefully built.   	“As Vice-Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I particularly appreciate the importance of your mission,” said Bond.  “The new facility will help enhance efficiencies and move NNSA Honeywell to a position of strength as you reorganize to meet the realities of the 21st century.  We believe this new facility will improve flexibility, protect jobs, and put Honeywell in a position of potential growth… right here in Kansas City.”  						# # #
