
WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $1 million in federal funds to expand his successful Parents as Teachers (PAT) early childhood education program to military families.        “These funds will provide the dedicated men and women in our armed forces access to critical child development resources and fill the gap between the military’s education and family support services,” said Senator Bond.     "We are thrilled that Senator Bond and his colleagues realize the important service Parents as Teachers provides," said Susan S. Stepleton, president and CEO of Parents as Teachers National Center. "Bringing child development and parenting information to military families is critical to sustaining not only our military infrastructure but also our country's economic future. When families receive the family support they need and children start school ready to learn everyone benefits."    While serving as Missouri's governor, Bond discovered first-hand the importance of Parents as Teachers (PAT) when his son Sam was born.  After his positive experience with the program, Bond led the fight to pass and sign legislation which mandated PAT in every school district in the state of Missouri.      Since the program was created over 2 million families nationwide have received the education and support they need through PAT, including families located at four military installations: Ft. Leonard Wood, Ft. Leavenworth, Ft. Riley and Ft. Hood.  While this is a tremendous accomplishment, Bond stressed that there are more families that can and must be reached through the program.   The $1 million in federal funds, which Bond secured in the Senate Defense Authorization bill, will expand PAT to military families.  The federal dollars will fund a one-year PAT demonstration project that will include new military bases, in addition to the four current installations.     Bond pointed out that military families with young children are often the most impacted by the stresses of military life, such as frequent relocations and separation due to deployment.      "Being a parent is hard work in any circumstances.  For our young families serving in the military the challenge is even greater.  We must support our active duty families and give them the parent education and support they need," said Bond.
