
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond and House Whip Roy Blunt today announced that they secured almost $3 million in federal funds for the Springfield-Branson Regional Airport.  Also, House and Senate negotiators approved their provision to allow for the continued expansion of the airport.    "These funds will provide for the continued expansion of the Springfield-Branson airport, which is critical to meet the growing demand for air service in southwest Missouri," said Senator Kit Bond, chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee.  “Also, I am pleased my colleagues agreed with me on the importance of this provision to the future of smaller airports, like Springfield-Branson and the projects essential to their continued growth.”     	“The change in the law’s language is worth millions of dollars in future federal aid for a new, modern replacement terminal in Springfield to serve the Southwest Missourians and those who visit for business or pleasure,” Blunt said. “Without the new language, the airport project would have faced serious shortages in meeting its goals for convenience, security and expandability.”      Bond and Blunt secured the funds in the fiscal year 2006 Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill.  The final conference agreement on the bill was approved last night and is expected to pass the House and Senate before they break for Thanksgiving.      	"Senator Bond and Congressman Blunt recognize the importance of strong air service as an economic driver for a growing community like ours and they have worked tirelessly on behalf of the Springfield-Branson Regional Airport to secure funding for the new Midfield Terminal," Mayor Tom Carlson said.  "We greatly value their leadership on transportation issues in Congress and appreciate the work they have done to help us address the challenges of maintaining quality service as the number of airlines serving Springfield and the number of passengers both continue to grow."    Also, Bond and Blunt attached a critical airport provision to the Transportation-Treasury-HUD spending bill.  Without their bill, the Springfield-Branson Airport would not be able to continue its terminal expansion project.  Bond and Blunt stressed that the replacement terminal is key as the demand for air service in the region continues to grow.     Current law punishes small, growing airports like Springfield-Branson, by cutting off Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) funds when an airport’ s status changes from a non-hub airport to a small hub primary airport.  The legislation allows these small airports to remain eligible for federal aviation funds.  Specifically, after an airport’s status changes, airport expansion projects can receive FAA funds for three fiscal years after the start of construction, or if the Secretary of Transportation determines continued eligibility is necessary until completion.	    Bond and Blunt pointed out that with the $2.8 million earmark in the spending bill combined with the $5 million the FAA now anticipates, the Springfield-Branson project will get a total of $7.8 million for the project in this fiscal year.  In previous fiscal years Bond and Blunt have secured $7 million for the Springfield-Branson airport project.      With rapidly growing population rates, workforce, and tourism industry, Southwest Missouri’s demand for commercial air service is far exceeding the current operational capacity at the Springfield-Branson Regional Airport.  Expanded airfield and terminal capacity is needed to meet this growing demand.  In addition to the inability of the old terminal to meet today’s passenger loads which causes long waiting periods for ticketing, security and baggage handling, the terminal is unable to accommodate current Transportation Security Administration functions in a manner that expedites travel.       	Raeanne Presley, Springfield-Branson Regional Airport Board Chairman said, "This is wonderful news for the traveling public in Southwest Missouri.  Senator Bond and Congressman Blunt once again have been champions of Missouri's economic growth, allowing the Springfield/Branson Regional Airport to move forward with a much needed replacement terminal.  The board and city began this process in 1999 with the Terminal Area Study Plan and many individuals contributed to this outcome.  Working along side Senator Bond and Congressman Blunt, the airport board and staff will work quickly to see that our plans become a reality."
