
RICHMOND, MISSOURI – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he has secured $1 million for Richmond’s downtown revitalization project.      	"With the right federal investments, Missouri towns like Richmond can be magnets for job growth," said Bond.  "I am impressed by the way local leaders have come together around the downtown revitalization project.  By working together we can ensure that the business community has the infrastructure and investments needed.  Creating the conditions for job growth must continue to be our number one priority."    	Bond secured the $1 million for the downtown revitalization project in the fiscal year 2006 Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill.  The final conference agreement on the bill was approved last night and is expected to pass the House and Senate before Congress breaks for Thanksgiving.      	Bond visited Richmond in March and saw first hand the importance of the downtown to Richmond’s economic development. He was given a tour of the site and expressed his support for the local project and pledged to enlist the federal government in backing the expansion plan.	   	The money Bond secured will be used for new lighting, underground electrical service, new sidewalks and ADA compliant curbs and will assist in addressing the downtown’s off street parking problem.    	"This is seed money which makes Missouri a better place to locate and grow a business and those businesses are the engines which create jobs," said Bond.  "Good paying jobs don't just happen.  They are the result of the right investments and an economically supportive climate and that is what we are trying to boost all over our state."    “We appreciate Senator Bond’s support for our efforts to improve our community,” said Richmond Mayor Tom Morman.  “His leadership is greatly appreciated and this project will make a tremendous difference to citizens in Richmond.”     	In recent years, Bond has directed hundreds of millions of dollars into high priority Missouri projects, creating thousands of jobs.  He is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee for Transportation, Treasury and Housing, a position that allows him to fund key Missouri economic development, neighborhood and environmental projects.
