
Joplin, Missouri  Missouri Senator Kit Bond and Southwest Missouri Congressman Roy Blunt announced $1.23 million in federal funding to four law enforcement departments to combat methamphetamines (meth). The City of Joplin and sheriffs departments in Barry, Vernon and Jefferson counties qualified for these Department of Justice grants based on significant meth problems based on data from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and substance abuse and mental health records.  The abuse of methamphetamines is the most addictive and personally destructive drugs ever, said Blunt, who has been a congressional leader in the effort to put more money into the hands of local law enforcement to combat the manufacture, use and distribution of meth. We have seen success in dramatically cutting the number of clandestine home labs with new state and federal legislation restricting the chemicals that are used to make meth. The problem has shifted to illegally imported meth from Mexico. These grants will put additional resources into the local fight against meth trafficking in Missouri.  Our law enforcement officials are on the front line of the battle against methamphetamine and these funds will help them meet critical equipment, clean-up and manpower needs, said Senator Bond. I am committed to helping Missouri's dedicated law enforcement fight against this dangerous drug threatening our communities. Federal programs like Combat Meth and state and local partnerships like MOSMART are making a real difference.  Joplin Police Chief Lane Roberts hopes to use some of the $340,000 grant to work against the demand side of the meth problem. He explained, We have made progress in changing attitudes among younger people about the dangers of meth. We hope to influence neighborhood and community leaders to change those attitudes among adult abusers. A big part of this grant is enforcement, but we look at the broader problem that includes education and treatment as well.  Barry County will receive $327,567 from the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services Methamphetamine Initiative. Sheriff Nick Epperly said, Weve seen a tremendous decline in the number of meth labs in Barry County, but possession cases are still high. We will use this money to hire personnel and buy equipment to do more undercover and interdiction investigations.  Jefferson County, which has been among Missouris top meth lab counties, will receive $323,392 in the grant program. The Vernon County Sheriffs office will receive $239,650 in anti-meth grants to use in a three county area. For many years Joplin-Jasper County and Barry County were also among the top ten Missouri Counties where meth labs were seized. Earlier this month federal prosecutors indicted more than 30 people in two major meth distribution rings in western and southwest Missouri. ###  
