
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today urged Congress to give the President the tools needed to track, interrogate and prosecute terrorists.     	“The President needs his legislation on terrorist tribunals and the Senate should give him the tools he needs to fight this war,” said Bond.  “If we don’t, we will be doing our citizens a grave disservice and we will make our country less safe.”   	Since the September 11th attacks in 2001 the United States has improved intelligence capabilities and developed programs and policies which have enhanced the security of the nation.  Bond pointed out that with no attacks since September 11th, this critical work has paid off.	Bond warned that, while America is safer, there are still threats around the world and the nation is facing new challenges, many of which are internal.     	“Whether it’s making it harder to interrogate and prosecute terrorists or taking from intelligence agencies the tools they need to track the enemy or illegal leaks to the media, we have seen steady opposition hamper the work of the men and women on the front lines of the war against terror,” said Bond.   	Bond urged his colleagues in the Senate to pass the President’s legislation on terrorist tribunals. Clear guidelines are needed to protect American interrogators, which are outlined in the President’s bill.  The current rules under the Geneva Convention are too vague and only make it more likely that other countries could go too far in interrogating Americans. Contrary to the claims of critics, the President’s bill clarifies the United States’ obligation not to use torture, cruel inhuman treatment or intentionally cause great suffering or serious injury, as well as murder, sexual abuse and other serious crimes.    	According to the CIA Director Michael Hayden, if the bill reported out of the Senate Judiciary is passed the interrogation program will be unable to go on.  Bond stressed that if the U.S. loses the interrogation program, we lose the ability not only to punish these terrorists but also the ability to gain valuable information that could prevent future attacks.   	Leaks, many of which end up on the front pages of our newspapers, expose America’s sources and methods in the War on Terror and erode the confidence of our allies, said Bond. Over the past year repeated leaks of major intelligence programs underscore how there is no fear of punishment among those who arbitrarily divulge classified information.  In order to address this threat to national security, Bond introduced legislation aimed at cracking down on intelligence leaks by government employees or contractors.  His bill would make it easier for the government to prosecute and punish those who make public America’s sensitive intelligence programs.   	Bond also criticized Democrats for continuing to play politics in the Senate.  He pointed out that the Democrats have continued to obstruct key efforts to fight the war on terror, including their opposition to the NSA terrorist surveillance program, reauthorization of the PATRIOT Act, and security-related nominations.    						# # #
