
JEFFERSON CITY, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today addressed the Missouri General Assembly in Jefferson City.  Bond provided members of the Missouri House of Representatives a Congressional update.    "The high points of my career have been those times when I was part of a bipartisan effort which, against the odds, succeeded and changed things for the better,@ said Bond.  AIt is important to keep in mind our common vision:  we all want a better state and a better nation."   Bond reflected that many of the issues currently facing the state and nation are the same issues Bond tackled when he served as Missouri=s Governor, such as a national energy crisis.  As a Republican Governor, Bond worked with a Democrat legislature to reform state government, balance the budget, and expand the Parents as Teachers program.      Unfortunately, the immigration bill has not been a successful example of bipartisan cooperation, Bond said.  Comprehensive immigration reform must first begin with securing our borders, the Senator stressed.  Also, Bond introduced an amendment to the immigration legislation to prevent high-tech graduates being forced out of the country, a change necessary for the United States to keep its competitive edge in the global economy.      Congress has made progress recently on critical  issues, Bond outlined.  Last month, the Senate passed a sweeping ethics reform measure that includes a complete ban on gifts and provisions to make the legislative process more transparent.  Also last month, the President signed new Patriot Act legislation, an important tool in the War on Terror.   In February, the Senate passed a tax  reconciliation bill.  Bond said that in order to keep the economy=s momentum going, Congress needs to act now and make the tax cuts permanent while keeping federal spending under control.  In January the Senate confirmed  of President Bush=s second Supreme Court Nominee, Samuel Alito.  Both he and new Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts will hold to the highest standards of judicial integrity and not legislate from the bench, said Bond.     Bond touched on 2005=s accomplishments as well. As chairman of the Senate Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee, Bond coauthored the federal highway bill which was signed into law.  For Missouri the federal highway bill was particularly good news, including $1.3 billion in new funding for Missouri highways and bridges over the life of the bill. Bond pointed out that for first time in Missouri history, the state will receive more in federal highway funds than paid in gas taxes.     	Bond also praised passage of the energy bill, which includes emphasis on alternative fuels, good news for corn and soybean rich Missouri. The energy bill includes a number of positives to make the nation less dependent on foreign oil, such as Senator Talent=s renewable fuels standard and an ethanol tax credit.  Also, Congress adopted his efforts to increase funding for community health centers (CHCs).  Since his REACH initiative, funding has increased by over $750 million.  Missouri now has 19 CHCs, providing care in 104 locations.   	There are still a number of pressing priorities for 2006, said Bond. Bond will continue to support the President in the War on Terror, stressing that the most important job is keeping Americans safe.  Intelligence reform, continued economic development, and expanding the state=s stature as one of the nation=s biotechnology corridors also top Bond=s priority list.
