
POMME DE TERRE, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined area residents, local, state and federal officials in Hickory County to receive a briefing on the damage caused by severe storms and tornados that hit Hickory County last month.     "My thoughts and prayers have been with all of you in this community, and in the other communities throughout our state that have been victimized by the recent tornados," said Bond.  "I will continue to work with local, state and federal officials to ensure that all of you receive the help you need as you rebuild your homes and your lives in the wake of these devastating storms." Bond listened to area residents and officials detail the damages five tornado sites within a 10 mile path of Hickory County.  Damages in Hickory County are widespread, and are estimated to be almost $5 million for structures and personal property.  Earlier today Bond toured Carson Corner to see the damage first-hand.    Bond told the community that there is good news in the wake of these devastating storms - help is available.  Immediately following the March 12th tornado, Governor Blunt and Senators Bond and Talent asked the President to declare the affected communities federal disaster areas.   On March 17th, President Bush approved the federal disaster declaration request.  Bond stressed that this declaration from the President is critical.  The declaration will speed the flow of federal dollars so these communities can start rebuilding.    For individuals, assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.      Also, as of last week, the Small Business Authority had issued 59 applications for assistance in the area.  Bond stressed to residents that even if they do not know whether they will qualify, please turn in applications.   This will help the federal agencies to determine what type of assistance is needed and may be available.
