
MONETT, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond was joined by Economic Development Administration Chief of Staff Sandy Baruah today to announce $1.25 million in federal funds for the Southwest Area Career Center Southwest Area Career Center (SWACC) to provide more job training opportunities for students in Southwest Missouri.     "Expanding the Southwest Area Career Center will not only help to accommodate the growing needs of local communities and strengthen the economy of southwest Missouri but it will expand the federal investment in workforce development that is vital to American business," said Bond.     Bond announced that he secured the $1.25 million for the Career Center in the Economic Development Administration (EDA) reauthorization.  As chairman of the Environment and Public Works Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, Bond oversees the EDA.    In 2003, Bond brought senior Economic Development Administration (EDA) staff in to meet with SWACC administrators, board members and regional businesses to discuss plans to build a new career center.  The current SWACC serves as the area's vocational and technical school.  With 52 career centers state-wide, SWACC is one of only two in Missouri serving 14 or more schools.  The Career Center is currently located in an outdated building that is unable to meet the ever-growing space and technological needs of today.     In order to accommodate increasing enrollment, the school district has proposed building a new career center.  The new facility would allow the district to meet the growing student population for the next fifteen years while providing space for additional training programs.  With a new facility, the Southwest Area Career Center will help ensure that the region continues to experience economic growth and its citizens are job ready.    Bond pointed out that, in addition to increasing space, the federal funds for the SWACC will allow for additional programs, which will make accessing career and technical education easier for those living in Missouri's rural areas.     Bond also stressed that technical education, like that provided at the SWACC,  is essential in creating a well-trained workforce which will ensure that the United States continues to be a leader in the Global Economy.    Congratulating local leaders Bond said, "Those of you here today realized the impact that the Southwest Area Career Center has on Missouri's economy and so does this community.  You have proved that by stepping up to the plate with local funds that will help make this partnership work"
