
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce for the Economic Development Administration (EDA), Sandy Baruah, and other local, state and federal officials at the St. Patrick Center Awards Ceremony in St. Louis. It is with great appreciation and pleasure that I congratulate the St. Patrick Center for its tremendous efforts and accomplishments. You have brought hope into the lives of countless men and women in this great city, said Bond.   Along with Assistant Secretary Baruah, Bond presented the St. Patrick Center with the Department of Commerces EDA Excellence in Economic Development Award for Community and Faith-Based Social Entrepreneurship.   Bond, who has long-chaired the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee that funds our nations housing programs, emphasized that one of the toughest social problems facing our nation is homelessness. He praised the St. Patrick Center for working to provide solutions to this problem and help the homeless reclaim their lives.   In its 23 year history, St. Patrick Center has assisted more than 95,000 homeless and at-risk individuals through dozens of innovative and successful programs, including the Shamrock Club Day Program, which served as the nations first day treatment program for the homeless and mentally ill; McMurphyss Grill, the nations first restaurant-training program to give the mentally ill and homeless an opportunity to learn food-industry skills; and the Client Tracking System, which ensures clients move on to good housing and financial stability. Bond pointed out that these three programs are just a few of many outreach services that are part of the St. Patrick Centers distinguished history and what makes the Center deserving of todays award.   As the first Faith-Based Community project for the EDA, Bond joined Assistant Secretary Baruah in announcing $3.5 million in federal funds for the St. Patrick Center. Project BEGIN is an innovative social service concept which brings employment opportunities and valuable skill-trade preparation directly to residents of St. Louis. Project BEGIN will locate a small-business incubator and trades-training center here in this very building for the purpose of creating job growth and increased financial stability for St. Patrick Center clients.   Bond stressed that he expects Project BEGIN to help serve as an economic stimulus in this area. EDAs investment demonstrates their faith in the St. Patrick Center as a steward of successful and ground-breaking programs for the homeless and other underserved individuals and families who are in need of assistance. EDA has chosen to invest in Project BEGIN because of its potential to help the Centers clients achieve employment and economic stability.  ###  
