
SPRINGFIELD, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today met with emergency operation workers, county and city officials and agriculture leaders in southwest Missouri. Bond held a roundtable discussion on the disaster relief efforts in the region, which has been hit hard by severe winter storms.    	“In recent months Mother Nature has dealt Missouri blow after blow. With hard work and critical assistance, our communities will recover,” said Bond.  “I will continue to fight for federal dollars Missouri needs to rebuild.”    	Winter storms moved through Missouri this past weekend.  Bond stressed that the amount of damage caused by the winter storms is significant.  There is a large amount of debris, hindering life safety actions, utility restoration and transportation.  The Governor declared a state of emergency for the hard hit areas and mobilized the Missouri National Guard to assist in the emergency efforts.      	Following a federal disaster request from Governor Blunt, Senator Bond and other Missouri Congressional delegation members, President Bush approved a major disaster declaration for 35 Missouri communities.  Bond stressed that this declaration will trigger the release of vital federal funds to help communities begin to recover.   "I am pleased the President acted swiftly to help the people of Missouri," said Bond. "A federal disaster declaration is an important step in getting hard-hit communities much-needed assistance.”    	Bond also addressed Missouri’s farmers and ranchers, who in addition to damage caused from this past weekend’s winter storms, are suffering from ongoing drought. He assured Missouri’s agriculture community that he will continue to fight for funding for not only infrastructure repair, but also production losses.  Bond has been a vocal advocate in the Senate for Congressional passage of disaster packages for 2005 and 2006 production years.    	Earlier today, Senators Bond and McCaskill asked the President to approve quickly the Governor’s request for an agriculture disaster declaration.  The Senators told the President that heavy ice accumulation has led to structural damage of farm buildings, fences and significant livestock losses.  They stressed that federal funds are needed to assist farmers and ranchers in rebuilding the agriculture infrastructure.
