
 COLUMBIA, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Interim University of Missouri (MU) President Dr. Gordon H. Lamb, Missouri Department of Transportation and other local officials to celebrate the Gans Road Interchange groundbreaking.    AGood roads equal good jobs, said Bond. Companies want to do business in places that are easy for their employees, clients and visitors to reach, which is why I fight so hard for transportation dollars. Gans Road will provide much needed access to the Discovery Ridge Research Park.  As the coauthor of the 2005 Federal Highway Bill, Bond secured $4 million in federal funds for the Gans Road Interchange. Bond secured almost $1 million more in federal funds for the project in the fiscal year 2008 transportation spending bill, which is pending final Congressional approval. Bond serves as the ranking member of the Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee. Other funding for the project is provided through public and private entities including the City of Columbia, the Gans Road and U.S. 63 Transportation Development District and the University of Missouri.   The Gans Road Interchange project includes the construction of a new diamond interchange at the intersection including Route 63, Gans Road, Ponderosa Drive and Lenoir Street. The new interchange will increase safety and accommodate the increased traffic generated by Discovery Ridge, a 1300-acre MU agricultural experiment station that houses a number of research activities.   Bond stressed that Discovery Ridge is a key step in creating the biotechnology corridor from St. Louis to Kansas City, helping to bring biotech innovations to the marketplace. Through Discovery Ridge Bond expects Missouri will attract private investment and employers who will create high-paying jobs and advance life sciences in the state.    Scientific advancement in biotechnology is feeding the hungry and healing the sick, said Bond. The partnership between our universities and business can provide answers to age-old problems of hunger, sickness, malnutrition and poverty.  ### 
