
 BRANSON, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined representatives of Table Rock Lake Water Quality, Inc., the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Missouri Department of Natural Resources to discuss the importance of the Table Rock Lake On-Site Wastewater Demonstration Project.    Together, you show how local know-how, ingenuity and willingness to solve problems can solve regional and national problems, said Bond. Our reward, when these strategies take hold will be a clean and viable Table Rock Lake for generations to come. There is no greater gift we can leave to future generations.    A decade ago, water quality advocates recognized that population growth was threatening Table Rock Lake. After bringing their concerns to the Senator, Bond has worked with these area water-quality groups to restore and maintain the beauty of Table Rock Lake.     As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $2 million in federal funding for the Table Rock Lake On-Site Wastewater Demonstration Project in the fiscal 2002 Veterans, Housing and Urban Development spending bill. The federal funds for Table Rock were used to develop and test technologies to keep wastewater from homes and businesses not hooked up to treatment plants from seeping wastewater into the Lake.    Bond noted that this project has proven the success of simple advanced water treatment techniques -- like drip irrigation with imported soil -- in a geology where traditional septic strategies fail. Table Rock Lake now has a new permit system and an ongoing system of operation and maintenance that will help ensure the water-quality gains remain for years to come. Bond praised the partnership approach at Table Rock which has brought acceptance at the local and state regulatory agency level that this method works and should be replicated.     Since the completion of Table Rock Dam and Powerhouse in 1958, Table Rock Lake has been a popular tourism draw in southwest Missouri. Once considered one of the cleanest lakes in the United States, Table Rock Lakes water-quality had steadily declined during the late 1990's and early 2000's. The Missouri Department of Natural Resources water-quality studies showed that the deterioration is primarily due to unregulated wastewater being discharged into the watershed. Innovative solutions, like the Demonstration Project Bond secured funds for, will help protect the environmental and economic interests in the area from being further compromised.    Bond is a long time advocate for a common-sense approach to conserving land and safeguarding the environment for Missouri communities. In the fiscal years 1999, 2000 and 2005 Bond secured additional funding for municipal water treatment facilities throughout southwest Missouri.    # # # 
