
PERRYVILLE, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Governor Matt Blunt, Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson, and other local officials to celebrate the 20th Anniversary of the Toyoda Gosei (TG) Missouri Corporation in Perryville.   This milestone in TG Missouris history is a celebration of a great team effort by the City of Perryville, TG management and most importantly, the many dedicated employees of this proud Missouri company, said Bond. I applaud your successes and extend my very best to the great TG team.  During the celebration, Bond stressed TGs commitment to creating jobs in Missouri. Toyoda Gosei is a great example of how we can benefit from a global economy, said Bond. TG believes in sharing technology with people around the world through locally based operations in principle markets. That means jobs for Missourians and citizens of other states where plants are located, said Bond.   In his last term as Governor, Bond worked with TG officials to bring the company to Perryville. At the time, Missouri rural towns were losing traditional industries -- Perry County had an unemployment rate of 10 percent. Bond recognized that the work ethic of the work force, teamed with the high standards of TG, would develop into a true success story. Bond noted that recent figures prove his point -- in July 2007, the unemployment rate in Perry County was 4.2 percent.  As a part of the North American flagship of TG, you should be very proud of what this strong alliance has accomplished over the last 20 years, said Bond. The companys commitment to quality is evidence by high performance standards resulting in superior automotive products for TG customers though out the world.   TG Missouri Corporation manufactures state of the art automotive safety systems including airbags, steering wheels and other interior and exterior parts. TG Missouri is the North American flagship of Toyoda Gosei and the first of 10 facilities in the United States. TG Missouri currently employs 1,200 people in Missouri.   ### 
