
	LEXINGTON, MO   U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined local officials and community leaders to visit the Lexington 4 Life Center to receive an update and tour of the facility.    	“The Lexington 4 Life facility has become a tremendous asset for the community in education, job training, and health care,” said Bond.   	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $1.1 million for the Center in the fiscal year 2003 Omnibus Appropriations bill.    	The 4-Life Center is a community-based center that provides health and social services.  The 27,000 square foot facility houses the Margaret Gray Center (with comprehensive services for older adults), a preschool  operated by the Lexington R-V School District, a new vocational class teaching young people to be early childcare workers in a laboratory setting, and Rodgers-Lafayette Dental and Health Clinic, a federally qualified health care center.     	Bond stressed that the Rodgers-Lafayette Dental and Health Clinic is a critical component to the Lexington 4 Life Center.  Since Bond served as Missouri’s governor he has helped foster the growth of community health centers.  As a Senator, Bond has led the fight in Washington to double the number of people served by health centers nationwide and to expand access to quality primary and dental care through health centers across Missouri under his REACH Initiative.  Federal funding for community health centers has increased by over $700 million, more than a 70 percent increase, since the launch of Bond’s REACH Initiative.     	The infusion of new federal dollars has helped Missouri’s network of community health centers grow.  Missouri now has 19 federally-qualified community health centers (FQHC), with 108 locations that provide access to nearly 300,000 Missourians through 1.1 million annual visits.   	“Millions of people do not have health insurance.  Many who have health insurance do not have access to a doctor.  That is why I am a big advocate for community health centers.  It has been a privilege to help foster the growth of community health centers in Missouri as Governor and nationally as Senator,” said Bond.  ###
