
WASHINGTON, DC  Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, U.S. Senator Kit Bond, spoke on the floor of the Senate today to set the record straight on the passage of the Protect America Act  which updated the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Bond criticized some in Congress for trying to rewrite history and for efforts to discredit Admiral Mike McConnell, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI).  Unfortunately, attacking our military leaders has become the M.O. for some in Congress, said Bond. Like others are condemning Petraeus, some are attacking personally another honorable man. I am disappointed with those who are charging Admiral McConnell with partisanship and duplicity for their own political gains.   As Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and the sponsor of the Protect America Act, Bond was the lead negotiator during the final hours as Congress acted to pass a critical, short-term update to our nations law governing terrorist surveillance. Bond challenged the misinformation being spread and outlined the events as they occurred.   On the floor, Bond detailed the DNIs, good-faith efforts to negotiate with Congress and pass legislation to give our law enforcement the tools they need to combat terrorism while protecting Americans civil liberties.  Bond disputed charges that the DNI was manipulated or influenced by other administration officials. The Senator said that Admiral McConnell and his lawyers crafted the bill; it was not dictated by the White Hour or any other of the favorite whipping boys cited as responsible for the bill.  I am pleased that the Admiral and I could include in the measure we passed several changes suggested by members of the majority party, said Bond. We recognize that the legislation can be clarified, but it allowed the Intelligence Community to collect very important foreign intelligence to keep our troops and Americans here at home safe.  Bond also reviewed efforts by some to circumvent the committee process and craft legislation behind closed doors without input from the minority. Despite attempts to leave out key members of Congress during the last negotiations, Bond stressed his confidence in the Senate Intelligence Committee in passing comprehensive reform. Bond emphasized his recent positive talks with Chairman Rockefeller and other Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee.  As we saw in the strong bipartisan support for the Protect America Act, we can act in a bipartisan manner to protect terrorist surveillance  a critical early warning system  while protecting civil liberties of ordinary Americans, said Bond.     ### 
