
ST. LOUIS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today toured Doorways, a St. Louis housing community for individuals with HIV/AIDS.  Bond was also honored for his support of housing programs for persons with HIV/AIDS.    	“What a tremendous honor.  I am an advocate for you in Washington.  You know I will do what I can in that role.  But the award should go to all of you in this room who do the real work:  the Doorways staff, board, and especially the clients who are fighting AIDS,” said Bond, chairman of the Senate Transportation, Treasury and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee.  “It is an honor to be associated with your work here.”    	Bond received the National Aids Housing Coalition award, where he was honored for his unwavering support for persons with AIDS.  After touring the facility, Bond thanked the Doorways staff for their vision and success.  Doorways, a Supportive Housing Facility in St. Louis’ Central West End, serves 500 individuals and 90 children each month.  Also, 70 percent of the clients at Doorways get well enough to move on to independent housing.  Bond stressed that good housing is fundamental and the foundation of any community.  This is particularly for those struggling with a life-threatening illness such as AIDS, said Bond, who often lose their jobs, their health insurance, and even their homes.       	Bond pointed out that the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina showed all of America what happens when people do not have a place to call home:  chaos, confusion, instability, and insecurity.  The homeless plight of many in New Orleans and other parts of the Gulf region is not so different from the situation of many people right here in St. Louis, and in many other parts of the state.      	As Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds housing programs, Bond works to ensure that all residents, regardless of income, background or health status have access to good housing.  Bond included $287 million for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program in this year’s spending bill, an increase of $5 million from last year and $19 million over the administration’s request.  Bond has also fought to protect other housing and community development programs critical to St. Louis and other cities nationwide.    	Bond also noted the progress made in revitalizing north St. Louis and the strong partnerships -- faith-based organizations, local communities and government – that made the success possible.  With the Grace Hill Community Health Center all levels are working hard to end lead paint poisoning of St. Louis children.  Bond, for his part, promised to find $15 million in the federal budget within three years.  Several months ago Bond was in St. Louis to announce the second installment of $5 million to clean up houses.
