
JOPLIN, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured more than $2 million for critical transportation and revitalization projects in the Joplin area.    	“In every office I have held I have worked hard to help create the conditions for local communities to flourish:  including providing modern transportation options and seed money to jump start distressed areas,” said Bond.  “Joplin has a bright future ahead.  By working together, these projects will become a reality, improving the economic prospects and the quality of life for families throughout this community.”     As chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured the $2.12 million for the Joplin projects in the subcommittee’s fiscal year 2006 spending bill, which was signed into law yesterday.  The funding includes: $1million for the Joplin Downtown Streetscape Development project (with Congressman Blunt); $1million for the Wildcat Glades Conservation & Audubon Nature Center & Trail; and $120,000 for the Joplin West Bypass Study.     	Over the past year a coalition of area leaders presented Bond with several opportunities to help improve the Joplin area.  In June, Bond toured Joplin’s downtown and saw first-hand the need for revitalization.    	Bond stressed that the downtown infrastructure and public safety improvements will revitalize the blighted areas surrounding downtown, increase commercial activity in the area, and bring jobs and people back downtown.     	Wildcat Glades Park is a partnership between the City of Joplin, the Missouri Department of Conservation and the Audubon Society of Missouri.  Together progress is being made in efforts to restore the rare chert glade habitat that comprises Wildcat Glades.  When completed, the Nature Center and Trail will connect Audubon Center visitors to outdoor learning stations, wildlife viewing areas, and scenic overlooks including the historic Redings Mill Bridge.      	Also, the Joplin West Bypass Study is critical to the city’s future.  The study would look at potential traffic volumes and evaluate which corridors would be most beneficial to this area.  This bypass would create new commercial corridors and make it easier for cars and trucks to move through the area.      “As Missouri’s senior Senator, my job is to fight to send Missouri’s hard-earned tax dollars back home.  I will continue to work to make sure critical projects, like these three in Joplin, get the funds needed,” said Bond.
