
SPRINGFIELD, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $1.65 million for Springfield’s City Utilities for a new bus transfer facility.    	“As Missouri’s senior Senator I will continue to use my position to return your hard earned tax dollars back home to help finance local priorities identified by local leaders who are committed to improving communities like Springfield,” said Bond.    As Chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured the $1.65 million for Springfield’s City Utilities (CU) in the fiscal year 2006 spending bill, which was signed into law yesterday.     	The funds will be used by CU for a new bus transfer facility to continue the redevelopment momentum in the downtown area and improve access to Jordan Valley Park.  The intermodal transfer facility for the city’s public transit system will accommodate a passenger’s waiting area, as well as loading stations for buses entering and exiting the facility.  Thee existing facility is land-locked and cannot expand to meet the growing needs of the area.  In addition to giving people greater access to the jobs and services in Jordan Valley Park and downtown Springfield, the new facility will also provide more comfort for riders with an enclosed passenger area.      	Many local residents depend on public transportation to get to work, to school, to doctor’s appointments and shopping centers.  Bond stressed his commitment to working with City Utilities to improve the public transportation system and see that the needs of these residents are met.      	Recognizing that good transportation is key to economic growth, Bond has fought for the last 19 years in the Senate to improve transportation in Missouri.  Bond pointed out that companies will locate in areas where there are good roads, and good public transit to bring workers in.     	“If we want jobs and economic development in Missouri cities, if we want to improve the standard of living for all our residents, we simply must invest in transportation,” said Bond.
