
            WASHINTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $1 million in federal funds for a high priority Missouri project to expand renewable fuel use.    	“These funds are important to increasing the use of biodiesel in Missouri and throughout the nation,” said Bond.  “Biodiesel use is not only good for Missouri's rural economy, it is also good for our environment, and most importantly, national security by decreasing on dependence on foreign oil.”    	"Biodiesel has a true champion in Senator Bond, who is a key leader in Washington on both transportation and biodiesel issues, and his commitment to renewable fuels has propelled this industry beyond measure," said Joe Jobe, CEO of the National Biodiesel Board.  "This infrastructure program is good for our country because it will help get biodiesel to consumers and supplement our energy supplies.  The key to that is biodiesel's ability to integrate into our nation's existing energy infrastructure, so educating petroleum distributors about handling biodiesel is one of our top priorities."     	Bond secured the $1 million for the biodiesel project in the fiscal year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which funds water projects under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and energy projects within the Department of Energy.  The spending bill passed the full Senate early this morning.  Before being signed into law the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill.   	The $1 million Bond secured will be used for the Missouri Biodiesel Renewable Demonstration Project.  The project will develop a comprehensive training program to address the benefits of biodiesel and educate petroleum refiners of the proper blending and handling of biodiesel.   As one of biodiesel’s biggest advocates, Bond has long worked to expand the renewable industry in Missouri, including partnering with the Missouri Soybean Association to encourage St. Louis, Kansas City, and federal government fleets to utilize biodiesel for clean air and rural development purposes.       Bond has also worked with the Department of Defense to encourage wider adoption of biodiesel across all branches of the service.  Currently, at Ft. Leonard Wood in Missouri, the Army has installed several thousand gallons of biodiesel storage capacity to be used to fuel their “non-tactical” fleets.     In coordination with the Soybean Association, Bond has also engaged the Region 7 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Office in Kansas City to become a biodiesel advocate.  Bond hopes the EPA will recognize the environmental-friendly qualities of biodiesel as they work with cities to ensure cleaner air.    Bond stressed that he will continue to fight for the future of renewable fuels in Washington.  Bond’s legislation, including efforts to keep Senator Talent’s Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) amendment, cosponsored by Bond, as part of the final energy bill.  This provision bumps the 6 billion gallon RFS to 8 billion by 2012.  This standard is key to ensuring long term stability and demand, Bond said.  He also thanked Congressman Hulshof for his efforts on behalf of renewable fuels in the House of Representatives, particularly for his support of the Biodiesel Blender’s Tax Credit.
