
Washington- Senator Kit Bond today announced that Katy Trail Community Health has been designated as a Federal Qualified Health Center (FQHC) by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  The FQHC designation allows Katy Trail Community Health to access ongoing federal funding as a new community health center to serve the entire region and all individuals regardless of ability to pay.	   	The FQHC designation will allow  the clinic to expand staff, increase clinic visits, establish satellite sites and increase capacity to serve more patients a month.   	“The news that Katy Trail has been approved as an FQHC is a tribute to the local leadership working to improve the quality of life in their community,” said Bond.  “This designation will provide a key funding source for the Health Center and expand access to critical care throughout the region.”    	Senator Bond visited the Health Center in Sedalia in April, 2004 to announce $300,000 he had secured for the facility  in the omnibus spending bill that was signed into law in January.  These dollars served as critical seed money to support the development and enhancement of comprehensive primary care services.      	"I saw firsthand the quality services provided to families in Sedalia and the surrounding area,” said Bond.  “Today we can showcase what is possible when we work together toward a common goal, and I am pleased to have been a partner in this effort that will benefit so many for years to come.”    	Recognizing that a growing number of people in the community were struggling to find access to quality medical care, community leaders came together to establish a health clinic in 1998.  Since then, the clinic has continued to grow, but the demand for services is currently exceeding capacity.  To address these growing needs, Katy Trail Community Health applied to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to become a Federal Qualified Health Center.    	“We believe our FQHC status will be a significant asset to the community.  Our approach will be to partner with local providers, the hospital and other health care institutions to integrate into the delivery system of the Pettis County area,” said Chris Stewart, Executive Director of Katy Trail Community Health.    	"If we continue to make strategic investments from the federal, state and local levels in this highly effective and efficient delivery model, we can truly make a difference and serve those who are in the greatest need," said Bond.   	Kit Bond is Missouri’s senior Senator and is now in his fourth term after having served the state previously during two terms as Governor.
