
WASHINGTON (Thursday, March 1) – Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Sen. Kit Bond (R-Mo.), the leaders of the Senate’s 80-member National Guard Caucus, Thursday said they will forge ahead with their bill to empower the National Guard in Guard-related decision making within the Pentagon, noting that the long-awaited report from the Commission on the National Guard and Reserves acknowledged the problem but ducked the solution.   In its report released Thursday, the commission agreed that the National Guard lacks input on key policy and budget deliberations that directly affect its missions at home and abroad.  The commission also found that the Department of Defense has paid insufficient attention to the mission of providing support to civilians during emergencies at home, despite the Guard’s enormous expertise and capabilities.  The panel also agreed with the central thrust of the National Guard Empowerment Act introduced in February by Leahy and Bond – the co-chairs of the Senate National Guard Caucus -- while suggesting only halfway measures to achieve the bill’s goals.    The National Guard Empowerment Act (S.430) directly addresses these needs by, among many provisions, placing the National Guard Bureau Chief on the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the rank of general and making National Guard commander the deputy commander of the United States Northern Command, which is responsible for overseeing the domestic military support mission.  The Leahy-Bond bill also would also give the National Guard the ability to budget and purchase equipment related to homeland defense, and it would offer governors greater input on domestic defense related matters through the National Guard.    While agreeing with the central tenets of the Guard Empowerment Bill, the commission was tepid in its recommendation, Bond and Leahy noted.  The commission concluded that the National Guard should not have a place on the Joint Chiefs and that the Northern Command Deputy Commander slot should not be explicitly held open for a National Guard general.     “The commission recognized the structural problems that work against the Guard, but their recommendations are thin soup,” said Leahy.  “The Guard is a 21st Century organization, stuck in a 19th Century bureaucracy.  The Guard deserves a place at the table when decisions at the Guard are made that affect its readiness, its missions and its effectiveness.  The Guard deserves more than lip service to these structural problems.  They deserve action.  We will move forward with the solutions we have offered in the National Guard Empowerment Act.”   “Senator Leahy and I remain committed to passing every facet of the Guard Empowerment Act.  The measures the commission did not support remain a vital part of our legislation,” said Bond.  “The National Guard is critical to our security at home and in assisting America's military abroad.  Despite the Guard's importance, they are being left out of the decision making process.  Our legislation will give them the muscle they need.”   Leahy and Bond also released a letter of support for the legislation from the National Governors Association, which held its annual winter meeting this week in Washington.   # # # # #
