
   WASHINGTON, DC U.S. Senator Kit Bond today praised the Senate passage of legislation which authorizes funding for our national defense programs.   I am pleased that the Majority party has decided to put their failed anti-war strategy on hold and provide our troops with critical funds, said Bond.    The fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization bill authorizes funds for life-saving equipment for our troops like Mine Resistant Ambush Protection Vehicles (MRAPS), a much-need pay increase for our service men and women, and our fight against al Qaeda terrorists in Iraq and    Afghanistan . The bill passed the full Senate tonight by a vote of 92-3. Before being signed into law, the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version.   Bond was successful in adding amendments to the Defense Authorization bill to protect classified information and improve the treatment of our troops  both active and reserve. Bond amendments to the Defense Authorization bill include:  Safeguarding Troops from Personality Disorder Discharges  Senators Bond and Obama led a tri-partisan group of Senators, including Boxer (D-CA), Lieberman (ID-CT), McCaskill (D-MO), Murray (D-WA), Sanders (I-VT) and Lincoln (D-AR) to include a provision to limit the Pentagons use of personality disorder discharges. This provision would add additional safeguards to discharge procedures and require a thorough review by the Government Accountability Office.   Improving Mental Health Care for Troops - Senators Bond, Coleman (R-MN), Lincoln (D-AR), Domenici (R-NM), and Inouye (D-HI) joined together to include a provision to give the Secretary of Defense the flexibility to increase mental health reimbursement rates for TRICARE, the healthcare program for members of military and their families, if access to mental health services is threatened.   Empowering the National Guard - Senate National Guard Caucus Co-Chairs Senators Bond and Leahy (D-Vt.) introduced their bipartisan National Guard Empowerment Act, featuring four core initiatives to give the National Guard more bureaucratic muscle in the Department of Defense. The provisions incorporated into the Defense Authorization bill will give the National Guard budget power, make the Deputy of the United States Northern Command an officer of the National Guard, and elevate the Chief of the National Guard to the rank of four-star general.   Protecting Governors Guard Control  The Senate National Guard Caucus Co-Chairs Senators Bond and Leahy (D-Vt.) included a provision to restore the Insurrection Act to its original form. Last years Defense Authorization Bill contained language making it easier for the President to take control of the National Guard and use the entire military in domestic law enforcement.     Protecting Intelligence Programs and Classified Information  Senator Bond, Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, included a provision to prevent clearances from being granted to an individual who is using illegal drugs or is mentally incompetent. Absent a waiver, special types of clearances may not be granted, or renewed, for an individual who has been convicted of a felony offense (and been sentenced to more than a year in prison) or been dishonorably discharged.  Improve and Streamline Security Clearances  Senator Bond, Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, included a provision to require the Secretary of Defense and Director of National Intelligence to implement a pilot project that applies new and innovative approaches to improve the process of requests for security clearances.     ###     
