
WASHINGTON, DC –  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Corps of Engineers representatives and local stakeholders to celebrate the grand opening of the new visitors’ center, which was destroyed after tornados swept the region in May 2003.    	"I thank you and congratulate you all for being the embodiment of the American can-do Spirit and appreciate the kindness you have shown me today," said Bond.    	Bond thanked the Corps for dedicating the building as the Senator Kit Bond Information Center.  The $1.6 million, 6,100 square-foot information center also includes administrative office space for the Corps’ Stockton Lake office staff.  Also, Bond praised the Stockton community for their resilience and determination to rebuild after the 2003 disaster.     	The Corps of Engineer's Stockton Lake Project is a major cornerstone of the Stockton area economy.  As a result of the tornados, the project's administration/visitor center and maintenance facilities sustained heavy damage, with the administration building a total loss.      	Following the spring tornados Bond visited Stockton, where he pledged to secure federal funds to help the community rebuild.  Bond worked to speed the federal government's response to all of Missouri's tornado victims, securing a federal disaster declaration for a number of tornado-struck counties and communities.  Also, as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond was able to secure federal funds to make the Stockton Lake Project possible.    	Missouri, with large lakes and almost 1,000 miles of shoreline along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, is a water-dependent state that relies heavily on the partnership between communities and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.      	Bond also expressed his gratitude to the Corps for the important missions they are involved in across the country and around the world.  The Corps, while a visible partner in communities often is active behind the scenes as well, Bond pointed out.  Currently the Corps is supporting hurricane response operations, with 313 personnel already supporting the Katrina response.  Also, the Corps is involved with the Global War on Terror, with 500 civilian and military Corps personnel serving in Iraq and 130 in Afghanistan.    	“I am proud of the highly-important, yet low-profile work that the Corps does in service to this nation both here and abroad of which we should all be very grateful,” said Bond.    	Bond is a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, which funds the Corps.  Also, Bond is the Chairman of the Environment and Public Works Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee which authorizes the work done by the Corps.
