
KANSAS CITY, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined local officials and community advocates to highlight the $675,000 in federal funds he secured for the MorningStar Youth and Family Life Center in Kansas City.    “This Center will give people hope – and a sense of community - in an area too often without it,” said Bond.  “The federal funding we are providing will be a down payment on progress and advancement for this neighborhood.”     As chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured $675,000 in federal funds for the MorningStar Youth and Family Life Center in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee in July.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.     The funds Bond secured will be used to construct the MorningStar Youth and Family Life Center in a crime-ridden Kansas City neighborhood.  The facility will include a community policing substation, community services such as mentoring, computer lab programs, and community meeting rooms.    Bond stressed that when today’s families are struggling to keep it together, projects like the Center are critical.  The MorningStar Center will create a safe haven for children to play, do homework and provide teenagers with sports and activities while their parents are at work.  Also, the Center will provide seniors who wish to stay in their communities the assistance they need to stay in their homes.     Bond thanked the local officials and community advocates for their commitment to creating the Center in Kansas City.  To make this project possible much work went into putting the pieces of property together, ensuring the sites are clear of debris and free from environmental hazards.     “This project is about hope and opportunity.  It is about community, and neighbor helping neighbor,” said Bond.  “Thank you for your tremendous leadership and for not giving up.  Working together we will make the Youth and Family Life Center a reality.”   
