
FT. LEONARD WOOD, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today toured the Fort Leonard Wood base and received a briefing from Commanding General, MG William McCoy Jr.    	“Our troops make great sacrifices to defend our freedom here at home and abroad.  We have a responsibility to provide them with the facilities they need to train and fight,” said Bond.  “I will continue to use my position as Missouri’s senior Senator and a member of the Appropriations Committee to secure resources for Missouri’s military bases.”   	Today marked Bond’s first visit to the Fort Leonard Wood base since becoming Vice Chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee.  Earlier in the day Bond met with officials at the Whiteman Air Force base in Knob Noster.     	Bond a senior member of the Senate Appropriation’s Committee, stressed the importance of Congressional passage of the fiscal year 2007 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs spending bill, which funds projects for the active duty and guard, barracks, family housing, hospitals and medical facilities.     	Currently, our Armed Forces are being forced to operate under a continuing resolution, leaving a $5.9 billion deficit in critical Army projects.   For Missouri, this is a deficit of $34.5million in military construction projects for Fort Leonard Wood, which includes:   *	$10.8 million for a Vehicle Maintenance Shop  *	$6.9 million for a Child Development Center  *	$17 million for barracks	   	Bond also visited the Counter Explosive Hazards Center (CEHC) at Fort Leonard Wood, which, with Congressman Ike Skelton, he has secured $22.3 million for since fiscal year 2005.  The CEHC is a state of the art training facility that helps soldiers to safely recognize explosive threats such as land mines, booby traps, and improvised explosive devices (IED).  The CEHC includes a training village, vehicle maintenance, and kennel for 30 deployable mine detection dogs.   	The CEHC is critical to the safety of our soldiers, Bond said.  IED’s cause roughly 90 percent of the Army’s casualties in Iraq each month.  The CEHC is important in the Pentagon’s efforts to find methods for identifying and countering these lethal devices.   	Recognizing the important work done at Fort Leonard Wood, the Army recently assigned the U.S. Army Engineer School at Ft. Leonard Wood as the proponent for developing a standard IED Training Support Package for use throughout the Army.
