
WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced $5 million in federal funds for jobs and economic development in southeast Missouri.  Bond worked with the Department of Labor on behalf of the southeast Missouri initiative to deliver today’s federal funds. “I must congratulate the board members of the Workforce Investment Board of Southeast Missouri.  Their collaborative effort and hard work made today’s announcement possible,” said Bond.  “In recent years this region has been hit hard with natural disasters and loss of manufacturing jobs, these funds will help provide a much-needed boost to the region.”   		The U.S. Department of Labor’s Employment and Training Administration (ETA) has committed $5 million in federal dollars over three years to the Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED) initiative in southeast Missouri.   		The WIRED initiative will fund a partnership designed to increase economic, education and workforce development in the region, reaching counties with some of the highest poverty levels in the state.  The 14 counties included in this initiative are Ste. Genevieve, Perry, Cape Girardeau, Bollinger, Madison, St. Francois, Scott, Mississippi, New Madrid, Pemiscott, Dunklin, Stoddard, Madison and Butler Counties.   		The Southeast Missouri WIRED Initiative will link the U.S. Department of Labor, civic organizations, academic institutions and business leaders.  The Initiative will be governed by a seven member leadership co-chaired by the Workforce Investment Board of Southeast Missouri and the Southeast Missouri Economic Development Alliance.  The remaining five positions on the council will be designated to stakeholder groups including the Cape Girardeau Area MAGENT, Norando Aluminum, Cape Girardeau School District, University of Missouri Delta Center, and Southeast Missouri State University.   “The Board is extremely excited and feels very fortunate that we were approved.  The WIRED funding will allow us to implement a new strategy for economic development across the 14-county region,” Scott Sattler, Chairman of the Workforce Investment Board of Southeast Missouri. This grant marks the second award of WIRED funding to Missouri. In 2006, the Greater Kansas City region was a recipient of the first WIRED funding announcement.  	 ###
