
(WARRENSBURG)  U.S. Senators Sen. Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and  Jim Talent (R-Mo.) today announced $13.75 million in federal funds for key transportation projects in Warrensburg.  Talent and Bond’s request was included in the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary and Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007.   “We must continue to improve our transportation infrastructure to help generate economic growth, create jobs and save lives,” said Sen. Talent.  “Warrensburg and the surrounding area will reap the rewards of these projects for years to come.  Getting this funding approved in committee was a critical step, and I will continue pushing for it when the bill comes to the floor of the Senate.”   “These funds will help create the environment for job growth that will draw new businesses and opportunities to Warrensburg and Johnson County,” said Sen. Bond.  “I will continue to use my position on the Appropriations Committee and as Missouri’s senior Senator to send federal dollars back to the state to fund local priorities.”   The Senators secured $8.75 million for the Max B. Swisher Skyhaven Airport.  The funds will be used to lengthen a runway, increase highway access and make other infrastructure improvements.  The regional airport is home to Central Missouri State University’s (CMSU) fleet of 30 planes which are used in their aviation training program.   “I personally thank both Senators Bond and Talent for their special efforts in securing these funds, which will take our airport and nationally recognized aviation program to the next level,” said Aaron Podolefsky, President of CMSU. “In conjunction with our Innovation Park, the improvements will serve the general public, local industry and the aviation community of Warrensburg and Johnson County. CMSU’s Max B. Swisher Skyhaven Airport is on its way to becoming a major economic engine for the area.”   Bond and Talent secured $5 million for the Highway 13 bypass. The funds will be used to route traffic currently going through the heart of the city around Warrensburg.  Last year $15 million in funding for this project was included in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2005.   The Senator’s funding requests passed the Senate Appropriations Committee and now must be passed by the full U.S. Senate, then be reconciled with the House of Representatives’ bill before being signed into law.    ###
