
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $9.7 million in federal funds for key projects in Mid-Missouri in the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD spending bill.    	 “These projects will mean more efficient transportation and increased revitalization in our communities in Mid-Missouri,” said Bond.  “I will continue to use my position on the Appropriations Committee and as Missouri’s senior Senator to send federal dollars back to the state to fund local priorities.”   As chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured the $9.7 million in federal funds in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill, which passed subcommittee earlier this week and is scheduled to pass the full committee this afternoon.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.   Bond secured $9.75 in funds for the following Mid-Missouri projects:   •	$4.5 million for US 63 and Gans Road Exchange – Funds will be used to construct an interchange on US 63 at a relocated Gans Road (Bond secured these funds with Senator Jim Talent).     •	$3 million for Columbia’s 740 Stadium Extension Project – Funds will be used to continue progress on the MO 740 Stadium extension project.  The planned MO740 extension is approximately 3 miles in length and would provide access to the University of Missouri and to central Columbia, to and from Interstate 70 (Bond secured these funds with Senator Jim Talent).   •	$1 million for the Center for Functional Foods – Funds will be used to develop a state-of-the-art facility, modern testing equipment and the infrastructure to house the Center's research scientists and small support staff (Bond secured these funds with Senator Jim Talent).   •	$539,400 for the Hwy 54 Project – Funds will be used for highway improvements between Mexico and Highway 61 (Bond secured these funds with Senator Jim Talent).   •	$315,800 for Ashland’s Main Street Redevelopment Project – Funds will be used for streetscaping, infrastructure and façade improvements.   •	$200,000 for the Mexico Memorial Airport – Funds will be used for the new terminal.   •	$200,000 for the Warsaw Bridge Replacement – Funds will be used to complete the reconstruction of the bridge in downtown Warsaw (Bond secured these funds with Senator Jim Talent).  ###
