
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $11 million in federal funds for key projects in southwest Missouri in the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD spending bill. These projects will mean more efficient transportation and increased educational opportunities and revitalization in our communities in southwest Missouri, said Bond. I will continue to use my position on the Appropriations Committee and as Missouris senior Senator to send federal dollars back to the state to fund local priorities.   As chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured the $11 million in federal funds in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill, which passed subcommittee earlier this week and is scheduled to pass the full committee this afternoon. Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.   Bond secured $11 million in funds for the following southwest Missouri projects:    $2.5 million for Route 266 and Interchange I-44  Funds will be used to upgrade with Interstate 44 and Route 266 interchange and will construct the relocated State Route 266 to serve the Springfield Branson National Airport Relocated Midfield Terminal (Bond secured these funds with Senator Jim Talent).    $2 million for the City Utilities of Springfield  Funds will be used to construct a new Intermodel Transfer Facility for the city's public transit system that will accommodate a passengers' waiting area, as well as loading stations for buses entering and exiting the facility.   $1 million for Missouri State University  Funds will be used to improve and expand the William H. Darr Agricultural Center.    $1.5 million for the Highway 65 North in Dallas County  Funds will be used for preliminary engineering and reconstruction of Rt. 65 from Rt. EE to Rt. 32 in Dallas County.    $1.5 million for Interchange U.S. 60 and National Avenue in Greene County  Funds will be used for interchange improvements (Bond secured these funds with Senator Jim Talent).    $1 million for Camp Barnabas  Funds will be used for the construction of handicap accessible cabins for children with special needs for the camp in Barry County.    $1 million for the Interchange Improvements at I-44  Kansas Expressway - Funds will be used for preliminary engineering for interchange improvements at I-44 and Kansas Expressway.    $500,000 for the City of Joplin  Funds will be used for Joplins Downtown Redevelopment Plan.  ###  
