
Springfield, Missouri  Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Roy Blunt today joined state and local officials in Springfield marking the completion of critical improvements to Interstate 44-Highway 65 Interchange that will make driving in the area safer and less congested. Bond and Blunt successfully secured $16 million in federal funding for the project, which was completed seven months ahead of schedule.  This new interchange is the result of a collaborative effort, with investment from the local, state and federal level. It is a good example of how communities should work together to address transportation issues in order to guarantee safety and increase economic development in their region, said Bond. I look forward to continuing to work with both your local and state leaders, as well as my good friend Congressman Blunt to help build a stronger and safer Missouri.  Today, Im proud to join my friend and colleague, Senator Kit Bond, in marking the completion of these essential improvements to the Interstate 44-Highway 65 interchange that will not only improve our roadways, but also keep our community safe. And it should be no surprise giving the hard-working people of Springfield that this project was finished 7 months ahead of schedule, said Blunt. I would like to praise the work of everyone involved since it is our roadways that help keep Southwest Missouris economy moving.  The completion of work at I-44 and Highway 65 is the first in a series of major reconstruction projects on heavily travelled intersections in the Springfields metro area designed to catch up to the rapid population growth. In 2008, the Missouri Department of Transportation (MODOT) will begin work on the James River Freeway - Route 60/Glenstone interchange in southeast Springfield. The following year, work is scheduled to get underway on two flyover ramps at the Highways 65  60 cloverleaf, which is also experiencing a growing number of merge accidents. MODOT has also targeted the James River Freeway (Route 60) and Kansas Avenue for future road improvement as well.   MODOT provided $25 million for the road improvements, which was pushed forward two years when Missouri voters passed Amendment 3 that directed more money into highway improvements.  Senator Bond is the lead Republican on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation.   
