
KANSAS CITY, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today visited the Kansas City Chamber of Commerce to update local Missourians and area officials on the latest news in Washington. Bond talked to Chamber about a number of legislative issues including appropriations, the economy, the water resources bill, and local projects.   I will continue to push for lower taxes and responsible spending, said Bond. We need to help hard-working families keep more of their paychecks and ensure that businesses continue to grow.    As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond expressed frustration with the slow pace in Washington. Congress has only been able to get one spending bill signed into law in 11 months. Bond noted that Congress will be back in December to try and finish the remaining twelve bills.    Bond told the Kansas City Chamber that he has concerns with the long-term health of our economy because of mortgage defaults, high gas prices and spiraling health care costs. Bond stressed that he will continue to fight so families can keep more of their income through lower taxes and responsible spending. Currently, Congress is looking at a bill to extend tax relief, which includes an alternative minimum tax (AMT) fix, a research and development (RD) tax credit for businesses and a state-local option for sales tax deduction. While he supports lowering taxes, particularly the AMT which will hurt millions of middle class families, Bond added that Congress still must decide whether to raise other taxes to pay for it.  The long overdue Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) is finally law, which Bond said is good news for the Kansas City region. On a strong, bipartisan basis Congress was able to override the Presidents veto. For Missouri, WRDA means jobs, trade competitiveness, reliable and affordable energy, and safe drinking water. Bond pointed out that WRDA will also mean increased protection from floods, particularly in the Kansas City region where Bond was able to secure millions for flood protection, like at the Swope Park Industrial Area.   Bond praised Kansas City for being unique among large cities in its ability to get things done. In Kansas City, the local and community leaders understand the importance of working as a team  with local, state, and federal partners. Through their local and federal partnership there have been a number of successes, including the IRS Service Center, Whittaker Courthouse, Illus Davis mall, Truman Medical Center, 18th and Vine, the Negro Leagues Museum and the I-35 Trade Corridor.    It is an honor to represent you in the U.S. Senate, and to work with you on making this great city even better, said Bond. I look forward to continuing to work on a bipartisan basis with all of you and with Congressman Cleaver and Senator McCaskill on issues of importance to this city and this state.    ###  
