
COLUMBIA, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today celebrated the groundbreaking for the new International Institute for Nano and Molecular Medicine at the University of Missouri-Columbia.   “This is a new era of medicine - for the University, and for the world,” said Bond.  “The Institute for Nano and Molecular Medicine is another step in enhancing the world-renowned research taking place on this campus.”    	Bond joined University officials and scientists to celebrate today’s groundbreaking.  The new Nanomedicine Institute will use nanoparticles to attack human problems and diseases, like cancer.  Research in radiology, hematology, and cancer research will also be conducted in the 26,000 square foot building.    	Not so long ago, a cancer diagnosis was an almost-certain death sentence.  Bond pointed out that cancer is still the second-leading killer in America, claiming half a million lives each year.  Bond praised the doctors and scientists, like those at Mizzou, who are leading the way in new research into chemistry and nanotechnology applications for cancer detection and treatment.    	Bond applauded Mizzou for leading the way in cutting-edge research in many new technologies.  The Senator stressed that he had been honored over the years to be a part of the team helping to create the Life Sciences Center, the Life Sciences Business Incubator, the Dalton Cardiovascular Research Center and the National Plant and Genetics Security Center.     	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond’s role has been and will continue to be to advocate for federal funding for basic research institutions like the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes for Health.     	Bond has earmarked over $450 million for plant genomics. He has secured $31 million for the Life Sciences Center at the University of Missouri-Columbia and millions for facilities in Kansas City, St. Louis and the Bootheel, including the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, Missouri Botanical Garden and the University of Missouri Greenhouse.
