
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today visited St. Louis to see first-hand the work of a local company that is developing cutting-edge technology to protect better America’s men and women in uniform.   	“This system will allow our military to defend against mortars, missiles and even improvised explosive devices, the terrorists’ weapon of choice,” said Bond.  “These advanced systems will keep our warfighters on the cutting edge of technology and help them keep us safe from those who wish to do us harm.”    	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $2.6 million in federal funds for Nuvonyx Inc. in the fiscal year 2007 Department of Defense spending bill, which was signed into law in September.     	The funds will be used by Nuvonyx Inc. to develop advanced lasers to help provide warfighters with an all electric laser system that will be more compact, lightweight and efficient.   	Bond pointed out that the need for high power lasers in the battlefield for missile and mortar defense, the clearing of improvised explosive devices (IED) and mines has been recognized by our military as an urgent need.  The advanced laser technologies being developed at Nuvonyx are focused on developing laser devices specific to the needs of our men and women in uniform.   	Nuvonyx has developed unique laser technologies for commercial and military applications, but will continue to build on that knowledge base to develop the very high brightness source requested by the Air Force.   	Bond praised Nuvonyx for their contributions to Missouri.  He stressed that the company has not only continued to grow in size and technical capability, but has also put St. Louis on the map among the world’s laser development and production community.    	As a result of expanding industrial base and research and development programs, Novonyx has been expanding its facilities and workforce here in Bridgeton; creating 35 new high tech, high paying jobs since its founding in 1998.
