
  WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Kit Bond and U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08), noting the increased number of Southern Missouri acres planted in corn this year, announced that three Missouri ports will receive dredging by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.  Caruthersville Harbor ($366,000), New Madrid Harbor ($317,000), and Southeast Missouri Port ($85,000) will all receive funding to complete badly-needed dredging in ports threatened by low river levels.  We have to be able to get barges in and out of these key Southeast Missouri ports because the entire region depends on river transportation to move agricultural products up and down the river, Emerson said. This has been a major annual priority for me since I first came to Congress, but it needed special attention this year. This funding keeps our ports operational and markets available at critical moments during the harvest season.  U.S. Senator Kit Bond has been a key partner in annual efforts to secure the funding for the dredging. He and Emerson have also secured language in the Water Resources Development Act directing the Corps on Engineers to provide a reliable, consistent and predictable source of funds for dredging ports and harbors on the Mississippi River.  It never ceases to amaze me how the bean counters in Washington fail to understand where the beans they are counting originate from, stated U.S. Senator Kit Bond. Missouri inland ports are a vital component of our state's inter-modal transportation which our farmers depend upon to deliver commodities to the world marketplace. Funding for dredging is essential, especially with low water projections we are challenged with this year during prime harvest season.  In the House of Representatives, Emerson led a letter to General John P. Woodley of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers which was sent on June 26, 2007 (attached) after learning that funds had not been allocated for the dredging projects earlier this year.  In the House version of the Energy  Water Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008, Emerson has already secured $793,000 for future dredging projects through the appropriations earmark process.  Dredging is an annual concern in the appropriations process. Left to their own designs, these are projects that Washington bureaucrats seldom understand or identify as important. In my opinion, this is the perfect illustration of how an earmarked project comes back to help the taxpayers of the Eighth Congressional District. It is Congress' responsibility to correct these oversights, and I appreciate Senator Bond's active role in helping to earmark funds for dredging in next years' federal budget, Emerson said.  -30-  June 26, 2007  The Honorable John Paul Woodley Jr. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Government Accountability Office Building 441 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20314 Dear Assistant Secretary Woodley:  We are contacting you to request your assistance in ensuring several vital ports along the Mississippi River system receive the dredging they require to continue functioning throughout the upcoming harvest season.  As you may know, several ports along the Mississippi River system were not allocated funds in the Fiscal Year 2007 Work Plan for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). These ports serve as a vital component of the agricultural industry along the Mississippi River system and require assistance from the USACE for their dredging needs. The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates that 2007 will produce the largest corn crop in American history, and a significant portion of the 12.1 million new corn acres will come from the Mississippi Delta. Late freezes and extensive wheat damage will likely result in additional increases in corn production across the Mid South. As corn production is increasing in the Mississippi River Delta, most ethanol plants are located upriver, while exported corn will still require transportation downriver to Gulf area ports. In Missouri, corn acres have likely increased by 600,000 acres, in Kentucky by 190,000 acres, Mississippi by 600,000 acres and in Arkansas by 370,000 acres. Should these ports in the Mississippi River system experience periods of downgraded service, the impact would be devastating to our Districts. The Mississippi River Delta is a very productive agricultural region, with some of the richest farmland in the nation. Without access to the river ports, farmers will face a weakening basis, storage shortfalls, quality damage to crops and ultimately lost revenues.  Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. We look forward to working with you to find a solution to this pressing issue. Should you like additional information on this matter, I encourage you to contact Shelly Blake, at 202-225-4404, in Congresswoman Emerson's office. Kind regards,  JO ANN EMERSON BENNIE THOMPSON Member of Congress Member of Congress ED WHITFIELD MIKE ROSS Member of Congress Member of Congress RODNEY ALEXANDER Member of Congress   
