
LEE'S SUMMIT, MO - Senator Kit Bond today joined local leaders, community educators, parents and children to celebrate the grand opening of the Great Beginnings Early Education Center in Lee’s Summit.    	"With the grand opening of this new Center we celebrate a ‘great beginning’ for many more children and families in Lee’s Summit who will be touched by this Center,” said Bond.  “I am honored to have been a partner in this vital effort to help parents and families play a more meaningful role in helping their children develop a love of learning." As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $500,000 in federal funds to build the new Center in the fiscal year 2002 Labor-HHS-Education spending bill.  Bond visited the old facility in 2002 where he recognized the community’s commitment to children along with their need for a new facility.  The new Center will allow an increased number of children to be served and will offer state-of-the-art technology and equipment.        	Bond stressed that investing in early learning and literacy is critical to our nation's educational, economic, and social health.  Research demonstrates that the more that children know about language and literacy before they arrive at school the better equipped they are to succeed in reading, succeed in school and succeed in life.    	While serving as Missouri's governor, Bond discovered first-hand the importance of early childhood education, and particularly the Parents as Teachers (PAT) program, when his son Sam was born.  PAT has always recognized the importance of parent-child interaction, specifically for literacy development. After his positive experience with PAT Bond signed into law legislation which mandated PAT in every school district in the state of Missouri.     	Since the program was created over 2 million families nationwide have received the education and support they need through PAT. While this is a tremendous accomplishment, Bond stressed that there are more families that can and must be reached through the program.     	Earlier in the year Bond introduced the Education Begins at Home Act, which establishes for the first time a dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of Parents as Teachers at the state and local level. The $500 million in federal funds over 3 years included in Bond’s legislation will expand services to over 2.7 million families nationwide, allowing ten times more families to be served by PAT.
