
PLATTSBURG, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today addressed the Northwest Missouri Commissioners at their quarterly meeting in Plattsburg.  Bond provided the commissioners with a legislative update.       	“Central to our efforts on terror are intelligence improvements and reform.  During the next Congress, I will have the honor and the challenge of serving as the lead Republican on the Intelligence Committee.  Bipartisan cooperation will be the key to transforming and reforming our intelligence capabilities in the next few years, including boosting human intelligence and improving the sharing of intelligence among agencies.  I look forward to working with our new Chairman to strengthen the intelligence community,” said Bond.    	Bond opened his remarks to the Northwest Missouri Commissioners noting that the 110th Congress will convene in January with new leadership.  Bond has pledged to work with Senator McCaskill and all members of the Missouri delegation - regardless of party - on issues of importance to the state.     The Senate made progress this year on several important issues, particularly when it comes to the economy, said Bond.  This spring, Congress passed a tax bill that will spur economic growth and create more jobs.  Thanks to this important economic and tax package, millions of Americans now have lower income tax bills.  Congress needs to continue to enact policies that keep taxes low and regulations sane, so that businesses can create jobs, said Bond.    Bond then turned the discussion to the war in Iraq.  He pointed out that the Iraq Study Group report confirms what we have known for some time: that the situation in Iraq right now is a difficult one and we need to be flexible as we move forward. Iraq is a key element to the war on terror and the United States cannot afford to walk away.      During the next Congress, Bond will serve as the Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. He stressed that intelligence improvements and reform are key to the War on Terror.  When we get the intelligence right it not only serves to protect our citizens, it makes our men and women in uniform even more effective.  He expressed concern over the public exposure of interrogation methods and continuing leaks to the media of classified information.  In recent months intelligence efforts to track activities of suspected terrorists have been damaged – severely, according to intelligence officials - by leaks to the media.  To address this problem Bond introduced legislation to crack down on leaks by government employees or contractors by making it easier to prosecute and punish them.     Bond told the commissioners that while gas prices have fallen, Americans should not be lulled into a false sense of security.   The Middle East, a primary source of oil, remains unstable.  Bond praised Congress’ recent passage of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act, part of the comprehensive energy policy the nation needs.       In closing, Bond detailed that the new federal highway legislation he coauthored – which was signed into law last summer -- will provide more than $1 billion in new money for Missouri to help the state repair crumbling roads and bridges.   Bond delivered funds for critical transportation projects, including $27 million for four-laning Highway 36.
