
KANSAS CITY, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today visited the Salvation Army Northland Corps Community Center to highlight the work of the Salvation Army and their volunteers and to receive an update on the new Northland Community Center project. At todays event Bond was joined by Colonel Ted Dalberg, Captain Jeff Horn, staff and board members of the Salvation Army. Children today need a safe place to go. The Northland Community Center will be a safe place for children to play and a place for people to come together as neighbors, said Bond. This Center will be a safe place for mentoring, recreation, and learning. This center will be a location for emergency coordination, and a place where a neighbor in need can find hope and little bit of help.    Bond secured $500,000 for the new Community Center project in the fiscal year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill.   Once completed, this project will be a community asset for many years, Bond pointed out. The Senator stressed that raising a family is challenging under the best of circumstances. Today children face problems that were unheard of a few generations ago: drugs, violence, and family disintegration. The Northland Community Center will provide a safe place for children and the rest of the community.   Bond emphasized that the funding he secured for the Community Center is a down payment on progress and advancement in the area. Under the leadership of Col. Dalberg, and with the help of many volunteers, Bond said this project will become a reality.   Bond praised the Salvation Army for the tremendous good they do throughout the year. Bond, who has participated in several bell-ringing events during the holiday season, said he is always reminded of the generosity of this organization and of its volunteers.   Those of us with nice homes and good jobs often forget that not everyone is so blessed during this holiday season, said Bond. But the Salvation Army does not forget, and you minister to the homeless, the drug-addicted, the unemployed, and many others in need.  
