
JEFFERSON CITY, MO   U.S. Senator Kit Bond today addressed high school juniors and seniors at the State Rotary Student Government Day in Jefferson City.   “You are the school-board members, the mayors, the Governors and the Senators of  tomorrow.  But it is never too early to begin to lead.  You can lead right now, in high school – by working hard, serving others and being a good example to your fellow students and your younger brothers and sisters,” said Bond.     From advancements in technology and scientific discovery, Bond told the students that they are living during an exciting time in history.  The United States has been a leader in a number of fields, including aerospace and biotechnology.  Missouri is particularly poised to be a leader in the ever-changing world through the production and dissemination of its scientific know-how.     In addition to technological and scientific advancement, Bond told the students that the United States has also been the inspiration for democracies around the world.  He pointed to the spread of democracy to Iraq and Afghanistan and recent events in Lebanon and the sacrifices of American military men and women who are giving their very lives for this important cause.     Bond stressed to the high school juniors and seniors, most who will be eligible to vote in the next election, that public service starts with voting.  He encouraged the future voters to exercise their right, unlike so many of their peers.  According to the Council for Excellence in Government in a typical election, 18 - 25 years old are only half as likely to vote as older voters.     Lastly, Bond told the students about the accomplishments he is most proud of during his career in public service, such as programs like Parents as Teachers and helping workers find jobs.  Modernizing the highway and transportation system; supporting President Bush and the troops fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, like his son Sam, a 2nd Lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps; helping reform the nation’s intelligence agencies; and protecting Social Security are some of the important issues he is still working on as Missouri’s senior U.S. Senator.      “Think of something that is important to you and start there.  Look around your school, your neighborhood, your community, and get to work on a problem.  You will be helping your community and at the same time gaining valuable experience you’ll need in the future,” said Bond to the students.  “Remember, every problem gives you an opportunity to show your character, your intelligence and your perseverance in overcoming it.”
