
ROLLA, MO   U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined local officials and Briggs and Stratton employees to celebrate the groundbreaking on the Briggs and Stratton plant expansion project.     “Missouri workers are the best in the nation and today’s groundbreaking is another example of that.  Your dedication and work ethic has made today possible,” said Bond.    	In 2003 the spread of California's small engines regulations threatened Missouri jobs.  The spread of California's small engine redesign and manufacturing requirements to other states would have required the closure of two Missouri plants and their rebuilding and retooling at cheaper locations, most likely China.  In response to this threat Bond took legislative action to prevent California's regulations from taking effect beyond its borders.    	Bond's efforts saved 1,700 Briggs jobs, including over 830 jobs at the Rolla plant alone, and 5,100 manufacturing-related jobs across Missouri.  His measure also protects the environment by mandating the EPA to cut air pollution nationwide with a new stricter emissions standard for small engines. The new national standard will cut air pollution in all 50 states, not just California. The measure also protects consumers from increased risk of fire and burn that would have resulted if super-heated catalytic converters were applied to small engines under the California rule.     Since Bond saved the Briggs and Stratton jobs the Missouri company has continued to grow.  In the last two years 280 jobs were added and the company expects to build over 2.4 million engines this year.  Also, the new $10 million expansion project celebrated today will accommodate additional employees and allow even further increased plant production.      “These new jobs are critical to the quality of life and economic opportunity of Rolla – and they are a sign of hope to other small communities and our nation,” said Bond to the Briggs and Stratton employees.  “Your hard work and innovation seeks to make U.S. production more competitive. That should be the same goal of your public officials and minimizing government-imposed costs is a good place to start.”    	In addition to thanking the Missouri employees for their hard work, Bond stressed the need for Congress and the Administration to sign into law a comprehensive energy bill, a highway bill, and legislation to improve job training, curtail unnecessary regulation, litigation and taxation, and ensure that international trade agreements are enforced.
