
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $3 million in federal funds for Springfield’s public transportation needs in the Senate-passed Transportation-Treasury-HUD spending bill.      	“Meeting our nation’s transportation needs is key to economic growth, especially for a thriving city like Springfield.  These funds will help meet the needs of a growing workforce and provide for future development,” said Bond.  “As Missouri’s senior Senator, my job is to fight to send Missouri’s hard-earned tax dollars back home.  I will continue to work to make sure my state gets the funds it needs.”    	“The funding announced by Senator Bond today is key to improve public transit in Springfield, Missouri," said John Twitty, General Manager, City Utilities of Springfield.  "With this money, we will be able to update and relocate the community's bus transfer facility, while at the same time helping to continue the redevelopment momentum in the downtown area.  The bottom line:  Senator Bond's efforts on Springfield's behalf will result in benefits for many people in many ways."     As chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured the $3 million in federal funds in the fiscal year 2006 spending bill which passed the Senate last night.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version.    The funds will be used to build a new intermodal transfer facility for the city’s public transit system that will accommodate a passenger’s waiting area, as well as loading stations for buses entering and exiting the facility.  This new facility will provide greater access to services in Jordan Valley Park and improve access to the city bus routes to the downtown area of Springfield.      	Long committed to the city of Springfield and local residents who depend on public transportation, Bond has long supported the public transportation system, including $3 million he secured for City Utilities in fiscal year 2003.
