
WASHINGTON - U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) and U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent today announced that the plan to close the 185-employee Mid-Continent Mapping Center of the U.S. Geological Survey in Rolla has been put on hold by the U.S. Department of Interior.  According to Department officials, USGS has been asked to review the entire process of site selection, which originally resulted in the selection of Denver and slated the 185-employee Rolla facility for closure, despite the fact that internal documents clearly show Rolla scored higher than Denver in the site selection process.    "Obviously the concerns raised by the congressional delegation have merit.  I am glad the Department of Interior is willing to review this arbitrary decision, because I think a mistake has been made which needs to be corrected.  Rolla fully deserves a fair shake in this process, and I now feel they will get it," Emerson said. "The MCMC in Rolla has received glowing reviews, has a skilled and dedicated workforce and achieved the highest scores on the most important criteria in this consolidation process.  Our two goals remain: to keep Rolla open and to include Rolla in any privatization studies.  Today marks a little bit of progress in a long, long fight to achieve those goals.  But for now, we are going to have the thorough and fair review process that Rolla deserves."    "As we've made clear to the Department, this decision was made with virtually no justification," said U.S. Senator Jim Talent. "We made the case that they should delay the decision and they agreed. We are hopeful, now that we've shined a light on this issue, officials will do something a little unusual in Washington - actually examine the performance of a facility before deciding whether to move it. This is a highly-skilled, exceptionally talented workforce and they deserve better than this."    "Clearly the decision-making process to close the Rolla facility was flawed. The workers in Rolla and the entire community deserve answers and today's news is a good step.  I am pleased that the Administration has acted to review this faulty decision," said U.S. Senator Kit Bond.
