
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $19.3 million in federal funds for Kansas City’s bus and public transportation needs in the Senate-passed Transportation-Treasury-HUD spending bill.      		“For years we have worked to provide an efficient and accessible public transportation system in Kansas City.  The amount of money secured today will bring us significantly closer to making this vision a reality,” said Bond.  “As Missouri’s senior Senator, my job is to fight to send Missouri’s hard-earned tax dollars back home.  I will continue to work to make sure my state gets the funds it needs.”    	“This funding is another example of Senator Bond’s unwavering support for public transit in Kansas City.  Senator Bond is a true friend and ally of the KCATA and the people we serve,” said Mark Huffer, General Manager, Kansas City Area Transit Authority.      As chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured the $19.3 million in federal funds in the fiscal year 2006 spending bill, which passed the Senate last night.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version.     	The Kansas City Area Transportation Authority's (KCATA) will receive $12.3 million to fund the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) project, also known as the Metro Area Express, or "MAX” – which is to be unveiled this Sunday.  This project will link the north and south regions of Kansas City, connecting the City Market-Riverfront to Union Station/Crown Center locality, and to The Plaza region.  The system will use the current rights of way, will have signal priority at intersections and will run as frequent as light rail.        	KCATA will receive an additional $7 million in this year’s spending bill for bus maintenance, upgrades and the purchase of new vehicles.    	Long committed to Kansas City and local residents who depend on public transportation, today’s $19-plus million adds to the more than $30 million Bond has secured for Kansas City BRT planning and development and KCATA programs in previous fiscal years.
