
WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that the U.S. Department of Labor approved more than $1 million in national emergency assistance for former OSullivan Industries plant workers in Lamar, Missouri.   This funding comes at a crucial time for former OSullivan employees. OSullivan Industries helped many Missourians provide for their families and put food on the table, said Bond. These funds will provide former OSullivan employees with much needed relief and help them find new opportunities.    The U.S. Department of Labor will provide the Missouri Division of Workforce Development with up $1,098,450 grant for wrap-around services not funded under the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. Wrap-around services provide help to a distressed family or individual through a team process in order to help them become self-sufficient. These services include career counseling, skills assessment, employment planning, and job placement assistance.   Bond noted that the Department of Labor has certified all of the affected workers at the plant as eligible to apply for TAA Assistance. TAA is a federal cost-sharing program sponsored by the U.S. Department of Commerce that provides financial assistance to the manufacturing industry. TAA specifically provides assistance to manufacturers affected by competition overseas and pays for half the cost of industry consultants to improve a manufacturers competitiveness.   The $1,098,450 in federal funds will be released in increments starting with $499,304 to the Missouri Division of Workforce Development which is managed by the Southwest Workforce Investment Board in Joplin and the Workforce Development Board in Sedalia.   Jason Jones, Executive Director of the Workforce Board of Southwest Missouri said, This public-private partnership at local, regional, state, and national levels puts the steps in place for economic recovery. We are grateful for the Senators role to secure federal resources that enhance our local efforts.  OSullivan Industries, Lamars largest employer, was founded in 1954 and manufactured ready-to-assemble furniture. The areas covered by National Emergency Grant include Lamar in Barton County, Joplin in Newton County and all of Dade, Jasper, Lawrence, Barry and McDonald counties.    ### 
