
  KANSAS CITY, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined President Bush at the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) National Convention in Kansas City. Bond welcomed the VFW to Missouri and focused on the War in Iraq, veterans health care, unemployment and homelessness. While our enemies may change, one thing that will never change is Americas reliance on her servicemen and women. said Bond. On this day and everyday, I say a prayer of thanks that there are men and women like you who are willing to sacrifice all for your country.  During the address, Bond stressed that Iraq is the central front in the War on Terror. Bond was in Iraq in May and saw first-hand signs of progress. U.S. and Iraq forces are successfully fighting Al-Qaeda in Iraq, particularly in once-terrorist strongholds like Ramadi. Bond expressed disappointment that some in Congress are so vested politically in defeat they are unwilling to give General Petraeus counterinsurgency plan a chance to succeed, despite positive reports from the ground. While the new counterinsurgency strategy has shown progress, the surge has put a tremendous strain on U.S. troops and equipment, Bond pointed out. Life-saving equipment, like humvees and Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles (MRAPS) are needed to protect our troops from Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). Unfortunately, critical equipment is not getting to our troops in the field quickly enough. Bond joined Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) to urge Secretary of Defense Bob Gates to resolve these unconscionable bureaucratic delays.  Congress must also ensure those veteran troops returning home receive the best care and treatment. There are clearly problems with the VA health care system, as identified by the Washington Post last spring at Walter Reed. Bond said those findings mirror conditions his staff found in other military installations going back to investigation his office made in 2001.  The military mental health system is also under-funded, understaffed, and difficult to navigate. Bond has joined several other Senators to help troops suffering from invisible but debilitating injuries, like Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) or Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). Bond was an original cosponsor of the Senate-passed Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, which will improve the way we diagnose, treat and rehabilitate soldiers who return from combat with these injuries. Bond told the VFW that he is also working to end the Pentagons abuse of Personality Disorder Discharges for troops who may be suffering from PTSD, which often results in the loss of benefits.  Bond pointed out that veterans have an unemployment rate that is much higher than the national average. Among young veterans, many of whom have served in Iraq and Afghanistan, the unemployment rate is three times the national average. Bond has joined Senator John Kerry (D-MA) in introducing the Hire a Hero Act which will, through the National Guard Bureau, award $25 million a year in funding to non-profit organizations that assist veterans in finding jobs.  As the leading Republican of the Senate Appropriations Committee that funds housing programs, Bond told VFW members that he is in a good position to help prevent veterans from becoming homeless. Bond noted that according to a recent Housing and Urban Development (HUD) report, homeless veterans make up some 18.7 percent of all homeless adults who have used a shelter or some form of transitional housing. Bond recently joined Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) in supporting funding for the Veterans Affairs Supported Housing program. The program provides enough Section 8 vouchers to house 7.500 homeless vets. Bond said this program is only the first step in helping those veterans who have defended our nation in combat.  ###   
