
  WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond, the Vice-Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, praised the release of the Inspector Generals report on CIA accountability and 9-11. Bond said that the report confirms that there were serious systemic failures in the CIA leading up to the September 11th terrorist attacks.  Good intelligence is our best defense in protecting Americans from terrorist attacks and it is important we learn from past mistakes and get it right. The release of todays report is an important step, said Bond.  Today, the Administration released the Executive Summary of the CIA Inspector Generals Report on 9-11. Completed in 2005, the CIA report was the only major 9-11 government review that had not been made public. Over the last year, Senators Bond and Ron Wyden (D-OR) have pressured the Administration to release the report.  Bond emphasized that Americans have a right to know how all our intelligence agencies, including the CIA, performed leading up to the September 11th attacks. The release of this report is particularly important to families of victims, who deserve a full accounting.  Generally, I agree that we should be looking forward, not backward, in addressing the threats to our country, said Bond. However, it is important for the American people, especially those who lost loved ones in the September 11 attacks, to see accountability within our government. Thats why I joined with Senator Wyden, and previous Intelligence Committee leadership, in demanding that the report be released.  The report demonstrates that drastic cuts in funding to intelligence agencies during the 1990s made it difficult for the CIA to do its job, but failures in leadership and in sharing critical information with the FBI compounded the problem, stressed Bond. While then-CIA Director George Tenet stated in 1998 that we are at war, the CIA did not focus its efforts on al Qaeda. This lack of focus left our Intelligence Community deaf and blind to the threats facing our nation, said Bond.  Bond criticized those who are trying to twist todays report for political means by charging the Bush administration with these failures.  This is an unwarranted cheap shot. The problems in the CIA were deep-rooted and pre-dated this Administration. The previous Administration as well as the Congress should share in the blame for slashing intelligence funding and depriving the Intelligence Community of much needed human intelligence resources, said Bond.  ###  
