
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent today announced they have secured millions in federal funds for high-priority agriculture projects at the University of Missouri.   	"Agricultural science is leading the way in advancing human health and environmental protection.  These funds will help Missouri stay at the cutting edge and are a critical investment for our rural communities," said Bond, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.    	“Sen. Bond and I are pleased to announce this funding for the University of Missouri-Columbia,” said Sen. Jim Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. “Funding for these critical research projects at the University will improve the health and viability of our agriculture industry.  Getting this funding approved in committee was an essential first step, and we will continue pushing for it when the bill comes to the floor of the Senate.”   	Projects that Senators Bond and Talent won funding for include:   *Food and Agriculture Policy Research Institute at MU- $1,596,000 – to provide analysis of agricultural policy.   *	Rural Policies Research Institute at MU - $1,193,000 – to conduct quantitative, objective analysis of agricultural policy alternatives.   *	Illinois-Missouri Alliance for Biotechnology at MU- $1,158,000 – funding for plant biotech research and design.   *	Beef Technology Transfer study at the University of Missouri-Columbia - $256,000 – to initiate research to assist beef producers   *	Center for Agro-forestry at the University of Missouri – continuation of funding to research farming and ecosystems.   *	Rice Agronomy at the University of Missouri-Columbia- $248,000 - to conduct studies that examine different planting techniques to maximize rice yields.   	The funding was secured in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies spending bill. The spending bill passed the Senate Appropriations Committee today.  Before being signed into law the bill must be passed by the full U.S. Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill.   						# # #
