
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $7 million in federal funds in the Senate Health-Education-Labor spending bill for Missouri.  “One of my top priorities as Missouri’s senior Senator is to send federal dollars back to Missouri to fund local priorities,” said Bond.  “I am proud of my role in funding projects that will strengthen our communities through greater access to job training, education and health care.” Bond secured the $7 in federal funds in the fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee this week.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version. 	Bond secured funds for the following projects: •	$600,000 for the City of Springfield to fund program development and expansion as well as equipment and technology for the Ready to Learn Program, which will improve school readiness. •	$750,000 for the United Inner City Services in Kansas City to enhance and expand early learning programs.   •	$1,000,000 for St. Louis Children’s Hospital for construction and renovation costs for the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit Expansion. •	$1,000,000 for Missouri State University in Springfield to expand as well as purchase equipment and technology for the Distance Learning Project on the West Plains Campus. •	$250,000 for the YMCA of Greater St. Louis to expand after school programming at the Monsanto Family YMCA.     •	$1,000,000 to Boone County Senior Citizen Service Corporation in Columbia for equipment and technology for the Alzheimer’s Disease Demonstration Center on the Bluff’s campus. •	$300,000 for the Rainbow Center for Communicative Disorders in Blue Springs to expand programs available to individuals with severe disabilities to meet the increased demand from the community. •	$300,000 for UrbanFUTURE in St. Louis to expand literacy, mentoring and after school programs. •	$100,000 for St. Louis SCORES to expand after school programs. •	$500,000 for Boys and Girls Town of Missouri in St. James to expand services to children suffering from abuse and neglect. •	$775,000 for Crowder College in Neosho to expand capacity in targeted technical education programs vital to the region’s workforce development.   •	$200,000 for Crisis Nursery of the Ozarks in Springfield for programming, equipment services and to provide emergency respite child care services to prevent child abuse and neglect. •	$225,000 for Parents as Teachers National Center in St. Louis to support school readiness in the Gateway Parents as Teachers program in the City of St. Louis.   						###
