
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured more than $400,000 in federal funds in the Senate Interior spending bill for educational outreach programs at the George Washington Carver Discovery Center.  “Education is key to our children's future success,” said Bond.  “These dollars will fund critical programs that will assist students, parents, and the entire community to work together to achieve academic excellence.” With the $400,000 in federal funds Bond secured, the Discovery Center will operate a math and science center helping to train more than 8,000 teachers and educate 200,000 students in addition to serving thousands of visitors annually.  The Discovery Center will also partner with inner-city schools and institutions to provide educational outreach to poor urban and rural schools.   	Bond stressed the success of the programs at the Discovery Center, where the Carver Math and Science project has improved the math and science skills of more than 55,000 students at 47 school districts, many of which are in rural poverty-stricken counties. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $428,000 in federal funds for the Discovery Center’s outreach program in the fiscal year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  In previous fiscal years, Bond has worked with Congressman Blunt to secure more than $5.4 million for the construction of the new George Washington Carver Discovery Center. “In the 21st Century, it is imperative the National Park Service, specifically George Washington Carver National Monument, work with local communities and schools to provide programs and services to strengthen those communities and schools,” said Reggie Tiller, superintendent of the Carver Park.  “Moreover, these funds will provide continued National Park Service support of educational programs that will benefit the children of Missouri as well as children throughout the United States.”   Dr. George Washington Carver was a Missourian and African American inventor, educator and agricultural innovator who revolutionized the agricultural sciences, while defeating the oppression of racism and slavery.   Dr. Carver’s legacy as an innovator in agricultural science is commemorated in Missouri through the George Washington Carver Monument and Discovery Center.  The monument and center are located near his birthplace in Diamond Grove, Missouri which is now an historic park.  The Discovery Center specifically serves as an educational facility to spur interest in nutrition, soil science and other aspects of agriculture for Missouri’s youth.						###
