
Bond Announces $1.6 Million in Funds to Improve & Expand the City of Linn Wastewater Treatment Facility WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $1.6 million in federal funds in the Senate Interior spending bill to improve the current wastewater treatment facility and expand municipal sewer collection to businesses, schools and residents on the east side of Linn City.  “While cleaning our wastewater is a dirty business, it is critical to increased expansion, growth and jobs for the community,” said Bond.  “These funds will help Linn provide much needed improvements and expansion of their current system.” 	The $1.6 million Bond secured for the Linn City wastewater treatment facility and expansion project will fund the installation of a new sewer collection system which includes the addition of 37,000 linear feet (LF) of sewer pipeline, and improvements to the wastewater treatment plant to increase the capacity of the system from 165,000 gallons per day to 490,000 gallons per day.  The new system will provide much needed wastewater services to Linn State Technical College and Airport, Autumn Meadows Residential Care, Linn R-2 schools, Osage Industries and an Elsevier publishing distribution center.  Bond stressed that the project is crucial to the city’s continued economic growth and development.  He pointed out that the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MoDNR) has already issued citations for several on-site septic tanks of major employers in the area seeking to expand.  Fortunately, MoDNR has granted a reprieve for these employers pending the expansion of the municipal wastewater system.    “The city of Linn desperately needs a new wastewater treatment facility and, with this piece of funding, will be able to the serve the city as well as Linn State Technical College and several key businesses to the east,” said Richard Cavender, Executive Director of the Mermamec Regional Planning Commission.  “With the help of Senator Bond, the city will be able to better serve residents, protect the environment and open the door for economic development.”  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $1.6 million in federal funds in the fiscal year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version. ###
