
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $500,000 in federal funds in the Senate Interior spending bill to restore the Missouri Theatre in Columbia, Missouri.  “These dollars will transform the Columbia Theatre into the performing arts center of the community as well as create a significant tourist attraction for creative people and friends of the arts,” said Bond. The $500,000 Bond secured will be used to restore the Columbia Theatre, including returning the auditorium to its original 1928 historic design, restoring the original exterior façade, upgrading its technical equipment with state-of-the-art technology and the addition of a second floor.  Other upgrades include an expansion of the foyer and lobby area, retail space renovation and expanded restrooms and administrative offices.      Once completed, the theatre will serve as an architectural and artistic centerpiece for the City of Columbia.  The theatre is to be used for more than 250 days and nights for visual art exhibits, performances by local and national performance groups and educational programming throughout the year, drawing businesses and visitors from across the state.  The theatre will provide a home for the Columbia Art League (CAL), Missouri Symphony Society (MOSS) and other local not-for-profit arts organizations such as the Columbia Civic Orchestra, P.A.C.E. Children’s Theatre, the Missouri Theatre Film Series, Columbia Community Band and the Columbia Chorale. “The restoration of the 80-year-old Missouri Theatre into mid-Missouri’s Center for the Arts will serve as an artistic catalyst and economic engine for our great city for generations to come,” said David A. White, Executive Director of the Missouri Center for the Arts. “We are deeply grateful that Senator Bond has ‘a heart for the arts’ and acknowledges the value and influence the arts provide for the future of a healthy and vibrant nation.” Bond secured the $500,000 in federal funds for the Columbia Theatre project in the fiscal year 2008 Interior Appropriations bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee.  Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version. ###
