
ST. LOUIS, MO   U.S. Senator Kit Bond today stressed the importance of early childhood education at the Parents as Teachers (PAT) 14th Annual Born to Learn Conference.  Earlier this month Bond introduced the Education Begins at Home Act to expand the PAT early education program nationwide.   "Parents as Teachers is a critical program for children and families in your state,” Senator Kit Bond said to the Conference attendees.  “With your help, we can build momentum for this bill in Washington and secure more federal support to increase access to the Parents as Teachers programs nationwide.”    While serving as Missouri's governor, Bond discovered first-hand the importance of Parents as Teachers (PAT) when his son Sam was born.  After his positive experience with the program, Bond signed into law legislation which mandated PAT in every school district in the state of Missouri.      Since the program was created over 2 million families nationwide have received the education and support they need through PAT.  While this is a tremendous accomplishment, Bond stressed that there are more families that can and must be reached through the program.   Bond’s Education Begins at Home Act for the first time establishes a dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of Parents as Teachers at the state and local level.  The bill authorizes $500 million in federal funds over 3 years, expanding services to over 2.7 million families nationwide, allowing ten times more families to be served by PAT.    The Education Begins at Home Act will:  •	Provide $400 million over 3 years to states to expand access to PAT;   •	Encourage and foster more collaboration between PAT and Early Head Start Grantees;  •	Provide $50 million over 3 years to fund innovative ideas and partnerships at the local level to expand access to PAT in communities with limited English proficiency; and   •	Provide $50 million over 3 years to reach more military families by expanding access to  PAT in schools and community organization that serve military families.
