
WASHINGTON, D.C.  U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Claire McCaskill today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), following an appeal by the Senators, has approved the release of $2.5 million dollars in federal funds to help with the heating and cooling costs for Missouri low-income households. Missouri will receive the funds through the HHS Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP).  These funds come at a critical time as temperatures have started to drop and winter approaches, said Bond. This funding is important for Missouri families who will be struggling to pay their heating bills. Im proud to help secure these funds that will keep these families safe.  Sadly, many Missourians are forced to choose between heating their homes and feeding their families or taking vital prescriptions. As the colder months draw near and energy costs remain high, Im glad to be able to help bring these funds back to our state so that more Missourians can stay safe and warm this winter, McCaskill said.  Recognizing the importance of this program for Missouris low income families, Bond and McCaskill requested the release to the states of these unspent federal funds before the end of the fiscal year in a letter to the White House Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Without action, these funds would have gone back to the U.S. Department of Treasury for use elsewhere. In the letter, Bond and McCaskill stressed that while not among states in the Northeast viewed as traditional LIHEAP recipients, Missourians still depend upon this program. Last year, 125,000 needy Missouri residents receiving LIHEAP were able to avoid choosing between paying heating and cooling bills or food and medication, said Bond and McCaskill.  LIHEAP is a federally funded program that operates in each state to help low-income households with their home energy bills. The energy assistance provided by LIHEAP is important to elderly, disabled, and young children who are at risk for life threatening illnesses or death under extreme temperatures. The funds are also administered to prevent families from resorting to unsafe methods to keep their homes warm or cool. The $2.5 million in federal funds announced today brings Missouris total LIHEAP funding in 2007 to $52.6 million.   Senators Bond and McCaskill encourage Missouri families that need energy assistance to visit http://www.dss.mo.gov/fsd/liheap.htm or contact the Missouri Family Support Division at (573) 751-3221 for more information about Missouris LIHEAP program. # # # 
