
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured more than $23 million in federal funds for high priority agriculture projects in Missouri.    	"These funds will help Missouri stay at the cutting edge of agricultural science and are a critical investment in our rural communities," said Bond.     	The federal dollars Bond secured include $7.5 million for the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) which will be used to construct a National Plant Genetics and Security Center.  The facility will be architecturally and programmatically integrated into the existing Life Sciences Center on the University of Missouri-Columbia Campus.  In previous fiscal years Bond secured $7.4 million for the ARS, which focuses on biological control of insects, cropping systems and water quality, and plant genetics.    	"We are thrilled to learn of the Senate Agricultural Appropriations Subcommittee's support for the construction of an Agricultural Research Service (ARS) wing to be attached to MU's Life Sciences Center," said MU Chancellor Brady Deaton. "We are very appreciative of Senator Bond's efforts on behalf of this project. His leadership has ensured that the United States is at the forefront of plant biotechnology research. MU and ARS have a strong history of research collaboration that has led to MU being a national leader in plant biotechnology research while increasing the productivity of U.S. and Missouri farmers."    	Bond was also able to include language in the bill for the North Central Missouri Regional Water Commission project.  Bond’s language urges the U.S. Department of Agriculture to complete design and initiate construction of the water project.  This important project will help provide a permanent solution to the chronic shortage of potable water in the 10 county region of North Central, Missouri.     	Highlights of the additional projects Senator Bond, working with Senator Jim Talent, secured include:     *	National Center for Soybean Technology - $987,000   *	Vitus Gene Discovery - $603,000   *	Agroforestry - $2,975,000   *	Beef Technology Transfer at the University of Missouri-Columbia - $259,000   *	Crop Diversification - $375,000   *	Food and Agriculture Policy Research Institute - $2,297,000*  	Illinois-Missouri Alliance for Biotechnology - $1,170,000   *	Soybean Cyst Nematode - $737,000   *	Rural Policies Research Institute - $1,205,000   *	Watershed Projects - $5,200,000 - for the agency to complete the next phase of Big Creek-Hurricane Creek, West Fork of Big Creek, Upper Locust Creek, Grassy Creek, East Locust Creek, Moniteau Creek, Troublesome Creek, East Yellow Creek, Little Otter Creek, East Fork Grand River, Hickory Creek, and McKenzie Creek projects in the State of Missouri.    	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $23-plus million for the agriculture projects in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies spending bill. The spending bill passed the full Senate today.  Before being signed into law the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill.
