
	ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today addressed members of the Missouri National Guard at their 60th annual conference.  Bond, Co-Chair of the National Guard Caucus, is a long-time advocate for the Guard.   	“America’s need for the National Guard is greater now than ever before.  We should not be looking to reduce the Guard, but rather fully man and fully equip it,” said Bond.    	Bond emphasized that he is proud to have partnered with the Missouri National Guard since 1973 when he became Governor.  He praised the Guard for always answering the call to duty.  In 1993, the Guard helped Missourians who faced the worst flooding in 500 years.  In 2005, Missouri Guard went to the Gulf region after Hurricane Katrina, providing emergency medical, transportation, airlift, military police, engineering, and communications’ response.  He singled out the 139th Airlift Wing’s heroic actions during Katrina, when they evacuated critically ill young patients from Children’s Hospital in New Orleans and brought them to Kansas City for care.     	Since 9-11 more than 200,000 Guard troops have left their homes, their jobs and their families to participate in another critical mission -- the Global War on Terror -- Bond pointed out.  The National Guard has provided as much as half of the combat force and 40 percent of the Total Force in Iraq.   Right now, there are more than 500 of Missouri Guardsmen and women deployed.     	The Guard has moved from being a strategic reserve force to an operational force since the War on Terror began.  Bond ensured the Guard that he is committed to supporting them as they carry out their dual mission of providing military support abroad and civil and homeland defense here at home.  Unfortunately, the Pentagon has repeatedly proposed to cut Guard personnel and equipment budgets.  Currently the Guard is at dangerously low levels with only 33 percent of the equipment it needs to fulfill its mission.  To correct this deficiency, Senators Bond and Guard Caucus Co-Chair Patrick Leahy (D-VT) led an effort in the Senate last year to increase equipment funding for the Guard by almost $1 billion.  They are continuing the fight again this year and were able to add $2.4 billion for the Guard to the emergency supplemental appropriations bill.     	Bond stressed the need to empower the Guard much more robustly.  Senators Bond and Leahy have re-introduced legislation to strengthen the Guard allowing the National Guard Bureau to establish more direct relations with the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff; giving the Guard more muscle in the existing relationships, elevating the Chief of the National Guard to a four-star position and providing a seat for him on the Joint Chiefs of Staff; to ensure that the Deputy Commander of U.S. Northern Command is a member of the Guard; and giving the Guard Bureau budgetary power to procure equipment to improve preparedness to respond to emergencies at home.     	Bond also emphasized the need for Congress to approve emergency funding for our troops in Iraq.  He criticized Congressional Democrats for micro-managing the war; setting an arbitrary time limit and sending mixed messages to our enemies. 						  	###
