
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond and Rep. Roy Blunt (MO-7) today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has approved more than $21 million in funding for damages to City Utilities distribution system due to the ice storm that swept across Missouri on January 12th, 2007.  Many fell victim to the January storm that swept across our state. The storm was a tremendous hindrance to residents and businesses across the City, many of whom were without power for more than a week. These federal dollars will hopefully help to get City Utilities and its infrastructure back to where it was before the storm, said Bond.  Congressman Blunt said, Last Januarys ice storm was the worst, most destructive natural disaster to hit Southwest Missouri in at least a generation, and probably a lot longer than that. Thankfully, federal authorities are in the process right now of working with our public utility sector to cover the loss of infrastructure and equipment so that Missouri rate payers wont be stuck with the bill.  As a result of the storm, ice accumulated on conductors, overhead ground wires, and other electrical facilities causing power outages for 75,000 of City Utilities 105,000 customers. Broken trees and tree limbs also caused power outages throughout the City. FEMA will provide Missouri with $21,285,379 to repair a number of broken poles, damaged transformers, broken cross arms, damaged street poles, blown fuses, and other critical infrastructure needs affected by the storm.  Recognizing the severity of the storm, Bond, Blunt and other members of the Congressional delegation requested expedited approval of Governor Blunts request for disaster assistance in a letter to the President on January 15th, 2007, immediately following the storm.  With the help of Senator Kit Bond, Representative Roy Blunt and our entire Congressional delegation from southwest Missouri, this federal assistance will be invaluable in helping pay for the costs we incurred rebuilding Springfield's electric system following January's ice storm, said John Twitty, General Manager and CEO, City Utilities of Springfield. The unprecedented devastation impacted City Utilities and its customers like no other event in our history, but the cooperation among our customers, the utility, and our elected officials helped us weather the storm.  The FEMA funds will go directly to the State of Missouri. The State will then administer the funds to City Utilities following a review process and receipt of appropriate documentation.  # # #  
