
JEFFERSON CITY, MO   As part of a statewide tour focusing on early childhood education, U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he will reintroduce his legislation to expand the successful Parents as Teachers program."Being a parent is hard work and babies do not come with directions.  We must help parents and give them the education and support they need to promote their young children’s healthy development and prepare them for success in school and life," said Senator Bond.     This week, Bond is holding events throughout the state to mark the 21st anniversary of Parents as Teachers and detail legislation he has written, the Education Begins at Home Act, which will expand the program nationwide.    While serving as Missouri's governor, Bond discovered first-hand the importance of Parents as Teachers (PAT) when his son Sam was born.  After his positive experience with the program, Bond signed into law legislation which mandated PAT in every school district in the state of Missouri.      Since the program was created over 2 million families nationwide have received the education and support they need through PAT.  While this is a tremendous accomplishment, Bond stressed that there are more families that can and must be reached through the program.    Bond’s Education Begins at Home Act establishes for the first time a dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of Parents as Teachers at the state and local level.  The $500 million in federal funds over 3 years included in Bond’s legislation will expand services to over 2.7 million families nationwide, allowing ten times more families to be served by PAT.   The Education Begins at Home Act will:  *	Provide $400 million over 3 years to states to expand access to PAT;   *	Encourage and foster more collaboration between PAT and Early Head Start Grantees;  *	Provide $50 million over 3 years to fund innovative ideas and partnerships at the local level to expand access to PAT in communities with limited English proficiency; and    *	Provide $50 million over 3 years to reach more military families by expanding access to  PAT in schools and community organization that serve military families.  
