
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today issued the following statement regarding President Bush's State of the Union address:     	“As President Bush has said, America faces many challenges. We face the challenge of keeping the economy growing, increasing access to health care, fostering energy independence, addressing immigration and protecting the safety of our citizens.   	“Tonight, the President has outlined many proposals that Congress must take a long, hard look at. It is my hope that over the next year Congress can work with the President to tackle these problems. On the issue of reducing our dependence on foreign oil by expanding the use of renewable fuels, the President is right on track. The key will be working together toward real solutions, in a bipartisan manner, keeping politics out of the debate.     	“There is no doubt the most serious challenge we face is providing for our own national security. I agree with President Bush that America’s war on terror must remain forward-thinking and fully-engaged across the globe. We must be prepared and willing to confront and defeat America’s enemies wherever they may be. That is the only way America will remain secure. A stable Iraq is critical to America’s security.     	“I support our new strategy in Iraq which gives the Iraqi government the ability to take the gloves off, go after the Shia death squads and take ownership of clearing and holding Baghdad. I also believe Iraq’s neighbors, those who want a stable Iraq, should step up to the plate.     	“If Iraq descends into chaos we risk wider regional conflict and the prospect of handing over to America’s terrorist enemies a safe haven which they will use as a base to plan and launch attacks against our homeland. That is a risk we simply cannot afford.      	“Americans owe a debt of gratitude to all of our men and women in uniform tonight and those who are working to keep America safe in a dangerous world. Whether it is the soldier on patrol in Baghdad or America’s dedicated intelligence professionals, the state of our union is strong tonight because of their efforts.”
