
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond, Vice-Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, today said the most pressing reform issue facing America’s intelligence community is the need for better human intelligence.    	“First and foremost is the need for improved human intelligence,” said Bond at hearing focused on intelligence reform. “This does not necessarily mean more human intelligence, it means better human intelligence.”   	Bond cited the committee’s Iraq WMD report as well as the WMD Commission report as evidence of the poor role HUMINT played in the Iraq intelligence failure.    	“These failures included lack of collection, over-reliance on liaison sources, lack of tradecraft standards and lack of information sharing,” said Bond. “We must improve our HUMINT by bringing in more personnel who are able to fit in and speak the language of our target countries, by improving cover mechanisms and by better utilizing commercial operations.”   Bond also focused on the need to boost information-sharing and improve analysis.    	“The sharing of source information has improved marginally, and largely only to those analysts who work for the CIA,” said Bond. “This must change. The intelligence community’s best judgments will only come from analysts who have access to all the information they need.”    	Bond stressed the need for better analytical tradecraft combined with the willingness to rigorously challenge assumptions, adding that management must question analytic products and briefings, but at the same time fully support analysts who “speak truth to power”.    	Strengthening financial management within the intelligence community is also long-overdue said Bond, noting that Congress passed the Chief Financial Officers Act in 1990, which set the goal of all departments and agencies having auditable financial statements.    	“It is 2007 and none of the intelligence agencies can give us an unqualified financial statement,” said Bond. “In other words, they really cannot tell us where the money goes after we give it to them. We owe it to the taxpayers to fix this.”
