
WASHINGTON, DC – Highlighting the need for a common-sense approach to fuel efficiency, Senator Kit Bond’s amendment to the Energy Bill aimed at protecting jobs and safety today was overwhelmingly passed by the Senate by a vote of 64 - 31.      Bond said the livelihood of autoworkers and highway safety should not be put at risk because some in Congress want to arbitrarily increase fuel standards.     	“Higher fuel economy standards based solely upon groundless emotion and political rhetoric instead of sound science could strike a major blow to the economy of the automobile industry and to our nation,” said Bond. “American jobs, highway safety and consumer choice will all be at risk.”    	Bond argued that proposed fuel efficiency amendments, if enacted, will in effect eliminate minivans, sport utility vehicles and light trucks in this country, and the jobs of the workers that assemble them. In addition, Bond said the proposed arbitrary fuel efficiency standards would have to be met by decreasing vehicle weight. Statistics show that decreasing vehicle weight directly affects the fatality rates on roads and bridges.    	In an effort to protect the environment while preserving safety and jobs, Bond teamed with Senator Carl Levin (D-Michigan), to craft a more sensible package that is scientifically-based rather than politically-influenced.     	The Bond-Levin amendment directs the experts at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to consider key elements such as technological feasibility, cost, safety, emissions controls, consumer choice and the effect on American jobs of any proposed changes in fuel standards.      	Bond’s amendment is supported by the United Auto Workers of America. In a letter to Bond, union officials call attempts to increase fuel standards “excessive”, threatening “thousands of jobs for UAW members and other workers.”    	Bond argued that advanced-technology vehicles, including hybrid-electric and fuel cell vehicles "offer the promise of significant increases in fuel efficiency without sacrificing jobs or consumer demands for safety, performance, comfort and utility."
