
KANSAS CITY, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today honored those involved in the evacuation of hospitalized children from the Hurricane Katrina disaster zone to Children’s Mercy in Kansas City.      	“Our community answered the call, coming together and offering a bed, a meal, a little money or in some cases just hope.  Today, I am here to honor the ‘Show Me’ spirit of Children’s Mercy, your transport team, and the 139th Airlift Wing who with bravery and honor answered the call to serve others in a time of tremendous need,” said Bond.     	Following Hurricane Katrina, faced with no electricity, shortage of supplies and a growing concern for security, Children’s Hospital in New Orleans was forced to evacuate their young patients.  Recognizing the need, Children’s Mercy in Kansas City volunteered to take in 24 children from the New Orleans hospital.    With the help of the Missouri National Guard, two C-130 military transport planes with the 139th Airlift Wing in St. Joseph, transported the patients and family members from New Orleans.  Children's Mercy also sent a smaller, fixed-wing aircraft capable of transporting two patients at a time. That plane and the Children's Mercy crew were used to transport a critically ill child to another children's hospital. Children's Mercy and MAST ambulances helped transport the children from the airport to Children's Mercy and Children's Mercy South.       About 30 parents and other family members were able to travel with the patients from New Orleans to Kansas City.  In addition, Children’s Mercy arranged for lodging, food and transportation to be provided for the families during their time in Kansas City.    Bond, who facilitated the children’s transfer, was joined at today’s event by Children’s Mercy CEO Rand O’Donnell, members of their Transport Team, members of the 139th Airlift Wing based in St. Joseph, Missouri, as well as the children and families transported from New Orleans.      	In Washington, Bond is fighting for the National Guard so important missions, like the mission to rescue some of the hurricane’s littlest victims, continue to be possible.  Earlier this month, as co-chairs of the Senate National Guard Caucus, Bond and Senator Patrick Leahy, asked the Bush administration to provide $1.3 billion for Guard equipment.  Bond stressed that it is critical for the government to provide the resources and equipment these citizen-soldiers need to do their job.
