
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond, Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, met with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice today on public diplomacy efforts in Iraq, Afghanistan and Southeast Asia.      “In the War on Terror we must win hearts and minds through concentrated public diplomacy efforts that will help build a solid economic infrastructure and bring stability to the region” said Bond to Rice. “The agriculture extension program will implement widespread training activities in Afghanistan at a comprehensive level not currently being achieved by large contractors and NGO’s that lack the necessary expertise.”    During the meeting, Bond urged Secretary Rice to step up public diplomacy efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). Senator Bond asked the Secretary to continue to embrace initiatives such the agricultural extension system and Financial Services Volunteer Corps (FSVC).    	Bond recently requested that $20 million be made available from USAID’s budget in the fiscal year 2008 Foreign Operations bill for the establishment of a U.S. land-grant college consortium to be administered by Texas A University.  The consortium will partner many land-grant universities such as the University of Missouri Columbia with Afghanistan officials.  The university partners will provide training and technical assistance to Afghan professionals that will lead to rural development.   About a month ago, Bond met with Ambassador Said T. Jawad of Afghanistan who indicated that Afghanistan now needs the land-grant consortium services even more because of the large number of refugees returning home.  Returning refugees need jobs and training.  Ultimately, working refugees will help account for a stabilized economy. Senator Bond also urged Secretary Rice to continue funding the FSVC as an effective initiative of USAID.  The FSVC currently consists of volunteers and experts that help build sound financial systems and banks in developing countries.      	Bond also stressed the need for the U.S. to stay fully engaged economically and diplomatically in Southeast Asia.  U.S. involvement in this region is critical as part of a broad American strategy to counter potential Muslim extremist ideological threats against the U.S. in Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand.
