
ST. LOUIS, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today visited the Lambert Airport Rotary Club to update local Missourians and area officials on the latest news in Washington. Bond talked to local residents and officials about a number of legislative issues including his terrorist surveillance bill, the war in Iraq, infrastructure needs, and the economy. In a time of heightened threats we need to give our law enforcement the right tools to combat terrorism. said Bond. The new terror surveillance law is critical to our national security and will help keep our country safe.  Before Congress left for the August work period, legislation to modernize terrorist surveillance law, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), was signed into law. As the Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Bond was the lead sponsor of the bill. Bond stressed that this new law is essential to the safety of our nation. Bond pointed out that todays terrorists take full advantage of technology to stay one step ahead of law enforcement and intelligence services. Before Bonds modernization bill, the old law predated many of the technologies we all take for granted. The FISA fix made the law fit todays technology needs and closed a critical intelligence gap handicapping our intelligence agencies.  Bond criticized some in the media for spreading false information about the new FISA law. Bond explained that despite news reports, the new law does not give the intelligence community the right to search any U.S. facility or collect Americans business records. He asserted that the new law does make sure that the intelligence community can capture foreign intelligence coming in to the United States.  Also key to our nations long-term safety is the war in Iraq, which Bond emphasized is the central front in the War on Terror. Bond was in Iraq in May and saw first-hand the signs of progress. U.S. and Iraq forces are successfully fighting Al-Qaeda in Iraq, particularly in once-terrorist strongholds like Ramadi. Bond expressed disappointment that some in Congress are so vested politically in defeat they are unwilling to give General Petraeus counterinsurgency plan a chance to succeed, despite positive reports from the ground.  Bond also talked to the Lambert Rotary Club about Missouris infrastructure. The Minneapolis Bridge collapse was an unfortunate reminder that we need to be diligent about upgrading our infrastructure, said Bond. Bond explained that maintaining a sound infrastructure is one of the chief responsibilities of our government and Congress should start with passing the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which modernizes the nations water infrastructure.  As the leading Republican of the Senate Appropriations Committee that funds housing programs, Bond expressed concern with problems in the sub-prime mortgage market. Despite the housing news, Bond said that overall the economy remains strong and noted that 8.3 million new jobs were created since August 2003. Bond highlighted sensible policies from the previous Republican Congresses that have kept our economy strong including the 2001, 2003, and 2005 tax cuts that reduced capital gains tax, reduced the AMT, added a child tax credit, eliminated the marriage penalty, included small business tax incentives and lowered taxes for millions of Americans.  ###  
