
   Friday, August 24, 2007    WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond, the Vice-Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said that an intelligence report released this week confirms that the new counterinsurgency strategy in Iraq is the right one.  The National Intelligence Estimate does nothing to contradict, and only reinforces, what I have been saying about the progress being made in Iraq. Our men and women serving in Iraq are doing a great job accomplishing their mission at great personal risk and sacrifice. Dont screw it up with politics, said Bond.  The Director of National Intelligence released an update of Januarys National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on the Prospects for Iraqs Stability this week. Bond stressed that the intelligence community agrees that moving from the counterinsurgency strategy to one focused only on counterterrorist operations and training, as some are calling for in Washington, would erode the progress our military has achieved in the last six months.  Bond emphasized that he saw these security gains when he was in Iraq in May. U.S. and Iraq forces are successfully fighting Al-Qaeda in Iraq, particularly in once-terrorist strongholds like Ramadi. Bond expressed disappointment that some in Congress are so vested politically in defeat they are unwilling to give General Petraeus counterinsurgency plan a chance to succeed, despite positive reports from the ground.  The intelligence estimate also highlights the significant gains that have been made by United States security forces working with Sunni tribes to combat al-Qaida in Iraq, said Bond. Al-Qaida is the largest terrorist threat faced by our country today and the efforts in Iraq to counter al-Qaida have been working. Bond pointed out that the intelligence community asserts that this bottom-up approach has the best prospects for improved security in Iraq over the next six to twelve months.  Bond also expressed disappointment that since the January estimate, there are widespread expectations that the United States will precipitously withdrawal from Iraq. Bond said that while it is not surprising, it is unfortunate that the debate in Washington regarding withdrawal timetables has caused such perceptions in the region  among both allies and our enemies.  As the intelligence estimate points out, the Iraqi government under Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is in a precarious situation. Bond stressed that the Iraqi government should use the security window the United States military is providing to work toward reconciliation. Bond said the hard, but necessary work, of reconciliation will help Iraqs government, the Iraqi people and would allow the United States to bring our troops home without causing the widespread violence that will inevitably result from a precipitous withdrawal.  # # #  
