
MEXICO, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today provided business leaders in his hometown of Mexico, Missouri with a legislative update and outlined last year’s major legislative accomplishments.      	“As Missouri’s senior Senator my job is to fight for this state’s priorities,” said Bond.  “I will continue to use my Appropriations Subcommittee Chairmanship to secure Missouri’s fair share of federal resources for local needs.” said Bond.   	Congress has made progress on tax relief, which will continue to be a priority in 2006, Bond told Mexico business leaders. Early this month, the Senate passed a reconciliation bill containing extensions for several tax provisions set to expire this year, including business tax credits for research and development and relief for middle class families expected to fall under the alternative minimum tax (AMT).    	Also, earlier this month the Senate confirmed President Bush’s second Supreme Court Nominee, Samuel Alito. Both he and new Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts possess great legal minds, and are eminently qualified.  Also, Alito and Roberts will hold to the highest standards of judicial integrity and not legislate from the bench, said Bond.   	Bond also outlined some of last year’s key legislative victories.  As chairman of the Environment and Public Works’ Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, Bond authored the federal highway that was signed into law in 2005.  This bill will generate new jobs, economic growth and fix our crumbling infrastructure, he stressed. The $1.3 bill in new funding for Missouri highways and bridges over the life of the bill, which will result in better roads and thousands of new jobs.  This level of funding means that for first time in Missouri history, the state will receive more in federal highway funds than we pay in gas taxes, said Bond.   	Also, Bond pointed to the passage of the energy bill, which includes emphasis on alternative fuels.  This is good news for corn and soybean rich Missouri.  The energy bill includes a number of positives to make the nation less dependent on foreign oil, such as Senator Talent’s renewable fuels standard and an ethanol tax credit.   	Bond told the local leaders that he is working on a number of priorities for 2006.  Bond will continue to support the President in the War on Terror, stressing that the most important job is keeping Americans safe.  So far there has been real progress in Iraq, including a new constitution, free elections, and a stronger Iraqi military and police force.  In order to continue progress in Iraq and in the worldwide War on Terror, it is critical that law enforcement and military have the tools needed to win, including Patriot Act, which the Senate is currently considering.     	Bond defended the Administration’s NSA surveillance program, an “early warning” terrorist surveillance program, which Bond says saves lives.  Surveillance programs serve as a critical early warning system to prevent another horrific 9/11 attack on American soil.  Also critical to this effort is intelligence reform.  In the new age of homicide bombers, we must know information before any terrorist plot is executed, said Bond.  Good intelligence not only serves to protect our citizens, it makes our men and women in uniform even more effective.    	Also topping Bond’s list for important issues in 2006, are strengthening the economy and job creation, entitlement reform, and critical improvements to the upper Mississippi River.  Also, as a Senate Appropriations’ Subcommittee Chairman Bond stressed that he will ensure Missouri gets the federal funds needed for local projects.
