
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined military families and early childhood education advocates at the Parents as Teachers Headquarters in St. Louis to announce $1 million in federal funds to expand his successful Parents as Teachers (PAT) program to military families.       "Being a parent is hard work in any circumstances.  But being a parent in the military has its own set of challenges and difficulties.  We really need to support our active duty families, especially those with young children.  Parents as Teachers can do that," said Bond.   While serving as Missouri's governor, Bond discovered first-hand the importance of Parents as Teachers (PAT) when his son Sam was born.  After his positive experience with the program, Bond led the fight to pass and sign legislation which mandated PAT in every school district in the state of Missouri.    	Since the program was created there are now more than 3,000 programs in all 50 states, as well as 8 foreign countries.  While this is a tremendous accomplishment, Bond stressed that there are more families that can and must be reached through the successful PAT program.    	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond, along with Armed Services Committee member, Senator Talent, secured $1 million in the fiscal year 2006 Defense Appropriations Bill for a pilot program for military families.      	 These dollars will fund Bond’s pilot program, Heroes at Home, at 9 military installations and will continue the 4 programs currently in operation at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, Forts Riley and Leavenworth, Kansas; and Fort Hood, Texas.  New programs will be developed at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.; Fort Stewart, Georgia; Fort Campbell, Kentucky; Fort Lewis, Washington and Fort Wainwright, Alaska.   	Bond pointed out that military families with young children are often the most impacted by the stresses of military life.  While many military men and women are deployed for long periods of time, the parent at home essentially has to operate as a single parent.  Bringing the benefits of PAT to these young families is least we can do, said Bond.
