
St. Louis, MO - Back from an eight-day tour of tsunami-devastated Southeast Asia, U.S. Senator Kit Bond hailed the work of U.S. military and relief agencies and vowed to push for greater cooperation between the U.S. and Indonesia in the future, calling the country a potential strong ally in the war against terror.    "The extent and magnitude of the devastation was nothing short of cataclysmic," said Bond, who toured hard-hit Banda Aceh by helicopter. "But the U.S. military and relief agencies have been working closely with Indonesian officials and more lives were saved because of that cooperation."  During his trip, Bond met with newly-elected Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono to discuss the relief effort and the possibility of closer ties between the predominantly Muslim country and the United States. Bond said that the U.S. should explore lifting the current sanctions against Indonesia.    "Stronger ties with Indonesia will support President Yudhoyono's efforts to improve the economy, end corruption and human rights abuses and foster greater cooperation in the war against terror," said Bond. "We need to use this opportunity to reach out and build on our relationship with Indonesia to address our own political, economic, strategic and national security concerns. Indonesia should become a critical U.S. ally in a dangerous part of the world that is the second front on the war on terror."    "It is my hope that the immediate emergency relief effort, which will come to an end soon, will not signal the end of American interest and commitment to the region," said Bond, who received briefings and assessments on regional security and terrorism issues during talks with top government officials in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. The Senator also discussed the possible sales of St. Louis-built fighter planes such as the F/A-18 and F-15.  In 2002, Malaysia announced their intention to buy 16 St. Louis-built F/A-18E/F Super Hornets for approximately $1 billion. Singapore is considering that aircraft and the F-15 among four other foreign competitors for its air superiority needs.   Bond also conferred with overseas officials to discuss the biotechnology revolution and Missouri's unique research role in that effort.
