
WASHINGTON – After receiving a classified briefing on the homeland security implications of moving the 131st Fighter Wing from St. Louis, Senator Kit Bond today called on the BRAC Commission to receive the same classified briefing and demanded that the Pentagon release installation-specific data used to make the recommendations.    	“This briefing makes a compelling and convincing case that our communities will be more vulnerable without the 131st in the region,” said Bond, who arranged the security briefing for the Missouri delegation.  “After seeing the hard facts, it is unclear if the Pentagon even factored in homeland security when they made this decision. We do not know the basis of their decision because they continue to withhold data. The bottom line is the BRAC commission needs to receive this briefing and the Pentagon needs to release the data.”     Today, Bond circulated a letter among the Missouri congressional delegation to send to the BRAC Commission urging the commissioners to receive the security briefing before the June 7th hearing.      	“We have received classified briefings on infrastructure protection and vulnerability gaps in the nation’s heartland that are pivotal to our contention that the 131st Fighter Wing constitutes one of the best military values in the country,” the letter states. “It is imperative that the BRAC analysis team receive the classified information we have reviewed and any other relevant data before the June 7 hearing.”     	In a second letter, to Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, Bond raised concerns that the Pentagon was not providing critical information related to the BRAC recommendations. The Pentagon has not released data indicating how military value scores for each installation were derived.  In past BRAC rounds, such data has been released.     	“We urge you to release this data immediately to avoid undermining the BRAC process,” states the letter. “If the Department continues to delay the release of this data, communities adversely impacted by BRAC, and the BRAC commission, will be unable to assess the Department¹s recommendations in the limited time allotted to them under BRAC law.  Communities affected by BRAC should know how their bases were measured so they can either support or challenge the proposals.”
