
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $7 million in federal funds for Missouri projects in the Senate's Labor-HHS-Education spending bill.  These funds provide critical support and outreach to Missouri families, said Bond. From Parents as Teachers to the Crisis Nursery of the Ozarks, these projects will bring much needed help to Missouri communities.   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $7 million in federal funds in the fiscal year 2008 Labor-HHS-Education spending bill, which passed the Senate yesterday. Before being signed into the law, the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version, which passed in July.   Bond secured funds for the following health, education and outreach projects:   $600,000 for the Ready to Learn Program in Springfield. The funds will provide for development and expansion as well as equipment and technology.     $750,000 for United Inner City Services in Kansas City. The funds will enhance and expand early learning programs.      $1 million for St. Louis Childrens Hospital. The funds will provide for construction and renovation costs for the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit Expansion.     $1 million for Missouri State University in Springfield. The funds will expand as well as purchase equipment and technology for the Distance Learning Project on the West Plains Campus.     $250,000 for the YMCA of Greater St. Louis. The funds will expand after school programming at the Monsanto Family YMCA.     $1 million for the Boone County Senior Citizen Service Corporation in Columbia. The funds will provide for equipment and technology for the Alzheimers Disease Demonstration Center on the Bluffs campus.     $300,000 for the Rainbow Center for Communicative Disorders in Blue Springs. The funds will expand programs available to individuals with severe disabilities to meet the increased demand from the community.     $300,000 for UrbanFUTURE in St. Louis. The funds will expand literacy, mentoring and after school programs.     $100,000 for St. Louis SCORES in St. Louis. The funds will expand after school programs.     $500,000 for the Boys and Girls Town of Missouri in St. James. The funds will expand services to children suffering from abuse and neglect.     $775,000 for Crowder College in Neosho. The funds will expand capacity in targeted technical education programs vital to the regions workforce development.     $200,000 for the Crisis Nursery of the Ozarks in Springfield. The funds will provide for programming, equipment services and curriculum.     $225,000 for Parents as Teachers National Center in St. Louis. The funds will increase outreach to prospective participant families, enhance quality services delivery and further support school readiness for St. Louis children in the Gateway Parent as Teachers program in the City of St. Louis.    ###   
