
WASHINGTON, D.C.  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today praised Senate passage of the conference report on the critical Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) and urged President Bush to sign the bill into law.   For my constituents, this means jobs, trade competitiveness, reliable and affordable energy, drinking water, and protection from floods which ruin property and kill people, said Bond.   WRDA authorizes the nations flood control, environmental restoration, and navigation projects. Missouri has nearly 1,000 miles of Missouri and Mississippi River frontage in addition to lakes. Bond pointed out that Missouri communities rely on these projects for affordable water transportation, flood protection, energy production, environmental protection, and recreation opportunities.   The Congress-passed WRDA bill includes Bonds lock and dam provision. This provision authorizes $1.95 billion in federal funds for seven new locks and an additional $1.72 billion for environmental restoration. The lock modernization work is an important job initiative, creating 48 million man-hours of construction work. Also, replacing the aging locks is critical to farmers. Currently, sixty percent of all grain exports move through the locks. Modernization of the aging locks on the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers  the Midwests arteries to world markets  will help farmers and shippers bring their products to market more efficiently.   This is a long-overdue investment in our infrastructure, jobs, trade competitiveness, and environmental protection, said Bond on the lock modernization provision.   Updating the lock and dam system will prepare the country for the projected growth in freight shipping, said Bond. Highway traffic growth is expected to grow from 11 billion tons to 19 billion tons and rail traffic from 2 billion to 3.7 billion tons. Also, Bond pointed out that river transportation is more cost, pollution and fuel-efficient. A single medium-sized barge tow carries the same freight as 870 trucks.   Bond criticized both the Bush and Clinton Administrations for not making water resources a high priority. Bond reminded Administration officials that in order to support an aggressive trade policy, there must be a transportation capacity to move the goods to trade. Bond also pointed to the bridge collapse in Minnesota as a tragic reminder of the need to be vigilant about updating our nations infrastructure.   Bond emphasized that WRDA is bipartisan and has broad support. Despite the Presidents threat to veto the bill, Bond expressed confidence that a bipartisan Congress would ensure the WRDA bill becomes law.   If there is a veto, I look forward to overriding it swiftly on a bi-partisan basis, said Bond.   # # #    
