
MEXICO, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Congressman Kenny Hulshof, state, community and agriculture officials to announce the construction of the first biodiesel plant in Missouri.    “Today is a momentous occasion for Missouri soybean farmers, clean air efforts, and energy security,” said Bond.  “Our nation requires a renewable, environmentally friendly alternative that helps create local jobs, adds value to our farmer's product, and moves us away from being an energy hostage relying on foreign-produced oil making our producers, consumers and economy subject to the whims of international cartels. Plants like the one that will be built here in Mexico are an important part of the solution.”    The 30 million gallon biodiesel plant will be built in Mexico, MO, becoming the first biodiesel plant to be built in the state.  Today’s announcement is just the most recent step in Missouri’s efforts to be a leader in the renewable fuels industry.   Missouri also hosted the first organized biodiesel research and demonstration program, which was started at the University of Missouri Columbia, and eventually grew into the National Biodiesel Board.      As one of biodiesel’s biggest advocates, Bond has worked with the Missouri Soybean Association to encourage St. Louis, Kansas City, and federal government fleets to utilize biodiesel for clean air and rural development purposes.      Bond has worked with the Department of Defense to encourage wider adoption of biodeisel across all branches of the service.  Currently, at Ft. Leonard Wood in Missouri, the Army has installed several thousand gallons of biodiesel storage capacity to be used to fuel their “non-tactical” fleets.    In coordination with the Soybean Association, Bond has also engaged the Region 7 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Office in Kansa City to become a biodiesel advocate.  Bond hopes the EPA will recognize the environmental-friendly qualities of biodiesel as they work with cities to ensure cleaner air.    Bond stressed that he will continue to fight for the future of renewable fuels in Washington.  Bond’s legislation to amend the Senate Energy Bill aims to bump the 6 billion gallon by 2012 Renewable Fuels Mandate up to 8 billion gallons.  This standard is key to ensuring long term stability and demand, Bond said.  He also thanked Congressman Hulshof for his efforts on behalf of renewable fuels in the House of Representatives, particularly for his support of the Biodiesel Blender’s Tax Credit.     “I congratulate the partners that made today possible and the vision of Missouri soybean farmers.  We are now turning our soybean fields into the oil fields of the future,” said Bond.
