
POTOSI, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today stressed the need to increase federal funding for community health centers in Missouri and across the nation during a visit to Great Mines Health Center in Potosi, which recently received designation as a federal qualified health center.    “As I have traveled around Missouri, I have seen first hand that thousands of children and families have lived healthier, more productive lives due to Missouri’s outstanding health centers,” said Bond.  “If we continue to make strategic investments from the federal, state and local levels in this highly effective and efficient delivery model we can truly make a difference and serve those who are in the greatest need.”    	As Governor, Bond was a strong advocate for Community Health Centers in Missouri and has led the fight in Washington to double the number of people served by health centers nationwide and to expand access to quality primary and dental care through health centers. Through his REACH Initiative Bond was able to secure increased funding for Community Health Centers by over $700 million.  This increase in funding has helped Missouri’s network of community health centers grow and serve more children and families in the past few years.    This year Bond is seeking a $304 million increase in funding.  In addition to doubling the number served and increasing funding, Bond will be working with the President to launch his new initiative to ensure that the poorest communities in the country are served by a health center.     Bond praised the Great Mines Health Center for providing the community access to quality, affordable primary care services.  Since the center opened its doors in 2002, more than 2,000 patients have been treated through more than 6,000 visits.     In recent years demand for the center’s services has grown, leading the center to apply to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for a grant to become a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC).  In fiscal year 2004 Bond secured $250,000 for the health center to help them keep their doors open and serving patients while waiting for HHS’ approval.  Also, in the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus bill, Bond included language to help FQHC applicants from states that have made significant fiscal investments at the state level, like Missouri.  The center’s application was approved earlier this month.  As a result of the designation the center will receive $650,000 in December.    “Today, we celebrate the good news for Potosi and the good news for children and families in Missouri.   With this announcement the number of community and migrant health centers in both urban and rural Missouri grows to 19 providing care through nearly 100 locations,” said Bond.
