
	JEFFERSON CITY, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today held a roundtable on the drought situation in Missouri, where he heard from several agricultural groups and drought experts.     	“I know the crop situation is serious right now and that without rain, it will very quickly become much worse.  The trouble is, it is very difficult to predict what weather conditions will be like in a week, or two weeks, or a month.  Or even this afternoon,” said Bond.    	The average annual cost/losses of droughts are three times more than floods and another half-again as much greater than hurricanes, said Bond.  The worst natural disaster event from an economic standpoint was the 1988 - 1989 drought, which cost $39 billion.   	Bond pointed out that, although droughts cannot be prevented, the effects can be mitigated.  Specifically, he said, the federal government can provide important resources which Bond, and other agriculture allies have worked to make available to farmers.  For instance, Congress in 2000 legislation, an additional $8.2 billion over the 5-year period was provided for Crop Insurance.      	Other options include “Non-insured Assistance Program” for producers who grow crops not eligible for normal crop insurance; low interest emergency disaster loans for family farmers in declared disaster counties and contiguous counties; and the Emergency Conservation Program for rehabilitating eligible farmlands damaged by natural disaster, and Emergency Haying and Grazing Assistance.    	At today’s roundtable, Bond also had representatives from Departments of Natural Resources, Agriculture, FAPRI and commodity groups, provide a detailed update on the current drought conditions around the state and how to mitigate its effects.      	“I want to hear from you what is going on and what we can expect later this summer and through the year.  And after this meeting, in the days and weeks ahead, you need to keep us posted.  I stand with you and am committed to help if I can,” assured Bond.
