
WASHINGTON, DC – As one of the authors of the federal highway bill, U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he will secure $50 million in funds for Kansas City’s Paseo in the legislation.      	“It is no secret that a new bridge crossing over the Missouri River is desperately needed to connect Kansas City to North Kansas City and the rest of Clay County,” said Bond.  “The $50 million I will put in the federal highway bill for the project will go a long way in making this bridge a reality.”    	Bond pointed out that the existing four lane structure is currently closed due to serious structural deficiencies.  A new Paseo Bridge will not only improve traffic capacity coming across the river in and out of downtown Kansas City, but will also help stimulate economic development downtown and in the central business district.     	Currently the Missouri Department of Transportation (MODOT) is working on an Environmental Impact Study (EIS) and a determination of the river bridge type for the Paseo Bridge project.  MODOT anticipates a decision by 2006 and Bond expressed his optimism for the project moving forward.    Bond, who has led the fight in the Senate to reauthorize a new six-year transportation bill, also provided an update on the bill’s status.  Since Senate passage of the highway bill Bond has worked for an agreement between the House and Senate versions.  This week the Conference Committee reached an agreement on major aspects of the bill.     The increased funding level will result in more than $200 million in new dollars each year for Missouri. Under the bill, Missouri will receive substantially more than the $661 million in the last transportation bill.      For years, Bond has fought to increase the return on the dollar that Missourians pay in federal transportation taxes. In 1987, when Bond joined the Senate, Missourians received 76 cents on the dollar.  Since this time Bond has increased that share to 92 cents on the dollar and pledged that the final passed bill will deliver and even higher rate of return.    “Passage of this bill brings us one step closer in our efforts to increase safety, reduce fatalities and decrease congestion on Missouri highways,” said Bond.  “This bill will also create more high paying jobs across Missouri and the nation as a whole.”
