
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today toured the Monsanto YMCA youth center to highlight the $250,000 in federal funds he secured for expansion of the north St. Louis facilitys after-school programs. Programs like these at the YMCA are improving and strengthening some of Missouris most vulnerable communities and families, said Senator Bond. These dollars will enable the YMCA to make a real difference in the lives of young people in St. Louis.   This funding will enable us to expand the positive alternative after-school programs we provide for teens in north St. Louis between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m.the hours during which we know youth are in the most danger of engaging in risky behaviors, said Gary Schlansker, President and CEO of the YMCA of Greater St. Louis.   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $250,000 in federal funds for the north St. Louis YMCA in the fiscal year 2007 Labor-HHS spending bill. Before being signed into law the bill must pass the full Senate and be reconciled with the House of Representatives bill.  The federal funds Bond secured will be used to expand the YMCAs after-school programs for north St. Louis teens. The YMCA provides after-school activities for teens between the hours of 3:00 and 8:00 p.m. With the new federal dollars the YMCA hopes to triple the number of teens served. Also, a dedicated teen center will be created for socialization and recreational activities, tutoring and academic assistance. In addition, teens will have access to structured physical education classes and sports activities.   Bond pointed out that according to St. Louis for Kids, a regional childrens advocacy group, only 1 in 10 children in the region have somewhere to go after-school. Children who are involved in after-school programs have better school attendance, more positive attitudes towards school work, higher aspirations for college, better work habits and interpersonal skills, reduced drop out rates, higher quality homework, less time spent in unhealthy behaviors and higher grades.   Kids are making decisions after school that will impact their lives and their futures. The Monsanto YMCA is helping them make good decisions, said Bond. It is a privilege to be able to partner with the YMCA here in north St. Louis.  ###  
