
	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today called on a federal advisory panel to recommend that the remaining Cold War-era Mallinckrodt workers, who were exposed to large doses of radiation, receive immediate compensation of $150,000 from the federal government.     	This week, after further review of information, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) advisory board, meeting in Iowa, is expected to make a recommendation to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for Mallinckrodt workers employed between 1949 and 1957.    	“I have met with many of these former workers and heard about their sufferings first-hand. They are victims of what appears to be an endless bureaucratic process,” said Bond in a statement submitted to the board and read today at a public meeting.  “I urge the board to take the only reasonable, prudent and just action.”     	Bond called on the advisory board to designate the remaining Mallinckrodt workers, who worked at the downtown site from 1949 through 1957, as members of the Special Exposure Cohort.    	“I believe it is long past time to compensate these former workers for the heroic sacrifices they made in helping America win the Cold War,” said Bond. “This will give these former workers the compensation they need to pay their medical bills and to provide for their survivors.”     	Bond said the Mallinckrodt Downtown site was one of the two worst plants in the country in terms of the levels of radioactive contamination. Bond added that the downtown site had levels of contamination that were over ten times the levels at a Paducah, Ky. site, which was previously considered the worst and is one of four existing SEC sites.	    	In February, a federal panel meeting in St. Louis announced that Mallinckrodt workers employed between 1942 and 1948 at the downtown site and who now suffer from one of 22 specific cancers should be eligible for immediate compensation of $150,000 from the federal government.  Earlier this month, Bond applauded HHS for recommending faster payments for Mallinckrodt workers employed at the downtown site between 1942 and 1948.     	The St. Louis-based Mallinckrodt Chemical Company's nuclear production facilities employed about 3,500 people who were exposed to large doses of radiation. Until the announcement earlier this month, none of these workers had been granted a special federal health designation from the federal government, called a Special Exposure Cohort (SEC). An SEC designation would prevent the workers from going through the cumbersome process known as dose reconstruction and would make them immediately eligible for compensation.     	“There are too many complicating circumstances and too much unknown information regarding these former workers that make it impossible for NIOSH to proceed with dose reconstructions for the Mallinckrodt claimants with any degree of accuracy and credibility,” Bond said.
