
WASHINGTON, D.C. –– U.S. Senator Kit Bond, Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation-Treasury, today held a hearing on the fiscal year 2006 Department of Treasury budget, where he emphasized the Department’s need to address important challenges facing the agency, including its ability to combat terrorist financing.    “Treasury’s effort to reassert its proper role as the leader in fighting terrorist financing is a good sign, but the Department must take immediate action to stop recent moves weakening their ability to combat this danger,” said Bond.    Bond heard testimony today from Treasury Secretary John Snow.  Bond praised Snow for moving Treasury forward to fight terrorist financing, but also expressed his concern with implementation of the statute establishing the Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence (TFI) and the realignment of resources from Office of Foreign Assets Control to TFI.    Congress established TFI to ensure aggressive policy formulation, planning, and coordination over Treasury’s efforts to thwart terrorist financing and enforcement of anti-money laundering and other financial crimes.      “Unfortunately, the office is replicating the capabilities at other Treasury offices,” Bond said.  “That not only is wasteful, it also weakens Treasury’s efforts to counter terrorist financing.”    A long-time advocate of community development programs, Bond has taken the Administration to task for funding cuts and elimination of a number of important programs. Bond criticized the proposed elimination of the Community Development Financial Institution and the Bank Enterprise Act programs, which have been critical in expanding financial services in underserved rural and urban areas.    “The Administration’s idea to make the programs eligible for funding through their block grant program is a bad idea,” Bond said.  “With scarce block grant funds, there is little chance financial institutions will be awarded funds by states or communities, no matter how well they serve financially underserved areas.”    Bond stressed that in order to address the number of issues challenging Treasury, it is important to have strong leadership.  Currently most senior-level positions are vacant, which has left a void of leadership at the Department.      “Some day there could be a financial crisis that requires Treasury’s immediate expertise.  Currently there is no one to answer the call,” Bond said.  “We should do more than just cross our fingers.”
