
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent called this week’s Base Realignment and Closure Commission’s (BRAC) votes a major disappointment for Missouri and criticized the Commission’s refusal to take in to consideration overall homeland security principles and cost savings.    	“Missouri made a compelling case and I am convinced that decisions to close these facilities are not in our military, or nation’s, best interest,” said Senator Kit Bond.  “Unfortunately, not even my most serious concerns with the process, the recommendations’ impact on our nation’s homeland security, were heard.”     	“I am very disappointed in the Commission’s decision, not only in their failure to take these installations off the list, but because in their decisions they failed even to address the arguments Missouri made on a bipartisan basis," said Sen. Talent.  "The St. Louis region, especially the men and women whose jobs are on the line, deserved better.”    	“I believe the Commission’s decisions ignored opportunities for cost savings and failed to consider homeland security concerns and the best interest of military efficiency,” said Talent.  “I want to evaluate all remaining options, but under the circumstances, my inclination is to oppose the recommendations if they are forwarded to the Congress in this form.”    	Criticizing the Commission’s adoption of Pentagon recommendations to close Missouri’s Lambert Field, Bond and Talent stressed that 131st’s Fighter Wing’s role in homeland security is critical and closure will create a regional vulnerability.      	As Co-Chair of the Senate’s National Guard Caucus, Bond spearheaded efforts to bring the Guard’s concerns before BRAC.  He criticized the lack of coordination between the Air Force and the Air National Guard as the Air Force developed its Future Total Force strategy, which became the basis for many of the BRAC recommendations.      	Today the Senators criticized the BRAC Commission for also rejecting the homeland defense mission of the Air Guard units and installations slated for closure or realignment, rubber-stamping the Air Force’s flawed recommendations.    	The decision to close the Human Resource Center (HRC) facilities in St. Louis is deeply disappointing, said Bond and Talent.  They emphasized that Army’s recommendations to close the St. Louis facility failed to take into consideration many aspects, including increased military construction costs to accommodate moving the HRC to Fort Knox, Kentucky as the Pentagon proposed.  Also, the HRC mission will suffer with the move to Fort Knox as a result of mission transition, lost records and training gaps.  Overall, from a fiscal or military perspective, the closing of the HRC in St. Louis does not make sense, the Senators said.    	Also, the Senators disagreed with BRAC’s decision to close the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) center in Kansas City.  The Pentagon’s recommendation to close Kansas City’s DFAS were not based upon performance, military value and cost savings as the BRAC process dictates, and Bond and Talent hoped the Commission would correct this error.
