
WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Senators Kit Bond, Jim Talent and Representative Jo Ann Emerson today announced that Farmington and Poplar Bluff will receive $936,404 in federal funds to start local air service.   “This grant is great news for the communities in Farmington and Poplar Bluff who have formed a strong partnership to bring increased air service to southeast Missouri,” said Senator Kit Bond.  “Missouri airports are crucial to our state’s future economic success.  In addition, smaller airports are critical to providing effective intra-state and regional air service,” said Bond.      “The delegation has been tremendously successful in providing additional funding for transportation infrastructure in Southeast Missouri,” said U.S. Senator Jim Talent.  “Better air service will help create jobs and economic growth in the area.”     "Reliable air service is essential in rural Missouri.  Our small airports connect us to economic opportunities in urban areas while enabling businesses to manage and maintain operations in our cities.  I very much appreciate Senator Kit Bond's leadership on rural air service, and I appreciate his understanding of the unique challenges facing rural Missouri's economy," said Representative Jo Ann Emerson.   	Farmington and Poplar Bluff, who recently formed a partnership to provide local air service, will receive $936,404 in federal dollars from the Department of Transportation’s Small Community Air Service Development Program.  The federal funds will be used to support the start of air service to St. Louis.    	Farmington Mayor Charles Rorex said, “On behalf of Air Choice One and the City of Farmington, I would like to thank Senator Bond for his help in getting the grant for the service at the airport. We appreciate all he has done and continues to do for Farmington."    The Small Community Air Service Development Program helps smaller communities around the United States improve their air service.  Often small communities face many challenges in providing local air service, such as high fares and insufficient levels of service.      	Earlier this year, Bond became the new chairman of the Transportation, Treasury and Housing Appropriations subcommittee, providing the Senator another platform to both benefit Missouri and shape national transportation policy. Through this post, Bond will work to restore as much of this critical aviation funding as possible.
