
 WASHINGTON, DC  Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, U.S. Senator Kit Bond, today criticized House Democrats for continuing to politicize legislation that governs our nations terrorist surveillance programs.   Recent statements by House Democrats are false and irresponsible. Trying to brand the Protect America Act as a Republican scheme is bogus, said Bond. There is no disagreement that America remains under serious threat of attack by al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations. Terrorist surveillance programs designed to protect our troops overseas and Americans here at home are far too important to politicize.   Bonds comments today were directed at House Democrats who falsely claimed that terror threats were used to pressure lawmakers to pass the Protect America Act, which updated the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). As Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and the sponsor of the legislation, Bond was the lead negotiator during the final hours as Congress acted to pass the critical, short-term update to our nations law governing terrorist surveillance.    This claim is more of the same from House Democrats and their friends in the media who are trying to rewrite history, said Bond.   Earlier this month, Bond challenged the misinformation being spread by House Democrats and outlined the events as they occurred. Bond pointed out that despite Democrats claims the Director of National Intelligence, Admiral McConnell, gave Congress his FISA modernization legislation on April 12th. Bond also stressed that Congress knew about the increased threat and drop in coverage months before Congress decided to act in August.   Congress, not the Administration or Director of National Intelligence, let the clock run out on FISA modernization, said Bond. The last minute scramble to pass a short-term fix was a result of their mismanagement, not by pressure from the White House.  Bond stressed that cooler heads prevail in the Senate. He expressed his confidence in the Senate Intelligence Committee in passing comprehensive reform.   The Senate Intelligence Committee has reached broad agreement on FISA and now we are working out the details. My Democratic colleagues on the Senate Intelligence Committee have made good suggestions that will make the process even smoother.      ###     
