
CAPE GIRARDEAU, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond  joined members of the Missouri National Guard in Cape Girardeau today to discuss his recent efforts to strengthen the Guard’s ability to carry out their dual mission.    	“As our citizen-soldiers you have answered the call to duty. As our government continues to ask more from you, it is only fair that we provide the resources and equipment you need to do your job,” said Bond.     	Earlier this month, Bond, founder and Co-Chair of the U.S. Senate National Guard Caucus, along with Senator Patrick Leahy, asked the Bush Administration to provide $1.3 billion for new National Guard equipment in the next supplemental bill.  The Senators suggested that the National Guard should be given the flexibility to determine its most pressing requirements, similar to the National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account of the annual Department of Defense appropriations bill.  This type of flexibility would allow for the quick purchase of critical systems like the Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles (FMTV) and miscellaneous equipment like night visions goggles and handheld communications.    	Bond stressed that since September 11th the Guard has taken on greater responsibilities and risks.  As a result, members have been called upon in large numbers to support the War on Terror and disaster assistance.  Additional national emergencies could place unrealistic burdens on the Guard. Right now the National Guard has a dangerously low level of equipment available for natural disasters, a potential large-scale terrorist attack and readiness training.     	Guard Chief Lieutenant General Blum confirmed Bond’s concerns in a briefing before the U.S. Senate last week.  He reported that the Guard has only 34 percent of its required levels of trucks, night-vision goggles and communications equipment to deal with the effects of Hurricane Katrina.  Although recent overseas deployment has exacerbated the problem, even before the Guard was called on to support Iraq operations the Guard possessed 75 percent of its equipment requirements.       	Ever prior to Hurricane Rita the National Guard had almost 50,000 troops engaged in the Gulf States region representing all 50 states.  Rita will most likely put additional requirements on Guard support.  Overseas the Guard comprises almost 50 percent of the combat force and over 40 percent of the Total Force.
