
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that the Senate and House of Representatives conference committee approved the fiscal year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured more than $50 million in federal funds for key Missouri defense projects in the defense spending bill.    	 “These funds will provide our troops the technology and equipment they need to fight an ever-changing enemy in the war on terror,” said Bond.     Bond secured $49.975 million in funds for the following Missouri defense projects:   •	$1.625 million for the Center for Geospatial Intelligence – Funds will be used by the Center, located at the University of Missouri-Columbia, to conduct research and development on geospatial intelligence important for national security, homeland defense, and military force transformation with the Department of Defense National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA).   •	$3.3 million for Advanced Aerospace Manufacturing Technologies 	-	Funds will support a University of Missouri-Rolla project aimed at reducing manufacturing design, development and support costs by improving advanced aerospace manufacturing and processing technologies.  The Center for advanced Manufacturing Technologies is committed to creating the nation’s premiere center of excellence for the development and transition of innovative advanced technologies useful to the aerospace manufacturing supply chain.   •	$2.3 million for the Center for Nano/Micro/Systems & Nanotechology	 -- Funds will be used by the Center, located at the University of Missouri-Columbia, to continue development of Nano-Micro Systems and Nanotechnology for civilian and defense needs, including future combat systems, detecting chemical/biological threats, monitoring food safety, guiding missiles, and synthesizing and characterizing energetic, explosive materials for use in small, lightweight warheads for armor and missile applications.   •	$1.3 million for the University of Missouri-Rolla’s Steel Castings Program – Funds will be used for UMR’s High Performance Alloy Materials and Advanced manufacturing of Steel Castings for Improved Weapon System Reliability program that will provide steel casting, alloys and manufacturing technologies to meet requirements of the Army's objective Force.   •	$1 million for the Parents as Teachers Heroes at Home Program – The funds will be used to expand and enhance services for the Parents as Teachers program, now known within the Pentagon as the “Heroes at Home” program sites currently serving hundreds of families at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.; Fort Riley, Kan.; Fort Leavenworth, Kan.; and Fort Hood, Texas.  With the added funds, new sites will be established at five additional Army installations including Fort Bragg, N.C.; Fort Stewart, Ga.; Fort Campbell, Ky.; Fort Lewis, Wash.; and Fort Wainwright, Alaska.   •	$5.2 million for Battery Technology Testing at KOKAM	- Funds will be used by the company, located in Lee’s Summit, to support the development for military and commercial applications of Superior Lithium Polymer Batteries (SLPB).   •	$2.6 million for Microdevices at Brewer Science -- The funds will be used to by the company, located in Rolla, for the Innovative Processing Instrumentation for Fabrication of Three-Dimensional Microdevices Program.   •	$3.9 million for Westar Aerospace & Defense – Funds will be used by the company, located in St. Charles, to complete the development and deployment of Mission Execution tools, both software and hardware, used in the planning and execution of Army aircraft missions.     •	$3.9 million for MEMC Electronic Materials Inc.  -- Funds will be used by the company, located in O’Fallon, for the SOI Substrates for Next Generation Defense Electronics Program, for the development of a bonded wafer Silicon on Insulator (SOI) substrate manufacturing facility to provide the only domestic supplier of radiation hard material on which the next generation of defense electronics can be built.   •	$4.6 million for Clean Earth Tech.	-- Funds will be used by the company, located in St. Louis, for the HYPERSAR program, which will continue the integration of frequency agile Hyper-spectral Imaging (HSI) with state-of-the-art Synthetic Aperture Radon in a single ultra compact imaging head operated by one computer.     •	$2.3 million for Knowledge Sharing System	-- Funds will be used by the company, located in Rolla, to develop a knowledge system and relational database to fully implement the Bayh-Dole and Stevenson-Wydler legislation’s' technology tracking requirements, from research and development through invention disclosure; patent award; knowledge transfer and technology utilization.    •	$1.3 million for Sage Tech. – Funds will be used by the company, located in St. Louis, for the Defense Small Business Technology and Readiness Resource (DSTARR) program.    •	$2.6 million for Avant	-- Funds will be used by the company, located in Overland, for the Oral Anthrax/plague Vaccine	program, to develop a single-dose oral vaccine that will protect personnel against anthrax and plague, two Category A bio-warfare threat agents.   •	$1.95 million for GE Energy Systems	-- Funds will be used by the company, located in Kansas City, for the Chemical/Biological Agent Protection program.   •	$1.95 million for Engineering Software Research	- Funds will be used by the company, located in St. Louis, for the Advanced Simulation Tools for Aircraft Structures Made of Composite Materials	program, which will formulate, demonstrate and validate advanced procedures for the simulation of airframe components made of composite materials in order to substantially reduce the number of failures during system development and deployment while producing very efficient, low weight, airframes and dependable repair solutions for aging aircraft.   •	$1 million for Sentrus – Funds will be used by the company, located in Chesterfield, for the Wireless Tactical Remote Video/Sensor Surveillance System	program, to provide a reliable, remote wireless tactical surveillance system for the United States Marine Corps and other deployed forces.    •	$2.6 million for Nuvonyx Inc.	- Funds will be used by the company, located in Bridgeton, for the Advanced Weapons and laser diode development	program to develop a method for increasing the brightness of a frequency stabilized laser source.     •	$2.6 million for Crosslink – Funds will be used for the company, located in St. Louis, for the	High Power Electrolytic Super-Capacitors Based on Conducting Polymers	program.    •	$1.95 million for Asynchrony Solutions	- Funds will be used by the company, located in St. Louis, for the Internet Relay Chat (IRC) Improvement and Upgrade Project, to provide essential upgrades and improvements to the Navy's internet relay chat (IRC) communications systems.   •	$1 million for John Deere	- Funds will be used by the company, located in Springfield, for the Generator Engine Replacement program, which will supply the Armed Forces with cost effective re-manufactured engines for 30KW and 60KW generator sets.    •	$1 million for Mid America Precision Products and LaBarge - Funds will be used by the Mid America Precision Products, located in Joplin, for the Thunder Radar POD for Air National Guard program, to give our war fighters the unique capability to fight in bad weather conditions, in order to deprive our enemies from sanctuary 24/7.  Some of the funds will be used by LaBarge in Joplin which will provide support for wiring harnesses.   				Bond also was successful in directing $72 million in federal funds for the APG-63(V)3 active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar for the Air National Guard.  The $72 million will begin the outfitting of the Air Guard F-15 fleet with the AESA, which was designed to improve the air-to-air capability of the F-15C fleet.    	 		"The AESA is the most advanced tactical radar in the world and will vastly improve the combat capability of the Air National Guard F-15 fleet while improving the homeland security role as well," Bond said.   			Bond is a senior member of the Senate’s Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, which handles the Senate’s work in drafting the annual defense budget bill.  Also, as a defense spendig bill conferee, Bond was also instrumental in securing funds for the following critical projects:   •	$2.94 billion from the Army equipment procurement budget to be used specifically for the Army National Guard and Army Reserve and requires the Pentagon to provide a detailed accounting for how these funds are allocated.   •	$290 million for National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account. This account provides a flexible means of allowing the National Guard and the Reserve components to fund equipment needs peculiar to their mission responsibilities.   •	$72 million to move forward with the Joint Cargo Aircraft program which will provide replacements for the aging C-23 Sherpa and C-12 Huron aircraft fleets. This is a program of particular interest to the U.S. Army and Army National Guard.   •	$100 million for the Navy Unmanned Combat Air System which will allow the U.S. Navy to continue to fund its effort in unmanned combat aircraft and solicit proposals from Northrop-Grumman and Boeing for its N-UCAS program.   •	$58 million for the Arrow missile co-production and Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense programs.   •	$3.5 billion for the Future Combat System, an increase of $300 million over the last fiscal year’s levels and the minimum level of funding the Army believed necessary to continue to transform its forces to meet emerging challenges.   •	$521.621 million for 8 F-18 G aircraft which allows F-18 G production to move forward on its planned production schedule.   •	Full funding to support the Army National Guard end-strength requirements of 350,000 soldiers.    			The fiscal year 2007 Defense Appropriations bill is expected to pass the Senate and House of Representatives and be signed into law by the President this week.   ###
