
ST. LOUIS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today participated in a “mission” at the Challenger Learning Center to encourage Missouri students to pursue careers in math and science.  Bond was joined by students from Pattonville Heights Middle School in St. Louis County and educators from the Ferguson-Florissant School District where the Challenger Center is located.   	“One of our toughest educational challenges is helping our young people perform better in science and math,” said Bond.  “We hope the hands-on experience students receive here will help encourage a long-term interest in math, science and technology and motivate some of them to pursue careers in these fields.”        	In a global economy, continued progress in math, science and engineering is vital if the United States is to maintain its competitiveness and keep high-paying cutting-edge jobs here at home, said Bond.  Unfortunately, America’s highschoolers are behind the international standard in math and science.   	Bond praised the Challenger Learning Center for helping meet this challenge and getting children interested in math and science. The Center allows students to simulate missions on a space station. Preparing for the simulation, students learn about science concepts, technology, space program history, geography and the value of teamwork. The success of the mission depends on students’ ability to apply their knowledge and work as a team under challenging real-life circumstances.    	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $1 million for the Center in the fiscal year 2002 VA-HUD spending bill.  Established by the families of the astronauts lost during the Challenger space shuttle mission, the St. Louis Challenger learning Center is part of a network of more than 50 centers located in the U.S., Canada and the United Kingdom.   	Bond stressed that in addition to innovative learning methods, like at the Challenger Center, the federal government must increase investment in this country’s most important resource – our children.  Earlier this week the U.S. Senate passed the “America COMPETES Act,” which strengthens educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering and mathematics from elementary through graduate schools.  Bond cosponsored the legislation, which also invests in basic science research at the National Science Foundation, NASA, the Department of Energy Office of Science, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology.     	Bond pointed out that investments in scientific research over the past 50 years have spawned not only new products, but entire industries.  To keep these successes going – and ensure the jobs and industries of the future – the United States must continuing to invest in basic research and in the education and skills of our workforce.    # # #
