
	COLUMBIA, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined members of the Missouri National Guard and the Missouri School Board Association (MSBA) to receive an update on the National Guard’s new video satellite technology (V-Sat).    	“It was not so long ago that our soldiers overseas and their families back home had to rely exclusively on snail mail to communicate.  Now thanks to V-Sat technology, soldiers can make calls from Iraq and Afghanistan and their families can see them.”     	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $3.8 million for the video satellite system, V-Sat, in the fiscal year 2005 Defense spending bill.  Bond revisited the satellite system site today to ensure Missouri taxpayer money is being put to good use.     V-Sat offers a secure and economical alternative for transmitting data and creates interoperable communications networks for natural disaster or terrorism response situations.  The system through the National Guard Bureau will also eventually lead to the connectivity of all 54 state/territory National Guard Headquarters. This important satellite system will function even if commercial power and telecommunications systems are not working, connecting local officials with the National Guard, state, and federal authorities at multiple end points.    	“When the V-Sat system is not being used by the Guard, what if we could connect schools and hospitals across Missouri to the Internet where there may currently be inadequate bandwidth or no Internet service at all? That makes sense to me. So I went to my colleagues on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and asked for the funds to implement this project.”   	V-Sat will also benefit Missouri schools and hospitals, many of which are without adequate bandwidth or any internet service at all.  Particularly for schools and hospitals in rural Missouri, this technology will provide new educational opportunities for students and telemedicine capacity for doctors and first responders.   	Bond praised the MSBA and the Missouri Guard who came to him with this idea in 2004.  The MSBA is currently working with the Missouri Guard through the satellite technology to expand bandwidth and improve communication for Missouri schools.     	“Senator Bond’s efforts have positioned Missouri to be a model for other states in the utilization of technologies,” says Dr. Carter D. Ward, MSBA’s Executive Director.  “The State of Missouri and MSBA are most grateful for the Senator's leadership.”   ###
