
COLUMBIA, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Vice Provost Handy Williamson of University of Missouri-Columbia (MU) and Congressman Heung-Kil Ko, President of the Korean Alumni Association of MU to attend the MU Truman Conference and promote the close relationship between MU and Korea. The close relationship between the U.S. and Korea is a result of partnerships like the one between the University of Missouri and Korea, said Bond. The Truman conference affords an opportunity to celebrate the special accomplishments of MU alumni and build relationships with MUs Korean partners.  Bond touted the close relationship between the U.S. and Korea as a result of close military cooperation and strong economic and trade ties. Bond noted that Korea is the 7th largest trading partner of the United States overall and our seventh largest export partner. Bond also pointed out that Korea is a major purchaser of U.S. defense equipment and services through the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program totaling $6.9 billion in deliveries over the last 10 years. This is particularly important to Missouri, where Missouri supplies Korea with the F-15K Tactical Fighter, the worlds most lethal and effective tactical fighter, stated Bond.  Before the August recess, Bond introduced the U.S.-Korea Defense Cooperation Enhancement Act. This act recognizes the importance of the Korean military by elevating their FMS status to the status of other NATO allies such as Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Enhanced support for defense cooperation with the Republic of Korea is important to the national security of the U.S. Korean allies have served bravely alongside America in Afghanistan and Iraq, despite difficult political conditions within Korea, said Bond.  Bond stated that in Washington many are raising increasing concern over Chinas rising military and economic influence in Asia. Contrary to this development, the new majority in the U.S. seems prepared to end a U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, said Bond. Bond noted that the maintaining the agreement would open up markets in multiple areas including finance, services, agriculture, and automobiles.  The U.S. cannot afford to sit on the sidelines while other countries in Asia and Europe provide their companies with an edge, said Bond. Such an agreement would strengthen Americas economic and strategic position right on Chinas doorstep.  The Truman Conference is held approximately every other year and alternates between Seoul, Korea and Columbia. The MU-Korean relationship began when President Harry S. Truman returned to Missouri after his presidency and the Korean War. Truman created an opportunity for qualified Korean students to attend MU tuition-free. More than 50 years later, more than 200 Korean students on average attend MU each year. Now, many Korean graduates of MU are executives, scholars, and government leaders. In the most recent May 2004 elections, four MU alumni were elected to the Korean National Assembly.  # # #  
