
WASHINGTON, D.C.  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced plans for three new Community Health Center (CHC) sites under the Presidents High Poverty Initiative which will expand services in Linn, Jefferson City, Marshfield, Wentzville and Warrenton. Missouri will receive almost $2 million to expand health care services.  Community Health Centers provide patients in need a health care home with high quality, cost effective, accessible care, said Bond. Health Centers are an indispensable component of the health care safety net in Missouri and throughout the country. I am so pleased to have been a partner in the effort to expand health centers in Missouri.  Laura J. Heebner, Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President of the Crider Health Center said, Crider Health Center is proud to obtain the status of a Federally Qualified Health Center. This status fills a significant need in the counties we currently serve. Until now, the citizens of Franklin, Lincoln, Warren, St. Charles and other surrounding counties who are underinsured or uninsured have not had the benefit of local Federally Qualified Health Center services and instead often had to suffer and travel great distances to receive even the most basic care. Now, those same people in this service area can come to Crider Health Center and make it their healthcare care home where they can receive integrated primary, behavioral, and dental healthcare services.  Missouri will receive funds for the following new sites:  * $600,000 for Community Health Center of Central Missouri to expand capacity and services in Linn and Jefferson City.  * $450,000 for Advocates for a Health Community/Jordan Valley Community Health Center to expand services in Marshfield.  * $600,000 for Crider Health Center to expand services in Wentzville and Warrenton.  In addition to these new sites, Missouri will receive three grants to support planning and development activities essential to establishing a health center site in the future. Planning grant recipients include:  * $80,000 for the Coalition for Primary Care/Missouri Primary Care Association to work with the local community to identify and assess gaps in care in Moniteau County  * $80,000 for the Coalition for Primary Care/Missouri Primary Care Association to work with the local community to identify and assess gaps in care in Hickory County.  * $72,000 for Katy Trail Community Health to work with the local community to identify and assess gaps in care in Morgan County.  Access to quality and affordable health care is a nationwide problem, Bond pointed out. With 47 million people without health insurance, 35 million without access to a doctor, and too many people relying on emergency rooms as their only health care, community health centers are an important part of the solution. These centers, serve everyone, regardless of ability to pay, in a cost-effective way. Bond said that currently, community health centers serve nearly 16 million patients nationally with high-quality primary and preventive care that reduces the risk of new health care problems and lowers the overall cost of health care. The Federal Office of Management and Budget lists health centers as one of the most effective federal programs nationwide.  Since Bond served as Missouris Governor he has been an advocate for community health centers. In 2000, Bond joined colleagues on both sides of the aisle to increase funding for community health centers by almost 90 percent. Through the REACH Initiative, funding for community health centers was increased by over $900 million, the largest increase in federal funding in the 40 years of the health center movement. This increase in funding has fostered an unprecedented explosion in both the number of health center sites and in the number of patients served by health centers across the country.  # # #  
