
SPRINGFIELD, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond and House Whip Roy Blunt today joined City of Springfield and Springfield-Branson Airport officials to announce the passage of federal provisions critical to the airport and the region’s future, including almost $3 million in funds.      “Good transportation is the key to economic growth.  Companies will locate in areas where there are good roads, good airports and good public transit to bring workers in, which is why today’s announcement is so important to this region,” said Senator Kit Bond, chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee. "The continued expansion of the Springfield-Branson airport is critical to meet the growing demand for air service in southwest Missouri."   	Congressman Blunt said, “The midfield terminal will put a new face on Springfield for people who come here for business and leisure activities.  The new airport terminal will offer new conveniences, more security and the expandability to meet the needs of future travelers.  I commend the foresight of community leaders in keeping pace with the growth of Southwest Missouri and offering our residents greater opportunities to connect to the world through the expanded Springfield-Branson National Airport terminal.”   Blunt and Bond secured the $2.8 million for the airport in the fiscal year 2006 Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations bill, which was signed into law in November.  In previous fiscal years, the two federal representatives secured $7 million for the Springfield-Branson airport project.     Today, Bond and Blunt emphasized his continued commitment to the airport’s expansion and its importance to the continued growth of the region.  Bond and Blunt said that, although the federal appropriations process is more difficult every year, they will continue to use his chairmanship to deliver federal transportation dollars to Missouri for projects like the expansion at Springfield-Branson National airport.    	Bond and Blunt attached a critical airport provision to the Transportation-Treasury-HUD spending bill.  Without their bill, the Springfield-Branson Airport would not be able to continue its terminal expansion project.  Bond and Blunt stressed that the replacement terminal is key as the demand for air service in the region continues to grow.    Current law punishes small, growing airports like Springfield-Branson by cutting off Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) funds when an airport’ s status changes from a non-hub airport to a small hub primary airport.  The legislation allows these small airports to remain eligible for federal aviation funds.  Specifically, after an airport’s status changes, airport expansion projects can receive FAA funds for three fiscal years after the start of construction, or if the Secretary of Transportation determines continued eligibility is necessary until completion.	    With rapidly growing population rates, workforce, and tourism industry, Southwest Missouri’s demand for commercial air service is far exceeding the current operational capacity at the Springfield-Branson National Airport.  Expanded airfield and terminal capacity is needed to meet this growing demand.  In addition to the inability of the old terminal to meet today’s passenger loads which causes long waiting periods for ticketing, security and baggage handling, the terminal is unable to accommodate current Transportation Security Administration functions in a manner that expedites travel.		     	In addition to the airport provision, Bond and Blunt also were successful in attaching a provision to the transportation bill that would exempt Missouri from the restrictions of the Wright Amendment. Currently, the Wright Amendment prevents direct flights from Love Field to most states. Under the provision, flights between Love Field and Kansas City and Love Field and St. Louis will be permitted.
