
JEFFERSON CITY, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that legislation including the $66 million in federal funds for the new federal courthouse in Jefferson City is now law.  The dollars needed to make the new courthouse a reality are now on the way. This is great news for Jefferson City and Missouris Western District federal court system, said Bond. Todays success would not be possible without the hard work of Congressman Skelton. We will continue to work together and make the right investments in Missouris communities.  Yesterday afternoon the President signed into law the fiscal year 2008 Omnibus appropriations bill. The Omnibus contains 11 of the 12 spending bill needed to continue funding the federal government for the remainder of the current fiscal year. The bill was passed by Congress earlier this month.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond, with the support of Congressman Ike Skelton, secured the $66 million in federal funds in the Omnibus for the courthouse project. Bond previously secured $5.2 million for site selection, planning and design of the new courthouse and additional funds that determined the need for the courthouse in previous fiscal years.   After years of working to secure these funds with Senator Bond and others in Congress, I am thrilled to see the President sign into law this bill that provides $66 million for a new federal courthouse in Jefferson City. This new judicial center is critical to the Western District Court and will mean good things to the people of Jefferson City who have been working diligently to redevelop the old state prison site.   As we look ahead toward the completion of this important federal project, let me extend a special debt of gratitude to Kit Bond for his work on behalf of the new courthouse in the US Senate, said Rep. Ike Skelton.  As a long-time advocate of local, state, and federal law enforcement, Bond has been instrumental in securing federal funds to build new courthouses in St. Louis, Kansas City, and Cape Girardeau and crime laboratories in Springfield, Cape Girardeau and Joplin.    ###  
