
CALIFORNIA, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Missouri Department of Transportation, state and local officials, to break ground on the Highway 50 four-lane relocation project. The new divided four-lane Highway 50 will provide a safer and smoother trip for the many residents of Cole and Moniteau Counties that make the daily commute to and from Jefferson City, and for everyone else who uses this road, said Bond. These improvements are an investment in the future success, economic prospects and quality of life for everyone in the region, and I am honored to have helped fund this project.   Todays groundbreaking will be on the first phase of the Highway 50 project. The project will expand Highway 50 from St. Martins to California to four lanes. Highway 50 carries approximately 8,000 vehicles a day on the California end and approximately 10,000 vehicles a day on the St. Martins end. Highway 50 serves as an alternate to Interstate 70 and a high commuter route to and from Jefferson City.   Bond stressed the importance of good roads and bridges at todays groundbreaking. He pointed out Missourians have experienced unsafe road conditions and gridlock for years. Even worse an average of three Missourians each day lose their lives on Missouri roads.   Some of the fatalities on Missouri roads are due to poor road conditions including poorly marked or signed roads, crumbling pavement and narrow two-lane roads carrying traffic volume significantly higher than that for which they were intended, like Highway 50. On the 17 mile stretch of Highway 50, there have been more than 800 accidents since 2000, and 13 people have lost their lives.  As chairman of the Senate Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee, Bond coauthored the 2005 federal highway bill, to provide much-needed resources to improve Missouris roads and keep people safer. Bond secured over $1 billion in new highway funds for Missouri in the highway bill and $467.5 million for transportation projects statewide in the highway bill, including $20 million for the Highway 50 project.   Making sure Missouris transportation infrastructure is up-to-date is important to safety, jobs, economic development and the future of our state, said Bond.   Bond praised the work of local officials who made the Highway 50 project a reality. He emphasized that todays groundbreaking marks the culmination of years of planning by community leaders, and a special commitment to improve and enhance the quality of life of residents.  # # #  
