
WASHINGTON, DC – As one of the authors of the federal highway bill, U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he has secured $25 million in funds for a pedestrian and bicycle transportation network in Columbia in the legislation.      	“The City of Columbia has long been a leader in supporting alternative means of transportation,” said Bond.  “In addition to encouraging walking and bicycling to reduce congestion and pollution, this project will promote healthy living for area residents.  I am pleased I was able to secure funding to make this innovative program a reality.”     	The $25 million project Bond secured in the transportation bill is one of only four nationwide Non-motorized Transportation Pilot Programs.  The funds will be used to create a network of Non-motorized Transportation infrastructure facilities, including sidewalks, bicycle lanes, and pedestrian and bicycle trails that connect directly with transit stations, schools, businesses, recreation areas and other community activity centers.      	As Chairman of the Senate Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee, Bond has led the fight in the Senate to reauthorize a new transportation bill and earlier this year worked with other Senators to boost the Senate bill by $11 billion.     	With negotiators today nearing an agreement on the new transportation bill Bond expects to announce over $1.2 billion in additional funding for Missouri and that the state will no longer pay more to the federal government than it receives in highway funds, an historic first for Missouri.     	The new formula programs, combined with an extra $265 million in earmarked funds for Missouri, ensures that Missouri will for the first time in the history of the state receive more in federal highway funds than it pays to the federal government.     Bond’s fight for more money has resulted in more than $200 million in new dollars each year for Missouri. Under the bill, Missouri will receive $865 million through the formula programs each year, up from $661 million in the last transportation bill.
