
ST. LOUIS  The U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) has secured 23.5 acres of land at 1829 Dunn Road for the construction of a new facility for the National Archives and Records Administrations (NARA) National Personnel Records Center.When complete, the new building will be approximately 520,000 square feet with 280,000 square feet for storage and 240,000 square feet for office space.  This is exciting news for St. Louis. I was pleased to work with County Officials, NARA and GSA to create the opportunity to construct a state-of-the-art records facility, said Senator Christopher S. Kit Bond (R-Mo.). This new facility will ensure that some 600 highly skilled jobs in the National Personnel Records Center remain in St. Louis. I commend the community for putting its best foot forward to save these jobs and I am glad that I was able to play a part in assisting in their efforts.  NARAs National Personnel Records Center is one of the agencys largest operations with a central repository of personnel-related records for both military and civil service employees. Its the mission of the center to provide world-class service to government agencies, military veterans, former civilian federal employees and family members, as well as researchers and historians.  This is great news for Spanish Lake, Bellefontaine Neighbors and St. Louis County, said Congressman Wm. Lacy Clay (D-Mo.). We fought hard to keep these good jobs in our community, and now we not only keep all the jobs, this site will also generate new development at a prime location in North County.  The majority of NARA operations will relocate from the Federal Records Center at 9700 Page Avenue. 1829 Dunn Road is about 10 miles northeast of the Federal Records Center. Functions from NARAs downtown facility on Winnebago Street and its Dielman Avenue annex will also relocate to the new facility.  We are grateful that NARA is staying in St. Louis County and all 600 jobs will remain in place, said St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley. The relocation of the facility is a win-win for everyone. Important records will be stored properly in a new state-of-the-art building, and employees will keep their jobs. Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Clay were instrumental in this important effort, and I thank them for their support of St. Louis County.  The decision to remain in St. Louis County is great news. We are all about retaining and attracting businesses to St. Louis County, said Denny Coleman, president and chief executive officer of St. Louis County Economic Council. We appreciate the collaborative efforts between the GSA and public officials in working with us to keep this important project in the County. Senator Bond and Congressman Clay were key in keeping this facility site in St. Louis County.  With a purchase option on the land, GSA will now conduct a competitive two-step lease procurement process to select a developer. The purchase option will be assigned to the selected developer for the construction of a build-to-suit lease for the government.  This new facility will meet stringent environmental standards for preserving these irreplaceable records and will provide great work space to the agency employees, genealogists and historians who perform research in the records, as well as to our 600 national archives employees who answer over 1.5 million requests each year, said Ron Hindman, Director of NARAs National Personnel Records Center.  
