
WASHINGTON (Thursday, April 28) – Sens. Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.)  Thursday introduced legislation to eliminate an imbalance in the small housing allowance for enlisted members and officers of the nation’s 870,000-member Selected Reserve of the United States, which includes the National Guard and Reserves. The bill would mandate that members of the reserves who are called to active duty receive the same monthly housing allowance as active duty members of the military. This increase would raise allowances on average by $300 to $400.    “The reliance on the Guard and Reserve has increased substantially since the attacks of 9-11.  As a result, our members have been called upon in large numbers to support the war on terror,” Bond said.  “These men and women have willingly answered the call to duty.  As our government continues to ask more from them, it is only fair that we provide for these citizen-soldiers and their families.”    “Since 9/11 we have been asking our National Guard and Reserve members to take on greater and greater responsibilities and risks,” said Leahy.  “They have bravely accepted their key roles in our national defense, and they deserve better than the second-class treatment they have gotten in return.  We need to ensure that our dedicated men and women receive identical benefits for identical effort and sacrifice when they go on active duty.  Our citizen-soldiers are fighting side by side with active duty military units, and it’s fitting and fair that they have equal benefits and treatment while they are putting their lives on hold to serve our country.  Our bill helps bridge that gap.”    The National Guard and Reserve Housing Equity Act of 2005, which has been endorsed by several major Reserve associations, including the National Guard Association of the United States, the Army Association of the United States and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States, would eliminate the discretion of the Office of the Secretary of Defense to set a lower housing allowance for reservists called to serve short terms.  Under current law, members of the National Guard maintaining private residences who are called for active duty for periods of fewer than 140 days receive a Basic Allowance of Housing II (BAHII).  The allowance has consistently been set at lower levels than the active duty housing allowance.    Bond and Leahy pointed out that the National Guard now comprises 50 percent of the combat force in Iraq and 40 percent of the total force.  While the role of the Guard has expanded the disparity in compensation between active and Guard/Reserve, particularly in housing, has remained the same.  For many citizen-soldiers who are being deployed for longer periods of time, Leahy and Bond’s legislation will offer much needed and deserved housing assistance.    Bond and Leahy, the co-chairs of the Senate National Guard Caucus, have championed legislation to protect members of the Selected Reserves in the past.
