
  ST. JOSEPH, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that the National Science Foundation has awarded Missouri Western State University a $170,000 competitive grant for their Synthetic Biology Research for Undergraduates (SyBR-U) program.  This funding will assist an institution that is already on the cutting edge of scientific research in many fields. This program will go a long way towards attracting and training future scientists and researchers at Missouri Western, said Senator Bond.  Missouri Western will use the funds to expand opportunities for undergraduates to discover connections between mathematics and biology and to conduct research in synthetic biology, a new field of study with applications in energy, medicine and technology. Missouri Western is collaborating with Davidson College in North Carolina on the project. The three-year grant will pay for communication technology needed for the collaboration, visits by nationally known guest speakers, research supplies, summer stipends for research students, and travel to the annual international Genetically Engineered Machines (iGEM) competition at MIT. Last year, the combined Western/Davidson research team won five awards at iGEM, including a first place award for oral presentation by the Western team.  Missouri Western professors praised the program for providing a rich research experience for students. It gives students the chance to design a project, perform the experiments, troubleshoot any problems, evaluate the results, and present their work at an international forum, said Dr. Jeff Poet, associate professor of mathematics at Missouri Western State University and one of the teams faculty leaders.  Educators at the University also pointed out that in the program's first two years, students have been identified for participation near the end of their college careers. Now, they'll be identified much earlier -- in the spring semester of their freshman year. This grant will make interdisciplinary research the foundation of our program rather than the pinnacle of it, said Dr. Todd Eckdahl, professor of biology and the other faculty leader.  Project leaders anticipate that their approach to engaging students in the discovery of connections between mathematics and biology and their methods of distance collaboration will serve as a model for institutions across the country that share the responsibility of educating tomorrows research scientists.  Senator Bond is a strong supporter of the University. The Senator has secured planning funds for Missouri Westerns Math and Science building as well as funding for the new business incubator that will enhance research and employment opportunities.  ###   
