
  INDEPENDENCE, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Independence Mayor Don Reimal and other local officials to celebrate the completion of the new Independence Transit Center (ITC) for the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA).  This project is a direct result of a strong partnership between the federal government, local leadership and community involvement, said Bond. There is no substitute for cooperation.  Bond stated that the real benefactors are the people who utilize the city transit system. Many people depend on bus transit for access to jobs, medical care, and groceries. As roads become more congested, dependable mass transit options become even more important, stated Bond. Bond stressed that for those whose only option is the bus, safe and convenient transportation must be ensured.  As the ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that funds the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Bond was instrumental in securing $400,000 in federal funds in 2003 for the transit center. Those funds were used to replace the current location where buses stage. Before the transit center was built, buses would stage in the curb lane of Osage Street between Lexington and Maple Streets on the west side of Independence Square. Transfers among the routes and patron parking for local businesses would also occur at this location making it difficult for drivers to operate buses and creating inadequate parking space for transit commuters and local business.  The new ITC facility is located at the northwest corner of Truman and Noland Roads, which is a prominent intersection on the north side of historic Independence Square. The 1.1 acre site was selected by a committee of stakeholders and senior city staff.  The KCATA Bus service in Independence runs between downtown Kansas City and Independence and 6 routes which operate exclusively within the Independence City limits. The six routes are color coded for ease of use. The bus system also operates using a pulse system in which all buses arrive and depart from a common location at approximate the same time every hour.  # # #  
