
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today praised the Senate passage of the energy bill, which includes his amendment calling for a common sense approach to fuel efficiency.  Bond said the legislation was key to developing a national, comprehensive energy policy.      	“This comprehensive energy bill is necessary to address the high cost of energy, provide additional opportunities for energy production and U.S. jobs, and reduce our growing dependence on foreign oil,” said Bond.    	Bond stressed that the Senate-passed bill will help America meet its growing energy needs both now and into the future.  He pointed out that high energy prices continue to be a drag on the U.S. economy, particularly for producers and manufacturers. To become more energy independent, Bond said, the United States must safely develop sources of energy where they exist and find innovative methods to develop further our nation’s energy capabilities.    	Also, Bond ensured that the energy bill includes a common-sense approach to fuel efficiency.  His fuel efficiency amendment aimed at protecting jobs and safety was overwhelmingly passed by the Senate by a vote of 64 - 31.      	Bond argued that other competing proposed fuel efficiency amendments, which were defeated, would, if enacted, eliminate minivans, sport utility vehicles and light trucks in this country, and the jobs of the workers that assemble them. In Missouri, 36,000 men and women work directly for the auto industry and 200,000 jobs are auto-dependent. In addition, Bond said the proposed arbitrary fuel efficiency standards would have to be met by decreasing vehicle weight. Statistics show that decreasing vehicle weight directly affects the fatality rates on roads and bridges. A 2001 federal report found that increased fuel standards contributed to between 1,300 to 2,600 deaths on the road in 1993.    	In an effort to protect the environment while preserving safety and jobs, Bond teamed with Senator Carl Levin (D-Michigan), to craft a more sensible package.  The Bond-Levin amendment directs the experts at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to consider key elements such as technological feasibility, cost, safety, emissions controls, consumer choice and the effect on American jobs of any proposed changes in fuel standards.      	The Senate energy bill contained controversial provisions calling for mandatory limits on emissions linked to global warming.  Bond successfully fought to remove these provisions, arguing that without a firm understanding of our climate, harsh and unproven restrictions that would cost jobs, drive industry overseas and run up consumers' energy bills, should not be enacted.    	Before being sent to the President to be signed into law, the Senate energy bill will be reconciled with the House passed bill.
