
MARBLE HILL - U.S. Senator Kit Bond met today with local officials and public transportation advocates to congratulate Southeast Missouri Transportation Service’s (SMTS) recent nomination for the Nation Public Service Award from the United States Department of Transportation.    	“Reliable transportation is something those of us with cars often take for granted.  But it is a critical need for anyone who wants to work, shop and be a part of society.  SMTS provides a reliable lifeline ensuring transportation to those who do not have access to an automobile,” said Bond.  “SMTS helps bring people to jobs, health care, and other services.  Many people rely on bus and van service to get to work, stores and the doctor.  Our seniors especially need SMTS to maintain an independent lifestyle.”   	“After an automobile accident in 1997 I decided to quit driving and began to use SMTS,” stated Freeda Huskey, retired Woodland school teacher. “Through the years I have come to rely on the courteous employees of SMTS for doctor appointments, shopping, going to the nutrition center and other day to day transportation needs.   We are grateful for Senator Bond’s support of SMTS and the wonderful service the employees extend to us.”   	Bond applauded SMTS for today’s honor and the dedication and tireless effort of SMTS employees to serve the transportation needs of residents in southeast Missouri.  SMTS provides Missourians in southeast Missouri, particularly the disabled and elderly, with transportation and access to a number of services, including employment, training, medical treatment, and grocery shopping.   	SMTS was organized in the early 1970's while Bond served as Missouri Governor.  When first established, three SMTS vans served approximately 200 southeast Missourians.  Today, 130 vehicles make over 360,000 passenger trips annually in the 21 counties served by SMTS.   Since becoming U. S. Senator, Bond has acquired over $5 million in federal funds for SMTS to expand and improve access for SMTS operations in the region.    "We're extremely grateful for the federal resources Senator Bond has acquired through the years for us to expand and improve SMTS operations in the region,” stated Ray Skaggs, Chairman of SMTS.  "While serving as Governor, and now a senior U.S. Senator, Kit Bond has always been a champion of transportation for senior citizens, handicapped and those less fortunate to insure they have access to health care, shopping and other day to day needs many of us take for granted." 					###
