
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Missouri legislators, transportation officials and advocates, and local leaders at the Missouri Transportation Development Council conference in St. Louis.    	“It is clear to me that we have some difficult challenges to address, but there are a lot of good people working on these issues who care about transportation in our state,” said Bond.  “One of our big strengths in Missouri is that we all work together:  federal, state and local government officials and the private sector.  Working together we have made a lot of progress and I expect more great things from you in the next 50 years.”   	At today’s conference Bond stressed the importance of the nation’s interstate system.  Fifty years and 42,000 miles later, the passage of the National Interstate and Defense Highways Act of 1956 was a policy success.  Bond pointed out that beginning with the first road constructed, Missouri’s Interstate 70, the interstate system has transformed the physical landscape of America and has been a huge economic boon for America. The interstate system’s construction has created an estimated 47,500 new jobs for every $1 billion invested.  It has also linked markets and made it much easier to move goods from one part of the country to another.  The economy grew from $400 billion in 1956 to nearly $12 trillion in 2004.      	Last summer, Congress passed and the President signed new federal highway legislation which builds on the interstate system’s success.  As chairman of the Senate Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee, Bond coauthored the federal highway bill, in which he secured well over $1 billion in new highway funds for Missouri and $467.5 million for transportation projects statewide – 30 percent more funds than under current law.   Over and above the formula, Bond was able to deliver funds for some very important projects including $75 million for the Mississippi River Bridge, $50 million for the Paseo Bridge in Kansas City, $20 million for the Page Avenue Extension, and funds for Highway 54, 13, and 36, to name a few.   	“The new highway bill will help us repair our crumbling roads and bridges, alleviate congestion in crowded areas, and make safety improvements that will continue to save lives on all roads,” said Bond.    	While there has been tremendous progress made, Bond pointed out that there is still important work to do, including the need to build on the safety provisions in last year’s bill.  An average of three Missourians die every day on our roads and more should be done to prevent these deaths.   Also, with the next highway reauthorization bill only a few years away, Bond will fight to ensure Missouri continues to receive its fair share of federal resources.     	Bond outlined some of the critical legislation that will continue to shape our nation’s transportation future, such as the Federal Aviation Administration’s reauthorization bill which must be acted upon next year and the Water Resources Development Act, which Bond is currently fighting to pass before Congress adjourns.  Bond stressed that transportation policy goes beyond roads to air travel, transit, river travel, even energy.
