
KANSAS CITY, MO    U.S. Senator Kit Bond today celebrated the renovation and expansion of the emergency department at Truman Medical Center-Hospital Hill.    	 “The renovated and expanded emergency department is a win-win for our community,” said Senator Kit Bond.  “The patients that need critical care will have access to top flight care in a state-of-the-art facility and our community will be better prepared in the face of unexpected or catastrophic events.”     	As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $1 million in federal funds for the modernization of TMC's emergency department in 2003, much needed funds to improve patient care in one of Missouri's busiest trauma care centers.       	After touring the emergency room and meeting with administrators, doctors, nurses and staff, the need for a new facility became clear.  Bond saw crowded waiting rooms, crowded hallways, and even crowded treatment areas.  An expansion of the Emergency Department was necessary to meet a tremendous demand that exceeds current capacity in one of Missouri's busiest Level I Trauma Centers.       	The expansion enlarged the emergency department from 15,000 square feet to 35,000 square feet, nearly doubling the number of beds to 52.   Among the emergency department new features are new trauma rooms; urgent care beds; upgrade of biohazard decontamination area with isolated waiting and triage areas equipped with separate air circulation system; and special needs treatment unit for patients with psychiatric illness or behavioral problems associated with substance abuse.     	Bond pointed out that this project not only increases patient care, but also ensures the Kansas City community is better prepared in the face of unexpected or catastrophic events.  With a new air intake system to protect staff and the public from the potential spread of communicable diseases, TMC Hospital Hill would be an important first responder to worst-case scenario events, including bio-terrorism events.     “Truman Medical Center is a strong asset in our community, meeting the healthcare challenges in our community,” said Bond.  “The new emergency department builds on their past success and positions TMC to meet the future demands and challenges.”
