
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that the National Guard will receive $302 million for critical equipment needs in a Defense Appropriations bill that also includes an additional $65 million for the St. Louis-built F-15.    	“These funds are a good start to helping our citizen-soldiers meet urgent equipment needs,” said Bond.  “As we call upon our Guard and Reserve troops more and more it is our duty to provide them with the resources they need to do their jobs.  I am glad my colleagues agreed to provide these critical funds.”      	Bond, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said the $302 million in federal funds are included in the fiscal year 2006 Senate Defense Appropriations bill which passed the full Appropriations Committee this afternoon.  The Army National Guard will receive $152 million with the remaining $150 million going to the Air National Guard.     	Earlier this month, Bond, founder and Co-Chair of the U.S. Senate National Guard Caucus, along with Senator Patrick Leahy, asked the Bush Administration to provide $1.3 billion for new National Guard equipment.  Bond hopes to see these dollars included in the next supplemental bill.    	Bond emphasized that since September 11th the Guard has taken on greater responsibilities and risks.  As a result, members have been called upon in large numbers to support the War on Terror and disaster assistance.  Additional national emergencies could place unrealistic burdens on the Guard. Right now the National Guard has a dangerously low level of equipment available for natural disasters, a potential large-scale terrorist attack and readiness training.	     	Also, Bond and Talent announced the Defense Appropriations spending bill provided $65 million for F-15 procurement.  This announcement supplements the $110 million Bond secured in last year’s defense appropriations bill, bringing the total amount available for F-15 production to $175 million.     "For years I have fought to keep Missouri jobs here in Missouri and keeping the St. Louis line open is part of that effort," Bond said.  "These funds will ensure the F-15 line remains open and provide the Air Force and tax payers with an affordable, proven, and effective tactical fighter aircraft in the Global War on Terror and against any adversary that dare take us on," said Bond, who has led the charge in Congress for the procurement of additional F-15's.      	“This was a team effort,” said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.  “I serve on the authorizing committee and Sen. Bond serves on the appropriations committee, and together we were able to approve funding for the F-15s in the Armed Services Committee and obtain funding for the aircraft in the Appropriations Committee.  The simple fact is that the F-15 is an exceptional strike aircraft with great range and payload which speaks volumes about the quality delivered by the Boeing workforce in Missouri.  We can continue to upgrade the F-15E for years to come with the latest radar and other capabilities so it will continue to be the workhorse it’s always been.”     	In addition to these funds, the Senators stressed the importance of Singapore’s recent announcement to purchase Boeing’s F-15, ensuring the St. Louis production line will remain open.
