
	WASHINGTON – Senator Kit Bond has returned from a week-long trip to Southeast Asia where he met with government and military leaders to discuss counterterrorism efforts in the region as well as possible future sales of Missouri-made fighter jets.   	As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Bond received briefings and assessments on regional security and terrorism issues during talks with counterparts and security officials in Singapore, Malaysia and Cambodia. He also met with U.S. intelligence personnel to oversee their activities abroad and was encouraged with their ongoing efforts to keep America safe.   	Bond stressed the need for the U.S. to stay engaged with the region. He highlighted the need to cooperate on counterterrorism and trade issues in order to enhance relationships and provide a counter to both the growth of terrorism and China's advancing influence in the area.   	“The United States cannot ignore this part of the world,” said Bond. “If we do, this region can either become a breeding ground of terrorist activity for generations or, as long as the U.S. stays engaged, it can be a lifetime partner in the battle against terrorism. It is critical that we lay the foundation for that relationship now.”     	In addition, Bond discussed the possible future sale of St. Louis-built fighter planes such as the F/A-18 and F-15. Bond thanked Singapore officials for their purchase of 12 F-15s, adding that the country may be considering buying additional aircraft in the near future.   	“Singapore officials have the highest standards of quality when it comes to purchasing military equipment,” said Bond, stressing that the F-15 will stay in the Air Force fleet through 2025. “Their embrace of the F-15 further validates the effectiveness of the F-15 and the good work of our St. Louis workers.”     	As the leading biotechnology advocate in Congress, Bond also conferred with overseas officials, particularly in Malaysia, to discuss the biotechnology revolution and Missouri's unique research role in that effort. As part of the F/A-18 proposed sale to Malaysia, Boeing and the Danforth Plant Science Center have offered the establishment of the Malaysian Institute for Plant Biotechnology.	  						###
