
CAPE GIRARDEAU – U.S. Senator Kit Bond visited Cape Girardeau today to update members of the local Chamber of Commerce and other area officials on the latest news in Washington. Bond said he hoped Congress will be able to work together to support policies that benefit our economy.     	“I hope Congress and the President will be able to work together to keep the momentum going on policies that benefit our economy,” said Bond.  “Our economy is strong, and that’s not by accident.  It has flourished largely because of tax relief and sensible economic policies.”     Last year Congress extended the reduced capital gains and dividend rate, AMT relief and small business tax incentives. This legislation was an extension of the massive tax relief enacted in 2001 and 2003 that is now benefiting everyone who is married, has a child, or owns a small business.      	Bond said more than 7.2 million jobs were created since August 2003, better than the European Union and Japan combined. The United States has a 4.5 percent unemployment rate, lower than the 1960’s, 1970’s, 1980’s or 1990’s.  The Center for Economic and Business Research at Southeast Missouri State University estimates personal income will rise about 5 – 6 percent, and employment about 1 – 2 percent in the southeast Missouri region during 2007.   On Iraq, Bond said he agreed with the President’s State of the Union comments that a stable Iraq is critical to America’s security. Earlier this week Bond spoke against the Iraq Resolution, which rejects the President’s plan.  He called the resolution irresponsible and stressed that the resolution is telling the Sunni terrorist cells and the Shi’a militas that America’s political will is wavering.      	“Congress cannot and should not, micro-manage the war in Iraq – the troops in the field like to call that the 8,000 mile screw-driver,” said Bond.   	Bond, who became the Vice-Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee this year, said intelligence is central to our efforts to fight terror.  He emphasized that when we get the intelligence right it not only serves to protect our citizens, it makes our men and women in uniform even more effective.     Bond, a member of the Appropriations Committee said that while he is now in the minority he wants to make sure next year’s appropriations bills provide Missouri and the nation with the resources we need in key programs.      	“Obviously transportation is immensely important to our state and the nation. Making sure Missouri’s transportation infrastructure is up-to-date is important to jobs, economic development and the future of our state,” said Bond.    	Bond added that he was excited to hear the President’s commitment to seek solutions to our energy needs through greater dependence on ethanol, biodiesel and renewable fuels such as wood chips, grasses and agricultural waste. He praised the President for recognizing the important role our Nation's farmers and ranchers will play in reducing our dependence on foreign oil and the Middle East.
