
KANSAS CITY  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $250,000 in federal funds in the Commerce-Justice spending bill to prevent sexual assault, violence and child abuse in Kansas City.MOCSA is an important organization that works hard to prevent sex crimes and alleviate the pain of its victims. These funds will not only help those that suffer from sexual assaults, but help build safer communities in Missouri, said Bond.  Bond secured $250,000 for Metropolitan Organization to Counter Sexual Assault (MOCSA) in Kansas City, which will fund child abuse treatment and support, sexual assault advocacy and intervention, and sexual violence prevention and education. The new funding will also help to support expanded community services and staff, increasing victim advocates by 60 percent.  Currently, MOCSA serves Kansas City and several surrounding counties including Jackson, Clay and Platte Counties in Missouri and Johnson, Wyandotte, and Miami Counties in Kansas. MOCSA provides a 24-hour crisis line, 24/7 accompaniment and support during forensic rape examinations and law enforcement appointments, crisis intervention counseling for victims of rape and sexual assault, individual group and family therapy for sexually abused children and their families, art therapy and play therapy, support groups and education programs. MOCSA also provides several prevention and education programs including middle and high school prevention programs, community outreach and a comprehensive resource library.  The men and women at MOCSA are working hard to meet the growing demands of those who have been sexually assaulted and abused, as well as schools and parents who are seeking prevention programs for children and youth. Senator Bonds efforts to secure additional funding will allow us to support and continue to expand our services, including support and counseling for victims; working with the criminal justice system; and sexual violence prevention and education, said Palle Rilinger, MOCSA Executive Director.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $250,000 in federal funds in the fiscal year 2008 in the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee today. Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  ###  
