
WASHINGTON, D.C.  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $1 million in federal funds in the Commerce-Justice-Science spending bill for immunology research at Saint Louis University (SLU).St. Louis University is a research leader in immunology, viral disease and vaccine development, said Bond. This vital funding will allow SLU to build on that experience and its existing relationship with NASA to address issues critical to the future of space travel and which will result in improved vaccine development.  Bond secured $1 million for the National Aeronautics Space Administration (NASA) Immunology Research Program at SLU. The federal dollars will support immunology research that will compliment NASA research on maintaining a healthy immune system, a significant problem for astronauts exposed to microgravity. Astronauts such as those on the International Space Station who are exposed to microgravity for long periods of time are susceptible to infectious agents and at risk of disease. Researchers at SLU will look to understand the pathogenic mechanism behind these negative effects and develop safe, effective vaccines for astronauts.  Bond stressed that the funds are important to the public because this research will help all people who have compromised immune systems fight illness and infectious disease. Senator Bond has been a close friend of Saint Louis University, helping to secure funding for our Institute for Bio-Security and financial support for our immunology research, said Jennifer Lodge, Ph.D., Associate Dean for Research at St. Louis University School of Medicine. Saint Louis University thanks Senator Bond for his strong and continued support of the University's health research efforts.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $1 million in federal funds in the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee. Before being signed into law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  ###  
