
ST. LOUIS, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $100,000 in federal funds in the Commerce-Justice spending bill to address gang violence in St. Louis.ARCHS in St. Louis will help keep our kids off the street and in school, said Bond. The ARCHS program is key to our efforts to reach kids before the gangs do.  Bond secured $100,000 to expand the Area Resources for Community and Human Services (ARCHS) Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T.) Partnership with St. Louis area law enforcement. There are 175 documented gangs and 4,244 gang members in the Metropolitan St. Louis Area, said Bond citing a 2005 St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department Statistic. The ARCHS partnership will help prevent St. Louis children from joining their ranks.  The partnership will use police officers as a positive influence for St. Louis area children, through interaction in elementary and middle school classrooms. The G.R.E.A.T. partnership offers classroom presentations, summer school programs and family activities for many children in the St. Louis area. G.R.E.A.T. also works with students to develop positive decision making skills to help decrease delinquency, youth violence, gang membership and continue educational learning, stressed Bond.  Bond praised community partnership organizations like ARCHS, which reaches more than 150,000 Missourians, for expanding the states resources by matching public and private entities to benefit local residents and communities.  ARCHS is pleased to partner with Senator Bond to ensure that more Greater St. Louis area youth can learn positive life skills, avoid gang influences and experience first hand the important and vital role police officers play in our lives through G.R.E.A.T., said Wendell E. Kimbrough, ARCHS Chief Executive Officer. Expanding our G.R.E.A.T. partnership is an example of Senator Bonds lifelong commitment to improving the lives of students and families throughout the region.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $100,000 in federal funds in the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee. Before being signed into law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  ###  
