
CAPE GIRARDEAU, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $1 million in federal funds in the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies spending bill for the National Aeronautics Space Administration (NASA) Education Program at Southeast Missouri State that will enhance kindergarten through 12th grade science, mathematics, and technology education throughout the state.Missouri is a leader in biotechnology, a field of science that hardly existed 20 years ago. I want Missouri to continue to be a leader in producing the best math and science minds in the country, said Bond. The only way to continue this legacy is to stimulate the minds of our Missouri youth with new and innovative curriculum.  Bond stressed that the NASA education project is having a major impact with the Missouri education system and emphasized the need for more programs like the NASA Education Program. According to recent reports, during the past (2006-2007) school year alone, over 9,000 students (K-12th grade) were directly impacted through program workshops and presentations, and a additional 10,000 students and teachers were impacted through the NASA Mobile Exhibit.  The NASA Education Program operates through Education Resource Centers (ERC), which assists K-12 teachers statewide in math, science, and technology education enhancement. Working with Missouris Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, the NASA-ERC has Resource Agents in St. Louis, Kansas City, Kirksville, Columbia and Springfield. This program has helped more than 6,700 teachers through workshops and presentations. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the initial funds to establish Missouris statewide NASA-ERC network and has continued to secure federal dollars to allow it to grow.  Thousands of teachers and students across Missouri have been enriched by the vision of Senator Kit Bond and the Missouri NASA Education Program initiated by Southeast Missouri State University, stated Dr. Ernest Kern, Director. This is a dream come true for every teacher, parent and administration that seeks to inspire and motivate student interest in math and science. NASA missions may not be a meal-time subject of discussion, but when you can see the many day-to-day applications in the classroom, students become more engaged and seek to learn more because of its relevance in their daily lives.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured the $1 million in federal funds in the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies spending bill, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee. Before being signed into law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.  ###  
