
WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond, chairman of the Senate Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee, today hailed Congressional passage of the federal highway bill, which will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. Bond announced that the legislation includes almost $1.3 billion in new highway funds for Missouri and $467.5 million for transportation projects statewide.   Bond hailed the long-awaited passage of the $286.5 billion federal highway bill and stressed that the new bill will provide almost $1.3 billion in additional highway funding for Missouri over the life of the five-year bill.    This is about putting people to work and saving lives, said Bond, who co-authored the legislation. It has been a long time coming, but all the hard work and time has been worth the wait. Missouri has emerged from this process in a better position than ever. This bill will help build a stronger and safer Missouri for generations.   For years, Bond has fought to increase the return on the dollar that Missourians pay in federal transportation taxes. In the agreement today, Bond successfully fought to increase Missouris share to 98 cents on the dollar. In 1987, when Bond joined the Senate, Missourians received 76 cents on the dollar.   The new formula ensures that Missouri will receive more than $200 million in new highway dollars each year. Under the bill, Missouri will receive $862 million through the formula programs each year, up from $661 million in the last transportation bill.   On top of the extra funding provided by the new formula, Bond also secured over $265 million in additional new funds for specific Missouri highway projects, bringing the total new highway funding level for Missouri to almost $1.3 billion over five years.   In addition to the highway and bridge funds, Bond secured new dollars for the following projects: $50 million for statewide transit projects; $25 million for a non-motorized pilot project in Columbia; $27.5 million for research; and authorization for two new Metrolink Extensions.   Specifically for mid-Missouri Bond secured federal funds for the following projects:  -$25 million for the non-motorized pilot project, Columbia  -$20 million for Hwy 50  four lanes from St. Martens to California  -$3 million for Hwy 54 Lake Ozark Express Way, Miller and Camden Counties  -$19.5 million for the UTC Center of Excellence RD technologies, Rolla  -$8 million for National Biodiesel Research, Jefferson City  -$27 million for Hwy 36 Macon to Rt. 24, Marion, Ralls, Monroe, Shelby, Macon  Counties  Recent studies show nearly 43,000 Americans lose their lives each year on Americas highways and that every $1 billion in new federal investment in highways will create 47,500 jobs.   # # # 
