
KANSAS CITY, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that the final highway bill includes his amendment to allow Kansas City to continue receiving federal transportation air quality funds.  The legislation passed both the House and Senate today and will now be sent to the President to be signed into law.   	 “I will keep up the fight for these critical federal dollars.  I know that you all will keep up the fight for clean air in Kansas City.  Our community deserves no less, and the health of our families deserves no less.”	    	For years Kansas City was plagued with poor air quality.  The region violated federal air quality standards imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).  Kansas City’s air problems threatened the health of children and the elderly, federal rules limited economic development and growth, and local highway programs faced the threat of funding cuts if the air was not improved.   	Through a broad partnership between government, business, and community interests the Kansas City region successfully met federal air quality standards.  Unfortunately, under new regulations by the EPA, this success meant Kansas City was no longer eligible to receive federal funding through the Congestion Mitigation/Air Quality (CMAQ) program, whose funds are used to implement programs aimed at reducing emissions.      	CMAQ funds have been critical in Kansas City’s successful clean air efforts and will play as vital a role in keeping the region’s air clean.  Bond pointed out that these funds are significant – KCATA alone has used $9,945,928 in Missouri and, $11,440,928 in the metro area (including Kansas) in CMAQ dollars in the last five years.    	As the chairman of the Senate Transportation and Infrastructure Environment and Public Works Subcommittee, and a key author of the federal highway bill, Bond was successful in including a provision in the legislation which will protect Kansas City’s CMAQ funding.      Bond also hailed the long-awaited passage of the $286.5 billion federal highway bill and stressed that the new bill will provide almost $1.3 billion in additional highway funding for Missouri over the life of the five-year bill.  Bond was able to earmark $467.5 million for transportation projects statewide.
