
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond announced that the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) passed the full Senate Environment and Public Works Committee today. WRDA includes Bond’s bipartisan legislation to modernize locks on the upper Mississippi River.    “This water resources bill is long overdue.  For six years, critical projects to modernize our nation’s waterways and restore the environment have been on hold,” said Bond.  “Congress cannot afford to repeat past mistakes by again failing to pass this bill.”    	WRDA authorizes the nation’s flood control, ecosystem restoration, and navigation projects.  Bond, who has pushed for WRDA’s passage since 2002, emphasized that the bill is bipartisan and has broad support.  Today the legislation passed the Senate Committee by voice vote.  Last year WRDA passed the full Senate by voice vote and the House of Representatives with 406 votes.     	Bond stressed that for the Midwest, where farmers depend on the lock and dam system to move their products to market, his lock and dam bill is an essential part of WRDA.  Bond’s bill would authorize $1.95 billion in federal funds for seven new locks and an additional $1.72 billion for environmental restoration.       	The current water transportation system, designed for paddlewheel boats and to last 50 years, is nearly 70 years old.  Modernizing the nation’s waterways will help prepare the country for emerging challenges and opportunities in the future, including the projected growth in freight shipping.  Bond pointed out that waterways are an alternative to this growth:  one medium-size tow on the river can carry the same weight as 870 trucks, or two diesel engines in exchange for 870 diesel engines, which makes water transportation more efficient, safe, fuel efficient and environment-friendly.	     	In addition to replacing the aging infrastructure and environmental restoration, Bond’s bill is a critical jobs initiative, creating 48 million man-hours of construction work.
