
	CLINTON, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond visited Clinton today to update members of the local Chamber of Commerce and other area officials on the latest news in Washington.  Following Memorial Day celebrations, Bond honored the brave troops who gave their lives and are now serving in the war against terror.    	“In my view the best way to honor the memory of those who died in Iraq is to continue the mission and defeat Radical Islam,” said Bond. “Violent radical Islamism is our enemy and the front is Iraq.  Al-Qaeda is in Iraq and they will not leave, even if we do.” Earlier this month, Bond led a Congressional fact finding mission to Iraq.  He met with intelligence and defense officials, key leaders, and troops on the frontlines.  Bond cautioned that while it is too early to tell whether the new Iraq plan will be successful, he is pleased to see signs of progress. Bond firmly stated that Congress cannot and should not, micro-manage the war in Iraq.  He praised his colleagues for passing the war funding bill to provide our troops with much-needed funds.   Last week, before breaking for the Memorial Day recess, the Senate began debating another comprehensive immigration reform bill. Bond stressed that the number one priority on immigration should be increasing border security and strengthening enforcement against illegal immigration.  He firmly stated that unless a path for illegal immigrants to citizenship is dropped, the bill is fundamentally flawed and he cannot support it at this time.  	Bond addressed the need to provide Americans relief from record high gas prices. He stressed that the United States needs a comprehensive energy policy that increases all forms of American energy, enhances conservation and invests in future fuels.  Bond pointed out that some in Congress believe they can pass laws to force gas prices lower, but Congress cannot change the law of supply and demand. High energy prices are classic case of more demand than supply driving up prices.  Unfortunately, Congress has taken the “Not in my Backyard” approach to increasing the nation’s energy supplies.   As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Bond asserted that making sure Missouri’s transportation infrastructure is up-to-date is a top priority.  Bond recognized that good transportation is key to economic growth. He cautioned that companies will stay away from areas people cannot get to and that they will go where good roads and good public transit are available. The new federal highway bill, which Bond co-authored, is providing Missouri with much-needed resources, including $1 billion in new money – more than $4 billion in total funding.   	Bond also talked to the local officials and businesses about his efforts to promote Missouri overseas.  Missouri is home to a strong agriculture economy, biotechnology companies, aerospace and transportation manufacturers – all of which have growing markets overseas.  In February, Bond visited several Asian capitals where he met with political and business leaders to promote Missouri’s interests overseas. ###
