
WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Senate today approved U.S. Senators Jim Talent and Kit Bond’s plan to give a special designation to an area in Missouri that is home to America’s only original French Colonial Village left in the United States.      	“This is a one-of-a-kind historical landmark and more Americans should have the opportunity to explore its treasures,” said Sen. Talent.  “The legislation calls for an examination of this truly remarkable area to determine what the federal government’s role should be in partnering with state and local officials to protect and preserve it for generations to come.”     	“Ste. Genevieve tells the important and fascinating story of the French in the New World,” said Bond.  “I think it is only fair to share this story with the entire nation by establishing the French Colonial Heritage Area as part of the National Park System.”    	Senator Talent, a member of the Energy and Natural Resources, introduced the companion legislation to the measure, H.R. 1728, which was approved by the House of Representatives and must now be signed by the President to become law.  In 2002 Bond originally introduced legislation for the special designation.  The legislation officially authorizes the National Parks Service to study the possibility of recognizing the French cultural heritage in the Ste. Genevieve community.      	Ste. Genevieve County is located on the west bank of the Mississippi River, about one hour south of St. Louis.  The community contains many historic buildings and other resources that tell the story of the French culture and settlement of the United States.  Each year, over 50,000 visitors travel to Ste. Genevieve to enjoy the rich heritage.      The homes and buildings, dating back to the late 1700s, are currently managed by the State Department of Natural Resources which has preserved the historic architecture of Ste. Genevieve and converted them to educational facilities devoted to the history of the early French experience in the New World.   	These remarkable historic resources are unique, but many people outside of Missouri haven’t had the opportunity to visit the area.  If the feasibility study determines the area should become a unit of the Parks Service, it would be a candidate to become a National Park and would be eligible for federal funds.
