
ST. LOUIS, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay, University President Lawrence Biondi, S.J. to kick-off the groundbreaking for St. Louis University’s new Research Building.      	“This new building will advance research capabilities here at St. Louis University to meet the constantly evolving security, technology, and research needs,” said Bond.  “In addition this new facility will increase capacity in the critical fight against infectious diseases with particular emphasis on emerging infections, vaccine development, cancer, cardiology, and geriatric medicine.”     	Bond has partnered with the Institute for Bio-Security since its inception in 1999.  The Institute has been instrumental in medical and public health research as well as providing front line emergency workers with the education and training materials needed for preparedness, response, recovery and mitigation efforts in the event of a bioterrorist attack or other possible public health threats.     	The new Research Building being celebrated today will expand research capabilities for the Institute whose materials have been used by the Centers for Disease Control after the September 11th  attacks and by the U.S. Senate during the 2001 anthrax scare.    	Located in midtown St. Louis, the $67 million, 10-story building is part of an $80.5 million project – the largest building project in the University’s history.  Bond stressed that this new center is another building block in securing SLU’s role as a national leader in biodefense and emerging infectious diseases.     	Bond, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has provided critical federal dollars for the Institute, including the initial $1 million that created the Institute in fiscal year 2000.  In all, Bond has secured $4.1 million for the Institute for Bio-Security since its creation, including $1.8 million for the new building.   	“The work done here will advance the University's, Missouri’s and nation's research capabilities and will help to make our country a safer place,” said Bond.
