
WASHINGTON  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced he will become the chairman of a new appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over both the nation’s transportation and housing needs.    “This new subcommittee will play a critical role in building our transportation infrastructure and strengthening our communities,” said Bond. “Modernization of our transportation system, including our highways, is a top priority, along with making sure local communities have the resources to meet their housing needs.”     Bond, who until today chaired the VA-HUD subcommittee, will become the new chairman of the Transportation, Treasury and Housing subcommittee, providing the Senator another platform to shape national transportation policy.     Bond, who has been leading the fight in the Senate to reauthorize a new six-year transportation bill, also serves as chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure subcommittee on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.     As the chairman of the new subcommittee, Bond’s portfolio will expand to include jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Transportation and all transportation-related programs.      In addition, Bond will now oversee funding for the U.S. Treasury Department, Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Election Commission, IRS, Office of Management and Budget, General Services Administration and other agencies.     In addition to these new duties, Bond will continue to oversee all national housing programs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.  Bond will also serve as a new member of the Commerce, Justice and Science subcommittee which has jurisdiction over national science programs, including the National Science Foundation and NASA.    The full Senate Appropriations Committee today assigned new chairmanships for its subcommittees as part of a bicameral effort to streamline the appropriations process. Other subcommittees will now have jurisdiction over veterans’ affairs and the Environmental Protection Agency.
