
KANSAS CITY, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today hosted a Town Hall Forum to highlight the importance of entrepreneurship in America and its impact on the regional economy.  The forum was co-hosted by the Kauffman Foundation, who is a national partner in Entrepreneurship Week across the country.     	“Government doesn’t create jobs, businesses do.  Government can help create the conditions for business to flourish through low taxes, less litigation, a sane regulatory environment, science and technology, modern transportation options, and seed money to jump start the industries of the future,” said Bond.  “In every office I’ve held, I’ve worked hard to create an environment where Missouri businesses can create jobs and stimulate activity in every region of the state.”    	Bond praised the Kauffman Foundation for hosting the town hall and for their work in Kansas City.  He also outlined some of the policy issues that need to be addressed to make it easier for entrepreneurs to do what they do best, and grow the economy.    	The United States faces stiff competition from China and India in the world economy.  In 2005, China graduated over 600,000 new engineers, India 350,000 and the U.S. only 70,000.  Bond said that one policy change to help immediately is to change visa requirements to make it easier for foreign born, but America-trained scientists and mathematicians to stay here when they graduate.     	More needs to be done to address high health care costs, said Bond, which are a huge burden on families and on business.  Currently, if you pay for your own health insurance, you pay taxes on the entire cost.  If you are fortunate enough to have an employer pay part of the cost, you do not have to pay taxes on the entire amount.  Bond said Congress should look at leveling the playing field by providing tax equity.  Also part of the health care solution is to provide health insurance plans for small businesses, something Bond has worked on with Senator Jim Talent for years.    	Bond stressed Congress needs to continue to enact policies that keep taxes low and regulations sane, so that businesses can create jobs.  Last year Congress extended the reduced capital gains and dividend rate, AMT relief and small business tax incentives.  Bond said this legislation was an extension of the tax relief enacted in 2001 and 2003 that is now benefiting everyone who is married, who has a child, or who owns a small business.       	Congress and regulators also need an understanding of the dynamics of new and innovative industries, like biotechnology, in order to implement sensible policies to encourage their growth said Bond.  Last year he offered legislation to allow more biotech and medical device companies to compete for funding under the Small Business Administration’s Small Business Innovation Research program.
