
	COLUMBIA, MO – U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent celebrated the opening of the Genome Mapping Facility at the University of Missouri-Columbia at today’s ribbon cutting.   	“Investing time and money in the life sciences is not just about investing in institutions, it is about investing in our students, our faculty, our health, jobs, our economy, our future, and our power to solve real problems of real people,” said Senator Bond.  “Biotechnology is bringing hope to those in the developing world by providing crops that are more tolerant of drought and more resistant to insects and weeds.  Your work here on the soybean genome will further our knowledge in this area and help our farmers to be more productive and the crops that they grow to be healthier.”   	“The University of Missouri is a leader in agriculture science and technology,” said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee.  “The research conducted here on soybeans is vital for the continued improvement of the crop.  Additionally, the federal funds invested in this project will bring benefits to our state's economy and to producer's bottom line.  The research we do today is a vital step in creating the new products that will sustain the agriculture and food industry of tomorrow.”   	Bond and Talent joined Congressman Kenny Hulshof, University and agriculture officials at today’s ribbon cutting.  The Senators praised the opening of the Genome Mapping Facility, which is an expansion of the National Center for Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB).  The new facility will allow NCSB scientists to play a national leadership role in mapping of the soybean genome and to develop improved soybean varieties to keep Missouri farmers on the cutting edge.    	As strong supporters of NCSB’s vision Bond and Talent have secured federal funds for the NCSB building and research programs.  The Genome Mapping Facility also benefited from a more than $1 million grant from the National Science Foundation.   	Bond and Talent praised the University of Missouri for its commitment and leadership in the life sciences.  The Senators have worked with scientists, producers, academic and business leaders across the state in efforts to make Missouri a biotechnology corridor.  						###
