
WASHINGTON, D.C.  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today was honored with the prestigious National Children’s Cancer Society’s 2005 International Humanitarian award for his leadership and commitment to helping children and families affected by childhood cancer.    “While I gratefully accept this award, I feel that the real leadership in the fight on cancer takes place not in government, but in our hospitals, and in our homes,” said Bond.  “My job as an advocate for children’s issues and for health care funding is nowhere near as difficult as the job of the doctors and nurses treating a child, knowing their decisions may mean life or death, the parent caring for a child with cancer and keeping the rest of the family going, or the child who is a victim of cancer who faces the prospect of dying before their lives have truly begun.”    	The Alvin K. Stolze International Humanitarian Award is presented to individuals who have demonstrated extraordinary leadership and advocacy on behalf of children with cancer.  Past recipients of the award are Mikhail Gorbachev, Queen Noor, President and Mrs. George Bush, Rudy Guiliani, and Katie Couric.     In awarding Bond with this honor, the National Children’s Cancer Society stressed his commitment to health care.  First as Governor, and now as Missouri’s senior Senator, Bond has made it a top priority to help families receive the care they need and making quality healthcare more accessible, especially for children.    Also, in fiscal year 2005 Bond secured $1 million in federal funds for Beyond the Cure in the Labor-HHS spending bill.  Beyond the Cure is a comprehensive survivorship program that will offer vital program services to assist cancer survivors in living longer, healthier, more productive lives.      Bond, a long-standing advocate for children, fought to expand funding for children’s hospitals and to ensure that children’s hospitals could sustain their teaching programs, important not only to the future of these children's hospitals and their essential services but also to the future of the pediatric workforce and pediatric research.      Also, Bond has been vocal about the need to treat children uniquely, particularly when it comes to prevention, research, care, and treatment.  “Children are not just small adults.  Children can not be treated like small adults.  They need dosing and treatments especially designed with their small and growing bodies in mind,” said Bond.
