
  Pineville, Missouri  Missouri Senator Kit Bond and Southwest Missouri Congressman Roy Blunt led a delegation of Missouri Department of Transportation officials, state and county leaders at the formal unveiling of the final section of the 14-year, quarter-billion dollar upgrade of Highway 71 today in McDonald County. The new four-lane section gives motorists a four-lane roadway from the Iowa state line to the Arkansas state line.  Todays unveiling of final section of highway 71 is a milestone for Southwest Missouri. It fulfills a quarter-century vision for a robust transportation system critical to the creation of new jobs and opportunities for the people of Southwest Missouri, Congressman Blunt said.  This highway is a true example of why I fight everyday to bring your money back to Missouri, said Senator Kit Bond. This collaborative effort and investment from the local, state and federal level is a good example of how communities should work together to address transportation issues in order to guarantee safety and increase economic development in their region.  First envisioned by Congressman Gene Taylor in the 1980s, he secured the first $30.5 million for improvements in the 42-miles of four-lane Highway 71 south of Interstate 44. In all, Highway 71 in Newton and McDonald Counties has received more than $77 million in dedicated federal funding. Congressman Blunt said, There is no doubt in my mind that without the earmarked funds that Senator Bond, Congressman Taylor and Congressman Hancock worked for over the last 20 years, this highway would be merely a vision and not the super highway we can drive on today. The Highway 71 corridor has been designated as the future Interstate 49.  The new roadway replaces the final piece of two-lane road that earned a reputation as Bloody 71, because of it numerous fatal and serious-injury crashes that occurred in McDonald and Newton Counties. The last 6 mile section of the four-lane 71 roadway opened to traffic on August 15. In future years, a new section of interstate highway will run from Pineville south to the new bypass in Arkansas completing the corridor for I-49 in Southwest Missouri. ### 
