
    FORT LEONARD WOOD, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined local officials, servicemen and women to celebrate the debut of the Knowledge Sharing Systems (KSS) TechTrachS, a new software program and Department of Defense-wide database at Fort Leonard that will ensure American warfighters receive cutting-edge technology. Our brave young servicemen and women are doing the tough job - fighting terrorists. The least we can do is to ensure they have the best equipment and cutting-edge technology available, said Bond.  During the debut, Bond criticized the Pentagon for reacting too slowly to the urgent needs of our troops in the battlefield. Bond pointed out that life-saving equipment, like Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles (MRAPS), which are needed to protect our troops from Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) are not getting to our troops in the field quickly enough. In June, Bond joined Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) to urge Secretary of Defense Bob Gates to resolve these unconscionable bureaucratic delays.  Bond pointed out that what happens on the battlefield of Iraq or Afghanistan often depends on what happens in Americas high technology research labs and plants. Much of the Armys research and development is also utilized throughout our entire economy. Bond stressed that the identification, capture and management of this information is critical in ensuring our troops in the field are benefiting from the research being done.  Bond praised KSS new TechTrachS management system, which will promote the collaboration between the many technology experts within the Army research field. TechTrachS will maximize the Armys research and development efforts, better utilize taxpayer money, and create Missouri jobs, said Bond. Bond also noted that TechTrachS will also help support the U.S. Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) facility at Fort Leonard Wood. TRADOC recruits, trains and educates the Army's soldiers; develops leaders; supports training in units; develops doctrine; establishes standards; and builds the future Army.  Thanks to American innovation a number of life-saving technologies are now being deployed in hot spots around the world, and many more are being developed, said Bond. The identification, capture and management of all these innovations is critical in ensuring our warfighters are benefiting to the maximum extent from the vast research underway. The Knowledge Sharing Systems management system we are celebrating today will do just that.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $3.7 million in federal funds for Knowledge Sharing Systems. Currently, the Army invests more than $10 billion per year in research and development. Bond stated that Knowledge Sharing Systems will increase this return and allow the Army to accelerate the transition of innovations from the lab to the battlefield.  # # #  
