
WASHINGTON (Tuesday, Jan. 30) – U.S. Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Kit Bond (R-Mo.) Tuesday reintroduced bipartisan legislation to empower the National Guard within the Pentagon and to strengthen the Guard’s ability to respond to emergencies both at home and abroad.  Introduction of the bill comes the day before a hearing focusing on the bill, by the Commission on the National Guard and Reserve.  Leahy and Bond, who co-chair the Senate’s National Guard Caucus, first offered the legislation last year.  The National Guard in recent years has endured depletions to its equipment stocks as it has struggled to fulfill its dual mission of responding to domestic emergencies, including the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and wildfires in the West, as well as serving alongside active duty troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The Leahy-Bond bill would improve the quality of advice on the National Guard given to the senior Pentagon leadership, while enhancing the military’s ability to support the governors and locally elected officials in emergencies.  The Act would specifically give the Guard more muscle within the Pentagon by elevating the Chief of the National Guard to a four-star position with a seat at the table with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and it would give the National Guard Bureau budgetary power to research, validate and procure essential equipment for the Guard.  “This drive to empower the Guard is gaining momentum in Congress,” said Leahy.  “Since 9/11 we have been asking the Guard to do more and more, and they have superbly handled their dual role at home and abroad.  But strains are showing in the system.  The Guard is a 21st Century military organization that has to operate under a 20th Century bureaucracy.  The Guard’s ability to help the nation is limited only by the resources, authorities, and responsibility we give it.  Let us put the trust in the men and women of the Guard that they have deserved and earned, by giving them the seat at the table that they need.”   "The need to empower the National Guard is not only still there, but grows each day.  We need to give the Guard more bureaucratic muscle, so that the force will not be continually pushed around in policy and budget debates within the Pentagon," said Bond.  "We will put the National Guard on an equal footing with other decision makers responsible for national security and the transformation of the military forces."  With backlogs and equipment shortfalls becoming a chronic problem for the Guard, Leahy and Bond have led efforts in recent years to increase equipment funding for the National Guard by almost $1 billion.  They have also led bipartisan efforts to beat back attempts by the Army to weaken the end strength of the National Guard.  “The National Guard has undergone a tremendous transformation since September 11. The Pentagon has relied on Guard personnel and resources to execute military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and around the world,” said Nebraska’s Sen. Ben Nelson, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee. “The Guard is no longer a strategic reserve force, it’s now an operational force elevating the Guard leader to the Joint Chiefs level is long overdue.”   "Increasingly members our National Guard are being asked to serve their country overseas, more often, and for longer periods of time," said Maine’s Sen. Olympia Snowe, a member of the Senate National Guard Caucus.  "The mission of the Guard has changed in the wake of September 11th, and so to must their influence.  The Guard deserves to have the same ability as the heads of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines to make its voice heard directly at the highest level of government.  By elevating the Chief of the National Guard to level of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, this legislation ensures the Guard's influence reflects its importance."  The Guard empowerment bill has been endorsed by The National Guard Association, the Adjutants General Association and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard.  U.S. House of Representatives Government Reform Committee Chairman Tom Davis (R-Va.) and Representative Gene Taylor (D-Miss.) – who co-chair the House Guard and Reserve Components Caucus -- will introduce the counterpart bill in the House of Representatives.  # # # # #
