
MEXICO, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today spoke at the Celebration of Literacy in Mexico, hosted by the Mexico Ledger, where he stressed the importance of investing in literacy and early childhood education.     “A love of reading is simply the greatest gift that we can give our children.  It is the golden key that opens the door to a lifetime of opportunity for children,” said Bond.	    Bond pointed out that literacy is key to finding and keeping a good job and participating actively in the democratic process.  Unfortunately, around 44 million American adults can not read well enough to fill out an application, read a food label, or read a simple story to a child.     Investing in literacy is critical to our nation’s educational, economic, and social health.  Bond emphasized that this investment cannot come to early:  research demonstrates that the more children know about language and literacy before they arrive at school the better equipped they are to succeed in reading, succeed in school and later in life.    While serving as Missouri's governor, Bond discovered first-hand the importance of early childhood education, and particularly the  Parents as Teachers (PAT) program, when his son Sam was born.  PAT has always recognized the importance of parent-child interaction, specifically for literacy development.  After his positive experience with PAT Bond signed into law legislation which mandated PAT in every school district in the state of Missouri.     Since the program was created over 2 million families nationwide have received the education and support they need through PAT. While this is a tremendous accomplishment, Bond stressed that there are more families that can and must be reached through the program.      Earlier in the year Bond introduced the Education Begins at Home Act, which establishes for the first time a dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of Parents as Teachers at the state and local level. The $500 million in federal funds over 3 years included in Bond?s legislation will expand services to over 2.7 million families nationwide, allowing ten times more families to be served by PAT.     	“We must do everything we can to get our children off on the right foot.  Empowering parents to give their children the very best start in life is one on the best investments that we can make,” said Bond.
