
WEST PLAINS, MISSOURI – U.S. Senator Kit Bond was recognized today by local city and business leaders for his commitment to creating the conditions for economic growth and creating new jobs in Missouri as a street in Heritage Business Park was named “Kit Bond Drive.”   “I have been around for a long time, in public life for more than 40 years,” said Bond. “This is the first time anyone has ever named a street after me. The Heritage Business Park has come a long way over the years and I am glad to have been a part of it.” Senator Bond joined members of the Ozark Development Corporation (ODC) committee, West Plains Chamber of Commerce, Mayors Joe Paul Evans, Johnny White, and Bud Vines and other city officials for today’s dedication. 	As the ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that funds the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Bond was instrumental in securing $1 million dollars in federal funds in 2005 through a HUD’s Economic Development Initiative (HUD-EDI) grant. Those funds were used to drill a second well in the business park and develop and pave roads in the park.  The Heritage Business Park is a combined effort of West Plains, Willow Springs, and Mountain View municipalities and is currently owned by the ODC. The park was incorporated in 1969 through the help of the Howell-Oregon Electric Cooperative.  The park is also currently home to three corporations including an Anheuser Busch wholesale company, Robinson Steel, Inc., and Caterpillar Inc., which provide over 280 jobs to the West Plains area and continue to promote more economic growth in Missouri.    	Following the ceremony, Senator Bond took a brief tour of the Caterpillar facility in Heritage Park.  Caterpillar Inc., an internationally known and respected company became one of the first facilities in the park in 1997.  Caterpillar is the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and gas engines, and industrial gas turbines.  The facility in Heritage Park manufactures high pressure hydraulic hoses that are exported all over the world.      # # #
