
WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today toured the Missouri Highlands Health Center to promote community health centers as an essential component of health care in Missouri and throughout the United States.     “Community Health Centers are the answer in part to many difficult problems related to health care,” said Bond.   “No one who needs care is turned away. Health centers like Missouri Highlands serve everyone, regardless of their ability to pay in a cost-effective way.”  Federally qualified health centers (FQHC) provide access to high-quality, affordable health services and improve health outcomes in underserved areas. They are community-based, locally-driven health systems governed by local boards that include consumers. The Federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) lists FQHCs as one of the most effective federal programs nationwide. Senator Bond is a strong believer in community health centers.  Every year, Senator Bond fights to fund community health centers, increasing funding by $900 million (close to 90 percent) since 2001. This year Missouri Highlands Health Care in Ellington is set to receive an additional $360,000 in federal grant funds from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to expand services.   Bond spearheaded the effort, marking the largest increase in federal funding for health care centers in 40 years. It has fostered an unprecedented explosion in both the number of health center sites and in the number of patients served by health centers across the county. As a result of this investment, the Missouri network of community health centers has grown from 75 sites in 2000 to 110 sites today.  The number of patients has increased from 199,000 users in 2000 to 305,000 users today, with a total of annual visits increasing from 825,000 in 2000 to 1.1 million annual visits today. The Missouri’s community health centers continue to grow and serve more families.  Missouri Highlands Health Care has expanded from its original site in Ellington to several more locations in Van Buren, Eminence, Annapolis, Ironton, Viburnum and Black.    	“I applaud the Governor and the General Assembly for their recent action to prove a strategic investment for capitol and infrastructure. This allows health centers in Missouri to open more clinical space and increase access to critical primary care,” praised Bond.  Missouri Highlands is a success story and I look forward to more good things to come” 						# # #
