
WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined scientists and University officials to highlight $6 million in federal funds for two critical research centers at the University of Missouri-Columbia. Missouri has been and continues to be both a leader and a pioneer in meeting our nations aerospace, defense and homeland security needs. The University of Missouri is continuing in that proud tradition through these two research centers, said Bond. In addition to giving our warfighters the technological advantage, these programs will create high-tech, high-paying jobs for hardworking Missourians.   Bond secured a total of $6 million in federal dollars for two University of Missouri-Columbia research centers. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a member of the Defense Subcommittee, Bond secured the funds in the fiscal year 2007 Defense spending bill. The bill must still be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives bill.   The Center for Geospatial Intelligence will receive $2.5 million to conduct cutting-edge geospatial research and development with the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency. These funds are in addition to the $1.75 million Bond secured for the Center in the previous fiscal year. Bond stressed that the United States needs to know what our enemies are doing. The Centers work can give a very precise picture of what they are doing, and where, via satellite. This knowledge helps our soldiers in the field and the folks at home we are trying to protect, said Bond.   Also, the Center for Micro/Nano Systems Technology will receive $3.5 million. These funds are in addition to the $2.1 million Bond secured for the Center in the previous fiscal year. This facility will incorporate a unique research and fabrication facility to deliver military and commercial products and will serve as a hub for micro/nano research and fabrication in the Midwest. Bond said this technology can provide a great number of products, including video/pills with bio-sensors, chip cameras to examine the body, computers that are 500 times more powerful than todays, smart glasses, smart shoes and smart watches, just to name a few.   Bond thanked the engineers and scientists for the work they are doing at the Micro/Nano and Geospatial Centers. He emphasized that the research being conducted will make it easier to detect chemical and biological threats; help our military guide missiles accurately to their destinations; and help detect threats to the American homeland when there is still time to do something about them.   We hope these Centers will spur development of start-up companies with innovative technologies necessary to sustain the nations edge in military systems, said Bond.   ###  
