
Branson, Missouri – Missouri Senator Kit Bond and Southwest Missouri Congressman Roy Blunt have been notified by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that it plans to open a new community-based clinic (CBOC) in Branson within the next nine months. The VA clinic in Branson will enhance access for VA health care for veterans of Southwest Missouri.  The VA also announced a VA clinic for Jefferson City, Missouri among 38 approved in 22 states by VA Secretary James Nicholson. The VA has not identified a specific site for the Branson clinic.   “It is only fitting that today’s announcement comes as we celebrate the Memorial Day holiday and reflect on the sacrifices made by America’s fighting forces,” said U.S. Senator Kit Bond, who has worked to fund community-based outpatient clinics in Missouri and across the country. “These new clinics will make it easier for Missouri veterans to receive the health care they need.”   “This is great new for the veterans of Southwest Missouri this Memorial Day weekend,” Congressman Blunt said. “Having a second clinic, like the current one in Mt. Vernon, means more convenience and care closer to home for thousands of local veterans.  It’s anticipated that 900 existing patients and 3,900 new patients will be treated at the CBOC in Branson. That will save many of them trips to Mt. Vernon or Fayetteville, Arkansas to see a VA doctor.”     Blunt also praised Missouri Senator Bond. ”Senator Bond has been instrumental in helping bring the creation of the Branson clinic about. He laid the foundation for this success. We have been working on this effort for more than three years.” The Branson clinic was initially approved in 2004.   “VA is committed to providing world-class health care to the men and women who have served this nation,” VA Secretary Jim Nicholson said. “These new clinics will bring VA’s top-notch care closer to the veterans who have earned it.”   A combination of VA and contract services will provide all routine medications.  The CBOC is established to improve access to veterans in rural areas to primary and specialty care. Services will include comprehensive primary care, health promotion, maintenance, routine/urgent care procedures and education.  Mental Health Services will include a wide range of outpatient mental health services to include medication management, substance abuse treatment/counseling, individual and group counseling, and assessment/evaluation and/or therapy.  Routine specialty care consults, laboratory and x-rays will normally be referred to the parent facility in Fayetteville, Arkansas.     With 153 hospitals and more than 700 community-based clinics, VA operates the largest integrated health care system in the country.  VA’s health care budget of more than $34 billion this year will provide health care to about 5.5 million people during nearly 800,000 hospitalizations and 60 million outpatient visits. ###
