
CREVE COEUR, MISSOURI – U.S. Senator Kit Bond was recognized today by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) for his commitment to American manufacturing as he received the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence.  “It is an honor to receive this award,” said Bond.  “Your businesses create jobs, are a leading source of exports, and are at the forefront of global competition. My part is to ensure that the government enacts responsible policies that will help, not hinder your ability to create good paying jobs.” The NAM Award is presented to Members of Congress who support the manufacturing community. Missouri is home to a strong and rapidly expanding manufacturing economy as well strong agricultural and science economy.  In 2005, Missouri businesses exported $10.5 billion of goods, a $1 billion increase from 2004.   Bond is committed to pro-growth and pro-manufacturing policies that support jobs for Missouri families.  Bond fights to promote what he calls “insourcing” or direct foreign investment in Missouri’s economy and against high energy prices, which can cripple economic growth. He stressed that the government has the responsibility to help create the conditions for businesses to flourish through maintaining low taxes, creating opportunities for foreign trade, keeping a sane regulatory environment, supporting science and technology and providing modern transportation options. “Senator Bond’s voting record demonstrates both his understanding of manufacturing’s critical role in the overall strength of our economy and a willingness to do what is necessary to boost competitiveness, job creation and prosperity for the working people of Missouri” praised NAM President John Engler. Bond credits tax relief and sensible economic policies implemented during the Republican Congress for the thriving Missouri economy.  Last year Congress extended the reduced capital gains and dividend rate; AMT relief and small business tax incentives.  This legislation was an extension of the massive tax relief enacted in 2001 and 2003 that is now benefiting everyone who is married, has a child, or who owns a small business. Millions of Americans now have lower income tax bills.   As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Bond has also fought to make sure that Missouri’s transportation infrastructure is up-to-date.  Bond recognizes that good transportation is key to economic growth. He frequently cautions that good business and jobs will stay away from areas people cannot get to and that they will go where good roads and good public transit are available.    As one of the key authors of the federal highway bill, Bond secured over $1 billion in new highway funds for Missouri in the bill and $467.5 million for transportation projects statewide in the highway bill. Bond is also the author of a lock and dam provision included in the current Senate passed Water Resources and Development Act that authorizes nearly $2 billion in federal funds for seven new locks along the Mississippi River.  The new 1,200 foot locks will create new jobs, creating 48 million man-hours of construction work and provide greater efficiency, especially critical to farmers in the Midwest who depend on the lock and dam system to move their products to market.      # # #
