
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today Missouri Department of Transportation, Corp of Engineers, and local officials to survey and receive an update on the status of Highways 60, 67 and the Wappapello Bridge in southern Missouri.   	“Throughout my years in public service one of my highest priorities is to make our highways safer and treasures like the Ozark National Scenic Riverways easier for folks to visit and enjoy,” said Bond. At today’s briefing, Bond stressed the importance of good roads and bridges.  As one of the key authors of the federal highway bill, Bond secured over $1 billion in new highway funds for Missouri in the bill and $467.5 million for transportation projects statewide in the highway bill.  To survey the progress, Bond traveled Highway 60 from Winona to Van Buren and was briefed on the several improvements made on the highway over the last few years.  In 2003, Bond secured $10 million in federal dollars from the U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to improve US Route 60.  Those federal dollars widened ten miles of Route 60 to a four-lane highway from the Butler County line to the Route 60/67 interchange.  The improvements also included the building of an overpass at County Road 415, new box culverts at Goose Creek and Beehole Creek and two new bridges at Cane Creek. Bond was also updated on the improvements on Highway 67 between Fredericktown and Popular Bluff. On Highway 67, Bond viewed the site and plans for a new intersection to be built at the junction of Highway 34 and Highway 67 in Silva.  In 2006, Bond earmarked $15 million for the Highway 67 four-lane improvement project in the federal highway bill.   “It’s great to see the progress being made on Highway 67,” added Bond.  “I look forward to the day when we can celebrate the completion of this important investment in southern Missouri.”  “Over the last decade new doorways to economic opportunity have been opened in southern Missouri through historic improvements to our major tributaries - Highway 60 and Highway 67,” stated Dr. Greg Batson, Executive Director of Ozark Foothills Regional Planning Commission.  “These monumental improvements didn’t just happen, but were the result of a dedicated regional team and the leadership of our senior U.S. Senator, Kit Bond, acquiring key federal transportation resources for the region.”  Following the Silva site, Bond was briefed by St. Louis Corps of Engineers at Old Greenville for an update on the new Wappapello Lake/St. Francis River Bridge scheduled for completion in summer 2009. The new bridge will contain new safety features, an improved corridor, and provide a walkway for pedestrians crossing for Old Greenville Campground visitors. The campground recorded 224,970 visitors last year.						 # # #	
