
KANSAS CITY, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined the Chinese Ambassador to the United States, Zhou Wenzhong, area business and civic leaders at an economic forum to explore ways to expand business opportunities between Kansas City and China.   	“Our countries may not have language or culture in common, but we are certainly all united in our hope for prosperity for our people,” said Bond.  “My role in all this is to encourage free and fair trade as an engine for economic growth and job creation in the United States.”   	Hosted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the forum is one in a series being held throughout the country.  The forum pairs U.S. business executives, legal experts, academics, and government officials who have on-the-ground business experience in China with local private sector representatives and community officials for discussions on small and medium-size business opportunities in the China market.    	Bond welcomed the Chinese visitors to Kansas City, which is geographically and in many other ways, known as the “Heart of America.”  This region, the Central Midwest, is also the heart of American agriculture and the nation’s food supply.  More than 70 percent of America’s agricultural output comes from this area.   	Kansas City is a good place to do business Bond told the Chinese Ambassador, pointing out that Kansas City is well-positioned as an economic and transportation ‘hub’ of North America.  Bond said Kansas City is centrally located, has a strong and diverse economy, and the business community and elected leadership of this city is committed to expanding its international presence.       	Bond thanked he U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Kansas City Chamber for their work in making today’s forum a reality and said he was proud of Kansas City for its vision in hosting this conference.  Bond said the conference will give business owners some of the ‘how-tos’ when it comes to exporting their products and services to China.     	China is the fastest-growing export destination in the world for American business.  Last year Missouri exports to China increased 36.5 percent over 2004 and Kansas exports increased by almost 5 percent.  The growth is phenomenal, and there are many opportunities for small and medium-sized businesses as well as large companies, said Bond.    	Bond said he will do his part as Missouri’s senior Senator to enact policies that will create the conditions for business to flourish, including low taxes, less litigation, a sane regulatory environment, and modern transportation options.
