
WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), co-chairs of the Senate National Guard Caucus, today announced they successfully earmarked an additional $2.44 billion in federal dollars for National Guard and Army Reserve needs.     	“These funds are critical to helping our citizen-soldiers meet urgent equipment needs,” said Bond. “As we call upon our Guard and Reserve troops more and more it is our duty to provide them with the resources they need to do their jobs.  These funds are a good start.”   	"The National Guard has been quick to fulfill the new missions given them since 9/11, but the federal government has been slow to give the Guard the tools it needs," said Leahy.  "The equipment deficit has swollen to untenable proportions, and that is hurting our readiness.  At home and abroad, the Guard is indispensable, and there is no good excuse for letting these backlogs grow."	   	Bond and Leahy earmarked the $2.44 billion in federal funds for the Guard and Reserve in an amendment to the defense appropriations bill.  The Senators’ amendment was passed by a voice vote and is now part of the defense appropriations bill, which is currently being considered on the Senate floor.      	The National Guard has a long history of assisting America's military abroad while providing support and security at home.  Since the attacks of 9/11, the National Guard has taken on even greater responsibilities in the realm of homeland security.  The Guard also helps local responders deal with overwhelming natural disasters here at home such as hurricanes, tornados and floods and was recently tasked with supporting Customs and Border Protection with securing our nation’s southwest border.     	Despite the Guard’s increased role, the National Guard has dangerously low equipment levels.  According to Lt. Gen. Steven Blum, the director of the National Guard Bureau, more than two-thirds of the Army National Guard's 34 brigades are not combat ready due largely to vast equipment shortfalls, operating with only 34 percent of its required equipment. The $2.44 billion in funds added by Bond and Leahy to the defense spending bill today will help both the Guard and Reserve meet urgent equipment needs.     	The Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States said of the funds provided by Bond and Leahy, “The $2.44 billion will not solve the equipment shortages in the Guard. It will not instantly restore Guard equipment readiness to top levels. It will, however, allow the Guard to focus its restorative efforts on those who are preparing for mobilization, and it will help to restore readiness for our homeland defense posture.”   	Bond and Leahy are two of the Guard's strongest advocates.  Earlier this year Bond and Leahy led the Senate opposition to Army proposals to cut the National Guard. The Pentagon backtracked on their plans to scale back the Guard's force structure after the Senators organized broad opposition, with more than 75 Senators objecting to the plan.  Also, last year Bond and Leahy led successful efforts in the Senate to increase equipment funding for the National Guard by almost $1 billion as well as to boost the housing allowance available to Guard and Reserve members called to active duty for more than 30 days.  						###
