
  OSAGE BEACH, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today attended the annual Farm Bureau Meeting where he talked about legislative issues important to Missouris agriculture community, including the new Water Resources law, the Farm Bill and the Missouri Agribusiness Development Team.     We are making progress, even if slow, on several issues important to agriculture, said Bond. I am pleased to celebrate with you now that the Water Resources Development Act has finally become law. For our state, and particularly for Missouri farmers, this means trade competitiveness, reliable and affordable energy, drinking water, and protection from floods.   Bond told Missouris agriculture community that after years of wok the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) is now law. Bond, who worked for the passage of WRDA since 2002, stressed that for farmers who depend on the lock and dam system to move their products, WRDA is critical. The Missouri and Mississippi Rivers are the Midwests arteries to world markets. Unfortunately, the current locks, which were built during the Great Depression, are outdated. The new law includes Bonds provision to modernize the lock and dam system, authorizing $1.95 billion in federal funds for seven new locks.    The outlook is not rosy for the Farm Bill at the moment, Bond told Missouris agriculture community. In October, the agriculture committee offered a bipartisan proposal. Unfortunately, Majority Leader Reid (D-NV) blocked all Senators from offering or debating amendments on the floor. Bond hopes that when Congress returns this week, an agreement will be reached to allow Senators to offer amendments to create a balanced Farm Bill that serves the interests of all 50 states.   Bond told Missouri farmers that he plans to offer the Farm Red Tape Reduction Act as an amendment to the Farm Bill. This proposal will give farmers a seat at the table when federal agencies develop new federal regulations impacting farmers. It requires federal agencies proposing new regulations to describe the impact on farmers and would minimize negative impacts on farmers.   Bond reported that he is excited to support the partnership between Missouri farmers and the National Guard who have teamed up to improve agriculture in Afghanistan. Similar to Missouri, agriculture is the engine of economic progress in Afghanistan, but decades of war and neglect have decimated their agricultural sector and agricultural expertise is almost non-existent. Bond pointed out that poppy cultivation is at an all time high, evidence that the traditional U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), contractor-reliant Alternative Livelihoods programs are not working.    Bond praised the Agribusiness Development Team (ADT), comprised of National Guard, Missouri farmers and agriculture experts, for offering successful alternative to failed USAID programs. The ADT is working to turn revitalize the legitimate agribusiness economy in Afghanistan. Increasing marketable food production will provide an alternative to opium poppy production, and will help build the capacity needed for long-term and sustainable economic development, Bond stressed.    ### 
