
CAPE GIRARDEAU, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Senator Jim Talent and local law enforcement at the Southeast Missouri Crime Lab to announce federal funds recently secured to help in the fight against the state’s methamphetamine epidemic.    	“We are continuing to attack the meth problem on many fronts,” said Bond. “The most important work is being done here, at the state and local level. I have been working with Senator Talent and with state and local officials to provide the federal funding necessary to respond to this ongoing crisis.”      	Bond announced that in the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations (CSJ) Conference Report he was able to secure $9 million in federal funds for critical law enforcement, research and justice programs in Missouri, including $2 million to aid the state’s fight against meth.    	Recognizing the severity of the state’s drug problem, and through his position on the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond has secured millions in federal funds for Missouri law enforcement, anti-drug programs and the state's crimes labs.  In 2000, Bond teamed up with the Missouri Sheriffs Methamphetamine Relief Team (MOSMART) and since then has secured more than $15 million for the program, including $1.75 million he secured in the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations Conference Report.      	MOSMART has successfully coordinated efforts with regional drug task forces and sheriff departments from throughout the state to fight meth Missouri-wide.  Around 10,000 arrests have been made for possession of meth since the program began.     	Also part of the $2 million Bond secured in fiscal year 2006 CSJ spending bill is $250,000 for the “Children in Meth Labs” initiative.  Bond stressed that this critical initiative is aimed at developing a statewide, inter-agency approach to helping children found in meth labs.       	  Speaking at the Southeast Missouri Crime Lab, Bond pointed out that both he and Talent are working to fund the state’s crime labs so they can analyze evidence and prosecute meth cookers and dealers more quickly.  As the war on meth has intensified our crime labs have become overwhelmed with new cases.  Bond said he is pleased to see the progress made at the crime lab on the law enforcement academy.  Students will be able to use the lab which will better prepare new officers to work on evidence.       	Bond also praised Senator Talent for introducing several bills and amendments dealing with the meth problem, particularly controlling the substances used to make meth.
