
TARKIO, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond visited Tarkio today to update local Missourians and area officials on the latest news in Washington. Bond talked to local residents and officials about a number of legislative issues including immigration reform, energy and the War in Iraq. We need to do more to secure our borders, but we cannot be held hostage by those who want amnesty for illegal aliens, said Bond. The amnesty provisions and the $20 billion in new unfunded mandatory entitlement spending for illegal immigrants doomed this bill, and I was proud to oppose it, stated Bond.This week the Senate ended the debate on the fundamentally-flawed immigration bill. Bond voted to kill the amnesty bill and was joined by 52 of his Senate colleagues, forcing the bill managers to withdraw the bill and ending any hopes for its passage this Congress. Bond expressed support for cutting the flow of illegal immigration with more border barriers, detention facilities and enforcement agents, but opposed rewarding those who illegally entered or stayed in the U.S. with a path to citizenship or new guaranteed federal entitlement benefits. Bond added that many people did not realize that the 12 million illegal immigrants legalized in the bill would eventually qualify for Medicare, Social Security and other entitlements.  As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond told Tarkio residents that he will continue to use his position to send tax dollars back to Missouri for critical local projects. Last week, Bond was able to secure $1.2 million for Northwest Missouri State Universitys Nanotechnology Education program in the 2008 Energy and Water bill. He stressed that the nanotechnology program will educate students to meet the demand and take advantage of the growing nanotechnology job market, while making Missouri more attractive to nanotechnology companies looking for new facilities.  Bond also expressed disappointment with the recently passed Senate energy bill, which despite the rise in gas prices, does little to address the pain at the pump. The United States need a comprehensive energy policy that increases all forms of American energy, enhances conservation and invests in future fuels, stated Bond. Unfortunately, the recently-passed Senate energy bill does not take necessary steps, like increasing refinery capacity. Instead, the bill includes disastrous fuel efficiency standards that will hurt truck plants in KC and St. Louis, make it harder to get work trucks and for families to buy SUVs and minivans. The Senate rejected a bipartisan, achievable proposal offered by Senators Bond, Levin, and Voinovich. Following the energy discussion, Bond turned to the debate on the War in Iraq. As the Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Bond traveled to Iraq in May, where he met with the troops and commanding officers in Tikrit, Baghdad, Ramadi and Balad. Bond cautioned that while it is too early to tell whether the new Iraq plan will be successful, he was impressed with the progress being made. Bond expressed frustration  shared by the troops -- that the progress in Iraq is not being covered by the U.S. media. ###    
