
SPRINGFIELD, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today read to children at the Springfield-Greene County Library Center, where he announced the reintroduction of legislation to expand the successful Parents as Teachers program.     	“The expansion of Parents as Teachers is a sound investment in the future of our children and families.  I strongly believe that, and I have spent the last twenty-plus years talking about it,” said Bond.    	Senator Bond introduced the bipartisan Education Begins at Home Act, which makes a federal investment in parents by establishing the first, dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of Parents as Teachers (PAT) at the state and local level.      	The Education Begins at Home Act:    *	Provides $400 million for states to expand access to PAT;     *	Encourages more collaboration between PAT and Early Head Start Grantees;    *	Provides $50 million for innovative ideas and partnerships at the local level to expand access to PAT in communities with limited English proficiency; and    *	Provides $50 million over 3 years to reach more military families on our military bases.     	The legislation also addresses three new areas:    *	Provides services to fathers, including non-custodial fathers;   *	Provides services to grandparents and other relatives serving as primary caregivers as well as foster parents;   *	Supports new parents and is aimed at preventing child abuse through a hospital-based public education and awareness campaign.      	As Governor, Bond pushed the Missouri General Assembly to establish PAT as a statewide program in 1981. In 1984, he signed legislation that required all Missouri school districts to provide PAT programs to parents for children birth to kindergarten.     	What began as an experiment in Missouri has expanded to more than 3,000 sites in all 50 states, and eight foreign countries, serving about 330,000 children per year.  Bond’s legislation, which he first introduced in the 108th Congress, provides $500 million in federal funds over 3 years included in this bill will expand services to more than 2.7 million families nationwide.
