
ST. LOUIS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined local leaders and housing advocates to tour the proposed Salisbury Park development in north St. Louis and discuss the community’s revitalization efforts and housing needs.    “The foundation of a community is safe, livable and affordable housing.  Good housing means economic development and jobs.  It means kids are safer, healthier and happier.  We share that vision and I will continue to work very hard to bring federal dollars back to St. Louis to ensure that all residents, regardless of income, age or background, have access to good housing,” said Bond.     The proposed Salisbury Park Redevelopment Area would include development of a new neighborhood in north St. Louis including 19 renovated apartments, 40 low income housing tax credit apartments, 60 new single family homes and a 65-unit senior project on an 11-block blighted area surrounding the Bethlehem Lutheran Church.  The project is being spearheaded by the Better Living Communities, the church’s not-for-profit housing corporation formed to revitalize the neighborhood.  Educational, recreational and social support services would also be provided for the residents.    Praising the community – from faith-based organizations, to private industry, to not-for-profit organizations -- for their vision and efforts to revitalize the community, Bond said, “You are laying the foundation for a much brighter future for the residents of this area.”    Bond emphasized that through these strong partnerships, including efforts with the Grace Hill Community Health Center to end the lead paint poisoning of St. Louis children, the community has realized progress.  Bond, who promised $15 million in federal funds for lead abatement in the city, was in St. Louis a few months ago to announce the second installment of $5 million to clean up houses.   As chairman of the U.S. Senate Transportation and Housing Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the nation’s housing needs, Bond has led the fight to protect federal housing projects.  He expressed his support for the President’s goal of cutting the deficit in half by 2008, but expressed his disapproval of proposals to eliminate critical community development programs, including the Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant (CDGB) program.  CDBG programs fund critical housing and community development programs across the nation and are a critical component of HUD’s mission. CDBG consolidated plans helps to ensure that communities tie together CDBG, housing funds and other federal and state resources into a comprehensive approach to local housing and community development needs.    Bond also stressed that plans to eliminate HOPE VI and well as rescind the HOPE VI funding from last fiscal year would be damaging to communities. In St. Louis, Darst-Webbe, Carbane Court, Webbe Elderly, Cochran Gardens, Vaughn Elderly, Blumeyer Family and Euclid Plaza Family have all benefited from HOPE VI.  This program, which Bond spearheaded in 1990, has revolutionized the way obsolete public housing is reformed by allowing for the demolition of obsolete housing and the creation of mixed income private and public housing. HOPE VI has resulted in leveraging new private investment and the revitalization of entire communities.
