
WASHINGTON, DC  Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Senator Kit Bond, today praised the Senate passage of the fiscal year 2008 Intelligence Authorization bill.    Nothing is moreimportant to the future of our country than our continuing efforts to reform and oversee our intelligence operations, said Bond. The bill we passed today is an important step in these efforts and is our most important tool in providing the Congressional oversight the American people expect and deserve.   Bond, the leading Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, worked for months with members on both sides of the aisle to reach consensus on the Intelligence Authorization bill. The bill was passed by Unanimous Consent in the Senate today. Before being signed into law it must be reconciled with the House of Representatives bill. Bond stressed that the Intelligence Authorization bill is critical to asserting Congressional oversight over the intelligence community and intelligence operations. For the last two years Congress has been unable to pass an Intelligence Authorization bill, making todays action even more important, said Bond.   Provisions in the Senate-passed bill will improve the efficiency and accountability of the Intelligence Community (IC), while at the same time provide the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) with the flexibility he needs to lead the IC. These provisions include:   Additional authorities for the DNI to improve information sharing in the Intelligence Community;  Measures to protect the cover of our clandestine intelligence officers;  Measures to address excessive cost growth in major acquisition programs.   The Intelligence Authorization bill includes several good government provisions. Bond cited a provision he sponsored that provides the DNI with the authority to conduct certain accountability reviews of elements and personnel of the IC. This provision will encourage the IC to address their own internal failures or deficienciessomething they have been reluctant to do before now. In the event that they are reluctant or unable to do so, this amendment gives the DNI the authority he needs to conduct his own reviews.     Bond also praised his colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the Senate Intelligence Committee for working together to pass this critical legislation.     This bill is a good example of Chairman Rockefeller and my efforts to return the work of the Senate Intelligence Committee to non-partisan oversight and away from the politics that have weakened it over the past few years, said Bond.  ### 
