
KANSAS CITY, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond and the Kansas City Missouri Board of Police Commissioners today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice will release nearly half a million dollars in federal funds to the Kansas City Police Department (KCPD) to help solve cold sex crimes cases.  No sex crime should go unsolved and no sex offender should go unpunished, said Bond. These funds will make sure that Kansas City law enforcement has the tools needed to ensure that justice is served for victims of sex crimes.  The KCPD will receive $497,115 for the Solving Cold Cases with DNA Program through the Presidents Advancing Justice through DNA Technology Initiative over 18 months. Established in March 2003, the Presidents DNA Initiative calls for increased funding, training, and assistance to federal, state, and local forensic labs for police, medical professionals, victim service providers, prosecutors, defense lawyers, and judges. The initiative will ensure that DNA technology reaches its full potential to solve crimes, protect the innocent, and identify missing persons.  According to Sergeant Joseph Crayon, supervisor of the KCPD Sex Crimes Section, the need for additional resources increased exponentially when the Missouri Legislature authorized law enforcement to collect DNA from every convicted felon provide and provide that information to a national database in 2004. This action by the state legislature combined with a federal grant for the Kansas City Regional Crime Lab that allows KCPD to run DNA analysis on old rape cases has resulted in the discovery of multiple suspects on many cold cases. The KCPD workload increased dramatically because of those factors, and we were falling behind in our ability to prosecute cases, said Sgt. Crayon.  The KCPD will use the funds to hire additional detectives and equipment to investigate sex crime cases dating as far back as 30 years. The current KCPD cold case sex crimes section, which consists of one detective, will receive three new detectives, five new computers and three new printers. The funds will also allow KCPD detectives to travel to prisons around the country to interview and collect DNA from potential suspects. In some cases, suspects will be transported back to Kansas City for prosecution.  I am pleased with the opportunities that the grant will provide, said Kansas City Police Chief James Corwin. This will allow victims to have closure and will make them and the public safer as these offenders are identified and taken off the streets.  # # #  
