
BLUE SPRINGS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond visited Blue Springs today to update members of the local Chamber of Commerce and other area officials on the latest news in Washington.        	“When we get the intelligence right it not only serves to protect our citizens, it makes our men and women in uniform even more effective,” said Bond.     	Bond stressed that the most serious challenge the United States faces is national security, which is why our war on terror must remain forward-thinking and fully-engaged across the globe.  Unfortunately, the majority in the U.S. Senate supports an arbitrary deadline for withdrawal in Iraq that has no regard for conditions on the ground.  Critical of tying this deadline to funding for the troops, Bond said it is irresponsible and sends the wrong message to our enemies that America’s political will is wavering.    	As the Vice-Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Bond said that intelligence reform is central to our efforts on terror.  The United States needs to improve the collection and analysis of threats, the sharing of intelligence, boost human intelligence capabilities and to stop politicizing intelligence.  Congress also needs to do a better job of oversight over the intelligence community, which is why Congress needs to pass the annual intelligence reauthorization bill.    	Bond praised the strength of the economy and stressed that these gains are not by accident.  The economy has flourished as a result of tax relief and sensible economic policies.  Last year Congress extended the reduced capital gains and dividend rate, AMT relief and small business tax incentives. This legislation was an extension of the massive tax relief enacted in 2001 and 2003 that is now benefiting everyone who is married, has a child, or owns a small business.  The bad news, Bond said, is that the new majority in Congress is proposing a budget that will increase taxes.     	Bond talked to the local officials and businesses about his efforts to promote Missouri overseas.  Missouri is home to a strong agriculture economy, biotechnology companies, aerospace and transportation manufacturers – all of which have growing markets overseas.  In February, Bond visited several Asian capitals where he met with political and business leaders to promote Missouri’s interests overseas.    	As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Bond said that while he is now in the minority he wants to make sure our nation’s appropriations bills provide Missouri and the nation with the resources needed for key programs.  The Senator said that making sure Missouri’s transportation infrastructure is up-to-date is important to jobs and economic development and the future of the state.  The new federal highway bill, which Bond co-authored, is providing Missouri with much-needed resources, including $1 billion in new money – more than $4 billion in total funding.    	Transportation is about more than highways, emphasized Bond.  Congress needs to pass the long over-due Water Resources Development Act (WRDA).  WRDA will modernize the lock and dam system, which is critical to farmers and producers who depend on our waterways to get their goods to market.      	Bond also called for a comprehensive energy policy that relies more on renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel.  Renewable fuels are cleaner than traditional fuels, safer for the environment, and will help decrease our nation’s dependence on foreign imports.
