
ST. LOUIS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today hosted a town hall meeting on the federal farm bill at the Knox County Farm Bureau in Edina.    	“I am looking forward to hearing your ideas about how to meet the challenges our Missouri’s farmers face in meeting our food, fiber, fuel, clothing and conservation needs,” said Bond.   	Bond told local farmers and producers that he wants to hear their views on the federal farm bill.  He stressed that Congress cannot unilaterally disarm our farmers in the 2007 farm bill.  While he would welcome a successful completion of Doha, it should not happen by negotiating away farm subsidies, especially if American farmers do not gain additional free and fair market access opportunities.      	In addition to the farm bill, Bond provided the Knox County Farm Bureau an update about additional issues critical to Missouri’s agriculture interests.  In March, Bond introduced the National Institute of Food and Agricultural Research bill with Senator Harkin and Congressman Peterson, Chairmen of the Senate and House Agriculture Committees, which will boost agriculture research.  Bond also told the Farm Bureau that he is looking for creative ways to maximize farmer’s income by focusing on dual uses of CRP ground for switch grass and woodchips.  This will encourage folks to reenroll for the program while still having the opportunity to profit production for fuel.     	Bond addressed the need for a comprehensive energy policy that relies more on renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel.  Renewable fuels are cleaner than traditional fuels, safer for the environment, and will help decrease our nation’s dependence on foreign imports.  Bond pointed out that Missouri is home to some of the leading research in the world on renewable fuels.  At institutions like the University of Missouri, National Biodiesel Board, Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, Midwest Research Institute, and the National Center for Soybean Technology, cutting edge research is being done to improve the efficiency and bring down the costs of renewable fuels.     	Promoting Missouri overseas is a critical part of Bond’s job as Missouri’s senior Senator.   Missouri is home to a strong agriculture economy, biotechnology companies, aerospace and transportation manufacturers – all of which have growing markets overseas.  In February, Bond visited several Asian capitals where he met with political and business leaders to promote Missouri’s interests overseas, such as beef sales in Japan and Korea.    	Bond also emphasized the importance of replacing the aging water transportation infrastructure.  For years, Bond has fought to pass the long over-due Water Resources Development Act (WRDA).  Passed by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, WRDA includes Bond’s locks and dams bill, which authorizes $1.95 billion in federal funds for seven new locks and an additional $1.72 billion for environmental restoration. This legislation is necessary to modernize the lock and dam system, which is critical to farmers and producers who depend on our waterways to get their goods to market.
