
ST. LOUIS, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today addressed business, political and community leaders from Missouri, Iowa and Illinois at the Tristate Development Summit. The annual summit, hosted by Culver-Stockton College in Canton, brings together area leaders to focus on improving the region through economic development. Bond was joined by Congressman Kenny Hulshof at todays summit. Making sure our transportation infrastructure is up-to-date is important to economic development and jobs, said Bond. Also, whether you are in Missouri, Iowa or Illinois, whether you own a small business or a large business, farm or run a daycare, tax relief and sensible economic policies are key to economic success.   Bond addressed the Tristate Development Summit about issues critical to economic development in the region, including transportation. The new federal highway bill, which Bond co-authored, is providing Missouri with much-needed resources, including $1 billion in new money  more than $4 billion in total funding. Over and above the formula, Bond was able to deliver funds for some very important projects, including: $27 million for Highway 36, to enhance safety and begin to open an economic development corridor from Chicago to Kansas City; $17 million for OATS; and $8 million for the National Biodiesel Board.   Transportation is about more than highways, emphasized Bond. For years, Bond has fought to pass the long over-due Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). Passed by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, WRDA includes Bonds locks and dams bill, which authorizes $1.95 billion in federal funds for seven new locks and an additional $1.72 billion for environmental restoration. This legislation will modernize the lock and dam system, which is critical to farmers and producers who depend on our waterways to get their goods to market. Bond pointed out that in addition to replacing the aging infrastructure and environmental restoration, WRDA is a critical jobs initiative, creating 48 million man-hours of construction work.   Bond also addressed the regions agriculture interests. In March, Bond introduced the National Institute of Food and Agricultural Research bill with Senator Harkin and Congressman Peterson, Chairmen of the Senate and House Agriculture Committees, which will boost agriculture research. Bond also said he is looking for creative ways to maximize farmers income by focusing on dual uses of CRP ground for switch grass and woodchips. This will encourage folks to reenroll for the program while still having the opportunity to profit production for fuel.   Missouri is home to a strong agriculture economy, biotechnology companies, aerospace and transportation manufacturers  all of which have growing markets overseas. In February, Bond visited several Asian capitals where he met with political and business leaders to promote Missouris interests  from Missouri beef to Missouri-made F-15 and F/A-18s -- overseas.  
