
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent today praised Committee passage of the Emergency Disaster Assistance Act, which will provide emergency assistance to our nation’s farmers and ranchers.    	“Federal emergency dollars are critical to helping our farmers and ranchers continue the business of feeding and clothing our population.  Today’s passage is an important step in providing our crop and livestock producers the assistance they need,” said Bond, who as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, urged passage of the disaster legislation at today’s hearing.   	“For years, Missouri’s farmers and ranchers have had to cope with devastating drought conditions,” said Sen. Talent, a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee.  “A severe drought is a natural disaster that hurts our farmers, jobs and the health of our state’s economy.  For example, a reduction of one bushel per acre in soybean production reduces Missouri net farm income by about $25 million.  A similar per-acre reduction in corn production results in a $5 million decrease.  I’m pleased that the Senate is supporting our request for assistance, and I am hopeful the House and the Bush Administration will recognize the need to help our farmers and ranchers.”    	The “Emergency Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act of 2006,” co-sponsored by Bond and Talent, passed the Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon.  The legislation must now pass the full Senate and House of Representatives before being signed into law.    	The legislation will provide emergency production loss and economic assistance to agricultural producers for losses incurred during the 2005 production year.  The Senators pointed out that this legislation is comprehensive and national in scope, covering hurricanes, drought, flood, disease and other weather related disasters.    For drought-plagued states like Missouri this legislation is critical, said Bond and Talent.  Without sufficient rain in 2005, the crop and livestock situation in Missouri is serious.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture has declared 112 of Missouri’s 114 counties primary agriculture disaster areas.  Also, according to FAPRI’s most recent analysis, crop and hay production losses are expected to exceed $289 million.  Beyond the $289 million crop and hay production losses, Missouri producers also incurred additional livestock losses and production hardship, such as feed shortages.
