
WASHINGTON, DC -  U.S. Senators Jim Talent and Kit Bond and Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson today asked the President to quickly approve Governor Matt Blunt’s request for a disaster declaration for 10 counties in Missouri that were impacted by the recent storms and tornadoes that swept through the state March 29 - April 2.      “We are asking the Administration to quickly approve this request for Missourians who were hurt by the storms,” said U.S. Senator Jim Talent.  “We’ve appreciated the President’s positive response to our previous requests and we are hopeful we can provide additional assistance to help our people recover.”     “The President’s approval of Missouri's disaster declaration is critical,” said U.S. Senator Kit Bond.  “This approval will provide individuals and communities the resources they need to start rebuilding their lives.”    “It is going to take a lot of people, working together and working hard, to restore these communities.  We can do it.  Everyone is pulling together, and I am so proud of the good citizens and surrounding counties that are lending a hand when their neighbors really need some help,” said Congresswoman Emerson, who is in Pemiscot County, Missouri, today surveying the damage from the storms.  “The federal government has a part to play, too, in providing swift support to the state and local officials who are dealing with the aftermath of the tornado.  A speedy disaster declaration will enable people who have lost their homes to start the process of rebuilding and recovering.  It is my hope that the administration and the officials at FEMA will act fast and follow through, because it truly is an emergency situation here on the ground.”     The request seeks to make assistance available for the following counties: Andrew, Dunklin, Marion, New Madrid, Pemiscot, Pettis, Ralls, St. Louis, St. Charles and Stoddard counties.    In a letter to the President, Talent, Bond and Emerson pointed out that the storm damage could result in millions of dollars in needed disaster assistance.  They’ve asked the President to grant the request promptly in order for state and local governments to begin recovering from this disaster.
