
  WASHINGTON, DC  Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, U.S. Senator Kit Bond, tonight applauded Congress for passing legislation to update one of law enforcements most critical anti-terrorism tools before leaving for August recess.   On Friday evening, the Senate passed legislation sponsored by Senator Bond and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell to modernize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), which governs terrorist surveillance. Tonight, the House of Representatives passed the Senate bill. The legislation will now be sent to the President to be signed into law.   Bond issued the following statement on the Houses actions:   This bill is absolutely essential to the safety to our country. The legislation introduced by Senator McConnell and I and passed by the House tonight, is the bill that the Director of National Intelligence, Admiral McConnell, a long time professional, said he needs to get the job done.   Admiral McConnell was not manipulated or influenced by other administration officials, despite the blatantly political charges suggested by some Democrats. I worked with him and this is his bill. I am proud of the Democrats and Republicans who voted tonight to protect our country from terrorist threats.   To clarify some of the misinformation being spread on the House floor this evening  even the FISA court itself advised yesterday that it is overwhelmed with cases that dont involve American citizens and have burdened its docket with work that, at best, only minimally involves any American privacy interests.   Also, the statements that this bill approves massive wiretapping of American citizens without protection are absolutely false and reflect either ignorance of the program or willful attempts to mislead.   The way this critical issue was handled by the majority party demonstrates that the strategy of ignoring the committee process and instead attempting to force ideological view points on Congress does not work. I hope that in the future we will be able to deal with these extremely important and sensitive issues through the regular process that was so incredibly ignored in this instance.  ###  
