
Washington, D.C. -  In recognition of President Ronald Reagan’s birthday, Senator Kit Bond today will begin a five city tour across Missouri to announce the reintroduction of his Alzheimer’s legislation. Bond’s five city tour will include stops in Springfield, Kansas City, St. Joseph, St. Louis and Cape Girardeau.    “Ronald Reagan had a profound impact on our nation throughout his public life.  The former President and his wife, Nancy, changed the face of Alzheimer’s.  Their story of courage and commitment has increased public awareness of the disease and the need for research into its causes and prevention,” said Bond.   In honor of the legacy of the 40th President, Ronald Reagan, Senators Bond and Mikulski (D-MD) will reintroduce the Ronald Reagan Alzheimer’s Breakthrough Act in the next few weeks.   This legislation will increase research funding for Alzheimer’s and increase support to Alzheimer’s patients and their caregivers.     Last year, the Aging Subcommittee on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions committee held a hearing on the state of Alzheimer=s research.  Numerous experts testified that increased funding for NIH research over the next year would help scientists make important breakthroughs in the discovery of methods to detect, prevent and treat the disease.   “The greatest tribute to President Reagan and his family would be a living memorial.  This bill will serve as a living tribute to President Regan.  It will spark and accelerate breakthroughs in research and offer hope to all those suffering from the disease today,” said Bond.   The provisions of the Bond-Mikulski bill will:   1) Double funding for Alzheimer’s Research at the National Institute of Health;  2) Increase funding for the National Family Caregiver Support Program from $153 million to $250 million;   3) Reauthorize the Alzheimer’s Demonstration Grant Program that provides grants to states to fill in gaps in Alzheimer’s services such as respite care, home health care, and day care;   4) Authorize $1 million for the Safe Return Program to assist in the identification and safe, timely return of individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias who wander off from their caregivers; 	  5) Establish a public education campaign to educate members of the public about prevention techniques that can “maintain their brain” as they age, based on the current research being undertaken by NIH;    6) Establish a $3,000 tax credit for caregivers to help with the high health costs of caring for a loved one at home; and    7) Encourage families to prepare for their long term needs by providing an above-the-line tax deduction for the purchase of long term care insurance.
