
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond is urging Michael Chertoff, President Bush’s nominee to head the Department of Homeland Security, to utilize the University of Missouri’s cutting-edge research facilities to help the nation fight against agro-terrorism.     	“While the Department of Homeland Security has focused heavily on securing our airways, ports, borders and critical infrastructure, agro-terrorism has had considerably less emphasis,” said Bond. “As livestock and poultry feeding operations become more concentrated, the potential for havoc in local areas increases. Some diseases also take only days or weeks for infections to develop, all the better for a terrorist plotting a stealth attack.    “Mizzou can be a tremendous asset to Homeland Security. MU has earned on the merits a strong role in the effort to protect our food supply.  It’s the right thing to do, and more important, the nation needs the unique research capabilities of MU in this effort.”    	During a Capitol Hill meeting this week, Bond told Chertoff the University of Missouri could offer significant resources to the Department of Homeland Security in the area of agro-terrorism, filling deficiencies in the current program at the Texas A Homeland Security Center.    	Bond stressed that MU has bio-containment research facilities which would give Homeland Security access to a unique research infrastructure necessary for the study of infectious diseases related to agro-terrorism.     	The bio-containment facility at MU is intended to enhance collaborations between scientists in the fields of veterinary and human medicine on a single campus, collaborations that are essential to agro-terrorism research. This capability does not exist at Texas A Bond added that MU has been a leader in research to protect America’s food supply from terrorism and also offers the Department of Homeland Security unique research capabilities in the field.     	This week, Bond praised Chertoff, a former prosecutor and federal judge, for his experience and determination in protecting America from the threat of terrorism.    	“Since September 11th, Michael Chertoff has been on the front lines at the Justice Department changing the way America confronts terrorism and making sure law enforcement has the tools and resources it needs to bring terrorists to justice. Judge Chertoff’s experience and determination will make him a tremendous asset as the head of Homeland Security.”
