
FULTON, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today celebrated the legacy of Sir Winston Churchill at the site of his famous Iron Curtain speech in 1946 at Westminster College in Fulton.    	“Thanks to all of you who are supporting this memorial and museum, and in so doing keeping the legacy of one of history’s greatest men alive for generations to come,” said Bond.    	In celebration of the Churchill legacy a new memorial and interactive museum is being dedicated at Westminster today.  Bond said this memorial and museum will allow future generations of Americans to share in the historic event.    	At a luncheon honoring Lady Soames, Churchill’s granddaughter, Bond emphasized that Churchill’s visit was a high point for all of mid-Missouri.  Already known as a great leader and a brilliant historian, Churchill’s tremendous foresight enabled him to prepare the people of Great Britain for the war against Germany and the other evil Axis powers.      	When Westminster hosted him for the historic ‘Iron Curtain’ speech, Churchill was the first to publicly warn about the dangers of the Soviet Union and its efforts to spread communism throughout the world.  In that speech, Churchill spoke of the need for English-speaking allies to continue to work together to defeat the gathering menace of the Soviet Union.       	Bond pointed out that the historical precedent of 1946 is very striking.  Today the world faces a new form of tyranny:  Islamo-Fascism.  Bond said we face a war with its adherents in Iraq, Afghanistan and many countries throughout the world.      	Bond thanked Great Britain’s current leader, Tony Blair, who after the tragic events of September 11, 2001, was the first and most valuable ally of the United States in the worldwide War on Terror.  The steadfast support of Mr. Blair and the British people has been critical in efforts to stop Islamo-Fascists from imposing their totalitarian fascist state on the Middle East, and ultimately the rest of the world.       	“Remember, we know the end of the story of World War II and the Cold War.  But day by day, living in fear of the Nazis and then in fear of the Soviets, the outcome was by no means certain,” said Bond.  “Similarly, today, we do not know what will happen as we wage the War on Terror.  We do know that we can count on the strong support from our closest ally and friend in the world in winning this war to secure our freedoms and the freedoms for all peoples throughout the world.”
