
COLUMBIA, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined University of Missouri officials to celebrate the groundbreaking of the National Swine Resource and Research Center (NSRRC), at the University of Missouri-Columbia campus.      “Research at the University of Missouri, together with agriculture and business, is healing the sick, feeding the hungry and giving hope to the hopeless, and your contributions will grow exponentially in the future,” said Bond, a strong supporter of the University of Missouri.    The research conducted at the NSRRC will improve existing swine models and develop new genetically-modified swine models of human disease.  The end result of this research is not just a better understanding of hogs, but a better understanding of human health, Bond said.    Swine are important for the development of new treatments for many human diseases, including diabetes, cardiovascular disease and organ transplantation.  Using pigs provided by the NSRRC, scientists will develop new therapies and cures which may save millions of lives each year.     Bond also praised Mizzou for being a leader in the life-sciences revolution.  “Investing time and money in the life sciences is not just about investing in institutions, it is about investing in our students, our faculty, our health, jobs, our economy, our future, and our power to solve real problems of real people,” said Bond.    In the Senate, Bond has been a leading advocate of the new biotechnology revolution and its presence in Missouri, securing funding for the National Plant and Genetics Security Center at the University of Missouri-Columbia. As Chairman of a Senate Appropriations Subcommittee, he has earmarked over $450 million for plant genomics. In addition to the federal funding Bond has poured into the development of biotechnology, he has also been a strong voice of behalf of the revolution both in the United States and abroad.      Following today’s groundbreaking, Bond joined U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and University of Missouri officials at the Animal Science Research Center to honor assistant professor of animal sciences Peter Sutovsky with the USDA’s first National Research Initiative Discovery Award.
