
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined community leaders, safety net providers and health care advocates to celebrate a new health care system in St. Louis that will provide improved access and delivery of health care for residents in the region, particularly the community’s under- and uninsured residents.     	“We all share the same goal.  We want a primary and specialty care system that provides timely, accessible, affordable, high-quality health care for the uninsured and underinsured residents of St. Louis City and County,” said Bond.  “Patients deserve no less.  Today we are one large step closer to achieving that goal.”    	 “Today is an important day for improving access to health care for all residents in the St. Louis region.  The completion of the affiliations project shows what can be accomplished through regional collaboration," said Robert Freund, CEO of the Regional Health Commission.    	Bond joined local leaders and health care advocates to celebrate the success of the St. Louis community in meeting all the requirements to complete the transfer of the St. Louis ConnectCare primary care clinics to Grace Hill Neighborhood Health Center and Myrtle Hilliard Davis Comprehensive Health Center.  The final piece, over $7 million in local contributions announced today, will provide the necessary capital improvements to existing primary care clinics.     	In 2002 and 2004, Bond advocated for federal approval of a plan that would better coordinate and improve the health care system and safety net in the St. Louis Region.  As a result, federal dollars have been used for the operation of ConnectCare, its conversion to an outpatient facility, and the restructuring of the health care safety net.  In the last three years local Community Health Centers (FQHCs), St. Louis ConnectCare, area hospitals, St. Louis City and County governments, the Missouri Foundation for Health, community leaders and advocates have worked together to develop a model to deliver better health care to the uninsured and underinsured in the St. Louis community.     	This new system provides an integrated system of care for safety-net providers, reduces barriers to accessing health care, and creates a “medical primary care home” for each patient.  The result is one we all seek--more and better health care for our citizens and fewer visits to the emergency room.      Bond congratulated the community for working together and developing an improved, stable, and fiscally sustainable health-care delivery system for the future.     “Real, meaningful change is happening in this community.  Everyone gathered here today should be proud of the part they have played to give St. Louis the opportunity to become a model of integration of safety-net care. Other communities across the country are closely watching our progress with an eye towards their own safety net system,” said Bond.
