
 WASHINGTON, DC Vice Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Senator Kit Bond, today raised concerns with proposed federal shield laws for journalists and the new limits it would place on preventing terrorist attacks and significant harm to national security.   Intelligence leaks show our enemies that we are on their trail and how we are tracking them, said Bond. We must protect those fighting terrorism and the techniques they use -- this legislation does just the opposite.    Today, the Free Flow of Information Act was considered by the Senate Judiciary Committee. Bond pointed out that the legislation raises too high a hurdle for prosecutors and is overly broad covering those seeking protection as journalists. Bond expressed concern that the legislation could hinder the governments ability to prevent terror attacks and protect national security.    Bond took issue with the supposed need for a federal shield law. He pointed to a Department of Justice (DOJ) letter to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy which details the decreasing number of cases in which the Department has issued subpoenas seeking reporters confidential sources. In fact, according to the DOJ letter, only four such-subpoenas have been approved since 2001.  Congress should be acting to make it easier to catch those who knowingly leak classified information, not make it more difficult, emphasized Bond. The legislation creates a scenario where the government would be forced to disclose information potentially more damaging and sensitive then the original leak. The Director of National Intelligences (DNI) office, which opposes the bill, agrees. In letters to the Senate Judiciary Committee, the DNIs office said the bill imposes an extraordinary burden on the government, one that can be met only by revealing still more sensitive and even classified information. The letter goes on to point out that even after establishing their case the Judge can still shield a reporters source  despite national security concerns.   The leaking of classified information poses a serious threat to our national security, said Bond. This problem was raised by the bipartisan 9-11 Commission  which found our national security threatened by wide-spread leaking of classified information. Current CIA Director Michael Hayden agreed, saying that leaking of our terrorist-fighting techniques has prevented some of our allies abroad from cooperating with the United States, and hurt our efforts to catch terrorists. During his open confirmation hearing, Hayden stated that we effectively have applied the Darwinian Theory to terrorists in view of the leaks -- in other words, well catch the dumb ones while the smart ones who watch the media will adapt and escape.    Over the past few years we have witnessed unauthorized disclosures of classified information at an alarming rate, said Bond. Every one of these leaks gravely threatens our national security and makes it easier for our enemies to achieve their murderous and destructive plans. Each violation of trust invites more chaos and violence into our world.   Bond stressed that he agrees protecting journalists and their sources is important, but more important is fighting terrorism and preventing significant harm to national security. Any federal shield law must not threaten the tools our intelligence and law enforcement personnel need to help keep us safe.    ###     
