
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured $1 billion in federal funds for National Guard and Reserve equipment and $45 million for key Missouri military projects in the Senates defense spending bill.   The National Guard is critical to our security in Missouri and abroad. We must continue to arm our soldiers with the proper tools they need. These federal dollars will provide equipment and resources the Guard badly needs to conduct homeland defense missions and fight the war on terror, said Bond.  Senate National Guard Caucus Co-Chairs Sens. Kit Bond and Patrick Leahy secured $1 billion in federal funds to help our citizen-soldiers with their equipment shortage. Bond secured the federal funds in the fiscal year 2008 Defense spending bill, which passed the Senate yesterday. Before being signed into the law, the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives version. The House passed the spending bill by a vote of 395 to 13 in August.  Earlier this week, Bond and Leahy scored additional victories for the Guard and Reserve. On Monday, the Senate passed the 2008 Defense Authorization bill, which included key components of Bond and Leahys National Guard Empowerment Bill. The provisions will give the National Guard budget power, make the Deputy of the United States Northern Command an officer of the National Guard, and elevate the Chief of the National Guard to the rank of four-star general. Bond and Leahy also included a provision to restore the Insurrection Act to its original form and protect Governors control of their Guard units. There are currently over 11,000 members in the Missouri National, and 1,162 serving abroad.  Bond also secured funds for the following Missouri defense projects in the Senate defense spending bill:   $3 million for the Neutralization of Improvised Explosive Devises (IEDS) at the University of Missouri-Columbia. The funds will provide for technology to counter remotely detonated Explosive Devices (IEDs) and research on the effects of its blasts and fragments through a MU-Boeing Company partnership. IEDs are the number 1 cause of deaths in Iraq, 1,175 men and women lives lost due to these devices.     $2 million for Steel Castings and Alloy Materials at the University of Missouri-Rolla. The funds will provide for advanced research and manufacturing of steel technology for future weapons.     $2 million for the Center for Borane Technology at the University of Missouri-Columbia. The funds will provide technology to synthesize and test materials based on polyhedral borane chemistry for use in highly energetic explosives and propellants. The Center will also develop nanotechnology for use in small, lightweight warheads for armor and missile applications.     $3 million for Parents as Teachers Heroes at Home Program. The funds will provide support to the families of servicemen and women through valuable parenting information shared in personal home visits and interactive group meetings. This will expand and enhance services for the four Parents as Teachers program sites currently serving hundreds of families at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.; Fort Riley, Kan.; Fort Leavenworth, Kan.; and Fort Hood, Texas.In addition, new sites will be established at 12 additional Army installations.     $2 million for Advanced Simulation Tools for Aircraft Structures at ESRD in St. Louis. The funds will provide for computer software that will help the Navy generate very efficient, low weight, airframes and dependable repair solutions for aging aircraft.     $6 million for High Energy Superior Lithium Battery Technology at Eagle Picher in Joplin. The funds will provide for maximized output, increased performance and reduced life cycle costs for lithium batteries.     $3 million for Lithium-Ion Cell Development at Kokam in Lees Summit. The funds will be used to establish a state of the art, fully automated manufacturing facility in Lees Summit to support production of the Lithium Polymer batteries for the US Air Force, Navy, and Army who wish to retrofit their aircraft with these batteries.     $2 million for Heuristic Internet Protocol Packet Inspection Engine (HIPPIE) at TechGuard LLC in St. Louis. The funds will be used to Integrate Army Ground/Surface sensor information sharing. The research will provide critical technology for low bandwidth and mobile computers that uses unique filtering algorithms to help quickly disseminate and classify information to be shared with military allies.     $1 million for Stabilized Enzyme Biofuel Cell (SEBC) at Akemin Inc. in St. Louis. The funds will develop a biofuel cell produced from Akemin Inc. of St. Louis that is ideally suited for the power density and duration of unmanned ground sensor systems.     $4 million for Special Ops Mission Planning Tools at Westar in St. Charles. The funds will provide for new capabilities in aviation combat operations for Special Operation Forces. The new capabilities will strengthen the critical link between aircraft performance prediction and mission planning while increasing safety for our warfighters.     $2 million for All Electric Laser at Nuvonyx in St. Louis. The funds will provide for the correction of critical problems in the reliability of laser diode rays.     $3 million for Knowledge, Innovation and Tech Sharing Program at KSS at Ft. Leonard. The funds will provide for the improvement of the U.S. Armys ability to track, collect, and disseminate valuable information discovered through its research and development program.     $4 million for Hyperspectal Synthetic Aperature Radar (HYPERSAR) at Clean Earth Technologies in St. Louis. The funds will provide for the continued use of a computer/camera system that uses patent pending statistical and pixel based image processing that allows warfighters to operate under variable and adverse lighting conditions often found on the battlefield. The system will provide for better detection and classification of assets, fires, bomb damage, live and dead humans and allies or enemies.     $3 million for High Power Electrolytic Super-Capacitors at Crosslink in St. Louis. The funds will provide for the expedited research, development, and demonstration of high power delivery sources with increased energy delivery capability to power 21st century weaponry.     $2 million for Agile Software Capability Intervention (ASCI) at Gestalt in Joplin. The funds will be used to adopt commercial methods for quick deployment of software capabilities     $2 million for Fastman Analyzer Platform at 3M in Columbia. The funds will provide for the replacement of several laboratory instruments. The new instruments will allow a single instrument to quickly perform a wide variety of tests and address critical defense and homeland security threats such as Bird Flu and Anthrax.     $1 million for Chemical Biological Protective Shelter at DRS in West Plains. The funds will provide for a highly mobile, self contained system that will provide a 300 square foot, contamination free environmentally controlled work area (tent) for emergency medical use in battle areas.    Bond joined his colleagues to help to secure funds for the following national defense projects:   $7 million for the Procurement Technical Assistance Program (PTAP). Senators Bond and Leahy secured these funds in addition to the Presidents request. The funds will provide centers across the country that work with thousands of new entrants into the Defense Department market each year generating an increased number of suppliers for Defense Department and other federal agencies.     $35 million for Arrow-Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense (SRBMD). The funds will provide for protection for the civilian population of Northern Israel from Syrian and Hezbollah short-range missile attacks.     $49.5 million for LITENING Targeting Pods. These funds will provide a multi-purpose targeting and navigation system for tactical aircraft with 24-hour precision strike capability against land and sea-based targets. A portion of these funds will support Missouris A-10 Squadron  the 440th Fighter Wing -- based at Whiteman Airforce Base.     $150 million for Peer-Review Breast Cancer Research Program (BCRP). These funds will provide for innovative approaches to breast cancer prevention, early detection and treatment.    ###  
