
JEFFERSON CITY, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today addressed the Missouri General Assembly.  Bond made remarks before the both the Missouri Senate and House of Representatives.     	“Our greatest successes are always bipartisan.  And it is important not to let politics get personal.  We should continue to respect each other, even when our views are not the same,” said Bond.    	In his address to both chambers, Bond emphasized that the importance of working in a bipartisan manner.  There are a number of areas both parties can work together on, including promoting Missouri overseas.  Missouri is home to a strong agriculture economy, biotechnology companies, aerospace and transportation manufacturers – all of which have growing markets overseas.  In February, Bond visited several Asian capitals where he met with political and business leaders to promote Missouri’s interests overseas – from Missouri beef to F-15 and F/A-18’s.    	Bond stressed the importance of biotechnology, which is leading the way in health care and nutrition throughout the world.  Since Bond served as Missouri’s Governor he has worked to make Missouri a leader in biotechnology.  The incredible advances and discoveries being made in Missouri are possible by the policies put in place in the mid-80’s, like the Food for the 21st Century.   Bond told both House and Senate members that the votes they are making now and in the next few years are critical.  He encouraged them to look to the long term viability of Missouri’s economy when making these decisions.  Bond praised the Governor’s newly created Advisory Council for Plant Biotechnology and the Life Science Trust Fund as important steps.     	Making sure Missouri’s transportation infrastructure is up-to-date is important to jobs and economic development.  The new federal highway bill, which Bond co-authored, is providing Missouri with much-needed resources.  However, transportation is about more than highways, emphasized Bond.  For years, Bond has fought to pass the long over-due Water Resources Development Act (WRDA).  Passed by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee last week, WRDA includes Bond’s locks and dams bill, which authorizes $1.95 billion for seven new locks and an additional $1.72 billion for environmental restoration.  Bond pointed out that WRDA is a critical jobs initiative, creating 48 million man-hours of construction work.      	Bond also called for a comprehensive energy policy that relies more on renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel.  Renewable fuels are cleaner than traditional fuels, safer for the environment, and will help decrease our nation’s dependence on foreign imports.  Bond pointed out that Missouri is home to some of the leading research in the world on renewable fuels, including the University of Missouri, National Biodiesel Board, Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, Midwest Research Institute, and the National Center for Soybean Biotechnology.	    	The federal supplemental appropriations bill contains an agricultural disaster package that is national in scope.  Bond filed an amendment that ensures monies would cover Missouri’s recent ice storms and the severe and persistent drought.  Bond’s amendment will allow a Presidential Disaster Declaration for the recent ice storms to be sufficient to receive dairy and livestock assistance without an Agricultural Secretarial Declaration.
