
ST. LOUIS, MO B U.S. Senator Kit Bond today called on a federal advisory panel to recommend that the remaining Cold War-era Mallinckrodt workers, who were exposed to large doses of radiation, receive immediate compensation of $150,000 from the federal government.      “Once again I urge the board to recognize the plight of these cold war workers and designate the remaining workers as members of the Special Exposure Cohort.  This will give these former workers the compensation they need to pay their medical bills and provide for their survivors” said Bond to the advisory panel. “I ask you to take the only reasonable, prudent and just action to help these cold warriors who did so much for this great nation.”    The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) advisory board is holding an additional hearing in St. Louis for the Mallinckrodt workers employed between 1949 and 1957.  NIOSH convened in April but concluded further examination of the evidence was necessary.   Earlier this year, following a February hearing at which Bond testified, NIOSH approved compensation for Mallinckrodt workers employed between 1942 and 1948 at the downtown site.  These workers passed their final hurdle when the recommendation was approved by the Department of Health and Human Services this spring.    	The St. Louis-based Mallinckrodt Chemical Company's nuclear production facilities employed about 3,500 people who were exposed to large doses of radiation. Unfortunately, until the approval by the HHS, none of these workers had been granted a special federal health designation from the federal government, called a Special Exposure Cohort (SEC), which would prevent the workers from going through the cumbersome process known as dose reconstruction in order to be eligible for immediate compensation.    Bond pointed out that too many Mallinckrodt workers have died while waiting for dose reconstruction -- the long, cumbersome and arduous bureaucratic process former energy workers who were exposed to high levels of radioactive materials must complete to receive coverage.     The 2000 Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA) was designed to compensate former energy workers, like those at Mallinckrodt, who were exposed to high levels of radioactive materials. One component involved creating Special Exposure Cohort (SEC) sites, a group of employees with specific cancers who worked with nuclear materials and are eligible for expedited medical cost payments of $150,000.      According to NIOSH there are two requirements for creating an SEC.  One, if it is not feasible to estimate accurately the radiation dose employees received, and two, if there is a reasonable likelihood that such a radiation dose endangered the health of members of this class.    Bond, who came close to winning SEC designation for the former workers through a legislative fix last year, remains convinced that all of the Mallinckrodt sites in Downtown St. Louis and Weldon Springs meet the criteria for a full cohort. Since then he has testified at NIOSH hearings and has been in regular contact with federal health officials to push the special designation.
