
ST. LOUIS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond was recognized today for his leadership in helping to establish Missouri’s plant science industry at the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center.  Today’s ceremony and ribbon cutting was led by Chairman William Danforth, M.D. and Roger Beachy, Ph.D., President of the Danforth Plan Science Center, who renamed the plant growth facility the Christopher S. “Kit” Plant Growth Facility. 	“Thank you all for this tremendous honor,” said Bond.  “Biotechnology is the science and the business of the future.  As a policymaker, I was drawn to biotech’s amazing promise for improving human health, the environment, and enhancing agricultural production around the world.” 	Bond, a supporter of biotechnology since he served as Missouri’s Governor, is now one of life sciences’ strongest advocates in Congress.  Bond has used his position as a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee to earmark more than $450 million for plant genomics.     	During the ceremony, Bond emphasized the importance of biotechnology as a possible solution to world-wide problems of malnutrition, hunger, disease and environmental degradation.  Over 15 million children worldwide still die of starvation each year, cited Bond.  Biotechnological research is helping improve food value, vitamin content in crops, reduce viral infections in plants, and improve both soil conditions and pest control.  By 2050, developing countries will be home to 90 percent of the expected population of 9 billion, added Bond. Traditional crops may be scarce, but biotech crops may help offer a better solution for our future international food supply.   	Biotechnology also offers an environmentally-friendly and domestically-produced solution to meeting this nation’s energy needs.  At a time when Middle East politics continue to be unstable, the United States needs to reduce foreign oil consumption, warned Bond.  Also, this nation’s carbon footprint is too large.  Biotech research will help us grow enough corn and soybeans and other crops to make the ethanol and biodiesel that is needed for fuel, said Bond.   	In addition to providing solutions to some of the world’s larger problems, biotechnology provides economic growth for Missouri, said Bond.  Missouri has already seen this growth -- here in St. Louis, across I-70 to mid-Missouri and on to Kansas City, said Bond.  He explained that the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center and similar entities conduct top-notch research and create high-paying jobs.  He noted that overall, biotech companies attracted more than $20 billion in investment in 2005.  	Bond praised the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center for believing in the promise of plant biotechnology, working to make it happen, and attracting leading scientists.  Bond stressed that he will continue his efforts to propel the science of biotechnology and its applications forward.  He promised to work to secure federal funds for research opportunities, help biotech firms obtain access to capital, expand trade opportunities, and continue create a viable regulatory climate for biotechnology to expand. # # #
