
KANSAS CITY, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today spoke at the International Symposium on Agro-terrorism in Kansas City, where he stressed the need to focus on protecting the nation’s food suply.     “We must create the structures and relationships between academia, the private sector, law enforcement and intelligence to coordinate a meaningful response to terrorist threats against our nation’s food supply,” said Bond.  “It is our responsibility to do so on behalf of the public at large.  This is a new day, an important time in history.  Those of us with the responsibility of protecting the homeland from attack – a large and growing group as we’ve seen – face a difficult challenge.”     Food and agriculture represent $1.3 trillion of our nation’s gross domestic product and the Midwest region is the heart of this food supply.  More than 70 percent of America’s agricultural output comes from this area.  It is fitting for the first International Symposium on Agro-terrorism to be held in Kansas City, given the heartland’s agricultural importance, said Bond.   Bond stressed that while the Department of Homeland Security has focused heavily on securing our airways, ports, borders and critical infrastructure, Agro-terrorism has had considerably less emphasis.  Despite the lack of focus on this threat, Agro-terrorism has the potential to kill people, devastate the U.S. economy, and disrupt the lives of millions of Americans by transmitting highly contagious agents directly from animals to people and contaminating the food supply.      In order to protect the American public and economy, technology to detect pathogens early must be developed and veterinarians and epidemiologists must be trained to recognize them.  Bond praised the University of Missouri’s Center for Agricultural Defense Research, where this important work has begun.  Their multidisciplinary program focuses on prevention, preparedness and response to zoonotic and veterinary agro-terrorism.  Key partners in this Center include the University of Missouri-System, Washington University-St. Louis, the Danforth Plant Sciences Center of Saint Louis, Saint Louis University, Mississippi State University (MSU)and Midwest Research Institute (MRI) of Kansas City.    “Prior wars have been waged against conventional threats with identifiable boundaries.  Today’s conflict pits us against an unconventional foe without borders.  This means an attack could come anywhere, anytime, and everyone needs to be prepared.  Even those of us who would not normally think of ourselves as the first-line of defense against an enemy,” said Bond.    In order to fight this unconventional foe, agricultural producers, the food industry, and the law enforcement, public health and intelligence communities need to become educated on the prevention and management of emerging threats, Bond concluded.
