
Bond, McCaskill Ask FEMA to Modify Flood Insurance Requirements   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Today, U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Claire McCaskill sent a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to express their concerns regarding FEMAs current effort to re-map flood zones in Southeast Missouri, which includes a recommendation to landowners to obtain flood insurance. Bond and McCaskill believe that due to the current levee systems in the region, costly flood insurance is unnecessary. Bond and McCaskill have also cosponsored a bill that gives FEMA the authority to modify the warning signs as appropriate to different communities, especially those behind levees that exceed federal standards.  The new FEMA policy that recommends the purchase of flood insurance, known as the Flood Insurance Rate Map Zone X Warning, ignores the federally maintained Mississippi River and Tributary System (MRT), which currently exceeds the 500-year flood standards by 7 feet. Area taxpayers contribute to the upkeep of these important levees. While the policy indicated that flood insurance is merely a recommendation, lenders could interpret this as a requirement. Bond and McCaskill believe that the forced purchase of flood insurance by area landowners amounts to a double-tax on area landowners.   The Bond-McCaskill letter encourages FEMA to adopt alternative language that would give FEMA the discretion to modify the flood warnings. Ideally, FEMA would consider the regional levee system and exempt local landowners from the new flood insurance policy.   Across the country too many families are struggling with their mortgages, said Bond. Forcing additional and unnecessary costs on these families is wrong. I am working with my colleagues to prevent this extra burden on Missouri landowners.  Southeast Missouri is no stranger to the dangers of flooding along the Mississippi. Thats why years ago landowners invested their hard earned tax dollars into a top notch levee system that could withstand some of the worst of what the Mississippi could throw at them. This new, one-size fits all policy would force them to buy flood insurance they dont need and thats not right, McCaskill said.     
