
  WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has released over $1.5 million in federal funds for a new intermodal bus facility in Springfield.  Many people depend on bus transit for access to their jobs, to medical care and to the grocery store, said Bond. Our investment in this facility is an investment in the productivity of the Springfield citizens that will use the bus services. I am pleased to have been a partner in such a worthwhile project.  Bond stressed that investment in transportation will spur economic development and improve the standard of living for Springfield residents. The new bus transfer facility will continue the redevelopment momentum in downtown Springfield.  As the ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that funds the Department of Transportation, Bond secured the $1,633,500.00 in federal funds for the new transfer facility in the subcommittees fiscal year 2006 spending bill. The current transfer facility suffers from traffic congestion, access problems and redevelopment on both sides of the facility. The current facility is also land locked and unable to expand to meet the citys growing needs.  The federal funding released today, which was secured by Senator Bond, is key to improving public transportation in Springfield, Missouri, said John Twitty, General Manager  CEO, City Utilities of Springfield. These funds will allow us to update and relocate the transit system's bus transfer facility. This funding comes at a time when we are seeing record numbers in ridership and we expect that trend to continue. Senator Bond's efforts on Springfield's behalf will benefit many people in many ways.  The new intermodal bus facility will feature a passengers waiting area, loading stations for buses entering and exiting the facility, and office space for local transportation staff. Long committed to improving the public transportation system in Springfield, Bond has supported the City Utilities transit system by securing over $4.5 million within the last five years.  # # #     
