
CAPE GIRARDEAU, MO  U.S. Senators Kit Bond and Jim Talent and Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson today joined local officials and residents to celebrate the groundbreaking on the I-55 Interchange in southeast Missouri. These improvements are an investment in Cape Girardeau County and Southeast Missouri State Universitys future success, economic prospects and the quality of life for citizens and students in the region, said Senator Bond, chairman of the Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee and key author of the federal highway bill.   The I-55 Interchange project is a top priority for the community and its a top priority for me, said Sen. Talent. This expansion will improve the quality of life for Missourians. Its also an investment in our states transportation infrastructure which will generate jobs and economic growth.   Solid transportation infrastructure is essential to the rural economy, public safety, and quality of life. The I-55 interchange is a project that will touch on all three of these priorities. Our region depends upon transportation for so many things, so I am excited about the opportunities the I-55 project creates in Cape Girardeau County and throughout Southeast Missouri. I am also grateful to Senator Bond and Senator Talent for their involvement and support, and for joining me as aggressive advocates for this project, said U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson.   Bond, Talent and Emerson secured a total of $10.8 million in federal funds for the transportation project. The Senators and Congresswoman secured the funds in the six-year federal highway bill, which was signed into law last August.   The I-55 Interchange project will link the cities of Cape Girardeau and Jackson. In addition, the federal dollars will provide funding for outer-roads connecting the new interchange with Center Junction (Exit 99).   Bond, Talent and Emerson praised the dedication of local, county and University leaders to the Jackson and Cape Girardeau communities. The members stressed that their partnership and commitment made todays groundbreaking possible.   ###  
