
NEOSHO, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined local officials, conservationists and residents to highlight the almost $3 million he secured for a visitors center at the Neosho Fish Hatchery. The new facility will bring in even more visitors each year and provide a boost to the local economy, said Bond. The Neosho Fish Hatchery is a tremendous community asset and it is important to preserve this treasure for future generations to enjoy.   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond was able to secure $2.95 million in federal dollars for construction of a new visitors center at the Neosho Fish Hatchery. Bond secured the funds for the Neosho project in the fiscal year 2007 Interior spending bill. Before being signed into law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill. In fiscal year 2004 Congressman Roy Blunt secured the initial funds for the visitors center at the Neosho Fish Hatchery.   Established in 1888, the Neosho National Fish Hatchery is the oldest federal fish hatchery in operation today. With a small staff of five, the Hatchery provides a number of critical conservation efforts, said Bond. The staff provides mandated mitigation of Rainbow Trout for Lake Taneycomo and has raised lake sturgeon, pallid sturgeon, walleye and freshwater drum in the past year. Other warmwater species raised include bluegill, small and large mouth bass, catfish and crappie.   The Hatchery also provides protection to the endangered Ozark cavefish located in the spring-fed creeks on the hatcherys property and recovery efforts for the endangered Pallid Sturgeon in the lower Missouri River. Bond pointed out that Neosho is the lead regional hatchery in this effort in partnership with several other Fish and Wildlife field stations.   In addition to recovery and protection of endangered species, the Hatchery provides environmental education and outreach to the public. Despite the more than 40,000 visitors who visit the facility each year, there is currently not an adequate place to accommodate the public or to provide the necessary office space and research areas for staff.   The new 8,500 square foot visitors center, to be built with the funds Bond secured, will offer exhibits, an aquarium, a classroom, wet lab and public education areas as well as new staff offices and a public research library.  ###  
