
SPRINGFIELD, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined students, educators, agriculture and local officials to highlight the $1 million he secured for Missouri State Universitys Darr Agricultural Center. The Darr Agricultural Center provides an instructional environment where students can demonstrate skills to professors, faculty and the community. This facility will only enhance what is already a positive educational and applied research experience for MSU students, said Bond.   As chairman of the Senate Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, Bond secured the $1 million in federal funds in the fiscal year 2007 spending bill, which passed the Appropriations Committee in July. Before being signed into the law the bill must be passed by the full Senate and reconciled with the House of Representatives version.   Bond praised Missouri State University setting high standards of achievement and for understanding the importance of teaching students responsibility, character, management skills and team work in a hands-on environment. Bond pointed out that MSU is bridging traditional and urban agriculture at the Darr Agricultural Center. The Center showcases top-notch horses, beef cows, and eye-appealing research and demonstration projects such as forage crops, blueberries, annual and perennial flowers, and of course his personnel favorite, walnut trees.   MSU is making the community an important part of students educational experience, said Bond. Through Missouri States public affairs mission, students partner with Girls and Boys Town of the Ozarks and the Springfield Council of Churches to provide a therapeutic riding program. Community service projects, cattle shows and auctions, equine workshops, animal judging contests and horticultural tours provide additional community involvement for the students.   Missouri State doesnt just have an address here. It is truly part of the community, said Bond, who commended the students for being such strong role models for 4-H, FFA and local youth.   Bond also addressed Missouris farmers and ranchers, who are facing severe and persistent drought. Bond stressed that he, along with Senator Jim Talent, will continue to fight for federal disaster assistance to help Missouris agriculture community deal with the current challenges.   ###  
