
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today introduced one of his top jobs initiatives, a bipartisan bill to modernize locks on the upper Mississippi River.    	“We should do, simply, for the future, what our predecessors did for the present and build a system designed to improve our competitiveness, our standard of living, and environmental protection. Without a competitive transportation system, the promise of expanded trade and commercial growth is empty, job opportunities are lost, and we will be unprepared for the challenges of this new century,” said Bond.   	Bond's bipartisan legislation, including Senators Talent (R-MO), Grassley (R-IA), and Harkin (D-IA), to modernize the Mississippi and Illinois River lock and dam system is part of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA).  Bond emphasized that his lock and dam bill is an essential part of WRDA, particularly for the Midwest, where farmers depend on the lock and dam system to move their products to market.   	Bond’s bill would authorize $2.475 billion in federal funds for seven new locks, including $1.58 billion for ecosystem restoration.  In addition to replacing the aging infrastructure and environmental restoration, Bond’s bill is a critical jobs initiative, creating 48 million man-hours of construction work.   	"By investing in the locks today, we are securing our region's economic future for tomorrow," said Bond. "Modernizing our lock and dam system will produce economic benefits now, including good-paying construction jobs for Missouri workers. This project will make U.S. producers more efficient and more competitive, while protecting jobs here at home."     	Bond, who chairs the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, said it is important to improve the aging lock and dam system in order to maintain the 1,000 miles of Missouri and Mississippi River shoreline and inland ports, which serve as Missouri’s arteries to world markets.     	These improvements to the nation's water transportation system are long past due, Bond stressed. The current water transportation system, designed for paddlewheel boats and to last 50 years, is nearly 70 years old.  Also, in the last 35 years, waterborne commerce on the Upper Mississippi River has more than tripled, growing from 27 million tons in 1960 to 84 million tons in 1995. In order to provide producers with modern options and to prepare for the expected growth, the capacity and efficiency of the water transportation system must be improved.     	Also, updating the locks and dam system will prepare the country for the projected growth in freight shipping. Highway traffic growth is expected to grow from 11 billion tons to 19 billion tons and rail traffic from 2 billion to 3.7 billion tons.  While our highways are not prepared for this level of growth, waterways are an alternative. One medium-size tow on the river can carry the same weight as 870 trucks, or two diesel engines in exchange for 870 diesel engines, which makes water transportation more efficient, safe, fuel efficient and environment-friendly.
