
ST. LOUIS, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today celebrated the expansion of new HUBZone offices for Asynchrony Solutions, one of the fastest growing private companies in the St. Louis area. What happens on the battlefields of Iraq or Afghanistan or on dangerous seas often depends on what happens in the high technology plants in St. Louis and across Missouri, said Bond. Our ability to conduct successful combat operations is increasingly dependent on high-tech communications systems. That is why companies like Asynchrony are so important.   Todays ceremony celebrated the 10,000 square foot addition to Asynchronys current headquarters in the historic, century-old King Bee Hat building in downtown St. Louis. The expansion increases Asynchronys total space in the building to 25,000 square feet, which will help the company meet the growing demand for their products.   Bond praised Asynchrony for their commitment to St Louis City. He said it is exciting to see this kind of development in downtown St. Louis  bringing new industries and new jobs to an area that has been depressed too long. Asynchronys success is exactly what Bond had in mind when he wrote the HUBZone law in 1997. Small businesses are frequently at a disadvantage when it comes to government procurement. The HUBZone law gave these companies government contracting preference in return for locating and providing critically-needed jobs in our nations cities.   Bond emphasized that Asynchrony is making significant contributions to our nation's defense on programs like the Future Combat System, on the Joint Explosive Ordnance Disposal (JEOD) program, and on the Internet Relay Chat program for the Navy. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Bond secured $3.65 million for these programs since fiscal year 2006.   The fate of our young men and women in harms way is directly related to the workmanship of the men and women in high-tech companies back home, Bond pointed out. He praised Asynchrony for helping us keep our superior technological advantage on the battlefield.   I look forward to continuing to work with Asynchrony to make them an even stronger part of our nation's defense and the City's economy, said Bond.  
