
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), Roland Warren of the National Fatherhood Initiative (NFI), Alma Powell of America’s Promise, Ted Leonisis of AOL LLC and other NFI affiliates to launch the Double Duty Dad Initiative, a new national mentoring program designed by NFI.   	“Not all children have the luxury of strong parental involvement,” said Bond.  “Bringing dads together increases our sense of community and bolsters our confidence in our role as engaged fathers. That is why I encourage all dads to reach out and help a child in need.”    	During the program launch and press conference, Bond touted the Double Duty Dad initiative, the new program which will motivate and equip fathers to look within their own local communities and help children in need of a father’s care.  The program aims to work with established mentoring organizations such as America’s Promise to help children across America.  	24 million American children, nearly 34 percent of all American children, now live in a home without their biological father stressed Bond.  While many of them have contact with their fathers, or live with a step-father, many others have no one to act as a father in their lives, said Bond.  Bond strengthened his point by citing a Family Strengthening Policy Center statistic, which states that one in 3 children of all incomes has had no contact with their non-residential father last year.   	Bond first became aware of the importance of good parenting while serving as Governor of Missouri.  Bond’s son, Sam Bond, was born during Bond’s governorship. During that time, Bond took advantage of a brand new home-visitation program comparable to the Double Duty Dad initiative called Parents as Teachers.  Bond noted that the Parents as Teachers program helped the Bond family through sleepless nights, teething, learning ABC’s, and potty training.  Bond often proudly states that his son Sam was probably one of the first babies to benefit from the Parents as Teachers program in Missouri.  	Bond has continued his commitment to parental involvement and home visitation in Congress through a collaborative effort with Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY). The two reintroduced the bi-partisan Education Begins at Home Act this year.   The bill makes a federal investment in parents by establishing the first, dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of Parents As Teachers at the state and local level. ###
