
Caruthersville, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined area law enforcement at the Pemiscot County Sheriff's department to discuss ongoing efforts by the Bootheel Drug Task Force in Missouri’s fight against methamphetamines.     	"My commitment to help Missouri's dedicated law enforcement fight the battle against meth remains steadfast," said Senator Kit Bond. "Our law enforcement officials are on the front lines, and I will continue my efforts to get them the equipment, clean-up funds and manpower needed to get the job done."    	Located in the middle of the country, with many small towns, national forest acres, the rural makeup and the number of interstate highways, Missouri is a draw for methamphetamine cookers, distributors, dealers and smugglers. In recent years Missouri has become known as the “meth capitol” of the United States.    	Recognizing the severity of the state’s drug problem, Bond has secured millions in federal funds for Missouri law enforcement, anti-drug programs and the state's crimes labs. He also secured the federal dollars in 2000 to begin the Missouri Sheriffs Methamphetamine Relief Team (MOSMART) to combat the meth problem.  Since this program began Bond has secured more than $13 million for MOSMART and an additional $1 million for the program in the last fiscal year.      	MOSMART has successfully coordinated efforts with regional drug task forces and sheriff departments from throughout the state to fight meth Missouri-wide.  Nearly 10,000 arrests have been made for possession of meth since the program began.   	Bond assured the area law enforcement that he will use his new Appropriations subcommittee, which funds the Judiciary and the Office of National Drug Control Policy, to work with local law enforcement to continue the fight against methamphetamine.    	"Our senior U.S. Senator's ‘Show Me’ trait, listening to local law enforcement, was crucial in the conception of MOSMART and  why we have a good dialogue with federal agencies like the Drug Enforcement Administration and the United States Marshals Service," stated Tommy Greenwell, Pemiscot County Sheriff.  "Also, the resources he has helped deliver are invaluable in our efforts to get methamphetamine and other harmful drugs out of our communities."
