
ST. LOUIS, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today outlined his priorities for the upcoming year.  Bond talked about his health care and education goals and provided an update on his continuing efforts on behalf of Mallinckrodt workers.   	"This year will be full of challenges for both Missouri and our nation," said Bond.  "When Congress returns we will be working on issues such as intelligence reform, supporting our troops in the field, veterans issues, getting a highway bill passed that gives Missouri its fair share, reigning in out-of-control litigation and continuing our fight against lead poisoning in St. Louis."    	Bond stressed that he will focus on three domestic issues that have an enormous impact on the quality of life and well-being of Missourians: helping Mallinckrodt workers and families get the help they deserve, doubling the number of people served in Community Health Centers, and expanding the Parents as Teachers program.    	Last year Bond came close to winning a legislative fix for Mallinckrodt workers and their families.  Bond promised to continue his efforts on their behalf, arguing there is no excuse the federal government can provide that justifies denying these families immediate compensation.  On Thursday Bond spoke with the Director of the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).  Bond said NIOSH's advisory board will be in St. Louis in early February to make a recommendation regarding the downtown Mallinckrodt site.     	Bond has long emphasized that access to health care is the nation's largest health care challenge.  He pledged to finish the job of doubling the number of people served in Community Health Centers and expand access.  In addition to doubling the number served, this year Bond will be working with the President to launch his new initiative to ensure that the poorest communities in the country are served by a health center.    	Expanding Parents As Teachers (PAT), a program Bond began as Governor, is another top priority for Bond this year.  PAT provides parents with the support they need in laying a strong foundation for their child's success.  His legislation, the Education Begins at Home Act, proposes a bold federal investment in parents by establishing the first dedicated federal funding stream to support the expansion of PAT at the state and local level.      	Earlier this week Bond was officially sworn-in to the 109th Congress as Missouri's senior United States Senator.  Previously Bond served the state during two terms as Governor and will be in his fourth term as Senator.
