
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond and U.S. Representatives Roy Blunt, Jo Ann Emerson, and Kenny Hulshof today announced a deal to protect Missouri’s Medicaid program.  	Bond, Blunt, Emerson and Hulshof announced that language preventing the Administration from implementing their planned cut to reduce the provider tax rate is included in both House and Senate tax-extender packages.  Under the language the provider tax would be codified and protected at 5.5 percent.  The House package passed this afternoon.  Senate action on the package is still to be determined.    	The Administration had plans to reduce the Medicaid provider tax rates – the maximum amount states can tax health care providers such as hospitals and nursing homes -- from the current rate of 6 percent to 3 percent.  This reduction would have cost Missouri approximately $1.3 billion over 5 years according to the Missouri Hospital Association.   	Missouri’s Congressional delegation actively fought against the proposed cut, stressing that a reduction would have a devastating impact on Missouri’s Medicaid program and the care being provided to some of Missouri’s most vulnerable residents.      	“This compromise will allow Missouri to continue to protect vital medical care to some of the state’s most vulnerable citizens, including pregnant women and children, the elderly, and disabled,” said U.S. Senator Kit Bond.      	"The provider tax cap compromise we agreed to today prevents what could have been a crippling blow to Missouri's efforts already underway to reform and improve the Medicaid program.  Working with the governor, our state delegation was able to make the case for Missouri as this legislation was drafted in order to protect many Missourians and their health care," said House Majority Whip Roy Blunt.    	"In Missouri, the provider tax is literally a safety net for the Medicaid program.  It has the potential to make up fully half of the funding for our state's program through taxes paid by providers and federal match.  I am very pleased this compromise will help secure revenues for state Medicaid programs nationwide, but especially here in Missouri.  Governor Matt Blunt played a critical role in bringing this matter to the attention of our state congressional delegation and other leaders in Congress.  He deserves special thanks for his efforts," said U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson.     	Rep. Emerson added language to legislation earlier this year that would have preserved the six percent cap on provider taxes when the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services indicated it would pursue a plan to cut the cap to three percent.    	"This is a reasonable compromise that will help stabilize the Medicaid safety net.  This legislation avoids what would have amounted to a catastrophic cut in Medicaid funding, especially in light of the matching component from the federal government.  That would have amounted to a double hit for Missouri.  That's why I'm proud to have worked with Chairman Bill Thomas and members of the Missouri delegation to keep the provider tax cap as high as possible.  I'm grateful for the leadership of Senator Bond and Governor Blunt on this important issue," said Congressman Kenny Hulshof, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee.
