
CRAIG, MO – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today provided a legislative update to local leaders and farmers on the Senate passage of the energy bill following a tour of the ethanol plant in Craig. The bill, which includes Bond’s common-sense fuel efficiency amendment and the Renewable Fuel Standard, must be reconciled with the House-passed bill before being signed into law.    	“A comprehensive energy policy is necessary to address the high cost of energy, provide additional opportunities for energy production and U.S. jobs, and reduce our growing dependence on foreign oil,” said Bond.  “To become more energy independent, the United States must safely develop sources of energy where they exist and find other innovative sources of energy.  We must also conserve and make better use of the energy we have.”     	The need for an energy bill is clear, Bond pointed out.  America is using energy about 40 times faster than is being produced.  The cost of not addressing this problem is high, evidenced by record high gasoline and natural gas prices, blackouts, a higher cost of doing business and greater reliance on foreign sources of energy.    	The energy bill passed by the Senate promotes both production and conservation. Bond praised the bill’s incentives to expand the production of energy from wind, solar, geothermal and biomass sources to promote cleaner alternative sources of energy and promotes research and development of hydrogen and fuel cell technology.      	In particular, the legislation goes a long way to promote the production and use of renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel.  Co-sponsored by Bond, Senator Jim Talent included a bi-partisan amendment that increases the renewable fuel standard to 8 billion gallons by 2012. This increased standard will create over 234,840 new jobs in all sectors of the U.S. economy, and reduce our nation’s crude oil imports by 2 billion barrels. It is also estimated that this increased standard would create $51 billion in new farm income.  Also promising for farmers, the biodiesel tax credit is extended under this bill through 2010.       	Bond stressed that the Senate bill goes further than Congress has ever gone before to conserve energy and make sure that energy is used efficiently. While this progress is important, Bond ensured that common-sense changes were made to fuel efficiency standards.  Bond argued that other competing proposed fuel efficiency amendments, which were defeated, would, if enacted, eliminate minivans, sport utility vehicles and light trucks in this country, and the thousands of jobs of the workers that assemble them.  In Missouri, 36,000 men and women work directly for the auto industry and 200,000 jobs are auto-dependent.      	In addition, Bond said the proposed arbitrary fuel efficiency standards would have to be met by decreasing vehicle weight. Statistics show that decreasing vehicle weight directly affects the fatality rates on roads and bridges.     	Bond’s amendment directs the experts at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to consider key elements such as technological feasibility, cost, safety, emissions controls, consumer choice and the effect on American jobs of any proposed changes in fuel standards.
