
	WASHINGTON, DC – On Monday, U.S. Senator Kit Bond returned from a fact-finding mission to Iraq.  As Vice-Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Bond led a Congressional trip to Iraq to assess the country’s security situation, where he met with intelligence and defense officials, key leaders and visited with troops on the frontlines. Bond’s trip is the first Congressional visit to Iraq since President Bush vetoed the war funding bill.     	  “Our military is doing a great job in improving security in Iraq, but what is needed is a political solution to complement their efforts,” said Bond.   	After meeting with top U.S. commanders on the ground, including General Petraeus, the Commander of the Multi-National Force in Iraq, Bond said the new plan is showing signs of progress:  violence in al-Qaim, Haditha, Hit, Ramadi and Fallujah has dramatically decreased due to local leaders now siding with Coalition forces in pursuing al Qaeda in Iraq (AQI); in Baghdad U.S. and Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) are clearing and holding some of the most dangerous areas; and sectarian violence has decreased.  Bond cautioned that while it is still too early to tell the overall success of the new plan, he was pleased with the positive signs he saw in Iraq.   	Bond met with Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, the influential leader of the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI).  He stressed to al-Hakim that Iraqi political leaders must find a political solution to the issues dividing Iraq.   In the al-Anbar province, more than ten thousand police have been recruited by Sunni tribal chiefs to work with Coalition forces and ISF.  Bond stressed that this participation from the Sunnis is an important step in creating a unified Iraq – government and military -- that includes all of the country’s groups: Sunnis, Kurds, and Shiites.    	Bond also met with troops on the ground, including the 36th Combat Aviation Battalion, 206th Army Support Medical Company, and 25th Aviation Battalion from Missouri.  He found that soldiers expressed frustration that new equipment production for Iraq is being delayed.  Bond criticized the Democratic leadership in Congress for tying funds for the troops – including life-saving equipment like Mine Resistant Ambush Protective vehicles -- to an arbitrary withdrawal date.  He emphasized that Congress’ first order of business should be to pass a war funding bill the President can sign.     	The United States also needs to do a better job of public diplomacy, Bond said.  The U.S. military has made a real difference in Iraqi communities, but our government is not doing an adequate job of spreading the good news.     	“I was proud to see first-hand a mosque in Ramadi that American soldiers rebuilt.  It is this type of assistance in Iraqi communities that is critical to winning the broader war-on-terror.  The United States needs to be more proactive in talking about these efforts.”   	Bond traveled with Senate and House Intelligence Committee Members Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), and Representative Darrell Issa (R-CA).  ###
