
WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today praised the Senates bipartisan vote to override the White Houses veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). Earlier this week the House voted to override the veto of WRDA, which will now become law.  For Missouri farm producers and workers, transportation efficiency is the key to growth, which is why I have pressed for water transportation modernization since I have served this state in the Senate, said Bond.  Bond has pushed for passage of WRDA, which authorizes the nations Corps of Engineers flood control, environmental restoration, and navigation projects, since 2002. Missouri, which has nearly 1,000 miles of Missouri and Mississippi River frontage in addition to lakes, relies on critical Corps projects. Bond emphasized that for Missouri communities WRDA means jobs, affordable water transportation, flood protection, energy production, environmental protection, and recreation opportunities.   As the author of WRDAs lock and dam modernization provision, Bond stressed this investment is critical to farmers who depend on the lock and dam system to move their products to market. The current locks were built during the Great Depression for paddle wheel boats. Sixty percent of all grain exports moves through the bottleneck of these obsolete locks. A single medium-sized barge tow carries the same freight as 870 trucks, which speaks to the cost, pollution, and fuel-efficiencies of river transportation, Bond stressed.   Bond criticized the previous and current Administrations for not being supportive of water resources. He cited their undermining of flood control and navigation on the Missouri River, and last weeks veto of WRDA. While he supports the Administrations aggressive trade policy, Bond emphasized they are missing a critical component -- the water transportation capacity vital to move goods market.   Bond praised his colleagues in both the House and Senate for recognizing the importance of water transportation infrastructure and their bipartisan support of this critical water resources bill. The House voted overwhelmingly to override the veto of WRDA with a vote of 361  54. In the Senate, the vote was 79 to 14.   ###      
