
U.S. Senators Jim Talent and Kit Bond (R-Mo.) today introduced legislation, the Stop Online Predators Act, to fix a loophole in federal law by allowing law enforcement to represent themselves as minors on the Internet to stop sexual predators.   Senators Talent and Bond took action in response to last month’s decision by a federal judge to throw out a jury’s conviction of a sexual predator because the law requires the enticement of a minor, not an undercover law enforcement official.     "These predators pose a deadly threat to our children and must be stopped," said Senator Jim Talent.  "Predators routinely represent themselves as someone else on the Internet to entice kids and our law enforcement should be allowed to represent themselves as someone else to protect kids.  If a predator thinks he’s meeting a minor and a law enforcement official shows up instead federal law should allow for a conviction.  Our legislation makes clear that law enforcement can patrol the Internet to help make it safer for our kids to use the Internet."    "Sexual predators shouldn’t be allowed to roam our streets and stalk our children in cyberspace because an outrageous loophole exists in the law," said Senator Kit Bond. "That’s simply unacceptable. We need to give law enforcement every tool we can to lock these people up.  If there is a hole in the law that needs to be fixed in order to protect our children from predators we must act now.  The Missouri Statute is clear and I look forward to bringing another good, common-sense idea from Missouri to Washington."    The STOP Act would fix a loophole in the federal statute to explicitly allow law enforcement to represent themselves as minors on the Internet. Talent and Bond’s legislation would clarify federal law to match similar anti-predator laws in Missouri and Kansas. Missouri and Kansas have enticement and child solicitation laws that allow prosecution involving undercover officers, but state penalties are not as severe as those available under federal law which allows for up to 30 years in prison.    Last month, a Missouri lawyer was convicted for enticing a teenager on the Internet. After the verdict was read, a federal judge threw out the conviction, ruling that for conviction, the law requires that a minor actually be enticed, not an undercover law enforcement official, as in this case. Yesterday, in a similar case, the Maryland Court of Appeals unanimously overturned the conviction of sex offender, saying he could not be found guilty of committing a crime with a police officer posing as a minor in a sting operation.    Missouri’s law expressly states that communicating with law enforcement rather than an actual child is not a defense and the state’s enticement and child solicitation laws allow prosecution involving undercover officers. However, federal law does not include this provision.    Talent and Bond stressed that this loophole in federal law takes away an important tool from law enforcement officials in their efforts to keep the Internet a safe place for children.
