
 BOND LAUDS NEW BIODEFENSE AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES RESEARCH CENTER AT SLU   Senator Secured$5.3 Million in Funds for Edward A. Doisy Research Center    ST. LOUIS, MO -- U.S. Senator Kit Bond today joined Lawrence Biondi, S.J., President of St. Louis University (SLU), major donors, university and city officials in a “topping out” ceremony for the University’s new Edward A. Doisy Research Center.  The new research center will continue SLU’s cutting-edge biomedical research.   “Your work here matters so much to our national security and well-being, to homeland defense and to public health.   What your scientists discover in the new Doisy Research Center will help us find better ways to stop the threat of biological agents or contain their outbreaks – whether anthrax, smallpox, tuberculosis, or Avian flu,” said Bond.  Bond has secured $9.4 million in federal funds since FY 2000 to support St. Louis University’s research efforts on biosecurity, emerging infections and public health, including $5.3 million for the new Edward A. Doisy Research Center.   Located in midtown St. Louis, the $67 million, 10-story building is part of an $80.5 million project, the largest building project in the University's history.  Bond stressed that this new center is another building block in securing SLU's role as a national leader in biodefense and emerging infectious diseases.  “St. Louis University is not an ivory tower.  It is a university that is deeply involved in the community and in the issues of our time,” said Bond.   Slated to open in 2007, the new facility will house state-of-the-art, highly secure research labs.  The University’s cutting-edge research projects include:  clinical trials on a vaccine to prevent Hepatitis C; trials on Avian influenza vaccine and ongoing work to translate its research into public health applications that will benefit people.   Bond previously secured $4.1 million for the Institute for Biosecurity, which conducts research and provides front line emergency workers with the education and training materials needed for preparedness, response, recovery and mitigation efforts in the event of a bioterrorist attack or other possible public health threats.    The new Research Center will expand research capabilities for the institute whose materials have been used by the Centers for Disease Control after the September 11th attacks and by the U.S. Senate during the 2001 anthrax scare.   					###
