
WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that his legislation to name the new courthouse in Cape Girardeau after local hero Rush H. Limbaugh Sr. passed the Senate.      	"Rush Limbaugh Sr. was a beloved icon of the Missouri legal community, especially in Southeast Missouri where he lived all his life,” said Senator Kit Bond.  “I am pleased that Congress has acted to name the new federal courthouse in Cape Girardeau after this great hero of American Jurisprudence,” said U.S. Senator Kit Bond.    	 "I am very proud this bill has now passed both houses of Congress and can proceed to the president for his signature into law. Naming the new U.S. courthouse in Cape Girardeau for Rush Hudson Limbaugh, Sr. is an important honor for an accomplished American who worked very hard to extend the reach of the judiciary to rural areas like Southeast Missouri. Rush Hudson Limbaugh, Sr. has long been a name synonymous with legal expertise, community involvement, and dedication to our principals of law. Thanks to this measure, his name will be long-remembered in a way that befits his service," said U.S. Representative Jo Ann Emerson.   	Larry H. Ferrell, Assistant United States Attorney, Eastern District of Missouri said, “To all who were privileged to know him, Mr. Limbaugh embodied the highest integrity as a lawyer and the finest example of character as a person.  He was an inspiration to many practicing lawyers in Southeast Missouri.  He was the lawyer and person that all lawyers should aspire to be.  It is most fitting that the new federal courthouse be named for him to honor his legacy.”       	Bond’s legislation passed the Senate today by Unanimous Consent.  The House version, sponsored by Representative Emerson, passed the House of Representatives in February.  The bill will now be sent to the President to be signed into law.   	Bond, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations, secured more than $55 million in federal funds for the Federal Courthouse in Cape Girardeau from fiscal years 1994 through 2003.
