
COLUMBIA, MO    U.S. Senator Kit Bond today  announced that he secured $3.75 million in federal funds for the National Plant and Genetics Security Center at the University of Missouri-Columbia, one of his top funding priorities this year.	    	“The bottom line of the agricultural research done here is better health and better nutrition.  When scientists here find safer and more environmentally-friendly ways to kill insects and weeds, farmers can produce more food at a lower price.  When they study the genetic make-up of corn and soybeans, they help farmers grow more nutritious crops, which translates into better health for American families and families around the world,” said Senator Bond.       	Bond secured the $3.75 million for the Center in the fiscal year 2006 Agriculture Appropriations bill. The spending bill passed the full Senate last week.  Before being signed into law the bill must be reconciled with the House of Representatives' bill.  Bond also secured almost $7.5 million for the Center in the previous two fiscal years.    	The combined funding will be applied to future construction of a National Plant and Genetics Security Center at the University of Missouri-Columbia which will house Agriculture Research Service scientists focusing on biological control of insects, cropping systems and water quality and plant genetics.  These programs identify ways for farmers to produce crops with higher nutritional value and more resistant to drought, insects and weeds.     Since he served as the state's Governor, Bond has been a strong supporter of expanding the life sciences industry in Missouri. He worked with scientists, producers, academic leaders, economists and private technology providers at every level to build Missouri's technological capacities.     	Bond has been Congress' leading advocate of the new biotechnology revolution, earmarking over $450 million for plant genomics.  He has secured $31 million for the Life Sciences Center at the University of Missouri-Columbia and millions for facilities in Kansas City, St. Louis and the Bootheel, including the Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, Missouri Botanical Garden and the University of Missouri Greenhouse.     	In addition to the federal funding Bond has poured into the development of biotechnology, he has also been a strong voice of behalf of the revolution, both in the United States and abroad. Bond traveled to Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and India to promote plant technology, hosted European, Asian and African delegations in Washington, DC, briefed both former President Clinton and President Bush and fought against the European Union's unwarranted moratorium on the approval of agricultural biotechnology products.
