
WASHINGTON, DC  U.S. Senator Kit Bond today criticized the Democratic leadership in Congress for stalling much needed funds for American troops. Last night Congress passed the annual spending bill to fund our national defense programs, but Democrats refused to include the dollars needed to provide the equipment, supplies and fuel our troops in the field need.     It is disappointing that as we prepare to honor Veterans Day the Democratic leadership in Congress is playing a dangerous game with the safety of our troops in the field by kow-towing to the far left Moveon.org and Code Pink constituency of their party, said Bond.  This latest partisan move by the Democratic leadership in Congress comes despite the good news out of Iraq. As a result of the new Petraeus strategy, American forces have been successful in eliminating key terrorist safe havens in Iraq and hampering the enemy's ability to conduct coordinated attacks against coalition forces and civilians. Bond pointed out that there has been a consistent and steady trend of increased security in Iraq over the last four months. Positive stories describing Baghdad's marketplaces coming back to life, violent attacks in Iraq falling to less than half of what they were a year ago, are important signs of progress said Bond.      Bond emphasized that the Democratic leaderships decision to withhold critical funds for our troops doesnt pass the common sense test. Bond supported the bipartisan efforts to include much-needed funds for equipment, like the life-saving Mine Resistant Ambush Vehicles (MRAPS), but expressed concern that the Democrats actions may jeopardize the militarys ability to ship the equipment overseas to our troops.   Congress received the Administrations 2008 war funding request in February, yet the Democratic leadership has still failed to act, Bond said. Despite the refusal to approve funds for our troops in the field, there has been nearly a vote a month in the Senate to force a retreat and defeat in Iraq since the Democrats took control of Congress. This week Democrats announced their plan to vote on yet another Iraq bill containing a withdrawal date.  In addition to threatening the security of our troops in the field, the Democratic majority proved they are not serious about the security of our borders, Bond said. Earlier this fall, the Senate overwhelmingly voted  95 to 1  to add $3 billion to the Defense spending bill for border security and enforcement measures. Despite the strong, bipartisan support of the measure, the Democratic leadership removed the funding from the bill. The $3 billion was for border security and enforcement measures, including 700 miles of border fencing, 45,000 detention beds, and training and tools for local law enforcement.    
