
JASPER COUNTY, MO    U.S. Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Roy Blunt today  announced that they secured $150,000 million in federal funds for a Multi-County Juvenile Facility Study in Jasper County.   	“At a time when juveniles are committing more violent adult crimes and our families are more mobile than ever, we need to ensure that juvenile offenders get the highest possible level of attention and that we put as many of them back on a straight path as possible.  The funds announced today will help Jasper County reach these offenders more effectively,” said Senator Kit Bond.    	"The regional juvenile holding facility in Jasper County doesn't meet current standards," Congressman Blunt said. "Juvenile offenders require special attention. The study will look at what it takes to care for and provide treatment for young offenders who are at a crossroads of either becoming law abiding citizens or repeat offenders.  Prevention of crime at this age is worth the cost, and providing a regional detention facility worthy of its mission is a good starting place. These funds will put us on the road to answering these questions."    	The federal funds for the study are part of the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations Conference Report.  The legislation was approved today in the House and is expected to pass the Senate tomorrow.    	Local and law enforcement officials stressed to Bond that the current juvenile facility is inefficient and not suitable for its current use.  The funds announced today will help officials begin the process to replace the antiquated facility with a modern suitable facility.    	"Thanks to Senator Bond's efforts, Jasper County can begin to address the need for a juvenile facility that serves our troubled youth and our taxpayers in a more efficient manner. Senator Bond realizes the problems counties face as they try to address juvenile justice issues in antiquated facilities," Chuck Surface, Presiding Commissioner, Jasper County.
