
SPRINGFIELD, MO - U.S. Senator Kit Bond and Congressman Roy Blunt today announced they secured $1.5 million for the proposed Southwest Missouri Regional Crime Lab to improve the investigation and prosecution of criminal cases throughout the state.    “Crime labs provide the evidence police and prosecutors need to prove their cases in court. Unfortunately, this region depends on a crime lab more than a hundred miles away that is already over-loaded," said Senator Kit Bond, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.  "The dollars will provide the funds needed to get the new crime lab in Springfield off to a good start.  This new lab will be a key weapon for law enforcement to use against criminals and help better protect Missourians,” said Senator Kit Bond.      	"The new regional crime laboratory that will be located in Springfield will benefit law enforcement throughout Missouri," Congressman Blunt said. "It will ease the overwhelming backlog on the Highway Patrol lab in Jefferson City, speed up prosecutions, help identify the innocent from the guilty and relieve the frustrations that many crime victims face in lengthy delays."  Blunt added, "After meeting regularly with local enforcement agencies, I have been working on efforts to curb the meth trade and put new support facilities for law enforcement in place. Working with Senator Bond, who was essential to the success of this effort, Southwest Missouri will have a state-of-the-art crime lab working in center Springfield within the next two years."   	The $1.5 million in federal funds is part of the fiscal year 2006 Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations Conference Report.  The legislation was approved today in the House and is expected to pass the Senate tomorrow.    Bond, who has met with law enforcement and city officials on the need for a new lab, pointed out that despite the fact that Springfield is the third largest city in Missouri and is in the center of the southwest region of the state, there is no full-service crime laboratory in the area.  The current crime laboratory, located in Jefferson City, is over loaded and ill- equipped to complete timely analysis.  Some cases are backlogged up to 6 to 12 months, causing difficulty in making arrests and prosecuting felony cases.   Local law enforcement and officials stressed that a new, fully-capable laboratory in Springfield will significantly improve the quality of analysis, improve the turn-around time on laboratory cases and improve the investigation and prosecution of criminal cases.     "Senator Bond has demonstrated once again that he will work hard on behalf of Springfield and Greene County to secure funding for our high-priority projects," Mayor Tom Carlson said. "The regional crime lab is a true partnership effort for the City, County, State and Federal governments to better serve our citizens and the justice system. We believe in working as one voice on joint priorities for our region and we deeply appreciate Senator Bond recognizing the strength of our partnership model."    The City of Springfield will provide space in the new Police/Fire Regional Training Center for laboratory and office space for the proposed Regional Crime Laboratory.  Bond secured $1.4 million in federal funds for the Training Center in the fiscal year 2002 Commerce, State, Justice Appropriations bill.
