
WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Kit Bond today announced that he secured over $55 million for key Missouri military projects in the defense spending bill conference report.  I have long believed that what happens on the battlefields of Iraq or Afghanistan in part depends on what happens here in Missouri. said Bond. These funds are critical to not only Missouri businesses and employees who work hard to provide top notch equipment and cutting edge research, but also our troops who put their lives on the line to perform vital national security missions.  Bond secured the federal funds in the fiscal year 2008 Department of Defense spending bill conference report, which passed the House and Senate Thursday evening. The conference report must be signed by the President in order to become law.   Bond secured funds for the following Missouri military projects in the defense spending bill conference report:     $3 million for the Neutralization of Improvised Explosive Devises (IEDs) at the University of Missouri-Columbia. The funds will provide for technology to counter remotely detonated Explosive Devices and research on the effects of its blasts and fragments through a MU-Boeing Company partnership. IEDs are the number 1 cause of deaths in Iraq, 1,175 men and women have lost lives due to these devices.      $2 million for Steel Castings and Alloy Materials at the University of Missouri-Rolla. The funds will provide for advanced research and manufacturing of steel technology for future weapons.      $2 million for the Center for Borane Technology at the University of Missouri-Columbia. The funds will provide technology to synthesize and test materials based on polyhedral borane chemistry for use in highly energetic explosives and propellants. The Center will also develop nanotechnology for use in small, lightweight warheads for armor and missile applications.     $2.4 million for Parents as Teachers Heroes at Home Program. The funds will provide support to the families of servicemen and women through valuable parenting information shared in personal home visits and interactive group meetings. This will expand and enhance services for the four Parents as Teachers program sites currently serving military families at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.; Fort Riley, Kan.; Fort Leavenworth, Kan.; and Fort Hood, Texas.In addition, new sites will be established at 12 additional Army installations.     $6 million for High Energy Superior Lithium Battery Technology atKokam in Lees Summit.     $3 million for Lithium-Ion Cell Development at EaglePicher in Joplin.     $1 million for Stabilized Enzyme Biofuel Cell at Akemin Inc. in St. Louis. The funds will develop a biofuel cell produced from Akemin Inc. of St. Louis that is ideally suited for the power density and duration of unmanned ground sensor systems.     $1.9 million for All Electric Laser at Nuvonyx in St. Louis. The funds will provide for the correction of critical problems in the reliability of laser diode rays.     $2.4 million for Knowledge, Innovation and Tech Sharing Program at KSS at Ft. Leonard. The funds will provide for the improvement of the U.S. Armys ability to track, collect, and disseminate valuable information discovered through its research and development program.     $3.2 million for Hyperspectal Synthetic Aperature Radar at Clean Earth Technologies in St. Louis. The funds will provide for the continued use of a computer/camera system that uses patent pending statistical and pixel based image processing that allows warfighters to operate under variable and adverse lighting conditions often found on the battlefield. The system will provide for better detection and classification of assets, fires, bomb damage, live and dead humans and allies or enemies.     $2.4million for High Power Electrolytic Super-Capacitors at Crosslink in St. Louis. The funds will provide for the expedited research, development, and demonstration of high power delivery sources with increased energy delivery capability to power 21st century weaponry.     $1.6 million for Agile Software Capability Intervention at Gestalt in Joplin. The funds will be used to adopt commercial methods for quick deployment of software capabilities     $1.6 million for the Fastman Analyzer Platform at 3M in Columbia. The funds will provide for the replacement of several laboratory instruments. The new instruments will allow a single instrument to perform quickly a wide variety of tests and address critical defense and homeland security threats such as Bird Flu and Anthrax.     $3.5 million for Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System at Boeing. The funds will provide for a highly accurate cueing system that enables U.S. fighter aircraft pilots to direct weapons against enemy aircraft while performing difficult maneuvers. Under the cueing system, pilots use their heads and eyes to deploy weapons at targets.    Bond joined his Missouri House colleagues to help to secure funds for the following projects:   $2 million for Advanced Simulation Tools for Aircraft Structures at ESRD in St. Louis. Senator Bond and Representative Clay secured these funds for computer software that will help the Navy generate very efficient, low weight, airframes and dependable repair solutions for aging aircraft.     $1.9 million for Heuristic Internet Protocol Packet Inspection Engine at TechGuard LLC in St. Louis. Senator Bond and Representative Akin secured these funds to enhance Army battlefield information and intelligence sharing. The funds will provide critical technology for low bandwidth and mobile computers that use unique filtering algorithms to help quickly disseminate and classify information to be shared with military allies.     $3.2 million for Special Ops Mission Planning Tools at Westar in St. Charles. Senator Bond and Representatives Hulshof and Akin secured these funds for new capabilities in aviation combat operations for Special Operation Forces. The new capabilities will strengthen the critical link between aircraft performance prediction and mission planning while increasing safety for our warfighters.     $1 million for Chemical Biological Protective Shelters at DRS in West Plains. Senator Bond and Representatives Emerson and Akin secured these funds to provide for a highly mobile, self contained system that will provide a 300 square foot, contamination free environmentally controlled work area (tent) for emergency medical use in battle areas.     $3 million for Lake City Army Ammunition Plant Infrastructure Improvements in Independence. Senator Bond and Representatives Graves and Cleaver secured these funds to provide for equipment modernization at the ammunition plant. The modernization will address urgent needs including building, electrical and safety upgrades.     $4.8 million for Intelligent Carbon Nanotube Based Computer Devices for Space Applications at Brewer Science, Inc. in Rolla. Senator Bond and Representative Blunt secured these funds to provide for technological enhancements to carbon-nanotube based microchips.     $1 million for Innovative Ploymeric Materials for Three-Dimensional Micro-device Construction at Brewer Science, Inc. in Rolla. Senator Bond and Representative Emerson secured these funds to provide for the construction of complex 3-D structures on microchips that are designed for use as sensor, assay and production equipment. The structures are also designed for implantable devices that can provide vaccines and therapeutics to chronically ill patients.     $3 million for Joint Stand Off Weapons (JSOW) at LaBarge, Inc. in Joplin. Senator Bond and Representatives Blunt and Akin secured these funds to provide cables and wires for JSOWs, a GPS-guided weapon that fires from the air to the ground. The JSOW can fire from over 70 miles away which allows aircrafts to stay out of the range of most missiles that fire from the ground. LaBarge will supply these parts to Raytheon Missile Systems.    Bond joined colleagues in the House and Senate to help to secure funds for the following national defense projects:   $980 million for National Guard Equipment. Senate National Guard Caucus Co-Chairs Sens. Kit Bond and Patrick Leahy secured the funds to help our citizen-soldiers with their equipment shortage.     $7 million for the Procurement Technical Assistance Program. Senators Bond and Leahy secured these funds in addition to the Presidents request. The funds will provide centers across the country that work with thousands of new entrants into the Defense Department market each year generating an increased number of suppliers for Defense Department and other federal agencies.     $35 million for Arrow-Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense. The funds will provide for protection for the civilian population of Northern Israel from Syrian and Hezbollah short-range missile attacks.     $49.5 million for LITENING Targeting Pods. These funds will provide a multi-purpose targeting and navigation system for tactical aircraft with 24-hour precision strike capability against land and sea-based targets. A portion of these funds will support Missouris A-10 Squadron  the 442nd Fighter Wing -- based at Whiteman Airforce Base.     $138 million for Peer-Review Breast Cancer Research Program. These funds will provide for innovative approaches to breast cancer prevention, early detection and treatment.    ###     
