
 ST. LOUIS, MO  U.S. Senator Kit Bond was briefed by local leaders and community partners on efforts to make the Chouteau Lake and St. Louis Regional Greenway Project a reality. Bond also provided an update on the Congress-passed Water Resources Development Act (WRDA).    The Chouteau Greenway has been in the works for nearly a decade. This is your vision of a new front door for St. Louis and I share it, said Bond. It is an exciting project that I believe will serve as a model for economic revitalization of urban areas across the nation.   The St. Louis Regional Greenway Project  which includes Choteau Lake -- covers nearly 200 acres and will link the St. Louis downtown riverfront to Forest Park with bike paths and landscaped areas. The 40-acre downtown St. Louis portion of the Greenway Project will encompass the Union Pacific Railroad tracks on the south, Highway 40 to the north, Seventh Street on the east and Tucker Boulevard on the west.    Bond stressed that the Greenway Project will be a catalyst for economic development. He pointed out that estimates predict the project could create more than $15 billion in private investments including office, residential and retail space, including up to 10,000 new or refurbished homes and 50,000 jobs.    In addition to economic benefits, there are significant environmental benefits to the Greenway Project, emphasized Bond. The project could restore the pre-industrial watershed of downtown St. Louis. The entire system will be fed by storm water and naturally-occurring ground water, which will directly connect with the Mississippi River without compromising flood control. Bond said this will improve water quality in the waterways, preserve open space and protect natural wildlife habitat.   Bond heard from local leaders and community partners that they are now in a position to begin making this project a reality. As the former Chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, Bond secured a $10 million authorization for the St. Louis Regional Greenways Project in the 2007 WRDA bill. The WRDA bill conference report passed the House in August by a vote of 381-40 and the Senate by a vote of 81-12 in late September. Despite the bills broad bipartisan support in both the House and Senate, the President has threatened to veto the bill.   Knowing that this bill is so important to our infrastructure and environment, I am surprised and disappointed at the veto threat, said Bond. The good news is that we have more than enough votes to override the veto.    The WRDA bill also includes Bonds lock and dam provision. The bill authorizes $1.95 billion in federal funds for seven new locks on the Mississippi River and an additional $1.72 billion for environmental restoration. Modernization of the aging locks on Missouris rivers  the Midwests arteries to world markets  will help farmers and shippers bring their products to market more efficiently. Also, replacing the aging locks is critical to farmers. Currently, sixty percent of all grain exports move through the locks. The lock modernization work is also an important job initiative, creating 48 million man-hours of construction work.  ###   
