SEN. VOINOVICH INTRODUCES STRENGTHENED BEACH PROTECTION ACT
  Today, U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) - Co-Chairman of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force - along with U.S. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), introduced a bill reauthorizing the Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health (BEACH) Act, the Beach Protection Act of 2008. 
   This legislation increases grants to states, including Great Lakes states like Ohio, for the development and implementation of programs focused on remediating contamination sources - something that is currently not covered under the BEACH Act. This bill also requires stronger beach water quality testing and public notification standards so beachgoers are better informed about the safety of their beaches.
   "The Great Lakes are our nation's north coast and millions of Americans enjoy their beaches every year," Sen. Voinovich said. "This bill is a vital piece of a comprehensive strategy that is absolutely necessary to save one of our nation's greatest natural resources. It will help our beaches remain healthy and safe and will protect them from the detrimental effects of pollution and sewage contamination after flooding or heavy rainfall. This is good not only for our environment but for our economy."
   The reintroduction is a result of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study requested by Sen. Voinovich on the effect of the BEACH Act on the Great Lakes states. The GAO report found that:
   * The Great Lakes states are receiving an inequitable amount of grant funding due to length of beach season;
   * The law should provide more flexibility to states to use BEACH Act grants to investigate and remediate contamination sources; and
   * That Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) should distribute grant funds to reflect state's monitoring needs.
   Traditionally, the BEACH Act has only allowed grants for beach monitoring and public notification programs. The frequency of water quality monitoring has increased at Great Lakes beaches since the passage of the BEACH Act, helping states and localities identify the scope of contamination. However, in most cases, the underlying causes of contamination remain unknown and unaddressed because state and local officials state that they do not have the funds to investigate the source of the contamination or take actions to mitigate the problem. EPA has not allowed BEACH Act grants to be used for these purposes.
   Under the reintroduced BEACH Act, the EPA is required to work with states to ensure they used the latest science to sample and test beach waters to protect the public's health. The law also helps states set up comprehensive monitoring and notification programs in order to provide up-to-date information on the condition of all public beaches.
   Additionally, the legislation doubles the authorized grant funding to states from $30 million to $60 million annually through 2012. The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee - of which Sen. Voinovich is a member - will have oversight over the bill.
 
 