ADAMS COUNTY TO RECEIVE $355,000 FROM APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION
  Today, Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) announced that Adams County will receive $355,000 from the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC). The funds will go toward the construction of an access road for the Adams County Hospital in the Village of Seaman. 
   "I have worked hard to help this region meet its economic needs," Sen. Voinovich said. "The construction of this road and the new county hospital will improve quality of life and further bolster the region's healthcare capabilities."  
   The ARC funds will be used for engineering services, site work and construction for approximately 2,500 feet - almost half a mile - of a two-lane access road to serve the new hospital which is relocating to a new, 10-acre campus in the village. The new road will provide vital access to the hospital and support the retention of over 250 jobs in the area as well as create 28 new jobs by the third year of the new hospital's operation, according to the Commission. In addition, the project will ensure $22.5 million in capital investment for the hospital. 
   In addition to the ARC funds, the Village of Seaman will contribute $180,000 to the project, with estimated total project costs of $535,000. 
   The U.S. Senate last month passed by unanimous consent S. 2832 - vital legislation to reauthorize the ARC at $510.9 million over five years. Sen. Voinovich, a member of the EPW Committee, introduced the bill in May. 
   In April, Sen. Voinovich held a field hearing in Marietta, Ohio, to hear testimony on the impact of the last reauthorization of the ARC and to examine how ARC has made a difference in people's lives. After the hearing, he spent two days traveling around Appalachian Ohio and was extremely impressed with the wonderful strides being made in the region as a result of ARC investments in technology, workforce training, and economic development. 
   ARC plays a key role in fostering economic development and improving quality of life for the 23 million people who live and work in Appalachia. The proposed legislation creates the designation of economically "at risk" counties and provides an appropriate federal matching rate for ARC-funded projects in those counties. Since ARC's inception, the region's poverty rate has been cut in half (from 31 percent to 13 percent), the infant mortality rate has been reduced by two-thirds, and the percentage of adults with high school education has increased by over 70 percent. 
   Key elements of the legislation: 
   * Renews the Appalachian Regional Commission for five years (2007 - 2011). The agency's current authorization expires September 30, 2006. The proposed legislation is the same length as the bipartisan authorization Congress approved in 2002. 
   * Authorizes the Commission for five years at the following levels: 
   2007: $95.2 million 
   2008: $98.6 million 
   2009: $102 million 
   2010: $105.7 million 
   2011: $109.4 million 
   * The bill directs the Commission annually to designate those counties that are "at risk" of becoming economically distressed. These counties have fragile economies that are just on the cusp of meeting the criteria for being designated as distressed. The Commission itself recently adopted this targeting classification. The legislation would codify the Commission's existing practice. 
   * Permits ARC to fund projects in the "at risk" counties at up to 70 percent of the cost of the project. Under current law, these projects may only be funded at 50 percent (the match rate for most ARC counties), while projects in designated distressed counties can be funded at 80 percent of the project costs. This provision reflects the special needs of "at risk" counties. 
   * Maintains the requirement that at least 50 percent of the Commission's grant dollars go for projects or activities benefiting distressed counties and areas. This provision was added in ARC's 2002 reauthorization. The Commission currently satisfies this requirement, and no change is proposed. 
   * Continues all existing programmatic authorities, including the special program in telecommunications and technology. The bill proposes no changes in ARC's general programs, nor does it create any new authorities because of the strong history of accomplishment. 
   During his first term in the Senate, Sen. Voinovich authored the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 2002 (S. 1206), which was signed by the president on March 12, 2002. The bill reauthorized the economic development efforts of the Appalachian Regional Commission, providing $446 million over five years for these efforts, and enacted a new, Voinovich-created technology initiative to help improve the region's telecommunication infrastructure and help businesses and residents take better advantage of e-commerce opportunities.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 