SEN. VOINOVICH COMMENTS ON UNFUNDED MANDATES/WATER INFRASTRUCTURE
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, today sent a letter to EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson urging the EPA to provide more funding and flexibility for cities in complying with EPA's mandates on water and sewer infrastructure. While cities are forced to comply with federal regulations or face federal fines, the funding is nearly nonexistent - making these regulations unfunded mandates.
  The proposed 2009 budget cuts funding to the Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund to $555 million - the lowest funding level in the program's history. Sen. Voinovich would like to increase the budget to $1.35 billion to ensure Washington isn't forcing cities into bankruptcy. The cost for Ohio's cities is estimated to be around $12 billion. That's more than 10 times what the entire nation received in funding to help comply with these mandates. These costs - which are often larger than a small city's entire yearly budget - are incurred by cities and passed along to taxpayers. 
  Please see below for the letter:
  February 11, 2008
  The Honorable Stephen Johnson
  Administrator
  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
  Ariel Rios Building
  1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20460
  Dear Administrator Johnson:
  I write today out of concern and frustration that we are facing an environmental and public health crisis in this country when it comes to water infrastructure. This is an issue that has been a long-standing concern of mine, and one that frankly, I feel is not being adequately prioritized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
  I have been interested in this subject for over 20 years. While mayor of the city of Cleveland, I experienced firsthand the difficulties in finding funding for water infrastructure. As governor, I successfully worked with Congress to rewrite the Safe Drinking Water Act that gave state and local governments more power in protecting their water supply and continually fought for legislation to further support and improve the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. As Senator, I have continually supported legislation to reauthorize the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and to increase funding for this important program. 
  Last September, I attended an Environment and Public Works Subcommittee hearing called "Meeting America's Wastewater Infrastructure Needs in the 21st Century." At the hearing, I stressed my concern about the lack of funding for water and wastewater infrastructure projects to fulfill mandates from EPA. Many communities in Ohio and across the nation do not have the fiscal capacity or the federal aid needed to upgrade their water and wastewater systems as mandated by EPA. 
  New reports have shed additionally light on the crisis. As you know, the recently released Clean Watersheds Needs Survey 2004 estimates the national needs for the wastewater treatment and collection at $193.5 billion. Ohio ranks as having one of the largest wastewater treatment collection needs at $11.7 billion. Only New York, Illinois and California have greater needs. For example, representatives of a sewer district in Northeast Ohio informed me that they will have to impose a rate increase of at least 12 percent each year for the next 30 years to finance the $80 to 120 million annual capital program mandated by EPA. This rate increase is on top of the $2.1 billion the sewer district has already spent to meet Clean Water Act requirements. 
  Combined sewer overflow (CSO) also continues to be a problem. Combined sewer systems serve roughly 772 communities and roughly 40 million people nationwide. During heavy rainfall, CSO discharges can lead to serious water pollution problems. Your agency has identified almost $6.3 billion of improvements as necessary to address CSO problems in over 100 communities throughout Ohio. City officials in Akron, Ohio have proposed spending $426 million over 30 years to fix their city's CSO problems. Here again, EPA is not stepping up to the plate to assist a community substantially costs needed to mitigate the negative environmental and health effects brought about by an inadequate wastewater system. I must tell you that most communities consider this to be an unfunded mandate. Many of my communities are facing significant economic woes with major employers threatening to leave. Their ratepayers cannot afford these increases. 
  If the federal government is going to impose costly mandates on struggling state and local governments, then it should provide funding for compliance with those mandates. One of the most effective and popular sources of funding for wastewater collection and treatment projects is the Clean Water SRF Program. Billions of dollars have been distributed though the program to upgrade the nation's aging wastewater infrastructure. That is why I am continually disappointed that EPA's budgets propose severe spending cuts for the program.
  Time and again I have expressed my frustrations and urged EPA to provide the leadership necessary to resolve this problem. In my opinion, and in the opinion of many of my constituents, that has yet to happen. I strongly believe that if EPA is not able to provide the necessary assistance to communities struggling to comply with federal mandates, some flexibility must be given to communities that are grappling to find the financial capacity to get the job done. 
  All parties involved need to come together to find a solution to this crisis. I would like to receive your suggestions on how relief could be provided to communities struggling to comply with various EPA mandates. 
  I look forward to working with you and my colleagues to address the unmet water and wastewater infrastructure needs in this country. Together, I believe we can ensure that our towns and communities have the funding and flexibility needed to upgrade our aging infrastructure without unnecessarily burdening already strained local economies. 
  Sincerely,
  George V. Voinovich
  United States Senator
 
 