SEN. VOINOVICH ANNOUNCES SILVER, LARGESCALE SILVER CARP TO BE LABELED INJURIOUS SPECIES
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) announced today that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published a final rule designating silver and largescale silver carp as injurious species under the Lacey Act. The regulation, which will go into effect August 9, 2007, bans importation and interstate transport of live silver and largescale carp. Sen. George Voinovich, along with 24 other members of Congress in 2002, strongly supported the designation to the director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 
   U.S.Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) announced today that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published a final rule designating silver and largescale silver carp as injurious species under the Lacey Act. The regulation, which will go into effect August 9, 2007, bans importation and interstate transport of live silver and largescale carp. Sen. Voinovich, along with 24 other members of Congress in 2002, strongly supported the designation to the director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 
   "This designation will send a clear message to the nation that the Great Lakes region is committed to protecting the Lakes from all invasive species, including silver carp," Sen. Voinovich said. "We have worked hard to revitalize the Lakes and these foreign species are a serious threat to the native fish population, the ecosystem and the fishing and boating community. We need to do everything in our power to help guard against them." 
   Silver carp were introduced to the United States in the 1970s as a management tool for sewage lagoons and fishery production ponds. The carp made their way north to the Illinois River after escaping from fish farms during massive flooding along the Mississippi River more than 10 years ago. Silver carp are difficult to handle and transport because of their tendency to jump - growing up to three feet long and 60 pounds in weight, silver carp have leaped into moving boats injuring people and damaging equipment. 
   Biologists worry that silver carp could spread through large rivers and lakes in the U.S. and compete with native species for food and habitat, having both ecological and economic impacts and threatening, for example, the multimillion-dollar Great Lakes fishery. 
   Since the beginning of his political career, Sen. Voinovich has committed himself to stopping the deterioration of the Great Lakes. Forty years ago, when he was elected to the Ohio State Legislature, he waged what he refers to as the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" to reclaim and restore Ohio's Great Lakes. Through his efforts in the Senate, Sen. Voinovich was influential in providing important funding for the construction of preventive electric barriers located on the Illinois River and in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal to prevent Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes.
 
 