SEN. VOINOVICH VOTES IN FAVOR OF FISCAL DISCIPLINE
  Sen George V. Voinovich (R-OH) voted today against H.R. 4297, the Tax Relief Act of 2005. The senator's vote-that of a well-known deficit hawk-reflects his strong belief that the decisions he and his colleagues make in the Senate today will affect the lives of their children and grandchildren long after they have left the Senate.  
   "I voted against additional tax cuts today for three simple reasons: we do not need them right now; we cannot afford them right now; and we should be working on fundamental tax reform rather than tinkering with piecemeal tax cuts. I am thinking not only about our generation, but also the generations of our children and grandchildren and the legacy we leave them. Last November, Alan Greenspan testified before the Joint Economic Committee and warned Congress that we should not be cutting taxes by borrowing: 'We do not have the capability of having both productive tax cuts and large expenditure increases, and presume that the deficit doesn't matter.' I wish my colleagues had heeded his warning," said Voinovich. 
   As a former mayor and governor, Senator Voinovich understands the importance of making difficult decisions when necessary. The choices Congress makes right now are being measured against a backdrop of ever-increasing deficits, Medicare costs, disaster relief funding, the cost of the war against terrorism and the challenges of staying competitive in the global marketplace. Senator Voinovich believes the passage of these tax cuts is fiscally irresponsible and has called on his colleagues to be intellectually honest with the American people. 
   The Senator opposed tax cuts at this time for three reasons: 1. The economy is back on track and does not need additional tax cuts. While he voted for tax cuts in 2001, which prevented Congress from spending the projected $5.6 trillion surplus, and he voted for the 2003 tax cuts because the country needed an economic stimulus, Senator Voinovich believes that an overdose of tax cuts will do more harm than good at this time. 2. We cannot afford them at this time because of our soaring deficit and national debt. The reported deficit for FY2005 was $318 billion; taking out the Social Security surplus and using the on-budget deficit, the number was $492 billion; and utilizing the Treasury's accrual accounting method, the deficit was $760 billion. The national debt has increased from $5.6 trillion in 1999 to $8.4 trillion today - an increase of 50 percent. The House is now contemplating increasing the debt limit to $10 trillion, which, if reached, would be an increase of 78 percent. If the Senate believes we must have them, then we need to pay for them. 3. We should be working on tax reform rather than enacting tax cuts in a piece-meal fashion.
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 