SEN. VOINOVICH ISSUES STATEMENT ON FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF 9/11 ATTACKS
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, issued the following statement today on the fifth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks:  
   "Five years ago today, we were attacked by Islamic extremists who have hijacked the Koran and launched a jihad against the United States. On that day, we suffered a horrific national tragedy, the images of which will forever be burned in the minds of the American people. 
   "My memories of visiting the Pentagon and being at Ground Zero shortly after the attacks will never fade. I was overcome by the size, scale and devastation of the sites and nothing could have prepared me for the gut-wrenching reaction to these savage acts. 
   "The brutality of 9/11 shocked the world. But rather than destroying our faith in the American ideals of liberty and freedom, it united us in a way I have never seen before. 
   "We are still battling the Islamic extremists who attacked us on 9/11. They are still working throughout the world to convince Muslims that the way to get to Heaven is to terrorize - and ultimately destroy - the United States and all who share our values. 
   "We must not let the victims of 9/11 die in vain. We must continue the Global War on Terror, working with our friends and allies throughout the world to stop the terrorists, deny them safe haven and freeze their financial networks. Only then can we limit their ability to spread fear, resentment, despair and violence among their own people and abroad. 
   "I have urged President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to be very clear about our objectives in Iraq so that everyone can understand how it relates to the Global War on Terror and the future stability in the Greater Middle East. Without stability in the Middle East, we cannot win the greater ideological battle between moderation and extremism, between those who promote democracy and those who want to destroy freedom. Our mission in Iraq is critical to preventing the Middle East from becoming a massive breeding ground for the terrorists of the future. 
   "The war against terrorism is not over. America is safer but not yet safe. As the enemy adjusts to our increased security, we must also adjust. By keeping our commitment to the values of tolerance, democracy and freedom, we can win this war."
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 