SEN. VOINOVICH TO CO-CHAIR SENATE GREAT LAKES TASK FORCE
  On Friday, January 12, Sen. George V. Voinovich, a longtime friend of the Great Lakes, announced that he has become co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. The bipartisan group, part of the Northeast-Midwest Senate Coalition, seeks to protect the environmental and economic health of the Great Lakes region.  
  "Protecting and restoring the Great Lakes has been a top priority for me throughout my political career," Sen. Voinovich said. "As co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, I look forward to working with Senator Carl Levin and the Great Lakes delegation in advancing the restoration effort in this critical region. Working in a bipartisan effort, we can achieve this goal and protect the Great Lakes for generations to come." 
  The Senate and House Great Lakes Task Forces were formed in the mid-1980s by members of the Northeast-Midwest Senate and Congressional Coalitions to work in a bipartisan, bicameral fashion to protect and enhance the region's unique natural resources and economy. The Democratic co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force is Senator Carl Levin (D-MI). Leaders of the House Great Lakes Task Force are Reps. John Dingell (D-MI), Vernon Ehlers (R-MI), Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Louise Slaughter (D-NY).
  Sen. Voinovich has a long history of support for the Great Lakes. In 1967, when he was elected to the state legislature with Lake Erie forming the northern border of his district, he saw firsthand the effects of pollution on Lake Erie and the surrounding region. In response, he committed himself to stopping the deterioration of the Lake and waging what he calls the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" - the battle to reclaim and restore Ohio's Great Lake.
  Since coming to the Senate in 1999, Senator Voinovich has supported numerous pieces of legislation to ban oil and gas drilling in the Great Lakes, protect the Lakes from invasive species like the Asian carp, fight "dead zones" that threaten the Lakes' vibrant plant and animal life and fund vital cleanup of contaminated sediments.
  The senator has also joined with federal agencies, governors, mayors, tribes and various other organizations to develop a comprehensive restoration plan for the Great Lakes. After extensive discussions, the Federal Great lakes Interagency Task Force, the Council of Great Lakes Governors, the Great Lakes Cities Initiative, Great Lakes tribes and the Great Lakes Congressional Task Force moved to convene a group now known as the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration (GLRC). Since May 18, 2004, the GLRC has worked hard to develop a comprehensive Great Lakes restoration plan. 
  On July 7, 2005, the GLRC released its draft strategy report and a final comprehensive report was released on December 12, 2005, in Chicago, Illinois. This report reflected a bipartisan effort to help tackle the issue of restoration in the Great Lakes region. Throughout this process, Senator Voinovich has been actively involved, urging the Collaboration to develop a final plan that immediately impacts the Great Lakes in a positive manner while being fiscally responsible. Senator Voinovich will continue to be involved as Congress will likely be asked to implement many of the GLRC recommendations in the 110th Congress.
 
 