SEN. VOINOVICH OFFERS BUDGET AMENDMENT TO CURB ABUSE OF 'EMERGENCY' SPENDING
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the Senate's top "debt hawk," today offered an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Resolution aimed at stopping Congress's addiction to so-called "emergency" spending. The amendment would prohibit any "emergency" spending above a designated amount. In effect this amendment would create an emergency reserve fund where a designated amount of money would be put aside each year for true emergencies, rather than allowing an unlimited amount of spending to be classified as "emergency"-an important step towards responsible budgeting.
   "We all understand that on occasion we face natural disasters or unanticipated crises such as Hurricane Katrina that require emergency resources," Sen. Voinovich said. "For this reason, we cannot estimate all of our emergency spending in the budget. But I am extremely concerned that the emergency designation has been abused in recent years to allow Congress to spend large sums of money outside the budget. It is time for us to be honest with the American people about the true state of our nation's fiscal house and stop relying on smoke and mirrors." 
   If spending is designated as "emergency," it is exempted from budget controls and spending limits. An example of the sort of emergency spending that concerns Sen. Voinovich is the designation of funding for the 2000 Census as emergency, even though the U.S. Constitution has required a census every 10 years since 1790.
   Sen. Voinovich's amendment would set emergency spending levels for Fiscal Year 2009 at an amount determined by the most recent five-year average of emergency defense spending and the most recent 10-year average for other types of emergencies, as determined by the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO).
   The amendment would set the Fiscal Year 2009 emergency designation at $65 billion, reserving $50 billion for the Global War on Terror and leaving another $15 billion for other legitimate emergencies such as natural disasters. The $50 billion set aside for the Global War on Terror would be in addition to the $70 billion already in the Fiscal Year 2009 budget for Iraq and Afghanistan, allowing $120 billion total for the Global War on Terror outside the discretionary spending limits.
   If Congress wants to exceed the emergency reserve fund cap, those additional funds must be counted as part of the regular budget. If this causes Congress to bust through the regular budget limits, the Senate can do so with a supermajority of 60 votes. This vote would act as a penalty flag and force honesty about spending instead of letting Congress use the "emergency" designation to claim they are staying within the budget when they are not.
   In last week's GAO report titled "Supplemental Appropriations: Opportunities Exist to Increase Transparency and Provide Additional Controls" which was request by Sen. Voinovich, GAO analyzed the use of emergency and supplemental funding over the 10-year period from 1997-2006 and found that:
   * Over $31 billion did not fit the definition of an "emergency," suggesting that the "emergency" label is used to exempt non-emergencies from budget controls; 
   * 35 spending accounts received emergency funding in at least six out of 10 years, suggesting that such funding is regular and not an unexpected event; and 
   * Over one-third of emergency spending has no time limit on when agencies can spend the money, suggesting that much "emergency" spending occurs long after the emergency has passed.
 
 