SEN. VOINOVICH PRAISES OHIO HOUSE PASSAGE OF NEW GUIDELINES TO PROTECT GREAT LAKES
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), current chairman of the Environment and Public Works Subcommittee on Clean Air, Climate Change and Nuclear Safety, on Wednesday, Dec. 13, praised the Ohio House of Representatives for passing House Bill 574 to protect the health of the Great Lakes and aid in the restoration effort. An agreement was signed at this time last year that will ban diversions of water to areas outside of the Great Lakes with only limited exceptions. 
  "I have long advocated for this action and I'm very pleased the House has brought this one step closer to becoming reality," Sen. Voinovich said. "This will help save our Great Lakes for future generations. It is critical for Ohio to be a leader in this effort. Getting this bill signed into law quickly will be a tremendous step forward in protecting our national treasure."
  Sen. Voinovich has from the beginning of his public service committed himself to stopping the deterioration of the Great Lakes. When he was elected to the Ohio State Legislature, he began what he refers to as the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" to reclaim and restore Ohio's Great Lake.
  Upon entering the Senate in 1999, Sen. Voinovich co-sponsored legislation to impose a two-year moratorium on the export of bulk fresh water from the Great Lakes Basin. In addition to introducing legislation, he actively lobbied administration officials and Great Lakes governors to take action on this important issue. In 2001, he spoke at the University of Toledo's Great Lakes Conference about the need to improve Great Lakes water management.
  Sen. Voinovich authored the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 (WRDA). He included a provision that "?encourage[d] the Great Lakes states, in consultation with the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec, to develop and implement a mechanism that provides a common conservation standard embodying the principles of water conservation and resource improvement for making decisions concerning the withdrawal and use of water from the Great Lakes Basin."
  Following the enactment of WRDA, the Great Lakes governors of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin joined with the premiers of Ontario and Quebec in signing the Great Lakes Charter Annex 2001 in Niagara Falls, New York, on June 18, 2001.
  Annex 2001 amended the Great Lakes Charter of 1985 to update the Great Lakes regional water management system and ensure that the Great Lakes are protected for future generations. Since 2001, the Great Lakes governors and premiers have been working hard to implement the Annex. The document signed last year provides guidelines for protecting the Great Lakes through better water management.
  All eight Great Lakes states must ratify the agreement through their state legislatures. The U.S. Congress would then have to approve the Compact before becoming fully effective, while no federal legislation is required in Canada.
 
 