SEN. VOINOVICH WRITES LETTER TO FINANCE COMMITTEE REGARDING FORECLOSURE CRISIS
  Please find attached and pasted below a letter to Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley from Sen. Voinovich calling for passage of his Mortgage Cancellation Relief Act (S. 1394). Specifically, he asks them to work with Senate leadership to take up the House-passed version of the bill, the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act, and get it to the president's desk before we adjourn for the year: 
   December 13, 2007
  The Honorable Max Baucus
  Chairman, Senate Finance Committee
  219 Dirksen Senate Office Building
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable Charles Grassley
  Ranking Member, Senate Finance Committee
  219 Dirksen Senate Office Building
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley:
   Thank you for calling today's hearing in the Finance Committee regarding the current housing market and the crisis impacting so many of America's homeowners. I look forward to hearing the witnesses' testimonies, as well as the questions and feedback from members of the Finance Committee. Your timely action is encouraging to me as we continue the work of the Senate in the few remaining days of the legislative session.
   It is my hope that the hearing, aptly titled, "The Housing Decline: The Extent of the Problem and Potential Remedies," will result in action by the Senate to provide relief to troubled homeowners. As you well know, Senator Stabenow and I introduced the Mortgage Cancellation Relief Act (S. 1394) back in May to change the tax code so that homeowners are not penalized when they work out a deal that keeps them in their home or they sell their home for less than the outstanding debt. While I applaud your leadership on addressing the housing crisis and calling today's hearing, I believe the Senate must send legislation to President Bush's desk this year, and cannot afford to wait to enact mortgage debt relief legislation as part of a larger package next year.
   In my previous letter to you, I spoke of the housing crisis in my home state of Ohio. In fact, three houses right in my neighborhood in Cleveland are boarded up - the previous owners, victims of foreclosure. And the Cleveland Plain Dealer just reported that three mayoral candidates are in danger of foreclosure. Therefore, I understand on a very personal level how the foreclosure crisis is ruining our country's neighborhoods.
   It is my strong belief that a unanimous consent agreement to take up the House-passed version of H.R. 3648 - the Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act of 2007 - as a stand alone provision would be the surest method to enactment this year. The House has already acted with an overwhelming majority, and now we must push this legislation across the goal line in the Senate before we leave town for the holidays.
   Enacting mortgage cancellation relief legislation before year end is critical in addressing the housing crisis sweeping the nation. I encourage you to work with Senate Leadership to reach an agreement to send the President this bipartisan legislation to encourage homeowners to work out agreements with their lenders. I look forward to our continued partnership to address this critical challenge.
   Sincerely,
   George V. Voinovich
  United States Senator
 
 