SEN. VOINOVICH VOTES AGAINST CONTINUING RESOLUTION AND FOR FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the Senate's top "debt hawk," on Tuesday, Feb. 13, voted against cloture on H.J. Res. 20, the FY 2007 Continuing Resolution (C.R.). His vote against cloture represents his frustration with Congress' continued willingness to pass the buck on real budgeting and settle for a wasteful and inefficient C.R. that shortchanges vital federal and state projects, including Base Realignment and Closure funding. 
  "I am very disappointed in my colleagues who continue to pass the buck on real budgeting and settle for a continuing resolution," Sen. Voinovich said. "Repeatedly managing by continuing resolution as we've done for nearly half a year is inherently irresponsible and inefficient. I believe this lazy budgeting strategy is a horrible way to run the government. It results in wasteful spending, disruptions and chaos in federal programs and productivity slowdowns."  
  Sen. Voinovich pointed out that, because of the Senate's indolence, many federal agencies have been in limbo during the last several months. In recent years many federal departments have taken positive steps toward streamlining their budgets and tightening the reins of daily operations, conduct that ought to be rewarded. Instead, when Congress failed to complete its appropriation work on time, these departments were forced to put critical projects on hold.
  And it is not just the federal government that suffers. States, counties and cities all depend on funding from Washington. In Ohio, for instance, construction costs and inflation forced the Department of Transportation to cancel or postpone nearly $450 million in highway projects, because they simply didn't know how much funding they were going to get.
  "I am especially disappointed that a select few have taken it upon themselves to choose for the entire nation and for the president where vital military facility funding should be focused," Sen. Voinovich said. "The BRAC funding cuts included in the continuing resolution are a gimmick at best. The Democrats have cut BRAC funding by $3.1 billion in the bill and used that money to fund other programs - still, they admit that the $3.1 billion will be added back to the war supplemental. At the end of the day, the $3.1 billion will be spent twice for a total of $6.2 billion - once on BRAC and once on pet projects. But the Democrats only count $3.1 billion as spending. This is not only a way to cheat the budget caps, but it will delay the implementation of BRAC recommendations that benefit Ohio. If BRAC is, in fact, shortchanged in the final version of the continuing resolution, I will do everything in my power to ensure that Congress is held to the commitment it made when it takes up the supplemental.
  "It is time for us to be intellectually honest with the American people. These are not isolated instances. In 25 of the past 30 years, Congress has failed to enact all the appropriations bills by the start of the fiscal year. When are we planning to get it done on time? By failing to do our job, we are starving the executive branch of government and preventing it from doing its job. 
  "I believe that implementing a biennial or two-year budget cycle would be a responsible first step and I plan to introduce legislation to do just that this year. The first year would be reserved for the budget and appropriations process. The second year would be to conduct oversight and pass authorizing legislation. This would leave Congress more time to examine programs to determine which are wasteful, which should receive more funding and which should be terminated altogether. And Congress would have more time to finish its business by the deadlines the law imposes."
  Please find below a letter Sen. Voinovich sent to appropriators on the Securing America's Future Economy (SAFE) Act and bringing fiscal sanity to Congress.
  January 12, 2007
  U.S. Senator Harry Reid
   Majority Leader
   Washington, D.C. 20510
  U.S. Senator Mitch McConnell
   Minority Leader
   Washington, D.C. 20510
  Dear Senator Reid and Senator McConnell:
  I am pleased to learn that the two of you are optimistic that the 110th Congress can tackle our nation's long-term fiscal problems working together on a bipartisan basis. I understand that a bipartisan group of senators is discussing the creation of a commission to grapple with difficult-but-necessary reforms to our tax and entitlement systems. I am greatly heartened by this development, as I have been a strong public advocate for both tax reform and entitlement reform for several years, and I believe that any enduring solutions to our long-term fiscal imbalance must have genuine bipartisan support. I look forward to working with you and to being actively involved in these critical discussions as the Senate begins to address our nation's fiscal health.
  In fact, I thought I would bring to your attention legislation that I, along with Rep. Frank Wolf, introduced to create just such a bipartisan commission. In the 109th Congress, Rep. Wolf and I introduced the Securing America's Future Economy (SAFE) Commission Act, S. 3491 and H.R. 5552, which would establish a national commission to examine our tax and entitlement systems and present long-term solutions to place the United States on a fiscally sustainable course, reform the tax code for a 21st century global economy, and ensure the solvency of entitlement programs for future generations. Outside groups such as the Concord Coalition, the Heritage Foundation, and the Brookings Institution, as well as Comptroller General David Walker, have voiced support for our approach. (I have attached a recent Washington Post op-ed by former Senators Warren Rudman and Bob Kerrey endorsing the SAFE Commission.) Rep. Wolf and I plan to re-introduce the SAFE Commission Act next week, with modifications intended to address concerns raised by both Democrats and Republicans.
  The SAFE Commission Act is innovative because it establishes expedited procedures to ensure that Congress votes on the Commission's proposals. Congress, however, would be allowed to develop and consider its own alternatives to the Commission bill. Thus, Congress would not be bound by the SAFE Commission's bill. In fact, I fully expect that Congress would adopt its own alternative in lieu of the Commission bill. At the end of the day, Congress would make the tough policy choices. The Commission, however, would force Congress to act rather than kick the can down the road.
  The SAFE Commission would be truly bipartisan, with voting members evenly divided between Democrats and Republicans. Four of the 16 members would be sitting Members of Congress. Non-voting members would include the CBO Director and the Comptroller General. A three-fourths supermajority would be required to submit legislative language to Congress, thus ensuring substantial support from both parties. The SAFE Commission could not adopt a partisan proposal with one or two cross-over votes.
  I intend to focus on tax reform and addressing our long-term fiscal imbalance as top priorities in the 110th Congress. As you move forward on these issues on a bipartisan basis, I hope to work with you toward the common goal of securing America's future economy.
  Sincerely,
   George V. Voinovich
   United States Senator
  cc: Senator Kent Conrad
   Senator Judd Gregg.
 
 