SEN. VOINOVICH SECURES ADDITIONAL $15 MILLION FOR EMERGENCY RESPONDERS IN SENATE
  Today, an amendment proposed by Sen. George V. Voinovich requesting an additional $15 million for the Emergency Management Performance Grant (EMPG) program was unanimously accepted to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2007, bringing the total funding for the Emergency Management Performance Grant program to $220 million.  
   The EMPG program is designed to provide state and local emergency management agencies with the necessary funds to expand the development, maintenance and improvement of their programs. It is the only source of federal assistance that provides vital emergency management, coordination and planning support to state and local governments, emergency managers, and first responders. 
   "Since 9/11, the responsibilities of our first responders have increased exponentially. They must now be prepared to respond to natural disasters, man-made disasters and malicious acts of terrorism and we must support them," Sen. Voinovich said. "With the enhanced responsibilities, and the tight budget constraints currently faced by state and local governments, the flexibility provided by the EMPG program is vital. It is my strong belief that an additional $15 million for the EMPG program will enhance the effectiveness of every dollar directed toward response and recovery." 
   Last year the EMPG program was funded at $185 million. In an effort to increase the sound management of homeland security funds, earlier this year Sen. Voinovich asked the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security to increase funding for the EMPG program. The program requires that states match 50 percent of the federal contribution. 
   According to the Department of Homeland Security, EMPG funds are spent rapidly compared to other programs; in other words, if Congress appropriates additional EMPG funding, it will be used expeditiously, efficiently and effectively. A different version of this bill passed in the House and will now be negotiated in Conference. The senator will send a letter to conferees urging them to keep the $220 million in the Senate bill whole.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 