MONTHLY REPORT FROM SEN. VOINOVICH, JUNE 13
  MESSAGE FROM SEN. VOINOVICH 
   Thank you for subscribing to my e-newsletter. Communicating with my constituents has always been a top priority for me, and I look forward to regularly updating you on the work I'm doing to help Ohio and the nation. It has recently been very busy in Washington, but I have had several opportunities to return to Ohio to work on a wide range of issues. I hope you will find the information in this e-newsletter helpful. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to visit my Web site at http://voinovich.senate.gov. And please share this e-newsletter with your friends and family by forwarding it to their email! 
   FIGHTING FOR HOME OWNERS  
   Senator Voinovich believes that owning a home creates a foundation for strong communities and builds a healthier economy. He recently met with several members of the Ohio Home Builders Association. Since joining the Senate, Sen. Voinovich has voted in favor of legislation to assist homebuyers, including the 2003 American Dream Downpayment Act, which promised to aid approximately 40,000 families with down payments and closing costs on their first homes. Additionally, he supported the 2005 federal budget which called for $45 million to support 550,000 families with homeownership counseling while purchasing a home.
   Most recently, Sen. Voinovich introduced the Mortgage Relief Act - legislation to change current law that forces individuals to pay income tax when they have part of their mortgage loan forgiven or are forced to foreclose because of an inability to pay their mortgage. The senator believes that removing this tax penalty encourages homeowners and lenders to work together voluntarily so that payments are manageable and foreclosure can be avoided. And he strongly believes it's unfair to tax people on their loses when they're already struggling. 
   SCRAPPING THE TAX CODE 
   Senator Voinovich, the Senate's top "deficit hawk," recently co-sponsored the Tax Code Termination Act - legislation that would repeal the U.S. Tax Code by 2010 and force Congress to reauthorize it or replace it with a new system that's fair and easy to understand. Sen. Voinovich believes that while it won't be easy to pass this legislation, it will at least help bring attention to this problem, and force Congress and the administration to deal with these looming issues instead of passing the buck to future generations.
   Also, Sen. Voinovich has re-introduced legislation aimed at a comprehensive reform of our nation's tax and entitlement systems. The Securing America's Future Economy (SAFE) Commission Act establishes a national commission to examine these systems and present long-term solutions to place the United States on a fiscally sustainable course and ensure the solvency of entitlement programs for future generations. The Commission will bring together the best minds associated with budget and economic policies to examine the long-term fiscal challenges facing the United States and recommend reforms. 
   SUPPORTING EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT 
   Dating back to his service as mayor and governor, Senator Voinovich has been an active voice in promoting early education programs. Most recently, the senator was a keynote speaker at the ZERO TO THREE policy conference - a national summit held in Cleveland on early childhood development.
   Sen. Voinovich participated in the summit proceedings, which included listening to policy recommendations from the community. Sen. Voinovich believes it is our moral responsibility to make sure our children are healthy and enter school ready to learn and he is committed to giving every child the chance they deserve in gaining an education. Programs such as ZERO TO THREE at the national level and Cuyahoga County 's Invest In Children do a great job of building coordinated systems of services for young children and their families. 
   PROVIDING RELIEF FROM FUTURE HIGH GAS PRICES 
   In an effort to provide Americans relief from record high gas prices, Senator Voinovich was part of a bipartisan group of Senators that introduced legislation recently to expand consumer access to 85 percent ethanol fuel, or E-85 - an affordable, home-grown alternative to gasoline. The legislation for the Ethanol Education and Expansion Act of 2007 would work to reduce prices at the pump for consumers by providing grants through the U.S. Department of Agriculture to farmer-owned ethanol producers to install additional E-85 pumps at rural gas stations as well as the equipment needed to sell E-85 directly to gas stations.
   The bill aims to dramatically increase the availability of E-85, making it a viable source of fuel for everyday Americans who are committed to the nation's energy independence. Sen. Voinovich has always made what he calls a "Second Declaration of Independence" a top priority in his agenda, and this legislation is the next step toward making our nation less reliant on foreign sources on energy. 
   EXPANSION OF NASA CENTER BRINGS NEW JOBS TO OHIO 
   Senator Voinovich recently spoke at a dedication ceremony at NASA's Plum Brook Station in Sandusky, Ohio . The facility recently received approval and funding for simulated environmental testing of the Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) - the spacecraft that will support exploration missions to the International Space Station, the moon and Mars. Sen. Voinovich facilitated a recent meeting with NASA and local officials and directly lobbied the NASA administrator to get this accomplished. 
   Testing of the CEV is part of a new mission for NASA Glenn, which includes designing the CEV as well as overseeing the development of several Crew Launch Vehicle upper stage systems. This new mission will secure NASA Glenn and assist with the growth of the economy and creation of jobs in northern Ohio. 
   Sen. Voinovich has been involved for many years with the programs at NASA Glenn and he is excited about what this new program means for the region. He is pleased that NASA Glenn has obtained an identifiable mission and will work hard to secure the funding it needs to thrive. These developments truly represent the launching of a new chapter in the history of NASA Glenn and northern Ohio.
 
 