MONTHLY REPORT FROM SEN. VOINOVICH, JULY 13
  LEADING THE FIGHT FOR COMPREHENSIVE PASSPORT REFORM
   As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Voinovich has taken a leading role in numerous efforts to alleviate the recent passport backlog and ensure these problems are not repeated. Recently the senator attended a Foreign Relations Committee hearing during which he questioned State Department officials in an effort to learn why the agency failed to plan for the increased demand due to the advent of summer travel season and increased security requirements. A longtime champion of accountability and responsible management, Sen. Voinovich voiced his concerns with the lack of management focus by State Department leadership that contributed to the backlog. Sen. Voinovich has also worked with Ohioans experiencing passport problems to cut through bureaucratic red tape and expedite the process. In fact, the senator's office has already dealt with 1,200 passport cases in 2007 and helped many families avoid losing money and missing long-planned international travel.
   PROMOTING ETHANOL IN FAYETTE COUNTY  
   Last month, Sen. Voinovich attended a check presentation ceremony celebrating Fayette County's recent economic development grant from the U.S. Department of Commerce. The $2.4 million Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant will help the Madison Mills Water Supply Project - a new water supply system that will provide 1.5 million gallons of water a day to the ethanol plant being constructed near the Village of Bloomingburg. Sen. Voinovich believes we need a Second Declaration of Independence - independence from foreign sources of energy - in order to strengthen our economic and national security. Ethanol is one of the most successful alternative forms of energy. The project will employ up to 100 local contractors to construct the facility. Once constructed and operational, the ethanol plant will employ approximately 60 highly skilled workers and will generate private investment in excess of $142 million. By providing the water infrastructure, the $7.2 million project will enable the new ASAlliances Biofuels ethanol plant to produce 100 million gallons of ethanol.
   PROVIDING A WAY FORWARD IN IRAQ 
   Sen. Voinovich, a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, recently sent President Bush a letter expressing his belief that we must begin to develop a comprehensive plan to secure and stabilize Iraq by gradually drawing down our military while ramping up our political and diplomatic efforts and holding Iraqis and their neighbors responsible for Iraq's future. Along with the letter, Sen. Voinovich sent the president a strategy paper titled "The Way Forward in Iraq." For a complete version of the letter and the plan, please see the senator's Web site. 
   DEDICATING TOLEDO'S SKYWAY BRIDGE 
   Sen. Voinovich recently attended the Veterans' Glass City Skyway (VGCS) Dedication Ceremony. Sen. Voinovich has been involved in the VGCS project since his time as governor of Ohio. As part of his Good Government Initiative, then-Governor Voinovich "took the politics" out of Ohio Department of Transportation's project selection process. Working with the legislature, he created the Transportation Review Advisory Council, which was influential in the project's execution. As governor, he began the process of developing new funding sources for the bridge. The new bridge will relieve congestion in the region and boost the economic prosperity of the entire state. In the past, all vehicular traffic on I-280 was halted whenever the Craig Memorial Bridge opened for ships. The bridge represents the innovative capabilities being implemented in cable-stayed bridge technology.
   COMMEMORATING THE HUNGARIAN COMMUNITY 
   As a longtime champion of Ohio's ethnic heritage, Sen. Voinovich joined the Hungarian Community in Cleveland recently as they dedicated a statue commemorating the 1956 Hungarian Revolution Freedom Fighters. The dedication was sponsored by the Cleveland Hungarian Revolution 50th Anniversary Committee, which held a week of events last year to commemorate the 1956 Hungarian Revolution. Sen. Voinovich has a long-standing relationship with the Hungarian Community in Cleveland and was proud to participate in this wonderful event.
 
 