SEN. VOINOVICH INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO INVIGORATE PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL PROCESS
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Oversight of Government Management Subcommittee, today introduced legislation to strengthen and improve the federal government's employee performance appraisal system and require regular and appropriate training for individuals in supervisory or managerial positions. The primary goal of Sen. George V. Voinovich's Federal Workforce Performance Appraisal and Management Improvement Act of 2006 is to institutionalize the dialogue between employees and managers in order to foster a culture in the federal government of a high-performing, continually improving organization focused on achieving results for the American people.  
   "I believe that an effective performance management system is fundamental to building a results-oriented organization," Sen. Voinovich said. "By developing a system where employees have regular discussions with their supervisors about expectations for their performance, both employees and supervisors will be more effective in achieving their agency's mission." 
   While some organizations have taken steps to modernize their performance management systems and tools, there is no comprehensive, governmentwide mandate to do so. Sen. Voinovich's legislation would begin the reform process by layering a modern performance management system over the existing General Schedule system. 
   "I am introducing this legislation because I believe that employees should receive a rigorous evaluation each year and that their pay should be determined based upon their performance," Sen. Voinovich said. "I agree with the observation that has been made repeatedly by Comptroller General David Walker: an employee's pay should be determined by productivity, effectiveness, and contributions of that employee." 
   Passage of the Federal Workforce Performance Appraisal and Management Improvement Act of 2006 would accomplish the following: 
   Require that every federal employee receive annually a written performance appraisal. That appraisal must align with the agency's strategic goals, be developed with the employee, make meaningful distinctions among employee performance and use the results in making decisions for training, rewarding, promoting, reassigning and removing employees; Require the Office of Personnel Management to provide technical assistance to agencies and approve the system. The government must utilize the Office of Personnel Management's institutional expertise; Require that managers receive the appropriate training to judge the performance of their subordinates, make expectations clear to employees and provide constructive feedback; Would stipulate that if an employee does not achieve a successful rating under the new appraisal system, then that employee would be ineligible for the annual pay increase or a within-grade increase; and Would permit individuals hired as senior level or senior technical to access level II of the Executive Schedule with an OPM certified performance appraisal system, consistent with the statute for the Senior Executive Service. 
   "This will require a significant commitment of behalf of managers and leaders," Sen. Voinovich said. "Instead of taking one giant bite at the apple, I believe it will be easier for federal agencies to implement enhanced employee appraisals first. By instituting a more rigorous performance management standard on top of the current general schedule, I am optimistic this will create less anxiety among federal employees."
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 