SEN. VOINOVICH HELPS SECURE $3 MILLION FOR OHIO TRANSPORTATION, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
  The United States Senate passed the 2008 Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill (TTHUD) yesterday by a vote of 88 to 7. U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) secured $3 million in funding for several Ohio transportation and economic development projects in the bill. 
   "A strong infrastructure is vital to the future of our state and the quality of our citizens' lives," said Sen. Voinovich. "These funds will work to improve economic development in Ohio by improving our state's infrastructure, making our roads safer and allowing Ohio's citizens and businesses to travel more efficiently," 
   The TTHUD Appropriations Conference Report includes the following Ohio projects:
   Cuyahoga County:
   $500,000 for City of Cleveland's Flats East Bank Road Relocations and Improvements Project: Funds will be used for the relocation of the roads for the construction of the Flats East Bank Project, a $329 million mixed-use residential and commercial waterfront development. These transportation improvements will provide more efficient access to this new regional center of commerce and jobs. 
   $500,000 for the Goodrich-Gannett Neighborhood Center in the City of Cleveland: Funding will assist the Goodrich-Gannett Neighborhood Center, which provides a variety of social services to preschoolers, youth, families and the elderly, with the completion of a new Childcare/Family Services Facility. The new facility will permit Goodrich-Gannett to expand early childhood development opportunities and house a Resource Center for Working for Working Families that will parents become more effective caregivers, workers and community members.
   Franklin County
   $500,000 for the Interstate 70/71 Cap Project in the City of Columbus: Funding will be used for reconstruction of the 70/71 split in downtown Columbus. 
   Hamilton County:
   $500,000 for I-71 Access Improvements in the City of Cincinnati: Funding will be used to study and design modifications to the highways, interchanges, and transit systems to provide improved access to Uptown and other Cincinnati neighborhoods adjacent to I-71. State and local transportation officials have determined that the I-71 Corridor will operate at Level of Service F by the year 2030 if no improvements are implemented to enhance mobility. 
   $1 million for the Brent Spence Bridge Study in the City of Cincinnati: Funding will be used to study and design modifications to the highway, interchanges and transit systems in the I-75 Corridor from the Ohio River to the Western Hills Viaduct in coordination with the redesign of the Brent Spence Bridge.
 
 