SEN. VOINOVICH CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO HELP PROTECT GREAT LAKES FROM INVASIVE SPECIES
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) has signed on to co-sponsor legislation introduced today that lists three species of Asian Carp as injurious wildlife under the Lacey Act, ensuring that the species cannot be imported into the United States or across state lines without a permit. The Asian Carp Prevention and Control Act will prevent live Bighead, Black, and Silver carp from invading the Great Lakes. Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI), co-chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, are authoring the Act.  
   "This pivotal legislation will send a clear message to the Great Lakes states-we are committed to protecting the Lakes from all invasive species, including Asian Carp. We have worked hard to revitalize the Lakes and these foreign species are a serious threat to the native fish population, ecosystem, and boating community. We need to do everything in our power to help guard against them," said Senator Voinovich. 
   The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) received a petition in 2002 to list the Asian Carp under the Lacey Act. There were also 2 letters from the Great Lakes Task Force urging the FWS to administratively list the carp under the Lacey Act. However, the FWS has not acted on the petition. 
   The Lacey Act provides authority to the Secretary of the Interior to designate injurious wildlife and is part of the critical effort to gain control over the importation of such species. 
   The legislation will not interfere with existing state regulations of Asian carp and permits the importation of the carp for scientific, medical, or educational purposes. 
   The three species of Asian Carp-black, bighead, and silver-threaten native fish by quickly consuming large quantities of phytoplankton, which is critical to the stability of the ecosystem. Originally, they were introduced to the United States as a management tool for aqua culture farms and sewage treatment facilities. According to reports, the carp made their way north to the Illinois River after escaping from fish farms during massive flooding along the Mississippi River more than 10 years ago. Asian Carp can grow to an average of four feet and 60 pounds, and can consume up to 40 percent of their body weight in plankton per day. 
   Since the beginning of his political career, Senator Voinovich has committed himself to stopping the deterioration of the Great Lakes. Thirty-seven years ago, when he was elected to the Ohio State Legislature, he waged what he refers to as the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" to reclaim and restore Ohio's Great Lakes. 
   Through his efforts in the Senate, Senator Voinovich was influential in providing important funding for the construction of preventive electric barriers located on the Illinois River and in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal to help avert Asian Carp from reaching the Great Lakes.
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 