SEN. VOINOVICH ISSUES STATEMENT ON DFAS TRANSFORMATION PLAN FOR CLEVELAND, COLUMBUS
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) released the following statement today on the release of the Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS) final transformation plan for Cleveland and Columbus:  
   "This is a great day for Ohio! The final decision of the BRAC Commission to keep two of Ohio's DFAS sites open is an outstanding victory for our state. Not only will the facilities remain open, they will also gain jobs--500 in Cleveland and up to 800 in Columbus. Our victory speaks to the high quality of our DFAS employees, the Ohio community and the power of the Ohio delegation. This is an example of what can happen when you galvanize all of the resources in the community through a public-private partnership. 
   I am very excited for the future of DFAS in Cleveland and Columbus. Both sites will become Centers of Excellence. DFAS Cleveland will be a Center of Excellence for Retired and Annuitant Pay Garnishments. It will gain several functions and will be covering Vendor Pay, Navy and Marine Corps Pay, Navy Accounting, Disbursing, and Civilian Pay. Not only will Cleveland retain the jobs it has now--but there will be 500 new jobs coming to Cleveland as a result of the decisions made by the BRAC Commission and the DFAS agency. These will be high-paying accounting and other jobs--a great boost for the Cleveland community, which has been suffering from unemployment. 
   DFAS Columbus at the Defense Supply Center Columbus (DSCC) will become a Center of Excellence for Acquisition Accounting including Contract Pay. It will cover Vendor Pay, Air Force Accounting, Accounting for Defense Agencies, Disbursing, and other functions. There will be up to 800 new jobs coming to Columbus as a result of these decisions. 
   The transformation of DFAS will begin soon and the BRAC implementation is expected to be completed in 2009. Through my capacity as a member of the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, I will follow the transformation carefully and will stay in close touch with DFAS Director Zack Gaddy on various personnel and workforce issues that are very important when a transformation on this scale takes place. 
   Again, I applaud all of the people here and in Ohio for this celebratory day."
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 