SEN. VOINOVICH SUPPORTS RESOLUTION CONDEMNING ANTI-SEMITIC REMARKS OF IRANIAN PRESIDENT
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) is an original cosponsor of a resolution introduced today condemning the harmful, destructive and anti-Semitic remarks made yesterday by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and demanding an apology for those statements of hate and animosity toward all Jewish and civilized peoples of the world.  
   "President Ahmadinejad's shocking and disgusting statements are lies and need to be recognized as such. There is a movement underway in the world to deny the Holocaust and there has been an undeniable rise in hate and anti-Semitism, including in the Middle East. It is critical that we take every action possible to stop it and let all international leaders spreading the hate know that their lies will not stand. We are waging the battle not only to protect the Jewish people--although the safety of any one group is intrinsic to the safety of all--but also because we want to ensure that we do not again sink into barbarity. We will win this struggle. This resolution is another step in that direction, and it is critical to promoting tolerance and countering messages of hate," said Voinovich. 
   The resolution condemns the recent statement by President Ahmadinejad that denied the occurrence of the Holocaust and supported moving the State of Israel to Europe. It also demands an official apology for the damaging, anti-Semitic statements that ignore history, human suffering, and the loss of life during the Holocaust, condemns the government of Iran, and supports efforts to condemn the leaders of the Iranian government in all appropriate forums. Finally, the resolution supports efforts by the people of Iran to exercise self-determination of the form of government in their country and supports a national referendum in Iran with oversight by international observers and monitors to certify the integrity and fairness of the referendum. 
   This is just the most recent effort by Senator Voinovich in combating anti-Semitism. As a member of the Helsinki Commission during the 107th Congress, Voinovich helped raise awareness of the disturbing rise of anti-Semitism in Europe by participating in annual meetings of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) Parliamentary Assembly, which is the largest regional security organization in the world, with 55 participating states from Europe, Central Asia and North America. Voinovich was instrumental in efforts to encourage U.S. support for an OSCE conference on anti-Semitism, which took place in Vienna in June 2003. 
   In October 2004, both the Senate and the House of Representatives passed the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act of 2004 (S. 2292)--legislation authored by Voinovich--and sent the bill to the President for his signature. The bill requires the State Department to submit a report to Congress on global anti-Semitism in November 2004. Additionally, the legislation requires the State Department to enhance its reporting on anti-Semitism in two existing annual reports, the International Religious Freedom Report and the Human Rights Report. The bill passed with an amendment offered by Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ) and Congressman Tom Lantos, which requires the State Department to create a new office to monitor and combat anti-Semitism. 
   Most recently, Senator Voinovich was an original cosponsor of a resolution urging action by the United Nations (U.N.) to curb the anti-Semitic bias of some U.N. member states. The resolution coincided with the U.N. World Summit being held in New York.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 