SEN. VOINOVICH'S VISA WAIVER, HOMELAND SECURITY MANAGEMENT BILLS ADDED TO 9/11 LEGISLATION
  On Thursday, Feb. 15, the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee voted to add the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2007 and the Homeland Security Management Act of 2007 as amendments to S. 4, the Improving America's Security by Implementing Unfinished Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007.  
  Both amendments are sponsored by U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the ranking member on the HSGAC Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce and the District of Columbia. S. 4 will next be considered for passage by the full Senate.
  The Visa Waiver Program (VWP) amendment authorizes the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Department of State, to expand the VWP to countries that support the United States and are prepared to do everything in their power to help keep terrorists from crossing our borders. It works to improve cooperation with key allies while strengthening U.S. national security interests and promoting U.S. economic competitiveness. 
  "This legislation will improve both our national security and economic interests while helping to solidify relationships and improve good will toward the United States for years to come," Sen. Voinovich said. "I will work closely with the administration and my colleagues in the Senate as we move forward to show our allies that we appreciate their help in this historic fight."
   The second amendment, the Homeland Security Management Act of 2007, will elevate the roles and responsibilities of the current Undersecretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to a Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security for Management. The new position will oversee the challenges associated with creating a unified identity for the 22 federal agencies and 180,000 employees that make up DHS. 
  "I am convinced the existing management structure at the department is insufficient and is hampering its ability to be successful," Sen. Voinovich said. "Through this legislation, the creation of a Deputy Secretary for Management will provide essential expertise necessary for improving the long-term efficiency and effectiveness of the department.".
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 