SENS. VOINOVICH, OBAMA SECURE OFFSET FUNDING TO HELP PROTECT GREAT LAKES FROM INVASIVE SPECIES
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) successfully included an amendment in the final Supplemental Appropriations Conference Report to provide $400,000 to keep the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal demonstration barrier operating through the end of Fiscal Year 2006. The funding is offset from existing Army Corps of Engineers dollars and will not add to the deficit. The conference report passed the Senate today by a vote of 98 to 1. It now goes to the president for his signature. 
   The demonstration barrier in the Chicago Ship and Sanitary Canal was authorized in 1996 under the National Invasive Species Act to prevent non-native species like the Asian carp from moving between the Mississippi River and the Great Lakes. Since this barrier was designed to be temporary and is close to the end of its expected service life, a second permanent barrier is being constructed. The Army Corps of Engineers indicated that they would be forced to shut down the demonstration barrier without additional funding - putting the region's $4.1 billion sport and commercial fishing industry at great risk.  
   The funding provided by this amendment will keep the demonstration barrier in operation through FY2006, maintaining the protection of the Great Lakes and providing the Corps with the necessary time to ensure that the permanent barrier is fully tested and up and running. Senators Mike DeWine (R-OH), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) co-sponsored the amendment. 
   "The inclusion of this amendment in the final supplemental is wonderful news for the future of the Great Lakes," said Sen. Voinovich. "This amendment builds on our work in 2004 to fund construction of the permanent barrier. I was shocked when I learned that Asian carp could have unfettered access to this national treasure - especially when so many dedicated people are working tirelessly to restore it. I am very pleased that we were able to join together and fix this serious oversight." 
   "If these barriers were turned off and Asian carp were allowed to enter the Great Lakes, they could quickly destroy the native species and forever change the lakes' ecosystems," said Sen. Obama. "This funding will ensure that the efforts of so many people will not have been in vain. I am very pleased that we were able to work together to help preserve one of our most treasured natural resources." 
   "The barrier at the Chicago Ship and Sanitary Canal is an innovative solution to the on-going invasive species problem threatening the health of the Great Lakes--one of the largest surface freshwater systems in the world," said Sen. DeWine. "Invasive species have cost hundreds of millions of dollars worth of damage to Great Lakes fishermen, boaters, manufacturers and shippers. We need to shut the door to all of the pathways that these species can use to enter the Great Lakes. Funding to operate the barrier at the Chicago Canal is a key part of that plan." 
   "I commend my colleagues for working together to secure these funds in time," said Sen. Durbin. "The carp approaching the northern section of the Illinois River and Lake Michigan have no natural predators and threaten both the native fish and natural wildlife of the lake, and, in turn, the economy of the entire Great Lakes region. The $400,000 approved this week will ensure that this critical barrier remains in operation, and that we avert a potentially devastating situation." Asian carp threaten the Great Lakes ecosystem because they quickly consume large quantities of phytoplankton, which is critical to the stability of the ecosystem. Originally, they were introduced to the United States as a management tool for aqua culture farms and sewage treatment facilities. The carp have made their way north to the Illinois River after escaping from fish farms during massive flooding along the Mississippi River. Asian carp can grow to an average of four feet and 60 pounds and can consume up to 40 percent of their body weight in plankton per day.
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 