SEN. VOINOVICH COMMENTS ON ENSURING THE SUCCESS OF NATIONAL SECURITY PERSONNEL SYSTEM
  SPEECH: Opening Remarks for HSGAC Subcommittee Hearing
  A CRITICAL MISSION: ENSURING THE SUCCESS OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY PERSONNEL SYSTEM
   Today, this Subcommittee convenes a hearing entitled "A Critical Mission: Ensuring the Success of the National Security Personnel System."  
   The purpose of this hearing is to examine the proposed regulations for the National Security Personnel System and to continue the dialogue over its design. 
   When thinking about the Department of Defense, we often visualize the over two million active duty and reserve men and women of the armed forces. We are grateful to them for their heroic service to our country. 
   But we must not forget that working alongside them are approximately 650,000 civilians, who can be found working across the globe in support of our military. 
   These hard working and dedicated individuals, including the 20,000 in my home state of Ohio, understand that the work they do every day is instrumental to our national security. What responsibility could be more important than that? 
   In April 2003, the Department of Defense presented to Congress a proposal for new personnel flexibilities. In essence, Defense sought similar and additional authorities to what was authorized for the Department of Homeland Security to develop a system that is able to respond to current and future workforce and mission needs. 
   Through the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004, Congress granted the Department the authority to design the National Security Personnel System, or NSPS. 
   The proposed regulations for NSPS were published in the Federal Register on Monday, February 14. The proposed regulations have a 30 day public comment period; it closes tomorrow. Next, the Department of Defense is required by law to enter into a "meet and confer" process with its employee organizations that must last a minimum of 30 days. I understand that the process leading up to publication of the proposed regulations was not always smooth. I encourage both sides to make the most of this process to have a constructive dialogue on what is needed for the new system. 
   As with the Department of Homeland Security, I know many employees and their union representatives at the Department of Defense are concerned about the content of the proposal and the subsequent implementation of NSPS. 
   Several Defense employees in Ohio will transition into NSPS in "Spiral One-point-One." Many of my constituents have taken the time to phone or to e-mail me. They are uncertain what changes they will see and are unsure where to go to find answers. 
   For example, a woman who works for DFAS Columbus shared these thoughts with me in an e-mail: 
   "I understand that pay raises will be based on the discretion of your supervisor. This causes me great concern as we have supervisors in our office who cannot take the time to do quarterly appraisals and awards, let alone write appraisals to give them a raise. Also, we have asked management many questions about NSPS and it appears that nothing has really been settled because they are unable to answer our questions." 
   To the Administration, I say it is your obligation to continue an open dialogue and maintain a collaborative process with your employees as you refine the proposed regulations for NSPS. 
   It seems to be the consensus of outside observers that the labor-management collaboration process at DoD was not as open as the process at DHS, and I would invite all of today's witnesses to share their thoughts on this point. 
   The Defense Department must recognize that while the new personnel system is intended to assist it in responding to its national security mission, it also must provide employees the tools and structure to encourage, support, and reward them. 
   Defense leaders must recognize that despite the Department's experience with alternative personnel systems the changes put forth in NSPS are new for the majority of the employees at the Department and that it will take time to gain understanding. 
   The regulations impact the most fundamental concerns of any employee: Will my contributions be recognized? What are my opportunities for advancement and promotion? How will I be paid? What recourse do I have if unfairly treated? 
   Employees must see and recognize that they have a valued role in the shaping of NSPS. 
   To employee organizations, it is your duty to roll up your sleeves and work with the Department of Defense and the Office of Personnel Management. It is not enough to say you do not like the system. I ask you to offer constructive suggestions to improve the proposed regulations. 
   I am here to assure you that I am committed to ensuring its success. 
   The NSPS regulations are not yet finalized. The publication of proposed regulations is only one of many milestones leading up to full implementation NSPS. 
   I know there are many interested parties that have suggestions for improvement. 
   I am certain the Comptroller General, who I am pleased to welcome back before this Subcommittee today, has some thoughtful observations. 
   At times I have had my own concerns with aspects of NSPS. 
   For example, I learned about this time last year that the department was rushing to implement the system by October 2004. I thought that was simply unrealistic. 
   I was so concerned that I went over to the Pentagon on March 30, 2004, and met with Deputy Secretary Wolfowitz, Secretary of the Navy England, and Principal Deputy Undersecretary Abell, who I am pleased is with us here today. 
   I conveyed to them my concerns that the Department was proceeding much too rapidly, and that the massive change envisioned by NSPS would take years to properly implement. 
   I was pleased to learn that they agreed, and that after a hasty start, implementation was to proceed with much greater deliberation. Secretary England was given a lead role in implementing NSPS, and I had the chance to meet with him yesterday to discuss his progress. For the sake of continuity and in recognition of his efforts, I am pleased he is committed to leading the initial implementation of NSPS. 
   I suspect there is room for improving the regulations and in the days ahead I will make my own recommendations. 
   For example, there are differences between the final regulations for the Department of Homeland Security and the proposed regulations for the Department of Defense in areas such as labor participation. I am interested to learn why DoD has chosen a different path in some instances. 
   I am certain my colleagues here today have similar observations and suggestions. 
   And I know the witnesses here today representing employees of the Department have their own concerns and suggestions for improvement. I look forward to discussing these regulations and their responses with them.
 
 