MONTHLY REPORT FROM SEN. VOINOVICH, JULY 16
  MESSAGE FROM SENATOR VOINOVICH 
   Thank you for subscribing to my e-newsletter. Communicating with my constituents has always been a top priority for me, and I look forward to regularly updating you on the work I'm doing to help Ohio and the nation. It has recently been very busy in Washington, but I have had several opportunities to return to Ohio to work on a wide range of issues. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to visit my Web site at http://voinovich.senate.gov. And please share this e-newsletter with your friends and family by forwarding it to their email!
   PROTECTING THE GREAT LAKES  
   Recently, Sen. Voinovich participated in a special briefing on proposed federal and state efforts to stop destructive exotic species from entering and threatening Lake Erie and the Great Lakes. Sen. Voinovich has a long history of support for the Great Lakes. In 1967, when he was elected to the state legislature with Lake Erie forming the northern border of his district, he saw firsthand the effects of pollution on the lake and the surrounding region. In response, he committed himself to stopping the deterioration of the lake and waging what he calls the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" - his effort to reclaim and restore Ohio's Great Lake. In January 2007 he was named co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force. The bipartisan group, part of the Northeast-Midwest Senate Coalition, seeks to protect the environmental and economic health of the Great Lakes region. 
  More than 180 invasive species of algae, fish, invertebrates and plants have become established in the Great Lakes. Once these destructive pests get a toehold, it is virtually impossible to limit their expansion. They quickly spread and out-compete native wildlife for food and habitat. Invasive species can kill fish and other native species and saddle state and local governments with multi-million dollar control and clean-up efforts. The only effective solution is preventing the future introduction of any new invasive species. 
  WORKING TO RESTORE AMERICA'S INFRASTRUCTURE 
   Sen. Voinovich has long-believed that America's infrastructure is collapsing due to insufficient oversight and funding. The tragic collapse of the I-35W bridge in Minnesota made clear that the deterioration of our nation's infrastructure systems are impacting the overall welfare of the American people in addition to the economy and the environment. Sen. Voinovich, along with Sen. Tom Carper (D-DE), introduced the bi-partisan National Infrastructure Improvement Act in 2006 and reintroduced it again in March 2007. This legislation was, coincidentally, passed out of his Environment and Public Works Committee just two days before the Minnesota tragedy and then unanimously passed by the full Senate two days after. The bill gets to the heart of the infrastructure crisis by establishing a commission that will provide concrete recommendations for current and future infrastructure needs. This is an incredibly important and long-overdue first step towards restoring our nation's highways, waterways and infrastructure systems as well as protecting Americans and the economy.
  FIGHTING FOR VETERANS 
   Sen. Voinovich, a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, recently hosted a roundtable discussion in Cleveland with national and state veterans' organizations and representatives from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Government Accountability Office. The roundtable focused on the backlog of veterans' disability claims in Ohio. A longtime advocate for responsible management and government efficiency, Sen. Voinovich is also deeply committed to the needs of veterans. He is concerned about serious management challenges facing the VA and discussed the VA's regional field structure, its human capital management and ways to streamline the processing of disability claims. Sen. Voinovich is working with the VA to improve the guidance provided to veterans applying for benefits and to ensure claims by National Guard members are streamlined. He continues to work with GAO to identify ways to improve claims processing. This is just one example of how Sen. Voinovich is using his role in the Senate to help ensure we keep our promise to our veterans. 
   PRESIDENT HEEDING SEN. VOINOVICH'S CALL FOR TAX REFORM 
   President Bush recently called for reform of the tax code in direct response to a call of action from key lawmakers including Sen. Voinovich. Late last year, Sen. Voinovich sent a letter to the president, pledging his support of tax code reform and he is pleased to see the president shares his concerns.
   Sen. Voinovich, the Senate's top "deficit hawk," and U.S. Representative Frank R. Wolf (R-VA) introduced landmark legislation earlier this year aimed at a comprehensive reform of our nation's tax and entitlement systems. The Securing America's Future Economy (SAFE) Commission Act establishes a national commission to examine these systems and present long-term solutions to place the United States on a fiscally sustainable course and ensure the solvency of entitlement programs for future generations. Though the task is daunting, Sen. Voinovich is confident that simplifying the tax code and ensuring the solvency of our entitlement programs can - and should - be done, to ensure long-term prosperity and relieve future generations of unnecessary financial burdens.
  STATE FAIR TRADITIONS LIVE ON 
   For Sen. Voinovich and thousands of Ohioans, August means just one thing: the Ohio State Fair. Beyond the concourse of food and games and fair rides there lies a heritage that runs deep with a broad tradition celebrating all things good in Ohio. Sen. Voinovich has been an integral part of the fair since his days as governor of Ohio, traditionally being a guest conductor for the All Ohio State Fair Youth Choir and Band, and participating in the Heartland Cuisine Cooking demonstration in the Ohio Food Pavilion. In addition to meeting with local and state agricultural leaders, Sen. Voinovich spent two days at the fair this year with his wife Janet, and their children and grandchildren. In keeping with an annual tradition of spending a night in the barn, Sen. Voinovich and three of his granddaughters spent a night in the sheep barn with the High family from Richwood, Ohio.
 
 