SEN. VOINOVICH SECURES $500,000 FOR BOWLING GREEN STATE UNIVERSITY
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced that the 2006 Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Conference Report includes $500,000 for the Bowling Green State University (BGSU) Lake Erie Water Quality Monitoring program. The report passed today by a vote of 94-5.  
   "The restoration and protection of Lake Erie and all of the Great Lakes is one of my top priorities in the Senate. After a historic rebirth following reports of its 'death,' Lake Erie faces new challenges of toxic algal blooms and the reemergence of oxygen-depleted dead zones that often lead to massive fish kills. I am pleased to have been able to help secure this funding so that the researchers at Bowling Green will be able to continue their important work on monitoring and improving Lake Erie's water quality," said Voinovich. 
   As a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Senator Voinovich conducted a hearing in August 2002 in Cleveland on the recurring dead zone in the central basin of Lake Erie. Hypoxia (low-oxygen areas in bodies of water) has been steadily increasing in Lake Erie since 1995 and is threatening the Lake's stability. 
   To increase funding for the research of dead zones in the Great Lakes, Senator Voinovich introduced legislation to reauthorize and expand the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998. This Act originally focused only on coastal marine waters, but his legislation expanded its focus to include the Great Lakes. Senator Voinovich's Great Lakes provisions were included in the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Amendments Act of 2004 (Public Law No: 108-456), which was signed into law in December 2004. 
   Requested by Senator Voinovich and authorized by his legislation, this funding will allow BGSU, in conjunction with Heidelberg College, to use a LANDSAT satellite to produce images of the algal blooms. They are also working on developing a detector instrument, which will be able to perform continuous algal measurements (the current satellite technology only produces updated data and images every eight days). This research will allow for further advancements in combating these dead zones and helping restore Lake Erie and all of the Great Lakes.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 