SEN. VOINOVICH SUPPORTED INTEROPERABLE COMMUNICATIONS FUNDING INCLUDED IN FINAL COMMERCE, JUSTICE AND SCIENCE BILL
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) helped secure $950,000 in Law Enforcement Technology and Interoperability Grants for three Ohio projects in the 2006 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Conference Report, which passed today with a vote of 95-4. These projects will work to improve interoperable communications between federal, state and local governments by strengthening federal leadership, providing grants, and enhancing outreach and guidance.  
   "The recent tragedy of Hurricane Katrina made it painfully evident that our nation's first responders have an immediate need for advanced communications capabilities and the ability to transfer vital information instantaneously. In the 1990s, the state of Ohio began work to tackle this problem head on, and created the Multi-Agency Radio Communications System, known as "MARCS." It is a system of interoperable communications that covers all 88 counties and reaches 99 percent of the state. It is my hope that these funds will build on that success and ensure that all of Ohio's citizens are protected," said Senator Voinovich. 
   The three projects slated to receive funding are the Ohio State Highway Patrol's Advanced Law Enforcement Integrated Computing and Interoperable Vehicle Technology Program, the Cincinnati Police Department's Records Management System and the City of Toledo's Communications Infrastructure. 
   $500,000 for the Ohio State Highway Patrol's Advanced Law Enforcement Integrated Computing and Interoperable Vehicle Technology Program. These funds will help enable the Ohio State Highway Patrol to equip vehicles in their Central Ohio car fleet with technologies that would provide in-vehicle computing capabilities, including downloading capability. The field-based software reporting allows officers both to access and to report real-time data regarding crashes, traffic citations, and first responder information. 
   $150,000 for the Cincinnati Police Department's Records Management System. These funds will be used to implement a comprehensive Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) System and a Records Management System (RMS). These systems are used to collect, store, retrieve, and analyze data for the purpose of more effectively addressing crime and its underlying causes through Community Oriented Policing. This technology will help the Cincinnati Police Department to meet both the Memorandum of Agreement with the Department of Justice and the Collaborative Agreement issued by Judge Susan Dlott. 
   $300,000 for the City of Toledo's Communications Infrastructure. These funds will assist the City's Department of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in laying an underground fiber-optic link. The ICT is responsible for all aspects of electronic communications within city government. Currently, the City of Toledo is in the process of building an 802.11 wireless broadband network that is funded through the COPS MORE (2001) grant. The wireless network will expand the information and resources available to emergency service personnel responding to emergencies. The fiber-optic link is needed to maximize the coverage area by linking remote sites that will serve as hubs for the network.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 