SEN. VOINOVICH AMENDS DEFENSE BILL TO INCLUDE 2nd STRYKER TIRE SOURCE
  An amendment sponsored by Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) that will require the Secretary of the Army to conduct a study of the feasibility, costs and benefits of supplying a second source of tires for the Stryker combat vehicle has been included in the final version of the 2006 Defense Authorization Bill. The amendment passed the Senate on November 9 by unanimous consent. The Voinovich amendment was cosponsored by Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH). The 2006 Defense Authorization Bill passed the Senate today by the unanimous vote of 98 to 0.  
   "It is vital that our war-fighters have the equipment they need in the right place at the right time. With only one company currently supplying tires for our military's vital Stryker combat vehicle, there is no room for error. We must ensure that the supply chain will not be broken, especially in times of crisis at home," said Voinovich. 
   Currently, tires for the Stryker are solely supplied by Michelin. Prior to the war in Iraq, the Army maintained an eight month supply of tires for its wheeled combat vehicles. However, that supply was soon depleted. Michelin had to shift production to focus almost entirely on the needs of the Army. Before the conflict the Army only accounted for 10 percent of their production. 
   The establishment of a second supplier would help ensure that tires would always be available when needed. If it is determined by the report that a second supplier is needed, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company would be a natural domestic source for procurement.. The development of a domestic tire supplier would be beneficial to national security. 
   The report will include: 1. An analysis of the capacity of the industrial base in the United States to meet requirements for a second source for the production and supply of tires for the Stryker combat vehicle; and 2. Recommendations on means, over the short-term and the long-term, to address that inadequacy of the industrial base in the United States, to the extent that it is not adequate to meet requirements.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 