SEN. VOINOVICH URGES CALM AFTER KOSOVO INDEPENDENCE DECLARATION
  In response to Kosovo's declaration of independence on February 17, Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, urged calm and called on both sides to work together to prevent any possible violence. 
   "I am very concerned about the situation in Kosovo and I urge everyone to remain calm and outright reject any form of violence," Sen. Voinovich said. "We all need to work together to keep the region stable in the weeks ahead."
  "For the last two years, I have urged the Administration to pursue a carefully negotiated solution that is mutually acceptable to both sides. Now the responsibility now falls on Kosovo and the international community to protect the Serb and minority communities and make sure they can live safely in Kosovo. The Kosovo government will need to react swiftly to anyone who tries to deny them that right in the coming months."
   Sen. Voinovich is an expert on Southeast Europe and has been a leading advocate in the Senate for bringing all of Southeast Europe into NATO and the European Union. Sen. Voinovich has also been a strong advocate of human rights and religious freedom, with a history of service on the Helsinki Commission. He is a leading expert on Kosovo and has sponsored various Senate Resolutions in favor of a negotiated solution to Kosovo's future status and the full integration of Southeast Europe into NATO and the European Union. Over the last two years, Sen. Voinovich has worked actively to urge the Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense to pay close attention to Kosovo. 
   "I have warned the administration on several occasions to ensure that we have the infrastructure and resources in Kosovo to keep peace, order and rule of law - and to make sure that minorities are protected, including their homes and their churches," Sen. Voinovich said. "It is critical that the government of Kosovo and the international community show an unwavering commitment to human rights, making sure that conditions in the Ahtisaari plan are fulfilled. The plan was not endorsed by both sides, but it is the best plan that we have right now, and it must be enforced in full. And I've made that clear to the State Department and to the European Union."
   With regard to Serbia's reaction, Voinovich said: "We all need to recognize how difficult and emotional this issue is for the people of Serbia. We need to make our relationship with Serbia a top priority in the months ahead. Serbia is a true friend, and we need to preserve and strengthen that friendship more than ever before."
 
 