SEN. VOINOVICH VOTES TO CONTINUE DEBATING IRAQ RESOLUTION
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Foreign Relations Committee and co-sponsor of the bipartisan Warner resolution, on Saturday, Feb. 17, made the following statement after voting to continue debating the House Iraq resolution: 
   "As a co-sponsor of the bipartisan Warner resolution, I became one of only seven senators to sign a letter to Senate leaders vowing to get a real debate on the resolution that opposes the surge in troops while holding the Iraq government responsible for ending sectarian violence through a diplomatic solution.
   "The resolution also supports the servicemen and women who are bravely fighting this war by stating: 'this resolution should not be interpreted as precipitating any immediate reduction in, or withdrawal of, the present level of forces ?'
   "I am disappointed that the Democrat leadership continues to preclude the Senate from debating and amending the insufficient resolution sent over from the House. This denies the Senate from robustly debating other alternatives including the bipartisan Warner resolution. That's why I voted to continue debating the House resolution. 
   "The Democrat leadership strategy is to avoid controversial procedures that split the their caucus regarding cutting off funding for the troops and capping the deployment of troops in Iraq . The Warner resolution represents a negotiated agreement that reflects a bipartisan approach to the war and deserves to be debated and voted upon. 
   "This is the second piece of legislation this week that Democrat leaders have brought to the Senate floor straight from the House with no amendments or debate allowed. This is setting a dangerous precedent and frustrates the role that the Constitution envisions for the Senate.
   "I will continue to back the minority's right to bring up amendments and participate in a real debate even if I don't agree with those amendments or their ideas. The American people want Congress to play a role in the way this war is being handled. The first step is to demand a better plan, and we owe the people more than the 10 lines in the House resolution. You can't even begin to address a real solution to a complex situation in 10 lines.".
 
 