MONTHLY REPORT FROM SEN. VOINOVICH, MAY 17
  MESSAGE FROM SEN. VOINOVICH 
   Thank you for subscribing to my online newsletter. Communicating with my constituents has always been a top priority for me, and I look forward to updating you monthly on the work I'm doing to help Ohio and the nation. It has been a busy time in Washington, but I've been able to remain a constant presence in Ohio, working on a wide range of issues. I hope you will find the information in this newsletter helpful. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to visit my new Web site at http://voinovich.senate.gov. 
   EXPANDING THE VISA WAIVER PROGRAM  
   Sen. Voinovich recently held a roundtable with ethnic leaders in the Warren-Youngstown community to discuss the expansion of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). The VWP - established in 1986 to improve relations with U.S. allies and benefit the U.S. economy - permits nationals from selected countries to enter the United States for tourism or business without a visa for up to 90 days. Currently, 27 countries participate in the program, but the program hasn't been expanded since 1999. 
   Sen. Voinovich recently introduced an amendment, The Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2007, which would expand the VWP to countries that support the United States in the Global War on Terror and are prepared to help keep terrorists from crossing our borders. This legislation will improve cooperation with key allies in the Global War on Terror while strengthening U.S. national security interests and promoting U.S. economic competitiveness. In addition, it will enable Americans' relatives living in foreign countries to more readily visit their families here in the United States. 
   ADVOCATING FOR AGRICULTURE 
   Agriculture is Ohio's number one industry, and Sen. Voinovich has long held a great appreciation for Ohio's farmers. He is committed to working as a federal partner to help safeguard Ohio's interests and support the backbone of Ohio's economy. Recently, Sen. Voinovich spoke at the Ohio Farm Bureau breakfast in Washington. He addressed some of the leading concerns in the agribusiness industry, including energy policy, infrastructure funding and the fiscal health of the nation. He also received the Friend of Farm Bureau award for his dedication to helping Ohio farmers. In addition, Senator Voinovich held his annual farm forum in Reynoldsburg, Ohio, with state farm leaders to discuss Ohio's agriculture industry. This annual event is an opportunity for the senator to listen to farmers' concerns about the challenges facing the agriculture industry and consider solutions they recommend to assist Ohio farmers. This year, the senator spoke about the need for a strong safety-net for farmers, more investment in energy independence and many other issues of concern. 
   GREETING SONS OF AMVETS ORGANIZATION 
   Sen. Voinovich recently met with several members of the Sons of Amvets Organization to discuss issues of importance to America's veterans. The senator is committed to supporting those who have served their country and ensuring that they have full access to the services they need. He knows we have to keep our promises to those who have sacrificed so much for our nation.
   CELEBRATING GREAT LAKES DAY 
   Recently, Sen. Voinovich joined his colleague Sen. Carl Levin of Michigan, fellow co-chair of the Great Lakes Task Force, to kick off Great Lakes Day. The purpose of Great Lakes Day was to discuss the policy goals of the Great Lakes Task Force - which works to enhance environmental quality and economic development throughout the Great Lakes basin - and focus on finding ways to make the restoration and protection of the Great Lakes a national priority in Congress. Sen. Voinovich has been fighting what he calls the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" for 40 years, since his days in the Ohio legislature. He has co-authored legislation in the 110th Congress to help protect the Great Lakes from invasive species and aid in the restoration of the Great Lakes. 
   RECOGNIZING U.S. SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS 
   Sen. Voinovich recently attended the reception for the 44th Annual United States Senate Youth Program, where he met the two student delegates from Ohio: Heath Ingram of Maineville (left) and Jonathan Seok of South Lebanon (right). The program gives delegates a firsthand look into how our country's government functions and has inspired many youth to become more involved in public service. The student delegates were selected by the State Superintendent of Education, have outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to volunteer work, rank academically in the top 1 percent of the state of Ohio and will receive a $5,000 scholarship. Sen. Voinovich signed the delegates' scholarship certificates and had photos taken with them.
 
 