MONTHLY REPORT FROM SEN. VOINOVICH, OCT. 17
  Thank you for subscribing to my e-newsletter. Communicating with my constituents has always been a top priority for me, and I look forward to regularly updating you on the work I'm doing to help Ohio and the nation. It has recently been very busy in Washington, but I have had several opportunities to return to Ohio to work on a wide range of issues. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to visit my Web site at http://voinovich.senate.gov. And please share this e-newsletter with your friends and family by forwarding it to their email!
   FIGHTING FOR OHIO'S AUTO WORKERS  
   Sen. Voinovich has been meeting with auto industry leaders in Ohio to discuss the potential for catastrophic industry job losses if the costly and restrictive Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) provisions included in the Senate Energy Bill are implemented. Most recently, he visited the General Motors Lordstown Assembly Plant near Youngstown. Sen. Voinovich, Ranking Member on the Senate Subcommittee on Clean Air, believes the CAFE standards are extreme, excessive and unattainable. They threaten to destroy the domestic auto industry and devastate the well-being of hardworking Ohioans and their families. They also undermine efforts in the private marketplace to make realistic, achievable and environmentally friendly fuel economy improvements. Since 2000, Ohio has lost more than 42,000 jobs in auto manufacturing. A United Auto Workers (UAW) analysis indicates the implementation of the CAFE standards would directly threaten the jobs of 17,000 American workers who currently assemble vehicles in the United States, plus an additional 50,000 workers who make parts for vehicles. Sen. Voinovich believes that a sound national energy policy must be forged from which the United States can become less reliant on foreign sources, but that it cannot and should not be done on the backs of the domestic auto industry. 
   ADVANCING THE MORTGAGE RELIEF ACT 
   Recently, Sen. Voinovich's Mortgage Relief Act - legislation to change current law that forces individuals to pay income tax when they have part of their mortgage loan forgiven or are forced to foreclose because of inability to pay their mortgage - overwhelmingly passed the House by a vote of 386-27. In response, Sen. Voinovich called on Senate leadership to rush the bill to the floor for speedy passage, saying that homeowners need relief and cannot wait any longer. Declining home prices and rising foreclosure rates have forced more and more families - often minorities, the elderly and immigrants - to sell their homes for less than they paid for them, and sometimes for less than the outstanding debt. Currently, the Internal Revenue Service taxes any loan forgiveness as "income." The Mortgage Relief Act will relieve families of a tax burden when their lender forgives part of the mortgage on a principal residence, whether as part of a work-out, a short sale or a foreclosure. Removing this tax penalty encourages homeowners and lenders to work together voluntarily so that payments are manageable and foreclosure can be avoided. Nationwide, 2006 foreclosure rates were higher than any of the last 13 years. As a state, Ohio has the highest foreclosure rate in the nation at 3.6 percent (compared with the 1.4 percent national average). 2006 Ohio foreclosure filings increased by 24 percent over 2005, with over 79,000 foreclosure filings. The House bill has some differences when compared with Sen. Voinovich's version that will need to be addressed, and he is working with the White House and members of the House to move forward as quickly as possible. 
   PROTECTING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND JOBS 
   Sen. Voinovich recognizes and understands the fierce competition of the global marketplace and the hazardous threat counterfeiting and piracy pose to the economy. With manufacturing under siege, energy and health care costs on the rise and a litigation tornado sweeping through America, the clarion call for powerful leadership is sounding - and Sen. Voinovich is answering the call. He has advanced an aggressive agenda that seeks to protect manufacturing from unfair competition and is working to level the playing field by enforcing trade laws and developing programs to protect Intellectual Property (IP) rights. Most recently, Sen. Voinovich joined Sen. Bayh of Indiana to reintroduce their bipartisan Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act (S. 522) - a bill that is designed to take a number of important actions including the establishment of an international task force of like-minded countries who value IP protection and enforcement - true IP partners - that will work with the United States to reduce the production and flow of counterfeit and pirated goods. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, counterfeiting costs U.S. businesses as much as $250 billion annually and 750,000 American jobs have been lost due to counterfeit merchandise. IP theft also poses a threat to the health and safety of American citizens: counterfeit drugs make up 10 percent of the pharmaceutical market, and $3 billion in phony auto parts are sold in the United States each year. Sen. Voinovich is committed to safeguarding the economic health of the nation by improving the management, coordination and effectiveness of domestic and international intellectual property enforcement. 
   HELPING ENSURE OHIO'S WATER PROJECTS 
   Last month, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) Conference Report passed the U.S. Senate. Sen. Voinovich - a conferee and member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee - fought hard and successfully authorized funding for numerous projects and provisions benefiting Ohio and the Great Lakes. This was the first WRDA bill to be passed by the Senate since 2000, when Sen. Voinovich was Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee. Sen. Voinovich strongly believes national investment in water resources has not kept pace with the level of economic expansion in the United States. If the steep decline in federal investment persists, continued economic expansion and environmental improvements will be threatened. Sen. Voinovich called the passing of the WRDA Conference Report a big step forward in addressing the challenges faced by the nation and, more specifically, faced by many of Ohio's communities with regards to water quality. Sen. Voinovich has long been an advocate of better water infrastructure, and he has urged the president to sign this bill into law to get these vital projects funded.
   LEADING THE WAY FOR SAFE NUCLEAR POWER GROWTH 
   As Ranking Member of the Clean Air and Nuclear Safety Subcommittee, Sen. Voinovich is committed to the safe and secure growth of nuclear power to help meet our nation's need for a clean, reliable, cost-effective and diverse energy supply. Recently, Sen. Voinovich hosted a roundtable on nuclear energy in Cleveland with area industry and community leaders. During the discussion, Sen. Voinovich shared his strategic plan to help spur new nuclear plant licensing and construction and talked about how Ohio-based businesses and communities can benefit from the resurgence of nuclear power both within the United States and abroad. He encouraged forming a partnership among Ohio-based nuclear plant component manufacturing businesses with key international nuclear vendors, under the leadership of the Ohio Department of Development, to look for business expansion opportunities that will create more high-tech manufacturing jobs in the state. Sen. Voinovich has long called for a Second Declaration of Independence from foreign sources of energy and he looks forward to discussing ways to further develop nuclear energy as one way to reach that goal. In addition to state outreach, Sen. Voinovich has been conducting strong oversight of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to make NRC's licensing process more efficient while ensuring that NRC has the resources and tools necessary to deal effectively with the pending surge in new license applications.
 
 