SEN. VOINOVICH: SOUTH KOREA ON ROAD TO VISA WAIVER PROGRAM ACCEPTANCE
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and the Foreign Relations Committee, today announced that South Korea will sign the Memorandum of Understanding outlining the security requirements the country will meet as a condition of future entry into the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). Today's action was made possible by last year's passage of Sen. Voinovich's reform of the VWP - the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2007 - that was signed into law by President Bush as part of the 9/11 bill. The signing of this memorandum will take place this afternoon. 
   The president will welcome President Lee Myung-bak of the Republic of Korea at Camp David today. The meeting is an important opportunity to consult with the new president on ways to continue to work together to advance shared values of freedom, security and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region and beyond. The two leaders will also discuss a wide range of common goals, including ratifying the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula through the Six-Party Talks, continuing our cooperation in aiding the new democracies in Iraq and Afghanistan and further strengthening the U.S.-Republic of Korea Alliance.
   Sen. Voinovich's statement on South Korea's VWP participation follows:
   "I am delighted see South Korea moving forward towards participation in the Visa Waiver Program following the recent enactment of my Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2007. The selection of South Korea for this program reflects the close security cooperation our two nations share. Their future participation will have a positive impact upon American tourism, business and overall economic competitiveness and will further strengthen cultural ties between our two nations. I look forward to learning of additional nominations of our allies as they meet the necessary security criteria for participation. I am pleased the Department of Homeland Security and Department of State are exercising the new flexibilities provided by my legislation. Our nation can benefit both in terms of national security and economic stability when we work with our friends around the world."
 
 