SEN. VOINOVICH'S MORTGAGE RELIEF ACT TO BECOME LAW
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich's (R-OH) Mortgage Relief Act - legislation to change current law that forces individuals to pay income tax when they have part of their mortgage loan forgiven or are forced to foreclose because of inability to pay their mortgage - today passed the House of Representatives and is on its way to the president's desk to be signed into law. 
  "This is truly great news, because many homeowners are suffering and cannot wait any longer," said Sen. Voinovich, who, along with along Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) wrote and introduced this bill on May 15. "This will be a much-needed Christmas gift for many Ohioans." 
  Sen. Voinovich's version of the bill was amended to win passage in both the House and the Senate and to win White House approval before Christmas. The major difference is that the bill is now temporary and expires at the end of 2009, but the relief will be available for the 2007 tax season. 
  Declining home prices and rising foreclosure rates have forced more and more families - often minorities, the elderly and immigrants - to sell their homes for less than they paid for them, and sometimes for less than the outstanding debt. The Internal Revenue Service currently taxes any loan forgiveness as "income." The Mortgage Relief Act relieves families of a tax burden when their lender forgives part of the mortgage on a principal residence, whether as part of a work-out, a short sale, or a foreclosure.
  "Removing this tax penalty encourages homeowners and lenders to work together voluntarily so that payments are manageable and foreclosure can be avoided," Sen. Voinovich said. "This tax actually penalizes those who are trying to work it out in a responsible manner."
  According to the Mortgage Bankers Association national foreclosure rates are at the highest rate ever- at 1.69 percent of mortgages in foreclosure. Ohio has the highest foreclosure rate in the nation at 3.7 percent. Another 7.4 percent of Ohio mortgages are past due, meaning that more than one in ten are either past due or in foreclosure. Thirty-two counties had an increase in foreclosure filings above 24 percent, including eight major metropolitan counties: Cuyahoga, Franklin, Hamilton, Lucas, Mahoning, Montgomery, Stark and Summit. 
  "Clearly it is unfair to tax people on income that doesn't exist," Sen. Voinovich said. "This is particularly true at a time when they have experienced a substantial economic loss on the most significant asset they own and have no way to pay the tax. This tax is unfair and must end immediately."
 
 