SEN. VOINOVICH WILL VOTE TO ADVANCE ADULT, UMBILICAL CORD STEM CELL RESEARCH
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today said he will vote to advance research into adult and umbilical cord stem cells and against redirecting money away from life-saving treatments and research. The votes are expected this afternoon. His statement follows: 
   "Today I will vote to pass legislation to expand the federal investment in adult and umbilical cord blood stem cell research as well as scientific ways to create embryonic stem cell lines without destroying human embryos. Removing stem cells from these embryos destroys their potential life and is something I cannot morally support. I am concerned that an overwhelming number of Americans do not understand that some of the most promising advances in medical research and treatment today are not attributed to embryonic stem cells. Rather, they are a result of the use of adult and umbilical blood cord cells. I'm puzzled why so many of my colleagues do not recognize this fact or deliberately respond to the forceful lobbying efforts that insist if we do not provide additional federal resources for embryonic stem cell research, we are not striving to cure life-threatening diseases. Unfortunately, many of the individuals who support embryonic stem cell research have been kept in the dark about the advances of umbilical and adult stem cell treatments.  
   "While embryonic cells have never been successfully used to treat even one disease, to date, adult stem cells have been used to treat 72 diseases such as breast cancer, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, sickle cell anemia, spinal cord injuries and many others. I am gravely concerned about the possible implications of spending taxpayer dollars on embryonic stem cell research that divides Americans on moral and ethical grounds. I believe it is my moral responsibility to direct the federal government's dollars toward the areas of research that have the greatest near-term potential to help the largest number of Americans. I applaud President Bush for recently sending Congress the message that he will veto any bill that destroys life in the guise of research." 
   ** STEM CELL UPDATE ** 
   U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) 
   As the debate over federal funding for stem cell research continues - a number of votes will most likely take place in the Senate on Tuesday, July 18 - I grow increasingly concerned that too many Americans are unaware that many of the most promising advances in medical research and treatment today are not attributed to embryonic stem cells. Rather, a great deal of the progress in the area of stem cell treatment and research is a result of the non-controversial, non-life ending use of adult and umbilical blood cord cells. 
   I would like to take this opportunity to provide an update on the progress scientists have made through the use of non-embryonic stem cells. 
   First, embryonic stems cells, as their name suggests, are derived from human embryos developed from eggs that have been fertilized in an in vitro fertilization clinic. Removing stem cells from these embryos destroys their potential life, making their use very controversial and something I cannot morally support. 
   On the other hand, adult stem cells are unspecialized cells found among specialized cells in mature tissues or organs. These cells can be gathered by scientist without any harm to the individual. Also included in this ethical category of stem cells are those from umbilical cord blood derived from the placenta of a newborn baby. Once considered medical waste and discarded after birth, science has determined that cord blood has the potential to save thousands of lives. 
   To date, adult stem cells have been used to treat 70 diseases such as breast cancer, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, sickle cell anemia, spinal cord injuries and many others. For example, a group of physicians have been able to reconstruct the bladders of seven patients with advanced bladder disease with the individual patients' own progenitor cells. Another group of researchers, who discovered the benefit of adult stem cells in the repairing the heart, have treated 10 patients with their own bone marrow adult stem cells along with bypass surgery with extremely positive results. 
   In addition, I am further encouraged by recent reports from our nation's scientists about the potential of obtaining embryonic-like stem cells without creating or harming human life. 
   Some of the most exciting advances in the past several months include: 
   The American Journal of Pathology reported that a group of scientists recently isolated a novel population of multipotent adult stem cells from human hair follicles which, like embryonic stem cells, express neural crest and neuron stem cell markers as well as the embryonic stem cell transcription factors; 
   A study included in the April issue of Stem Cells and Development suggests that human stem cells derived from bone marrow are predisposed to develop into a variety of nerve cell types. This could lead to adult stem cell-based therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis; and 
   According to Nursing Home & Elder Business Week, umbilical cord blood stem cells can develop into cells that are very similar to lung cells. In the past, these cells have helped cure cystic fibrosis in some mouse models. 
   What too many Ohioans do not realize is that a great deal of promising research on adult and umbilical cord stem cells is happening right here in our state at Cleveland's National Center for Regenerative Medicine. A partnership between Case Western Reserve University, the Cleveland Clinic and University Hospitals of Cleveland, the Center was established in 2003 to develop new adult stem cell therapies for patients suffering from chronic and debilitating diseases. 
   Currently, the Center has 10 on-going or planned clinic trials to further explore the use of stem cell therapies to reduce the risk of chemotherapy, treat certain heart conditions and improve umbilical stem cell treatment for leukemia. I recently had the privilege to hear two young Ohioans' discuss the successful adult stem cell treatment they received at the Center for an aggressive form of leukemia and severely broken bone that would not heal with traditional treatment. 
   I have the greatest sympathy for patients and their families who continue to struggle with a wide range of painful and, sometimes, life-ending diseases. Yet, too often I fear, proponents of embryonic stem cell research provide those suffering and their loved ones with false or unproven promises of hope in terms of embryonic stem cells while ignoring the real and substantial progress that has been made with adult and blood cord treatments. 
   I am gravely concerned about the possible implications of spending taxpayer dollars on an issue like embryonic stem cell research that divides Americans on moral and ethical grounds. I believe it is my moral responsibility to direct the federal government's dollars toward the areas of research that have the greatest near-term potential to help the largest number of Americans. In the current budget environment in which limited resources are available for federal medical research, I have concerns that increasing funding for embryonic stem cell research will take away opportunities for research in areas like adult and umbilical research - or even for research or treatment for specific diseases like cancer, juvenile diabetes or Parkinson's disease - that have proven their usefulness. 
   Consequently, and in light of all the advances and results science has provided with adult and umbilical blood cord stem cells, I urge my colleagues to continue to direct federal funding towards the non-controversial and proven areas of adult and umbilical cord blood stem cell research. And I applaud President Bush for recently sending Congress the message that he will veto any bill that destroys life in the guise of research.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 