SEN. VOINOVICH APPLAUDS BUSH'S NEW COORDINATED GREAT LAKES RESTORATION EFFORT
  Sen. George Voinovich issued the following statement today in response to an executive order signed this morning by President Bush charging US EPA Administrator Mike Leavitt with working with state and local entities to coordinate the Administration's Great Lakes restoration efforts:  
   "Restoring the Great Lakes could be the greatest legacy any of us leave on this earth. Making progress requires appointing an 'orchestra director' to bring together the work that's going on now in various agencies, but which currently lacks coordination. I've been pushing for this to be done for the past year. I've held hearings on it and written to the President on it and I applaud the President for taking this important step. EPA Administrator Leavitt is a good man who cares about getting the job done and I'm looking forward to working with him on this." 
   Voinovich is a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee which has jurisdiction over Great Lakes restoration. 
   The President's Executive Order calls for Leavitt to partner with state, local, tribal and other interests "to address nationally significant environmental and natural resource issues involving the Great Lakes" and "to support local and regional efforts to address environmental challenges and to encourage local citizen and community stewardship." Leavitt will discuss the plan further at an event later today in Chicago. 
   In July 2003 Voinovich held a hearing in the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee's Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, which he chairs, in which he criticized the lack of a single coordinator for Great Lakes restoration policies and activities. He followed this up with a field hearing of the Environment and Public Works Committee, of which is a member, in Cleveland in August to examine current and future efforts to restore and protect the Great Lakes. Following these hearings he wrote to President Bush in September 2003 urging him to move forward with a coordinated effort to restore the Great Lakes.
 
 