SEN. VOINOVICH RELEASES GAO REPORT SHOWING GOVERNMENT FAILING TO PROTECT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today released a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report showing the federal government is failing to properly protect America's intellectual property (IP) rights. 
  "IP theft is a serious threat to our nation's economic and homeland security," said Sen. Voinovich, Ranking Member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia. "Every year U.S. companies lose roughly $250 million to pirated goods as well as 750,000 jobs to date. Even worse, these fake goods can be dangerous or even deadly to consumers."
  As part of his commitment to protecting U.S. IP rights, Sen. Voinovich asked GAO to undertake this investigation to determine how effectively federal government law enforcement resources were being used to combat counterfeit and pirated goods. With the U.S. as the acknowledged leader in IP creation, Sen. Voinovich knows that protecting our IP rights is critical to the nation's continued prosperity as well as the safety of consumers.  
  GAO's report, titled "Federal Enforcement Has Generally Increased but Assessing Performance Could Strengthen Law Enforcement Efforts" (GAO-08-157), focuses on the effectiveness of several government IP enforcement efforts, including the inter-agency law enforcement coordination that is supposed to occur at the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center (NIPRCC). GAO noted that improved inter-agency coordination was supposed to bring together the three primary IP law enforcement entities, Customs and Border Protection (CBP), Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) in the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center. 
  The purpose of the NIPRCC was to leverage resources and share information in the federal fight against counterfeiting and piracy. Unfortunately, GAO found the NIPRCC has not achieved its mission. While it was intended to collect, analyze and disseminate IP-related complaints from the private sector for investigation, the NIPRCC has focused primarily on educating the private sector about federal IP enforcement efforts. In fact, GAO found that FBI and CBP no longer appear to be allocating staff to the NIPRCC. 
  In addition to the problems identified with the NIPRCC, the GAO found mixed results that reveal a continued need to improve our nation's coordination efforts and focus on fighting counterfeiting and piracy. Specifically, GAO found that while law enforcement activities have generally increased since 2001, agency efforts to assess their achievements and improve upon the existing efforts of each law enforcement agency are limited. The GAO also noted that IP enforcement is frequently not an agency priority and is an issue that often receives fewer resources, making federal coordination all the more critical. 
  Despite a general increase in activity, IP enforcement still suffers from operational deficiencies. The findings of this report are consistent with what Sen. Voinovich has found during a number of oversight hearings and why he teamed with Senator Evan Bayh (D-ID) to introduce S. 522, Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act (IPREA). The IPREA would help to assure that IP received attention at the most senior levels of each department responsible for enforcement and by ensuring that the agencies charged with such enforcement receive the resources they need to stop these international criminals.
  "In the fierce competition of the 21st-century global marketplace, intellectual property is one of the few areas where America has a clear advantage over foreign competitors. It is vital that we protect that advantage, level the playing field and ensure continued economic growth for Americans," Sen. Voinovich said.
  The strategy used by those who would steal intellectual property has evolved, and we must make sure that the government's response for combating intellectual property theft also evolves. The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act will increase cooperation among agencies in charge of IP investigations and add other agencies such as those that specialize in tracking terrorist financing, to the detriment of our national security interests. 
  The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act would:
  Create one organized force to combat IP theft that would facilitate the sharing of information; 
  Establish formal processes for consulting with small and medium sized businesses, industry associations and other interested groups and to develop resources to assist such stakeholders in protecting their intellectual property; 
  Establish an international task force of foreign countries to track and identify IP criminals; 
  Encourage reliable trading partners to join the task force; and 
  Require a Strategic Plan to identify the objectives of the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act and the methods for achieving those objectives. 
  The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act enjoys support from more than 35 organizations, including the: U.S. Chamber of Commerce; National Association of Manufacturers; Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association; The International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America; Precision Metalforming Association; National Electrical Manufacturers Association; Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America; International AntiCounterfeiting Coalition; Association of Equipment Manufacturers; Aerospace Industries Association; Electronic Industries Alliance; American Apparel & Footwear Association; Intellectual Property Owners Association; Grocery Manufacturers Association and the Food Products Association; American Electronics Association; Association for Competitive Technology; National Marine Manufacturers Association; Toy Industry Association; Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association; and Specialty Equipment Marketing Association. 
  Please see below for additional information on Sen. Voinovich's bill and additional facts on IP theft's cost to our nation. Also, for a copy of the GAO report, please contact the senator's press office. 
  The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act
  The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act treats intellectual property (IP) theft with the seriousness it demands, offering a focused, aggressive solution to stop domestic and international counterfeiting. The legislation would safeguard the economic health of the United States, preserve jobs and protect the health and safety of American citizens by increasing the coordination among agencies charged with IP protection and making permanent many of the president's current initiatives to combat IP theft. 
  The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act would:
  Create an Organized Force: 
  To create a more organized force, the legislation would establish an Intellectual Property Enforcement Network (IPEN) to replace the looser, interagency approach currently responsible for coordinating IP enforcement efforts. Under the proposed legislation, federal agencies would coordinate and share information to aid each other in identifying, tracking, arresting and prosecuting IP criminals. Additionally, formal mechanisms would be established for working with state and local law enforcement and the private sector, artists, entertainers, workers and the organizations that represent them.
  Increase Enforcement Team Oversight:
  In recognition of the role of Congress in the protection of IP, the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act requires that IP coordination and enforcement agencies work together to develop a strategic plan, and that appropriate metrics are developed to measure the success of these efforts. Congressional involvement is important to make certain that adequate resources are provided to address this major competitive issue.
  Strengthen International Enforcement:
  To encourage a global effort against IP theft, the legislation calls for the United States to begin setting high standards of enforcement with foreign governments, with the goal of establishing an international task force made up of like-minded countries to track, identify and stop IP thieves. The task force would be modeled on a similar international team that fights money laundering and other black-market crimes. The criteria for admission into the task force would include having effective laws preventing IP theft and demonstrating a track record of enforcing those laws. The President would be encouraged to make cooperation with the global task force a priority among U.S. trading partners.
  Develop a Strategic Plan:
  To bolster current efforts and provide needed direction, the White House and the President's coordinator would be responsible for drafting a strategic plan identifying the objectives of the IPEN, and the methodologies for achieving those objectives. Included would be a detailed explanation showing how relevant agencies are working together to identify, track, arrest and prosecute IP criminals. The strategic plan would also provide an explanation of the resources needed to accomplish the objectives and an estimation of the cost of those resources. Lastly, the strategic plan would detail performance measures to monitor results.
 
 