SEN. VOINOVICH WORKING ON IRAQ COMPROMISE
  Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, today unveiled legislation he drafted to try and forge a bipartisan compromise on Iraq so we can move forward - with one voice - as a nation. 
   Sen. Voinovich's legislation would:
   * State that a precipitous withdrawal of forces would have dangerous consequences for U.S. national security; 
   * Make clear that we must remain engaged in Iraq for the foreseeable future;
   * Cite the recommendation of General Petraeus that a reduction of forces is imminent;
   * Call for the reduction to commence no later than 120 days after enactment, which would be consistent with the Petraeus recommendation;
   * Call for an increased role for the U.N. and other regional allies;
  Call for a transition of the mission to focus on specific areas that are critical to U.S. objectives;
   * Would not set an arbitrary deadline by Congress for the transition of mission - but would require the Administration, working in conjunction with the generals on the ground, to report back with a comprehensive plan for disengaging responsibly and increasing international cooperation to prevent instability. This would satisfy those who want a timeline for progress as well as those who disagree with a congressionally-mandated deadline on the commander-in-chief;
   * Require the Secretary of Defense to report back in 180 days with a proposed date for completing a transition and a plan for reducing instability in Iraq/the region as forces are reduced, which is consistent with Petraeus's report that he will not be capable of making a decision on future reductions until March.
   Also, see below for some questions and answers about the senator's bill: 
   Q: What is it that makes this proposal new? 
   A: The proposal is based on compromise between the Republican and Democratic positions on Iraq. It includes language from the Levin-Reed proposal, but addresses some serious issues of concern for Republicans, which have been proposed in Republican-sponsored resolutions. It can form the basis of a compromise that a majority can support for the immediate future, for the benefit of America and our national security.
   Q: How is this any different from the President's plan?
   A: It is legally binding, and not open-ended. It requires the President to commence troop reductions that General Petraeus recommends within 120 days and to come back to Congress within 180 days with a timeline for future reductions, based on a responsible plan for our national security. It gets away from a never-ending, open-ended commitment - because it legislates the next steps forward so that we can implement a responsible exit-strategy that will protect our national security interests.
   Q: How does it differ from Levin-Reed? 
   A: This resolution states clearly that we do not support a precipitous withdrawal, which could have dangerous consequences for our national security (massive violence, attacks on remaining troops and personnel, endangered oil and gas supplies, or regional war). While this was not the purpose behind Levin-Reed, it removes any doubt by stating that clearly. This is a real and legitimate concern for many Republicans and Democrats, who do not want to see the economy or region destabilized because of a hasty pull-out. The resolution calls for a "responsible" reduction of troops, and includes additional elements that the senator believes makes it clear that we need to do this responsibly.
   It adds some additional language that calls on the President to do more to get the international community involved, to share the responsibility and to prevent instability in Iraq. This will help us to reduce to a more limited presence in a responsible way.
   The resolution also states clearly that we must remain engaged in Iraq for a long time, which sends an important message from Congress to the world and the Iraqi people. They need to know that as we reduce our military presence within Iraq, we are not abandoning them, and we will plan to remain engaged in various ways for the foreseeable future.
   Like Levin-Reed, it calls for a transition to limit the mission of our forces in Iraq, but it is more flexible than the Levin-Reed language because it allows for cooperation on intelligence, support for Provisional Reconstruction Teams, and cooperation with Iraqi Security Forces who need to fight extremist militias that attack U.S. forces and innocent people (the same ones who get help from Iran). These are important areas of cooperation that are currently helping to reduce the violence and defeat al-Qaeda within Iraq.
   Lastly, and most importantly, it would not set an arbitrary deadline by Congress for the transition of mission - but would require the Administration, working in conjunction with the generals on the ground, to report back with a deadline. This approach would be a compromise between those who want a firm deadline and those who oppose the imposition of a congressionally-mandated deadline on the commander-in-chief.
   Q: This resolution proposes "limited missions," but how are they limited? What are troops prevented from doing that they do now?
   A: They will not be prevented from doing several missions important to stability to Iraq - such as protecting U.S. forces, fighting al-Qaeda, conducting counterinsurgency operations, and training the Iraqi police and military. But the legislation would make it clear that it is not our mission to secure the entire country, or "hold" Iraqi territory, because this is the responsibility of Iraqis. 
   Right now, according the President's plan, one of our primary missions is to build security in Iraq by "holding" Iraqi territory once it has been cleared of terrorists or insurgents. That is a job that could go on forever and could put us in the middle of the country's internal power struggles and sectarian conflicts for a long time. We must continue to help Iraqis, but we need to continue with the Petraeus bottom up approach - giving that job to the Iraqi people and their own government. Therefore, we need to develop a plan to support the Iraqis holding their own territory, so that we can bring U.S. forces home. As forces return, the remaining forces should focus solely on the missions outlined in this resolution.
   Q: Why do you think it will attract Republicans or Democrats? Why would the President agree not to veto this bill?
   A: This is a bipartisan compromise, and we need a bipartisan approach if we are going to be successful as a nation. Republicans and Democrats understand that point. A little compromise can get us somewhere - but if both sides dig in our heels, we won't get anywhere. The President has outlined a plan that could be implemented within the terms of this resolution, but on a more firm timeline. He should agree to listen to the voice of many Americans and explore this avenue as a fair compromise so that we can move forward as a nation with one voice.
   Lastly, and most importantly, it would not set an arbitrary deadline by Congress for the transition of mission - but would require the Administration, working in conjunction with the generals on the ground, to report back with a deadline. This approach would be a compromise between those who want a firm deadline and those who oppose the imposition of a congressionally-mandated deadline on the commander-in-chief.
   Q: This resolution proposes "limited missions," but how are they limited? What are troops prevented from doing that they do now?
   A: They will not be prevented from doing several missions important to stability to Iraq - such as protecting U.S. forces, fighting al-Qaeda, conducting counterinsurgency operations, and training the Iraqi police and military. But the legislation would make it clear that it is not our mission to secure the entire country, or "hold" Iraqi territory, because this is the responsibility of Iraqis. 
   Right now, according the President's plan, one of our primary missions is to build security in Iraq by "holding" Iraqi territory once it has been cleared of terrorists or insurgents. That is a job that could go on forever and could put us in the middle of the country's internal power struggles and sectarian conflicts for a long time. We must continue to help Iraqis, but we need to continue with the Petraeus bottom up approach - giving that job to the Iraqi people and their own government. Therefore, we need to develop a plan to support the Iraqis holding their own territory, so that we can bring U.S. forces home. As forces return, the remaining forces should focus solely on the missions outlined in this resolution.
   Q: Why do you think it will attract Republicans or Democrats? Why would the President agree not to veto this bill?
   A: This is a bipartisan compromise, and we need a bipartisan approach if we are going to be successful as a nation. Republicans and Democrats understand that point. A little compromise can get us somewhere - but if both sides dig in our heels we won't get anywhere. The President has outlined a plan that could be implemented within the terms of this resolution, but on a more firm timeline. He should agree to listen to the voice of many Americans and explore this avenue as a fair compromise so that we can move forward as a nation with one voice.
 
 