SEN. VOINOVICH-SPONSORED D.C. TUITION ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM PASSES SENATE
  Today, the District of Columbia Tuition Assistance Grant (D.C. TAG) program, legislation U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) introduced in January, passed the Senate by a vote of 96 to 0. The legislation will reauthorize the D.C. TAG program for five additional years. This program targets students living in the District of Columbia who have limited access to a state-supported education system, and provides assistance with the cost of attending college. Scholarships are used to pay the difference between in-state and out-of-state tuition at state universities nationwide. Additionally, smaller grants are available to students attending private colleges in Virginia, Maryland and the District and Historically Black Colleges and Universities nationwide. 
   "I believe that a world-class education is the best way to help our country's citizens make the most of their God-given talents," Sen. Voinovich said. "In today's world, it is also our best economic development tool and the best investment we can make in the future. It is vital that we do all we can to help the less-fortunate get the college education they deserve. This program has had a tremendously beneficial impact on promoting higher education for high school graduates and the funds must remain available for students in need. D.C. TAG enables us to help level the playing field for high school graduates in Washington, D.C., and enhance their educational opportunities."
   Students are awarded up to $10,000 a year, with a cap of $50,000 for the duration of their education, to attend public colleges nationwide. In addition, District students receive $2,500 per student per school year, with a cumulative cap of $12,500 per student to attend private institutions in Maryland and Virginia, as well as Historically Black Colleges and Universities nationwide.
   Since the first grants were awarded in 2000, the program has dispersed over 26,000 grants, totaling over $141 million, to 9,769 District students. District high schools have seen a 60 percent increase in college attendance, with 75 percent of District students indicating that D.C. TAG has enabled them to choose a college that best suits their educational needs. Ohio has benefited from this program with 74 District students attending eleven Ohio colleges with over $500,000 in TAG funding.
 
 