SEN. VOINOVICH NAMES NEW CHIEF OF STAFF
  Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH) announced today that he has named Aric Newhouse to serve as his chief-of-staff, replacing Ted Hollingsworth who is leaving for a position in the private sector. Newhouse assumes his duties at the end of the month.  
   Newhouse joined Voinovich's staff in 1999, at the beginning of the senator's first term, to work on foreign affairs and defense policy. He was promoted to Legislative Director in 2001 where he has advised the senator on all legislative policy issues and overseen the 17-person legislative staff. A native of Columbus, Newhouse has two bachelor's degrees from Miami University and a master's degree from George Washington University. He previously worked for Congressman Mike Oxley (R-Lima). 
   "I'm pleased that Aric has agreed to serve as my chief-of-staff and I'm excited about the skills he brings to the job. He has been instrumental in putting together an outstanding legislative team that has helped me accomplish a significant amount. Aric has a thorough understanding of my vision for what I want to accomplish during my second term and I believe he will be a valuable asset as I move forward with an aggressive policy agenda for the people of our state and nation. I am confident that he will successfully lead the entire staff to help me make that agenda a reality," said Voinovich. 
   Hollingsworth's 14-year tenure distinguishes him as one of Voinovich's longest-serving advisors, having worked on Voinovich's governor staff as director of the State of Ohio Washington office before becoming chief-of-staff after Voinovich's election to the Senate. He previously worked for then-Congressman Mike DeWine. 
   "Ted has been one of my most loyal and capable staff members, having helped me through two terms as governor and through my first term in the Senate. He's a friend, confidant, and advisor and I will miss working with him. I will be forever grateful to him, his wife Helen, and his four children for making the sacrifices they have made so he could serve. I am sure Ted's integrity, interpersonal skills, knowledge, and depth of experience in management and legislative matters will allow him to be successful in all of his future endeavors, and I wish him every success," said Voinovich.
 
 