SEN. VOINOVICH ISSUES STATEMENT ON ADMINISTRATION PROPOSAL TO INTRODUCE PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE SYSTEMS ACROSS GOVERNMENT
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) released the following statement today in response to the Bush Administration's proposal to introduce pay-for-performance systems across government:  
   "Since being elected to the United States Senate, I have made one of my top priorities raising the profile and addressing the needs of the federal workforce. To that end, I have held almost twenty hearings on this topic and introduced a dozen pieces of legislation, most of which have become law. 
   I have been working with the Bush Administration on this issue since 2001. I continue to applaud the Administration's efforts to bring much needed attention to this issue, beginning with designating strategic human capital management as the first pillar of the President's Management Agenda. They have clearly embraced the importance of addressing this issue in a comprehensive manner. 
   Working together during the last three years, we have enacted significant changes to the civil service code. I remain committed to working with the Administration to ensure successful implementation of these reforms, including the Federal Workforce Flexibility Act and the performance management system for the Senior Executive Service. 
   Furthermore, we must ensure that the dramatic workforce changes underway at the Departments of Homeland Security and Defense continue to receive the necessary leadership, oversight and funding. This will remain one of my highest priorities. 
   As a leader in Congress on reforming the federal workforce, I appreciate the efforts of the Bush Administration as embodied in the Working for America Act. I look forward to reviewing this proposal in depth and working with my colleagues in the Senate, House and interested stakeholders, such as federal employee unions, to make sure the federal government has the framework necessary to build a 21st century, world class workforce."
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 