THREE SEN. VOINOVICH SPONSORED NUCLEAR ENERGY BILLS INCLUDED IN ENERGY CONFERENCE REPORT
  Today, three pieces of nuclear energy legislation were included in the Energy Conference Report by House and Senate Energy Conferees. The three bills, sponsored by Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), are pivotal to the safe and secure growth of nuclear power in America. The House and Senate are currently meeting to work out the differences between the energy bills in a conference committee. Once they agree to the entire conference report, it will need to be passed by both the House and Senate and signed by the President before becoming law.  
   "I am a strong advocate of nuclear power because it plays a critical role in meeting our nation's energy economic, and environmental needs and am pleased that my colleagues on the Energy Conference Committee understand the importance of these bills and have included them in the Energy Conference Report. Ensuring that our nuclear power plants are safe and secure is absolutely essential if we plan to continue and hopefully increase our nation's use of this valuable energy source," said Senator Voinovich. 
   Below are brief summaries of the bills included in the Energy Conference Report today. These three bills were passed by the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee on June 8, 2005. 
   S.858, the Nuclear Fees Reauthorization Act of 2005, introduced by Senator Voinovich and EPW Chairman Jim Inhofe (R-OK) with Senator Tom Carper (D-DE) cosponsoring, allows NRC to continue to recover 90 percent of its budget through licensee fees. If this fee authority expires on September 20, 2005, NRC will only be allowed to collect 33 percent with the remaining amount coming from the Treasury. The bill includes reforms that the NRC has requested to help them better perform their mission and assist in the growth of nuclear power. It also includes important human capital provisions, which are a positive step toward attracting both young talent and retired experts to address current shortages in technical capabilities at the Commission. 
   S.864, the Nuclear Safety and Security Act of 2005, introduced by Chairman Inhofe and Senator Voinovich, includes provisions to strengthen security at the nation's nuclear plants. The bill includes, among other things, provisions on weapons, fingerprinting, and federal crimes. 
   S. 865, the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 2005, introduced by Senator Voinovich and Chairman Inhofe with Senator Carper cosponsoring, reauthorizes the Price-Anderson liability protection program for 20 years - until 2025 - which is imperative for the construction of new nuclear plants. For 45 years, this program has provided a proven framework of liability protection for the public in the case of a nuclear incident.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 