MONTHLY REPORT FROM SEN. VOINOVICH, SEPT. 19
  Message from Senator Voinovich
   Thank you for subscribing to my e-newsletter. Communicating with my constituents has always been a top priority for me, and I look forward to regularly updating you on the work I'm doing to help Ohio and the nation. It has recently been very busy in Washington, but I have had several opportunities to return to Ohio to work on a wide range of issues. If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to visit my Web site at http://voinovich.senate.gov. And please share this e-newsletter with your friends and family by forwarding it to their email!
   Sen. Voinovich Visits Iraq, Proposes a Responsible Way Forward 
   Recently, Sen. Voinovich, a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, visited Iraq and met with General Petraeus and other key leaders on the ground. Sen. Voinovich has also become a strong supporter of forging a bipartisan compromise for moving forward in Iraq, and is working with Senatorial colleagues to draft a binding resolution that will help America speak with one voice on the future in Iraq .
   President Bush Backs Sen. Voinovich's Home Mortgage Relief Act
   Recently, President Bush delivered a speech from the White House addressing the nation's mortgage crisis. The president said that one of the ways to help ease the problem is to enact Senator George V. Voinovich's (R-OH) Mortgage Relief Act of 2007 - bipartisan legislation he wrote and introduced in May along with Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI). This vital legislation works to change current law that forces individuals to pay income tax when they have part of their mortgage loan forgiven or are forced to foreclose because of inability to pay their mortgage.
   Declining home prices and rising foreclosure rates have forced more and more families - often minorities, the elderly and immigrants - to sell their homes for less than they paid for them, and sometimes for less than the outstanding debt. The Internal Revenue Service currently taxes any loan forgiveness as "income." The Mortgage Relief Act will relieve families of a tax burden when their lender forgives part of the mortgage on a principal residence. Sen. Voinovich and the president are working with Congress in a bipartisan fashion to make this important change.
   Dedicating Cleveland's Towpath Trail
   Earlier this month, Sen. Voinovich attended the Towpath Trail Ceremony in Cleveland , recognizing the addition of the one mile Towpath Trail opened within the Steelyard Commons. Sen. Voinovich has played a vital role in securing over $8 million in federal funding for the trail - and that investment has truly paid off. The trail has been an economic catalyst to the area, attracting $245 million in housing and retail investments. The Towpath Trail was constructed 175 years ago as part of the Ohio & Erie Canal as a dirt path for workers pulling canal boats to the canal, and the process of revival slowly began as the Cuyahoga Valley National Park gained funding and momentum for improvement. When completed, the trail will be 110 miles extending from Cleveland's lakefront to New Philadelphia, Ohio . The Towpath Trail in Cleveland is the northern six miles trail system. The preferred alignment for the six-mile segment of the Towpath Trail will be from old Harvard Avenue to Lake Erie around the Flats area. The trail will be 10-feet wide and paved with asphalt.
   Hosting Roundtable Discussions on Flooding, Emergency Response
   Recently, Sen. Voinovich hosted two roundtable discussions at the University of Findlay to discuss the response and recovery efforts for the counties affected by last month's storms and severe flooding as well as ongoing flood mitigation efforts. The first roundtable with local officials, first responders, emergency managers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) discussed emergency management response issues at the federal, state and local levels. The second roundtable discussed the status of an ongoing flood mitigation study by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) and previous study results from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS).
   Grand Opening of Jackson County's Expanded Early Child Development Center
   Recently, Sen. Voinovich will celebrate the grand opening of the Child Development Center of Jackson County with community leaders and members, acknowledging the new childcare facility that will provide expanded educational and economic development opportunities for Jackson residents. Sen. Voinovich secured $700,000 in funding through two appropriations for the daycare center, obtaining $500,000 in 2004 through the HUD Neighborhood Initiative and $200,000 in 2006 through the HUD Economic Development Initiative. The funds enabled the daycare to move locations and construct a new daycare facility. While assisting the daycare, the funds also helped Michelina's - a local food manufacturer in Jackson - to expand onto the property of the previous daycare, creating several hundred jobs. Without the Sen. Voinovich's funding, the daycare would not have been able to move and Michelina's would not have been able to expand.
 
 