SEN. VOINOVICH VOTES TO OPEN GULF OF MEXICO FOR NATURAL GAS AND OIL EXPLORATION
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Senate Energy Task Force, today voted in favor of S. 3711, the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Bill. The legislation provides for opening more than 8.3 million acres on the Outer Continental Shelf for oil and gas exploration. The bill passed by a vote of 71 to 25.  
   "The United States is in the midst of an energy crisis. We are far too dependent on foreign sources of oil and have the highest natural gas prices in the world," Sen. Voinovich said. "Since 1990, natural gas prices have increased substantially - more than tripling for Ohio families and businesses. In the last five years, more than three million manufacturing jobs have been lost, in part because of high energy costs. We can no longer ignore these startling statistics. It is time for a 'Second Declaration of Independence' - independence from foreign sources of energy - and for our nation to take real action toward stemming our exorbitantly high oil and natural gas prices. That means we also have to conserve and greatly increase our efforts to find renewable sources of energy." There are an estimated 3.65 billion barrels of oil in the Gulf of Mexico, yet the United States is currently blocked from exploring there. At the same time, Cuba, together with China and other countries, have started exploration only 60 miles off Florida's coast. Passage of this bill has the potential to develop an estimated 1.26 billion barrels of oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas - enough to heat and cool all five million Ohio homes for over 15 years. "The good news is that we have already taken some action," Sen. Voinovich said. "Last year, we finally passed an energy bill that I had been working on for several years. But that was just a first step. It's well past time we liberate ourselves from foreign sources of energy. While we may not become truly independent of foreign energy in the near future, passage of this legislation will help us become less dependent significantly faster." 
   The energy bill passed by the Senate last year made strides toward energy independence. The bill encourages more oil and gas production; promotes the construction of Liquefied Natural Gas terminals and pipelines; increases the use of clean coal technologies, nuclear power and renewables; increases the national use of ethanol to 7.5 billion gallons annually by 2012; and provides $874 million for alternative technology vehicle tax credits for fuel cell, alternative fuel and hybrid and advanced technology vehicles. 
   Because of the provisions in the energy bill, including the loan guarantee authority, the production tax credits, and the insurance protection against licensing delays and litigation, nine generating companies and consortiums across the United States are preparing applications for permission to build 19 new nuclear power plants. 
   Facts About Natural Gas and Oil Prices 
   On July 14, 2006, the price of natural gas was over $6.25 per million btu. Six years ago, the price was a third of that amount. 
   In countries competing for our nation's manufacturing jobs, such as Russia and Oman, the price of natural gas is about $1.25 per million btu and $1 per million btu, respectively. 
   Over a six-year period, America's annual natural gas bill rose from $50 billion to $200 billion, thus damaging the U.S. job base and our industrial competitiveness. 
   On July 14, 2004, the price of crude oil was approximately $34 per barrel. On July 14, 2006, the price of crude oil closed around $77 per barrel, with many Wall Street analysts anticipating an above-$80 price if tensions continue in the Middle East. 
   Policy makers on both sides of the aisle have repeatedly advocated for reduced dependence on foreign sources of oil. This legislation provides for a substantial increase to access to America's domestic oil supply. 
   The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimates that if we continue down our current path, North America's petroleum imports from the Persian Gulf will increase by more than 40 percent over the next 25 years. 
   This agreement opens access to 1.25 billion barrels of oil. According to EIA, in 2025, U.S. petroleum supply is projected to be 10.4 million barrels per day, while our demand is expected to be 26.1 million barrels per day. 
   Bill Provisions 
   Directs leasing in the 181 Area, excluding: areas east of the Military Mission Line; areas in the New Eastern Gulf of Mexico Planning Area within 125 miles of the state of Florida; and areas in the New Central Gulf of Mexico Planning Area within 100 miles of the state of Florida. 
   Directs leasing in the 181 South Area, excluding: areas east of the Military Mission Line; and areas east of the New Eastern Gulf of Mexico Planning Area. 
   No oil and gas leasing, pre-leasing and other activities within 125 miles of the State of Florida in the New Eastern Gulf of Mexico Planning Area until June 30, 2022. 
   No oil and gas leasing, pre-leasing and other activities within 100 miles of the state of Florida in the New Central Gulf of Mexico Planning Area, and east of the western boundary of the 181 Area until June 30, 2022. 
   No oil and gas leasing, pre-leasing and other activities east of the Military Mission Line until June 30, 2022, after which the Department of Defense may veto leasing. 
   Secretary of the Interior to establish within one year of enactment a regulation that provides for an option to exchange leases in areas unavailable for leases within 125 miles of Florida coastline in New Eastern Gulf Planning Area for leases in areas available for leasing in the Gulf of Mexico. 
   Revenue Sharing on new areas of production made available by this agreement and new leases beginning in FY 2007 and each fiscal year thereafter (181 Area above the CBO baseline and 181 South Area): 37.5 percent to Gulf producing states 12.5 percent to Stateside LWCF 50 percent to Federal Treasury 
   Revenue Sharing on new leases after date of enactment in existing planning areas beginning in FY 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter (Gulf of Mexico planning areas): 37.5 percent to Gulf producing states 12.5 percent to Stateside LWCF 50 percent to Federal Treasury.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-8609.
 
 