SEN. VOINOVICH'S BILL ESTABLISHING DEPUTY SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY FOR MANAGEMENT PASSES COMMITTEE
  The Homeland Security Management Act of 2007, a bill sponsored by U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) - ranking member of the Oversight of Government Management Subcommittee - was approved today by the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. This bill, which is co-sponsored by U.S. Senators Daniel K. Akaka (D-HI), Carl Levin (D-MI), Thomas R. Carper (D-DE) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO), would elevate the roles and responsibilities of the current Undersecretary for Management at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to a Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security for Management. The new position would oversee the challenges associated with creating a unified identity for the 22 federal agencies and more than 200,000 employees that make up DHS. The bill will next be up for consideration by the full senate. "I am convinced the existing management structure at the department is insufficient, and is hampering its ability to be successful," Sen. Voinovich said. "Creation of a Deputy Secretary for Management will provide essential expertise necessary for improving the long-term efficiency and effectiveness of the department." 
   Under Sen. Voinovich's bill, the individual appointed as the Deputy Secretary for Management would serve a five-year term and be the third highest ranking official at DHS. The roles and responsibilities of the Deputy Secretary for Management would include serving as the chief management officer and principal advisor to the secretary on the management of the department, including management integration and transformation in support of homeland security operations and programs.
   The Deputy Secretary for Management would also be responsible for strategic and annual performance planning, identification and tracking of performance measures relating to the responsibilities of the department, as well as the integration and transformation process, including the development of a management integration strategy. 
   In 2003, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) added implementing and transforming the Department of Homeland Security to their high-risk list of programs susceptible to waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement. It remains on the 2007 list. The creation of the Deputy Secretary for Management will address the concerns outlined by GAO.
 
 