SEN. VOINOVICH ANNOUNCES HE WILL VOTE IN FAVOR OF FISCALLY RESPONSIBILE STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM ALTERNATIVES
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced he will vote in favor of Republican alternatives to the pending State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP) expansion legislation that will ensure all children currently enrolled in the program maintain their coverage and permit states to provide coverage for another 2.7 million children in the future. A final vote is expected to occur this week. 
  "I have fought for decades to help insure children without access to health coverage," Sen. Voinovich said. "Even before the creation of S-CHIP we expanded coverage for low-income children in public safety net programs. As governor in 1996, we designed a reform plan that Time Magazine declared 'one of the most intelligent in the nation.' I wanted to help the most vulnerable Ohioans obtain health care coverage and, working with the legislature, we did so in a fiscally responsible way."
  The Republican alternative currently being debated includes: 
  A five-year reauthorization of the S-CHIP program that would: protect coverage for all children currently enrolled in the S-CHIP program; provide funding for states to improve outreach and enroll the children already eligible for S-CHIP but not enrolled in the program understanding that more funding may be needed in the future; extend premium assistance that will help low-income parents pay for private insurance coverage offered through their employer or individual market for their children; and eliminate coverage for adults that have been added to the program in order to restore S-CHIP to its original purpose - providing health coverage to low-income children. The Republican alternative amendment would also provide relief from the high cost of health care for small business owners and make improvements to health savings accounts making it possible for more Americans to be insured. 
  "As a nation, we must look at the big picture and determine how we can reform the current system to provide access to quality, affordable health care that maintains choices and increases individual responsibility," Sen. Voinovich said. "I am concerned that, by more than doubling the cost of S-CHIP, we are moving in the wrong direction. We need to design a system where all Americans have health insurance as well as true ownership of a portable policy that they can take from job to job. People shouldn't have to worry about how they're going to care for their families when facing the loss of a job or in making the decision to pursue another job."
  Sen. Voinovich also announced he will support an expected amendment that would take steps to modify the tax code to provide fair and equitable treatment of health insurance. The amendment would treat employer-provided health insurance costs as individual income. In exchange it would provide a $2,160 individual and $5,400 family refundable tax credit for the purchase of insurance. This change would end the current tax code discrimination against individuals who purchase their health insurance in the individual market as opposed to through their employer and facilitate the opportunity for millions of Americans to obtain health insurance. 
  Sen. Voinovich explained that, as a nation, we are already spending roughly $2 trillion a year on health care - more than any country in the world and 16 percent of our GDP. Our results, however, are average at best, with 47 million Americans still uninsured. Consequently, he continues to push for passage of his bi-partisan, bi-cameral Health Partnership Act (HPA). The senator recognizes that states are best able to make reforms that highlight what works, such as was the case with welfare reform, and they are doing so with health care. HPA would authorize grants to individual states, groups of states, Indian tribes and organizations to carry out a broad range of strategies to increase health care coverage, ensure patients receive high-quality appropriate care, improve the efficiency of health spending and use Information Technology (IT) to improve infrastructure and reduce costs.
  HPA will also establish a Health Care Expansion and Improvement Commission at the Department of Health and Human Services through which government entities will be able to apply for grants to increase health care coverage and access, reduce health care costs, improve quality and efficiency of care and test alternative health care reform ideas.
  "While states are moving forward with their own strategies to reduce their number of uninsured, they continue to struggle with how to fund their programs," Sen. Voinovich said. "Changing the tax code will give states additional resources to finance their innovative reform strategies particularly with the issue of providing health insurance for the uninsured. Most governors are scratching their heads trying to figure out how to expand health care to the uninsured. HPA will provide a mechanism to analyze states' results and make recommendations for future action at the federal level."
  Sen. Voinovich also explained his opposition to the Finance Committee's plan on S-CHIP. He is skeptical that raising the tobacco tax by 61 cents to $1 a pack will provide enough money to fund the expansion. Tobacco tax money is an unreliable, regressive revenue stream that will decrease according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO). In turn, the shortfalls will be paid for by deficit spending and increased national debt.
  "I came to Washington to reduce the national debt, not to pass the buck and add to it for future generations to deal with," Sen. Voinovich said. "Trying to help the children of today by heaping even more debt on the shoulders of our future children is immoral. We shouldn't care for our children off the backs of our grandchildren."
  How does this happen? Supporters of this bill claim that it only costs $35 billion over five years and, therefore, a $35 billion increase in the cigarette tax would pay for it. But this claim relies on a budget gimmick by ignoring the current, $25 billion baseline costs of the program. In reality, this expansion spends $60 billion over five years and, therefore, the bill would increase the national debt by $25 billion during that period. In addition, after five years, federal spending on S-CHIP will more than double while revenues from cigarette taxes are expected to decline according to CBO - meaning that tens of billions of dollars more will be added to the national debt in order to sustain the program.
  The Senate bill would allow states to cover children in families of four earning 300 percent level, making roughly $62,000 a year. According to CBO, the Finance Committee bill would cause a "crowd-out effect" that will encourage parents not to enroll in private insurance through their employer, which will result in approximately 600,000 children dropping their current, private health insurance in favor of the government program. 
  Sen. Voinovich said that it is time that we overhaul our entitlement programs so we can work harder and smarter and do more with less. The senator's Securing America's Future Economy (SAFE) Commission Act would establish a national commission to examine our nation's tax code and entitlement systems and present long-term solutions to place the United States on a fiscally sustainable course and ensure the solvency of entitlement programs for future generations. 
  The national debt has increased from $5.6 trillion in 1999 to almost $9 trillion today - an increase of 60 percent. And the House recently increased the debt limit to nearly $10 trillion, which is an increase of 78 percent since 1999. Currently, the national debt is 66 percent of the nation's GDP. In addition, the percent of debt owned by foreign countries has grown from 35 percent to 55 percent over the past five years. If central banks in those foreign countries grow nervous about the U.S. fiscal health and pull out, the United States could suffer a crippling increase in interest rates. 
  "As a former governor, I can understand why states support the expansion of S-CHIP. They want to cover more uninsured children but want the federal government to pick up the lion's share of the costs," Sen. Voinovich said, pointing out that this could be up to 83 percent of the cost. "Unfortunately, the federal government does not have this money and, as a result, will have to borrow because the tobacco tax is an unreliable source of revenue. States have to balance their budgets and the federal government doesn't, which is why we are the largest debtor nation in the world. We need to look at how we're currently spending our dollars. It's time to find ways to improve and use the tax code to insure millions of Americans, especially our children." 
  * For more information on the alternative amendments, please contact the senator's communications office.
 
 