SENS. CLINTON, VOINOVICH DEMAND IMMEDIATE RELEASE OF KIDNAPPED ISRAELI SOLDIERS
  In a resolution introduced on Thursday, March 1, Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) called for the immediate and unconditional release of three Israeli soldiers held captive by Hamas and Hezbollah. The three soldiers include Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev, who were abducted by Hezbollah on July 12, 2006 and Gilad Shalit, who was kidnapped by Hamas on June 25, 2006. 
  "The terrible kidnapping of Israeli soldiers that precipitated the conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon last summer, have yet to be resolved. It is essential that Israel's abducted soldiers are returned immediately and unconditionally. This resolution delivers a strong message in support of Israel and in support of the families of the kidnapped soldiers," said Sen. Clinton.  
  "The international community and our allies in the Middle East must realize that it is time to stop letting Hamas and Hezbollah distort our concept of humanity and dictate the timeline for peace in the region," said Sen. Voinovich, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "Restraint, humanity and patience should not only apply to Israel. We must send the same message to Hamas and Hezbollah and any terrorist who threaten democracy and innocent lives. Hamas and Hezbollah are holding the entire region captive along with these three men and it must come to a swift end."
  The resolution condemns Hamas and Hezbollah for cross border attacks that led to the kidnappings last year and urges the militant groups to allow prompt medical treatment of the soldiers by representatives of the International Red Cross. It also expresses vigorous support and unwavering commitment to the welfare and survival of the State of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state and encourages strong support and deep interest in achieving a resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The resolution also expresses ongoing concern and sympathy for the families of the three soldiers and all other missing soldiers of Israel. 
  Last year, Clinton and Voinovich introduced the resolution with Senators Mikulski (D-MD), Brownback (R-KS), Lautenberg (D-NJ), Coleman (R-MN), Lieberman (ID-CT), Schumer (D-NY), Brown (D-OH) and Feinstein (D-CA). 
  [The full text of the resolution is below]
  Title: Calling for the immediate and unconditional release of soldiers of Israel held captive by Hamas and Hezbollah.
  Whereas Israel withdrew from southern Lebanon on May 24, 2000;
  Whereas Congress expressed concern for soldiers of Israel missing in Lebanon and Syrian-controlled territory of Lebanon in the Act entitled "To locate and secure the return of Zachary Baumel, a United States citizen, and other Israeli soldiers missing in action", approved November 8, 1999 (Public Law 106-89), which required the Secretary of State to raise the status of missing soldiers of Israel with appropriate government officials of Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, and other governments in the region, and to submit to Congress reports on those efforts and any subsequent discovery of relevant information;
  Whereas, on June 18, 2000, the United Nations Security Council welcomed and endorsed the report by United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan that Israel had withdrawn completely from Lebanon under the terms of United Nations Security Council Resolution 425 (1978);
  Whereas Israel completed its withdrawal from Gaza on September 12, 2005;
  Whereas, on June 25, 2006, Hamas and allied terrorists crossed into Israel to attack a military post, killing 2 soldiers and wounding a third, Gilad Shalit, who was kidnapped;
  Whereas, on July 12, 2006, terrorists of Hezbollah crossed into Israel to attack troops of Israeli patrolling the Israeli side of the border with Lebanon, killing 3 soldiers, wounding 2 more, and kidnapping Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev;
  Whereas Gilad Shalit has been held in captivity by Hamas for more than 7 months;
  Whereas Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev have been held in captivity by Hezbollah for more than 6 months;
  Whereas Hamas and Hezbollah have withheld all information on the health and welfare of the men they have kidnapped; and
  Whereas, contrary to the most basic standards of humanitarian conduct, Hamas and Hezbollah have prevented access to the Israeli captives by competent medical personnel and representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved, That the Senate-
  (1) demands that- 
   (A) Hamas immediately and unconditionally release Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit; 
   (B) Hezbollah accept the mandate of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 (2006) by immediately and unconditionally releasing Israeli soldiers Ehud Goldwasser and Eldad Regev; and
   (C) Hezbollah and Hamas accede to the most basic standards of humanitarian conduct and allow prompt access to the Israeli captives by competent medical personnel and representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross;
   (2) expresses-
   (A) vigorous support and unwavering commitment to the welfare and survival of the State of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state with secure borders;
   (B) strong support and deep interest in achieving a resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through the creation of a viable and independent Palestinian state living in peace alongside of the State of Israel;
   (C) ongoing concern and sympathy for the families of Gilad Shalit, Ehud Goldwasser, Eldad Regev, and all other missing soldiers of Israel; and
   (D) full commitment to seek the immediate and unconditional release of the Israeli captives; and
   (3) condemns-
   (A) Hamas and Hezbollah for the cross border attacks and kidnappings that precipitated weeks of intensive armed conflict between Israel and Hezbollah and armed Palestinian groups; and
   (B) Iran and Syria for their ongoing support of Hezbollah and Hamas.
 
 