SEN. VOINOVICH CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO HELP PROTECT GREAT LAKES FROM INVASIVE SPECIES
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), along with Sens. Carl Levin (D-MI) and Russ Feingold (D-WI), has co-authored legislation introduced on Thursday, March 1, that lists three species of Asian carp as injurious wildlife under the Lacey Act. This categorization ensures that the species cannot be imported into the United States or across state lines without a permit. The Asian Carp Prevention and Control Act will prevent live bighead, black and silver carp from invading the Great Lakes. Sens. George Voinovich and Carl Levin are the co-chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force.  
  "This pivotal legislation will send a clear message to the Great Lakes states. We are committed to protecting the Lakes from all invasive species, including Asian carp," Sen. Voinovich said. "We have worked hard to revitalize the Lakes and these foreign species are a serious threat to the native fish population, the ecosystem and the fishing and boating community. We need to do everything in our power to help guard against them." 
  The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) received a petition in 2002 to list the Asian carp under the Lacey Act. The Great Lakes Task Force also sent two letters urging the FWS to administratively list the carp under the Lacey Act. To date, the FWS has not acted on the petition.
   Congress passed the original Lacey Act in 1900 and the Lacey Act Amendments in 1981, which make it unlawful to import, export, transport, buy or sell fish, wildlife and plants taken or possessed in violation of federal, state or tribal law. This legislation would not interfere with existing state regulations of Asian carp, and permits to transport or purchase live Asian carp could be issued for scientific, medical or educational purposes.
  The three species of Asian Carp - black, bighead and silver - threaten native fish by quickly consuming large quantities of phytoplankton, which is critical to the stability of the ecosystem. Originally, they were introduced to the United States as a management tool for aquaculture farms and sewage treatment facilities. According to reports, the carp made their way north to the Illinois River after escaping from fish farms during massive flooding along the Mississippi River more than 10 years ago. Asian Carp can grow to an average of four feet and 60 pounds, and can consume up to 40 percent of their body weight in plankton per day. 
  Since the beginning of his political career, Sen. Voinovich has committed himself to stopping the deterioration of the Great Lakes. Forty years ago, when he was elected to the Ohio State Legislature, he waged what he refers to as the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" to reclaim and restore Ohio's Great Lakes. Through his efforts in the Senate, Sen. Voinovich was influential in providing important funding for the construction of preventive electric barriers located on the Illinois River and in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal to prevent Asian carp from reaching the Great Lakes.
  In addition to Sens. Levin, Voinovich and Feingold, other co-sponsors of the Asian Carp Prevention and Control Act include: Sens. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Barack Obama (D-IL) and Richard Durbin (D-IL).
 
 