SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH SECURE OVER $14 MILLION FOR STRIVING READERS PROGRAM
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) have secured a $14,018,555 grant-to be distributed over five years-from the U.S. Department of Education for the Ohio Department of Youth Services (DYS) Striving Readers Program. The DYS, in collaboration with the Ohio Department of Education and The Ohio State University, will implement a Striving Readers project to address the literacy needs of students in grades 6-12 within State juvenile corrections facilities.  
   "If children fall behind in reading when they are young, it becomes more and more difficult to improve their reading levels as they get older. Too often, they are simply left behind. These problems are further compounded by the barriers faced by children in corrections facilities. This grant will help give Ohio's struggling teens the tools they need to become successful, literate adults," said Senator DeWine, a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. "Helping our children improve their reading skills is an important first step to enabling them to re-enter a community, and feel a part of, rather than alienated from, a society that values literacy, ensuring a brighter future. Not only will this grant help students improve their reading levels throughout Ohio, but the funds will help develop effective strategies to improve reading programs for years to come." 
   "Reading comprehension is a cornerstone of academic success. The Striving Readers Program plays a vital role in improving the comprehension skills of adolescents. This grant will enable teachers to identify the best methods of literacy instruction, which will raise the achievement of students and set them up for success in other academic disciplines," said Senator Voinovich. "The majority of the students who give up and drop out of school are struggling readers, but if we can give them the proper tools, they are in a much better position to succeed in school and throughout their lives." 
   This Striving Readers project includes reading coaches, professional development in scientifically-based reading instruction for teachers, a rigorous research evaluation by the Center for Learning Excellence at The Ohio State University, and implementation of READ 180 as an intensive, targeted intervention for struggling readers. READ 180 helps educators confront the problem of adolescent illiteracy using technology, print and professional development, and it is proven to meet the needs of students whose reading achievement is below proficient level. 
   The purpose of the Striving Readers program is to raise the reading achievement levels of middle and high school-aged students in Title I-eligible schools with significant numbers of students reading below grade level. The program supports new comprehensive reading initiatives or expansion of existing initiatives that improve the quality of literacy instruction across the curriculum, provides intensive literacy interventions to struggling adolescent readers, and helps to build a strong, scientific research base for identifying and replicating strategies that improve adolescent literacy skills.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 