SENS. VOINOVICH, MIKULSKI CONTINUE EFFORT TO PROTECT GOVERNMENT RETIREE BENEFITS
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) was joined today by Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) in re-introducing the Government Pension Offset Reform Act, which addresses unfair rules that prevent retired government employees from receiving Social Security benefits from their years of hard work. The senators introduced similar legislation in the 109th Congress. 
   "It is vital that Americans who have given their working lives to public service are treated fairly in retirement. This important legislation will ensure that low-income government retirees and their spouses will receive the full amount of both their Social Security and government pension benefits," Sen Voinovich said. "It will mean that no retired government worker will ever live in poverty."
   "I'm fighting to address this cruel and heartless rule, and call on Congress and the Bush Administration to work to find a solution to this problem," said Senator Mikulski. "Congress needs to know how important this issue is to our nation's seniors who have dedicated their lives serving the public. These unjust rules of government affect retired teachers, policemen and firefighters who have worked hard to serve our communities."
   The Government Pension Offset Reform Act fixes a penalty on government retirees who are eligible for a Social Security surviving spouse benefit. Under current law, a Social Security spousal benefit is reduced or completely eliminated if the surviving spouse receives a pension based on a local, state or federal government job that was not covered by Social Security.
   Nearly 350,000 Americans are affected by the current offset rules, including more than 7,000 Marylanders and 55,000 Ohioans. The national number grows by nearly 20,000 retirees each year. Almost 60 percent of the survivors affected by this law are women. Women are more likely to receive Social Security spousal benefits and to have worked in low-paying or short-term government positions while they were raising families. This modification will allow these women who have contributed years of government and family service to rely on a larger amount of retirement income.
 
 