SEN. VOINOVICH'S BILL TO REDUCE HARMFUL DIESEL EMISSIONS PASSES ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS COMMITTEE
  The Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2005 passed today in the Environment and Public Works Committee (EPW). Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the sponsor of the bill, chaired a hearing on the bill last week in EPW's Subcommittee on Clean Air, Climate Change, and Nuclear Safetey. The bill works to reduce harmful emissions from existing diesel engines and authorizes $1 billion over 5 years to establish voluntary national grant and loan programs for diesel emission reduction projects and programs that improve air quality and protect public health.  
   "I am pleased that my colleagues on the Energy and Public Works Committee understand the importance of this legislation. The bottom line is that if we want to cleanup our air to improve the environment and protect public health, diesel retrofits are one of the best uses of taxpayers' money. I will continue to utilize all vehicles possible to ensure that this legislation becomes law," said Senator Voinovich. Senator Voinovich continues to work to get the legislation passed by any vehicle possible. A roll call vote last month added the legislation as an amendment to the Senate version of the Energy Bill. The amendment, which passed with a vote of 92-1, was introduced by Senator Voinovich with bipartisan support. The House and Senate are currently meeting to work out the differences between the energy bills in a conference committee. Once they agree to a final package, the conference report will need to be passed by both the House and Senate and signed by the President before becoming law. 
   EPA has finalized diesel fuel and new engine regulations that will reduce diesel emissions from new diesel buses, freight trucks, and non-road equipment by more than 80 percent from 2000 levels. Unfortunately, the full benefits of EPA's rules will not be realized until 2030 because of the long lifetime of the 11 million existing engines. The durability of the diesel engines used to power school buses, trucks and railroads, agriculture processes, and emergency response vehicles can last for hundreds of thousands of miles over a lifetime of up to 30 years. 
   Developed with environmental, industry, and public officials, The Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2005 is based on the understanding that existing engines can benefit from technology that "retrofits" or replaces older engines. In doing so, cost-effective emissions reductions can be provided for these fleets and dramatically accelerate the public health benefits. 
   Reducing diesel emissions is pivotal in the effort to clean the nation's air. On-road heavy duty diesel vehicles, such as transit buses and garbage trucks, and non-road diesel vehicles, such as construction equipment and tractors, account for roughly one-half of the nitrogen oxide and particulate matter emissions from mobile sources nationwide. These emissions contribute to ozone formation and fine particulate matter, and they contain numerous other chemicals that are listed by EPA as hazardous air pollutants. The bill will help areas come into attainment for the new air quality standards.
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784. 
 
 