SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH HELP SECURE OVER $500,000 FOR FOREIGN LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
  Today, Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) announced that the Franklin County Board of Education and the Cleveland Municipal School District have received funding in the Foreign Language Assistance Program from the U.S. Department of Education. The Franklin County Board of Education, a recipient of $267,911, intends to develop Chinese language and culture studies for the schools of the Diocese of Columbus. The Cleveland Municipal School District, a recipient of $238,369, will use the funds for a Dual Language Enrichment Program. It is anticipated that both grants will be for three years.  
   "In order to compete in a global economy, our children need access to a wide array of high quality foreign language programs," Sen. DeWine said. "These grants will support an innovative Spanish language program in Cleveland and expand choices of study for our children in Columbus by creating a Chinese language program. I applaud the officials at the Cleveland Municipal School District and the Franklin County Board of Education for their efforts and thank the Department of Education for recognizing and funding such deserving projects." 
   "These funds will help enable the development of students' skills in languages critical to homeland security and business development," Sen. Voinovich said. "It is critical that we provide funding for foreign language instruction, giving our students an edge as they enter an increasingly global workforce as well as work to protect our homeland." 
   The Franklin County Board of Education will use a distance learning medium whereby a teacher from Washington State University or The Ohio State University will deliver real-time Mandarin Chinese instruction to 10 sixth grade classes the first year, expanding to 15 sixth grade classes and 10 seventh grade classes in the second year. In the third year the program will expand to include 15 sixth grade classes, 15 seventh grade classes and 10 eighth grade classes. 
   The Cleveland Municipal School District's Dual Language Enrichment Program will improve foreign language study by focusing on the development of both English and Spanish speaking students. This innovative approach will improve foreign language acquisition in a variety of ways. In addition, quality professional development will be made available to teachers to improve their knowledge and expertise in effective instructional strategies for implementing a Dual Language Enrichment Program and using formative assessments to determine student progress and areas of weakness. Cross-cultural activities, surveys and school activities will be designed to promote meaningful involvement.
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 