THE BEST GIFT YOU CAN GIVE
  With the hustle and bustle of the holiday season in full swing - shopping, gift-wrapping, attending parties, and visiting with family and friends - it is important to remember the things that matter most. Taking time out of your busy schedule to do one thing this year could change the life of your elderly loved one-even save it. The best present you can give your loved one this holiday season is to help them understand the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit and help them enroll in the plan if it is right for them.  
   The evolution of health care - including the increased use of prescription drugs and better preventive care - has not only improved the quality of life for seniors but has also helped prolong lives. Sadly, Medicare - the nation's health care delivery system for older Americans since 1965-didn't keep pace with nearly four decades of science. As a result, seniors have been forced to shoulder the high price of prescription drugs on their own. As the cost of prescription drugs continues to climb, the financial burden on many seniors has become a crushing one. 
   Fortunately, Congress passed the bipartisan Medicare Modernization Act in December 2003 to eliminate this burden. The law will finally provide better access to affordable prescription drugs through Medicare for Ohio's 1.7 million seniors. 
   The Medicare drug benefit is a completely voluntary plan, and if seniors already have drug coverage through a former employer or union and wish to keep that coverage, they are welcome to do so. However, the half a million seniors in Ohio who currently lack drug coverage will now have access to similar coverage. 
   In the last year, I've been busy crisscrossing the state talking to Ohio's seniors about how this new voluntary prescription drug benefit can truly change their lives. I have held 15 events with seniors on this new benefit and my staff has held over 500. In Ohio, we've done a terrific job galvanizing our resources and forming partnerships with organizations like the Ohio Senior Health Insurance Information Program (OSHIIP) and American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) to provide seniors with the information they need about the program. Yet, there is still much more to be done, and we need your help. 
   The challenge before us is making sure that we can reach the entire senior population in all of Ohio's 88 counties and provide the tools and information necessary for them to determine how the new benefit best meets their needs. We also need to make sure that seniors know how to enroll once they have their information. Additional information can be found by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (633-4227) or visiting www.MEDICARE.gov. 
   By helping your parents or grandparents enroll, you could truly give them a priceless gift-improving their quality of life and giving them more years with your family. I can't think of a better way to give witness to the 2nd commandment-love of your fellow man. 
   As you gather to celebrate this holiday season, I encourage your family to look at your options together and find out how the new program can help you deal with the high cost of prescription drugs. Visit the website or give Medicare a call-they will be happy to explain the options to you. The comprehensive benefit begins on January 1, 2006, and the enrollment period runs until May 15, 2006. By taking the time to help Medicare eligible seniors understand this benefit, you will truly make a difference in their lives.
 
 