SEN. VOINOVICH ANNOUNCES $1.2 MILLION FOR OHIO'S HOMELESS VETERANS
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced the U.S. Department of Labor will be awarding four Ohio organizations a total of $1.2 million to help Ohio's homeless veterans as part of the department's Homeless Veterans' Reintegration Program.  
   "Our veterans kept their promise to defend our nation and our nation must keep its promises to our veterans," Sen. Voinovich said. "The brave men and women who served and sacrificed to protect our freedom deserve to receive the proper care they have earned." 
   The four grantees serve Cuyahoga, Franklin, Hamilton, Butler, Warren and Montgomery Counties. For a detailed description of the grantees, their missions and the amount they are receiving please see below (provided by the Dept. of Labor): 
   Homeless Veterans' Reintegration Program Grants for Ohio: 
   Four (4) grantees in Ohio have been selected to receive nearly $1.2 million in grants under the Homeless Veterans' Reintegration Program (HVRP). They are: 
   1st Year or NEW Grantees - these grantees will be eligible (based on continued performance) to receive the same amount of funding each year for the next three years Volunteers of America of Northeast and North Central Ohio, Inc. - serving Cleveland (Cuyahoga County) - $300,000 Volunteers of America of Central Ohio, Inc. - serving Columbus (Franklin County) - $300,000 
   3rd Year Grantees - these were originally awarded in 2004, received funding again in 2005, and now are receiving money for the third and final year Ohio Valley Goodwill Industries Rehabilitation Center, Inc. - serving Cincinnati Metro Area (Hamilton, Butler, Warren Counties) - $299,440 Volunteers of America of Central Ohio, Inc. - serving Dayton (Montgomery County) - $298,512 
   This was a very competitive grant competition with 52 HVRP grant applications from across the country (26 of which received awards). 
   Funds are awarded competitively to units of State or local governments, and for non-profit organizations, including faith-based and community organizations. 
   HVRP grantees enroll thousands of homeless veterans annually in programs that involve emergency shelter, substance abuse counseling and treatment, job counseling and referral, employment assistance, transportation, housing and clothing. 
   The HVRP program requires grantees to use all available resources and linkages in the local community as well as maintaining relationships. Successful HVRP programs focus on partnering with HUD, VA, HHS, local faith-based and community organizations, and social service agencies.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 