DIESEL EMISSIONS REDUCTION ACT
  It's not that often that Republicans and Democrats - much less environmental and industry groups - find common ground, but last year, all sides came together to clean the air and protect the environment.  
   By a 92-1 margin, the Senate passed legislation to significantly reduce diesel emissions, and the legislation was then included in the 2005 energy bill that passed last year. 
   Now the groups are working together again to make sure this new program gets the funding it deserves. 
   Diesel engines are the unheralded workhorse of the American economy. They power the trucks that help transport freight across the nation, as well as the equipment needed to unload and package that freight once it arrives at its destination. But while diesel engines are uniquely-equipped to power heavy-duty vehicles, they have one major disadvantage - diesel engines account for roughly one-half of the nitrogen oxide and particulate matter emissions from mobile sources nationwide. 
   As part of an effort to reduce diesel pollution, the EPA finalized new fuel and engine regulations designed to cut emissions from diesel buses, trucks and off-road vehicles by more than 80 percent below 2000 levels. Unfortunately, the full health and environmental benefits of the new rule won't be realized for another 25 years because current diesel engines are so durable and last so long that it's not always cost-effective to replace them. 
   As long as these old engines continue to operate, however, our air will suffer. That's why we thought it made sense to create a new program to retrofit our nation's fleet of 11 million existing diesel engines. 
   The battle isn't over, however. Now we need to get the program funded. 
   Again, this effort has been a model of bipartisan spirit and cooperation. More than 200 environmental, industry, public and labor groups and the major state and local organizations sent letters to the president asking him to fund the new initiative in his Fiscal Year 2007 budget request. 
   The president followed through, requesting $50 million for DERA. Forty-eight senators have now asked the Appropriations Committee to follow suit. The House recently passed its fiscal 2007 Interior Appropriations bill with $28 million for the new diesel program. It is now up to the Senate to increase that amount and fully fund the $50 million requested by the president. 
   With this money in hand, our nation will be able to more quickly transition to cleaner-burning diesel engines. The results - cleaner air and a healthier environment - are well worth the investment.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 