SEN. VOINOVICH INTRODUCES SHORT SEA SHIPPING ACT
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today introduced the Short Sea Shipping Act which encourages the development of freight ferries to move goods efficiently, reduce congestion on our highways and at border crossings and reduce air emissions. The bill would repeal the Harbor Maintenance Tax on non-bulk cargo traveling between the U.S. and Canada. This very limited exception to the tax will cost only $500,000 over 10 years, but will encourage immense economic development opportunities to the Great Lakes states. 
   "With all of the congestion and delays at our border crossings into Canada, we need to look for new opportunities to efficiently move goods and people between the U.S. and our neighbors to the north," Sen. Voinovich said. "It makes economic and environmental sense to repeal the Harbor Maintenance Tax and encourage freight ferries."
   In recent years, transportation planners have been struggling to identify ways to move people and goods more easily. Congested highways - particularly in urban areas - hinder the flow of commerce and create a drag on North American economic growth. As our highways into Canada and border crossings continue to congest, finding additional options to transport goods in the Great Lakes region is necessary. 
   In response to these transportation challenges, several new ferries have been proposed for the Great Lakes with the goal of moving trucks around the region on so-called "freight ferries." By initiating a new vessel service, commerce will flow more efficiently, highway congestion will be relieved and air quality will be improved. 
   Unfortunately, the U.S. Harbor Maintenance Tax is impeding the development of these ferries. Because the Harbor Maintenance Tax is only assessed on cargo if it moves by ship, the tax serves as a disincentive to move trucks and their freight by water. As such, the tax actually encourages greater highway congestion and results in more fuel consumption and air pollution. Sen. Voinovich's proposal to eliminate the tax would encourage fluid movement of goods, would reduce congestion on our highways and at border crossings and would reduce air emissions.
   Canada is the single largest trading partner of the United States. In fact, the largest trade link with the world is the Ambassador Bridge, connecting Detroit, Michigan and Windsor, Ontario with more than 7,000 trucks crossing daily and transporting goods worth more than $120 billion per year. 60 percent of the Great Lakes States' foreign trade is directed across its northern border.
 
 