SEN. VOINOVICH SPEECH ON 2008 BUDGET, FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the Senate's top "debt hawk," on Thursday night will deliver the following speech on the Senate floor on the FY 2008 budget and the two amendments he's introducing. 
  KEY QUOTES:
  "Frankly, the resolution before this body ignores our dire fiscal problems and uses smoke and mirrors to mask our long-term fiscal challenges." ? 
  "Neither Republicans nor Democrats have offered a budget that even comes close to re-establishing our fiscal sanity. The administration's budget is unrealistic, and the Democrat's budget is even worse." ?
  "Experts say the most important step you can take is to first admit you have a problem. Well, we've got a big problem. Let's finally admit it and fix it. The question now is, do we have the moral courage to fix it - or, are we too interested in protecting our political hides to do anything?"
  Below, please see the full speech:
  Mr. President, I rise today to share with the Senate my concerns and frustrations with S. Con. Res. 21, the FY 2008 Budget Resolution and to offer two amendments to try to improve the resolution. Frankly, the resolution before this body ignores our dire fiscal problems and uses smoke and mirrors to mask our long-term fiscal challenges. 
   I have come to the Senate floor numerous times over the past eight years to express my concern that the federal government continues to spend more than it brings in, and that this Congress is running a credit card for today's needs and shamelessly leaving the bill for future generations. We all know that this recklessness threatens our economic stability, our competitiveness in the global marketplace, and our future way of life. 
   Since I arrived in the U.S. Senate, the national debt has increased from $5.6 trillion to $8.6 trillion today - an increase of more than 50 percent in just eight years. This amounts to $29,000 of debt for every American. Can you believe it?
   What is even more concerning, however, is that 55 percent of the privately owned national debt is held by foreign creditors, including the Chinese government - and that's up from 35 percent from just six years ago. Yet, these numbers - which represent our past behavior - pale in comparison with the budget problems looming in our future as the Baby Boom generation begins to retire just over nine months from now. 
   Forty years ago, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid accounted for 3 percent of GDP. Today, they're up to 9 percent. And in another 40 years, they'll be up to 18 percent - equal to total federal revenues and crowding out all other spending.
   Looking forward, we face a long-term fiscal imbalance of $50 trillion. That's hard to even grasp, but it translates into $440,000 of future government debt for every American household - up from a mere $175,000 per household just six years ago. 
   Imposing a crushing debt burden like this on future generations at the same time that they are going to have to compete with rising powers like China and India is unacceptable. All of us have a responsibility to try to guarantee that they enjoy the same standard of living and quality of life that we have enjoyed - if not better. 
   That's why the Chairman of the Budget Committee and I have spoken out over the past few years about the growing debt and the impact it will have on future generations. Yet, here we are today with the majority's budget resolution that increases the national debt by $2.4 trillion over 5 years - and that's assuming that Congress doesn't use all the loopholes they're proposing. 
   We are, back at square one. Neither Republicans nor Democrats have offered a budget that even comes close to re-establishing our fiscal sanity. The administration's budget is unrealistic, and the Democrat's budget is arguably even worse. Once again, we have pulled the wool over our own eyes. 
   Some of my colleagues, especially my new colleagues, may wonder why I take such offense at the budget. Unfortunately, I am a product of my experiences. The Bible says the Lord never gives you a challenge that you cannot overcome. Well, he's tested me before, and he's testing all of us now. 
   As Mayor of Cleveland, I inherited the first city in the country to go bankrupt since the Great Depression. We made cuts, raised revenue, and righted the ship. When I took the helm as Governor of Ohio, I inherited a $1.5 billion budget shortfall that can only be described as a financial crisis. During the first biennial budget, we had to make four rounds of cuts. 
   These were dire economic times that required honesty, leadership, and good management. And, I was forced to make a lot of hard choices. We had to reform our tax policy, scale back spending, and target our resources to the people who needed them most. And, we worked harder and smarter, and succeeded at doing more with less - in fact, my eight years in the governor's office represent the lowest rate of growth in state spending in 30 years. 
   But here in Washington, it seems as if no one is willing to make any difficult decisions. Too many members won't do anything if it doesn't bolster either side politically or fit into a 10-second sound-bite. Instead, both parties are using gimmicks to cover up the state of our nation's long-term fiscal health. Let me offer some examples.
   The Administration released its fiscal year 2008 budget request in early February and projected a deficit of $239 billion. This number is the deficit left over after spending every dollar of the Social Security surplus. But, the Social Security surplus must be reserved for future retirees. As far as I know, you can't spend the same money twice. But Congress keeps pretending that it can! 
   If you remove the Social Security surplus from the equation, that $239 billion deficit almost doubles to $451 billion.
   The Administration goes further to achieve its surplus by assuming non-security, discretionary spending will peak in 2007 and go down every year after. So, we're reducing our deficit by eating our seed corn. 
   Furthermore, they calculate that security-related discretionary spending will peak in 2008 and that supplemental spending for military operations will end after 2009. But, the President just increased the number of troops going to Iraq by more than 21,000. These estimates are not based in reality!
   Meanwhile, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are using tricks that are even more egregious. The majority's budget allows for a dramatic increase in entitlement spending through the use of more than 20 reserve funds that are not included in the overall budget totals. This simply conceals what the Democrats really intend to spend and gives the appearance of a more responsible budget. 
   And, the majority's budget hides increases in discretionary spending through the use of seven Cap Adjustments. Appropriations for seven favored programs and agencies will not count toward the budget limit. Just like that and ? poof - they're gone! 
   Furthermore, the majority's budget allows for unlimited emergency spending. I think we all understand that on occasion we have natural disasters or unanticipated crises like Hurricane Katrina that require emergency resources. And, for this reason, we cannot estimate all of our emergency spending in the budget. 
   But, a great deal of the spending that is currently designated as "emergency" is actually quite regular and predictable. For instance, every year we spend emergency funds on drought relief. This is difficult for me to understand. If we spend it every year, why can't we account for this spending in the budget? This is why we ought to have a rainy-day fund - like I had when I was governor - that sets aside designated funds for legitimate natural disasters, so that the emergency label is not abused to pay for otherwise anticipated events. 
   My friend from New Hampshire, Senator Gregg, created a rainy day fund with a fixed dollar limit in last year's budget resolution - and, I thought that was a great idea. But the new majority has already eliminated that fund from the budget and created an open-ended source of emergency spending that is not subject to any financial limitations.
   There's just one trick after another in this budget resolution. We're already raiding the Social Security trust fund, and a bunch of smaller trust funds, to make our bottom line look rosier than it really is. And, this budget just exacerbates a problem that the Budget Committee chairman himself and I have spoken out against for years. 
   In fact, in the last Congress, the Budget Committee Chairman and I introduced legislation that would invest the Social Security surplus in non-federal bonds to prevent the surplus from being used to fund other government spending. And, we plan to re-introduce this bill again in the 110th. 
   The bill would require that the government issue more Treasuries to the public in order to pay for other spending instead of borrowing from Social Security - a process that would create greater transparency in how much the government is really borrowing for all of our programs. 
   We thought, finally, our children and grandchildren will have a clear picture of just how fiscally irresponsible we are. But, today, the Budget Committee Chairman is relying on the very same gimmick - borrowing from the Social Security trust fund - to claim a balance in 2012.
   And, what about taxes? The majority's budget claims that $400 billion in revenue will be collected from "closing the tax gap" - in other words, collecting more of the taxes that are currently owed but not paid. Yet the President's proposal to collect just 2 percent of this $400 billion caused small businesses to howl in protest that the new administrative and compliance burdens would overwhelm them. 
   In fact, the Greater Cleveland Partnership and the Council of Smaller Enterprises, which represent small business in Northeast Ohio, describe the Administration's tax gap proposals as - quote - "an unreasonable tracking and reporting burden for small business." And, that's just for 2 percent of the revenue that the majority claims it can raise by going after small businesses. We should try to collect money that is owed, but if it were that easy - as my friend from Iowa, Senator Grassley suggests - we would have found the money to fix the AMT years ago.
   But, sadly, these gimmicks are not the worst part of the majority's budget. What's more disturbing about this resolution is what's not included. The majority did not designate one dime in Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid savings to help slow the impending entitlement tidal wave heading our way. Not one single dime. 
   Entitlement spending threatens to flood our budget and soak up every federal dollar - leaving no revenue for education, the environment, infrastructure, or scientific research. And, the majority's budget ignores this problem. In fact, this budget does worse than ignore the problem - it will pile billions of dollars in new entitlement spending on top of the existing problem. It's so obvious that this budget resolution simply satisfies a political agenda. It is public relations campaign that the majority is using to avoid telling the American people the truth. 
   And, to add insult to injury, since Republicans switched to 5-year budgets a few years ago, Democrats have repeatedly called for 10-year budgets because 5-year budgets hide our long-term problems. For example, the CBO currently projects that total outlays for Medicare and Medicaid will more than double by 2017, increasing by 124 percent. This is roughly two times as much as the economy is expected to grow during the same period. A 5-year forecast hides this explosion in entitlement liabilities. 
   Yet, here we are, with Democrats in control of both chambers, and they are trying to pass a 5-year budget that continues to cover up the gathering fiscal storm looming on our horizon. Shame on us, and shame on them. They're playing the same game we played starting in 2004, after promising to do better.
   Mr. President, I take our nation's fiscal health very seriously, and I am concerned that there is a lack of transparency in this budget resolution. There are gaping loopholes that the majority can exploit to cause spending and deficits to rise much higher than the budget resolution claims. In an attempt to close some of these loopholes, I offer two amendments.
  First, we need to reform our nation's entitlement programs - especially Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid - to ensure that our children and grandchildren do not drown in a sea of debt. I am concerned, however, that if we reform entitlements and save billions of dollars, Congress might just grab those savings and spend them on other programs instead of paying down the debt. That would leave us no better off than we are today. 
   I've previously introduced legislation called the SAFE Commission Act that would guarantee a fast-track, comprehensive approach to reforming our nation's tax, entitlement, and budget systems. If the 110th Congress enacts entitlement reform either by way of my legislation, or as a result of another bipartisan effort, we must use those savings to reduce the deficit and pay down the debt and not on new entitlement spending. 
   Specifically, my first amendment would require that any savings from legislation that slows the growth of entitlement spending by $5 billion or more be dedicated to deficit reduction. Some of my colleagues are asking, what are you already worried about that for George? Well, I hope we have this problem where we have to decide what to do with all the entitlement savings we've enacted. Because, as I said earlier, the majority has not included even one dime's worth of savings in this budget resolution. 
   Second, every time we enact new entitlement spending or tax cuts, which are financed through additional borrowing, we increase the level of interest payments the government has to make on its debt. Those new interest costs represent additional government spending. Yet, CBO cost estimates ignore the effect of these interest payments on spending and the national debt. 
   These ballooning interest costs add up to $370 billion in 2008 - that's 13 percent of the budget. The public needs to know that in addition to spending additional money on new programs, we're paying interest on that money. I'm concerned about these growing interest costs because they're part of our mounting national debt. And, frankly, our interest rates might be low right now, but we could see them skyrocket. Let's not forget, when I was mayor, interest rates were 13 percent - not 4 and a half percent like today! 
  That's why my second amendment would require CBO estimates to include interest costs, so that we are honest and transparent about the real effects of spending and tax cuts on the budget.
   Mr. President, we must stop this charade once and for all. Both sides of the aisle have a clear, moral obligation to improve the fiscal health of our nation. And, it starts with formulating a fair and honest budget. 
   Yet, we are being dishonest and masking the long-term challenges that confront our nation. We must deal with these problems head on, and work on a bipartisan basis to reform our tax system, control the growth of entitlement spending, and slow this freight train that is threatening to crush our children's and grandchildren's futures.
   Experts say the most important step you can take is to first admit you have a problem. Well, we've got a big problem. Let's finally admit it and fix it. The question now is, do we have the moral courage to fix it - or, are we too interested in protecting our political hides to do anything? 
   Mr. President, I call to the desk my amendment, Number 469. I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with. 
   Mr. President, I'd also like to call to the desk my other amendment, Number 470. I ask unanimous consent that the reading of the amendment be dispensed with.
  Mr. President, I yield the floor.
 
 