SEN. VOINOVICH WINS APPROVAL FOR GREAT LAKES PROTECTIONS
  The existing ban on oil and gas drilling in the Great Lakes will be extended for two more years and the Great Lakes will now be eligible for funding to research mysterious low oxygen areas known as "dead zones" that kill fish, thanks to the efforts of Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH).  
   Both are measures that Voinovich previously wrote and which he helped secure passage of in the final hours of the 108th Congress. They both now go to the President for his signature. 
   "The Great Lakes are an incredible resource. Their proximity to major urban areas has made them an invaluable resource for drinking water, recreation, and transportation, but they're also a vital habitat for fish and wildlife. Balancing these different roles hasn't always been done well, but thanks to responsible stewardship the Lakes have made an incredible comeback. We need to build on these successes to protect our hard-won gains and these bills do that," said Voinovich. "As a lifelong resident of the North Shore and an avid fisherman, I'm glad to be able to continue the ban on drilling and help improve research on dead zones. These are both critical to protecting the Lakes." 
   Voinovich sponsored the current ban on Great Lakes drilling that was enacted in 2003. The new ban, passed as part of the 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Act, will extend the moratorium to the end of 2007. 
   Dead zone legislation that included Voinovich's Great Lakes provisions was originally passed by the Senate in 2003. It was modified and passed again by the Senate on Friday and by the House on Saturday. It reauthorizes the Harmful Algal Bloom and Hypoxia Research and Control Act of 1998, which expired in 2001, and makes the Great Lakes eligible for research funds originally only provided for research on coastal and marine waters. 
   Algal blooms in the Lakes can cause hypoxia or depleted oxygen levels in water when they die and are decomposed by bacteria. Their decomposition consumes oxygen, creating an environment in which plants and animals cannot survive, often called a dead zone. The Voinovich provisions require and authorize $1 million annually for a scientific assessment of Great Lakes and freshwater harmful algal blooms and include the Great Lakes in a national scientific assessment of hypoxia. 
   Algal blooms have been estimated to cost the U.S. economy as much as $50 million per year due to closure of fisheries and beaches and treatment of human illnesses from exposure to toxins. Voinovich held a field hearing in Cleveland in 2002 to examine hypoxia in Lake Erie. Witnesses indicated the problem is likely due to invasive species, such as the zebra mussel, altering the nutrient mix in the Lakes, but that more research is necessary to understand the problem. 
   Voinovich is a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee which oversees Great Lakes policies.
 
 