SEN. VOINOVICH ANNOUNCES $6.85 MILLION FOR HEALTH, SCIENCE, EDUCATION EFFORTS
  Today Congress sent to the President for his signature legislation that would provide more than $6.85 million for Ohio projects supported by Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH) as part of the 2005 Labor-Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill.  
   "I'm proud to be able to secure funding for these investments in important Ohio programs and institutions. This funding will help improve the quality of life for Ohioans and continue to strengthen our state's reputation as being on the cutting edge of health care, education and research," said Voinovich. 
   Institution Project Description Amount Cleveland 
   The National Center for Regenerative Medicine, 
   Case Western Reserve University/The Cleveland Clinic/University Hospital/Cuyahoga County: The Center will provide a comprehensive and coordinated "bench to bedside" approach to regenerative medicine including basic and clinical research programs, biomedical and tissue engineering programs, and the development and administration of new therapies to patients. Funding will build basic laboratory space and provide the equipment required to recruit 14 outstanding scientists to perform adult stem cell and regenerative medicine research in this area. $4.5 million Cleveland 
   Great Lakes Museum of Science, Environment and Technology Connecting Students to Vital Issues Facing the Great Lakes Region: The project allows the Science Center to create a program for K-12 students to improve students' understanding of the interplay of science, environment and technology in Great Lakes issues. $550,000 Cuyahoga County 
   Early Childhood Initiative, Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners: Cuyahoga County will develop a model to integrate quality learning standards across all regulated child care programs (early head start, head start, family and center based care) for children age 0-5. The goal of the project is to improve the quality of early care providers. $400,000 Lorain County Community College, Learning Technology Center The Center will serve as a digital information resource center for students, laborers and lifelong learners wanting to access education and support services through digital, online programs. $300,000 Washington County 
   Marietta Memorial Hospital, Emergency Department Clinical Decision Unit: The funds will renovate its outdated emergency department and add a Clinical Decision Unit that will be twice the size of the current facility and allow the hospital to improve local and rural health care access. $250,000 Cleveland 
   The MetroHealth System, Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Renovation Project: MetroHealth will renovate its pediatric intensive care unit to expand and update medical technology. $650,000 National Aviation Hall of Fame Project SkyReach. This project will be targeted at K-8 students to encourage the study of the history of flight, science and invention. Funding will be used to create lesson plans and teacher resources based on material from the Hall of Fame that can be easily used with local school's history curriculum. $200,000
 
 