SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE NORTHWEST OHIO DEFENSE PROJECTS INCLUDED IN SENATE FUNDING BILL
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) announced today that the Senate approved $719.45 million in Ohio defense projects for fiscal year 2005.  
   The funds were approved as part of the 2005 Defense Appropriations Bill which now goes to the President for his signature. 
   "Defense preparedness must be a priority in our war on terrorism," said Senator DeWine. "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have secured funding on behalf of Ohio's military installations and projects. We must continue to provide our men and women in the armed forces with the strength and capability necessary in this tumultuous time." "With new challenges to our national security it's more important than ever that our armed forces are ready, equipped, and well-trained. Fundamental to that is making sure our troops have at their disposal the most cutting-edge resources available and these funds help guarantee that by investing heavily in the advanced research and manufacturing that we do so well in Ohio," said Voinovich. 
   The following area projects were included in the bill: University of Toledo, Toledo, Nanocomposite Research - $1.3 million to develop a new approach to the integrated design and manufacturing of polymer nanocomposites and to build a small-scale prototype production facility in which new synthesis, processing and net shape fabrication technologies are developed and fine tuned with the use of existing commercial and business components. 
   Brush Wellman, Ottawa, Beryllium Supply Industrial Base - $3 million for the preliminary design of a new primary beryllium facility. Beryllium plays a key role in numerous defense systems but the domestic supply of beryllium is in danger of being depleted by 2009 because Brush Wellman, the only domestic supplier, had closed its primary metal production facility. 
   Mueller Industries, Inc., Upper Sandusky, Copper-based Casting Technology - $1.2 million to utilize copper technologies to create new production lines for parts which will result in significant energy savings, manufacturing costs, weight, and commercial viability to support defense readiness. 
   Toledo Air National Guard, Toledo, Engines for Block 42 F-16s - $21 million to upgrade F-16 engines, including those used by the Toledo Air National Guard. 
   Statewide, Metals Affordability Initiative - $7.5 million to research and improve advanced aerospace metals manufacturing processes to reduce costs and maintain the competitiveness of domestic manufacturers. Participating organizations include Brush Wellman, Edison Welding Institute, GE Engines, The Ohio State University, and RTI Titanium. 
   Nationwide, Lockheed Martin, C-5 In-Service Modifications - $103.1 million for the procurement of 12 AMP kits that replace several difficult to maintain components and upgrade C-5 cockpits with modern avionics and flight instrumentation. Nationwide, US Naval Sea Cadet Corps, Operational Funding - $1.7 million to provide operational funding for the Cadet program, aimed at the development of young men and women ages 11 to 17 years old, by promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation and instilling qualities in Cadets that mold strong moral character and self-discipline.
 
 