SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE NORTHEAST OHIO DEFENSE PROJECTS INCLUDED IN SENATE FUNDING BILL
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) announced today that the Senate approved $719.45 million in Ohio defense projects for fiscal year 2005. 
   The funds were approved as part of the 2005 Defense Appropriations Bill which now goes to the President for his signature.  
   "Defense preparedness must be a priority in our war on terrorism," said Senator DeWine. "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have secured funding on behalf of Ohio's military installations and projects. We must continue to provide our men and women in the armed forces with the strength and capability necessary in this tumultuous time." "With new challenges to our national security it's more important than ever that our armed forces are ready, equipped, and well-trained. Fundamental to that is making sure our troops have at their disposal the most cutting-edge resources available and these funds help guarantee that by investing heavily in the advanced research and manufacturing that we do so well in Ohio," said Voinovich. 
   The following area projects were included in the bill: 
   IGR Enterprises, Inc., Cuyahoga County, Portable Oxygen Generator - $1 million to develop a lightweight, portable, rechargeable-battery-powered solid-state, electrochemical oxygen generator. The device has demonstrated its effectiveness in a laboratory setting and is ready for final development into a field-portable, ruggedized version for deployment. Oxygen administration can save the life of a combat casualty, especially when administered during the hour following the combat injury. Prompt oxygen administration before and during evacuation of the wounded, in conjunction with a field-viable respirator, lessens the mortality of combat casualties by about 20 percent. The U.S. Army Medical Research Acquisition Activity at Fort Detrick has worked with IGR on the product. 
   Goodyear, Akron, Aircraft Tire Research - $1.25 million to research new materials for joint strike fighter aircraft tires. 
   Timken, Canton, Advanced Electric Drive - $1.5 million to develop new electric wheel and axle designs for military vehicles that can measure conditions in the parts that lead to breakdown and failure, thereby improving overall engine and vehicle efficiency. 
   Timken, Canton, Hybrid Bearing - $1.4 million to develop special surface coatings that will extend bearing life by reducing friction and improving resistance to wear and corrosion under demanding engine operating conditions. 
   RFD Beaufort (formerly Inflatable Survival Systems Inc.), Medina, Life Raft Procurement - $2 million to procure 25-person life rafts for use on US Navy surface ships. 
   Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Minimally Invasive Approaches to Surgery - $2.1 million for the National Center for Minimally Invasive Surgery to develop improved technologies to facilitate the use of such techniques in more procedures, moving them from the operating room to an outpatient setting. Minimally invasive surgery techniques challenge the hand-eye coordination of surgeons, requiring them to develop unique and unnatural skills that are frequently exacerbated by reliance on a television screen to view their work. By losing a sense of spatial relationships, the surgeon must create a 3-D mental image in order to navigate through the surgical cavity. 
   Energizer, Cleveland, Manganese Health Research Program - $2.25 million for a three-year study of health risks of manganese and proper safeguard measures. Current research is incomplete into this common component of steel making, welding, batteries and gasoline. 
   Alcoa, Cuyahoga County, Army Lightweight Structures Initiative - $2.8 million to Alcoa to help develop and demonstrate cost-effective lightweight vehicle structures needed for the Future Combat Systems Manned Combat Vehicles program. 
   STERIS, Cleveland, Biological/Chemical Attack Response - $3.6 million to field test vaporous hydrogen peroxide systems and processes for use in biological and chemical attack response efforts. The technology has broad potential for defense-wide applications, as well as homeland security and commercial uses. 
   Lockheed Martin, Akron, F-16 simulators for Air National Guard - $4.9 million to develop a flight simulator system for Air National Guard pilots that can network with their active duty counterparts' simulator system and provide a comparable mission training capability. The Guard's 578 F-16s represent 52 percent of all Air Force F-16s. 
   Rockwell Automation, Mayfield Heights, Carrier Weapons Elevator Automation - $3.4 million for the removal of existing aircraft carrier weapons elevators on the aircraft carriers USS Theodore Roosevelt, Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, John C. Stennis, and Harry S. Truman. They will be replaced with state-of-the-art control automation platforms that would greatly increase their ability to deliver ordnance from weapons storage areas to aircraft in a timely, efficient and safe manner. 
   Rockwell Automation, Mayfield Heights, Engineering Controls and Monitoring System - $1 million to develop technologies for the frigate ship-class using sensors and software-based controllers to monitor the status of critical shipboard spaces, and which control the operations of various shipboard systems that are vital to operations. 
   Ashlawn Group/Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Fuel Cells for Munitions - $1 million for the development of PEM (polymer electrolyte membrane) fuel cells for munitions to meet the 20-year shelf life required by the military. It is estimated that this project will generate more than 100 jobs in Ohio in the next 24 months. 
   Ideal Electric, Mansfield, High Temperature Superconductor AC Synchronous Navy Propulsion Motor - $3.5 million to further the U.S. Navy's mission to develop high temperature superconductor motors for its future electrically propelled ships. 
   Statewide, Metals Affordability Initiative - $7.5 million to research and improve advanced aerospace metals manufacturing processes to reduce costs and maintain the competitiveness of domestic manufacturers. Participating organizations include Brush Wellman, Edison Welding Institute, GE Engines, The Ohio State University, and RTI Titanium. 
   Nationwide, Lockheed Martin, C-5 In-Service Modifications - $103.1 million for the procurement of 12 AMP kits that replace several difficult to maintain components and upgrade C-5 cockpits with modern avionics and flight instrumentation. Nationwide, US Naval Sea Cadet Corps, Operational Funding - $1.7 million to provide operational funding for the Cadet program, aimed at the development of young men and women ages 11 to 17 years old, by promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation and instilling qualities in Cadets that mold strong moral character and self-discipline.
 
 