SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE SOUTHWEST OHIO DEFENSE PROJECTS INCLUDED IN SENATE FUNDING BILL
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) announced today that the Senate approved $719.45 million in Ohio defense projects for fiscal year 2005.  
   The funds were approved as part of the 2005 Defense Appropriations Bill which now goes to the President for his signature. 
   "Defense preparedness must be a priority in our war on terrorism," said Senator DeWine. "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have secured funding on behalf of Ohio's military installations and projects. We must continue to provide our men and women in the armed forces with the strength and capability necessary in this tumultuous time." "With new challenges to our national security it's more important than ever that our armed forces are ready, equipped, and well-trained. Fundamental to that is making sure our troops have at their disposal the most cutting-edge resources available and these funds help guarantee that by investing heavily in the advanced research and manufacturing that we do so well in Ohio," said Voinovich. 
   The following area projects were included in the bill: 
   O'Gara-Hess & Eisenhardt Armoring Company, Fairfield, Up-Armored HMMWVs -$587 million for additional Up-Armored HMMWV (Humvees) for the Air Force, Army and Marines to help improve safety and protection for military/security personnel, special operations, and scout units currently in the Middle East and throughout the rest of the world. Currently, there's an increased demand for this vehicle, and this appropriation would increase its output rate of its multi-year contract with the U.S. Army through 2007 to satisfy those demands. 
   Intermec Technologies Corp., Butler County, Arsenal/Depot AIT Initiative - $5.6 million to expand the Army arsenal and maintenance depot inventory process by utilizing commercial, off-the-shelf (COTS) programs and equipment to enhance the productivity and permit efficient operations. 
   GE Aircraft Engines, Evendale, High Powered Electrical Aircraft Capabilities (HiPEAC) - $6.5 million to provide studies for optimal Military Electric Power and Propulsion systems, subsystems, and component technologies that can satisfy the emerging capability requirements of advanced high-powered aerospace applications. 
   Northrop Grumman-Xetron, Cincinnati, Covert SIGNIT for Urban Warfare - $1.5 million to Northrop Grumman-Xetron to develop the XR-2000 Receiving System, which will be used by the Marine Corps Radio Reconnaissance Equipment Program to assist with signals intelligence (SIGNIT). The XR-2000 can detect very low power emissions and assist in developing countermeasures to hostile forces attempting to target coalition and U.S. personnel. 
   CMC Electronics, Cincinnati, Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle - $4.2 million to acquire the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV), which will be used as the principal means of tactical surface mobility for Marine Air Group Task Force during both ship-to-objective maneuvers and other combat operations ashore. 
   Statewide, Metals Affordability Initiative - $7.5 million to research and improve advanced aerospace metals manufacturing processes to reduce costs and maintain the competitiveness of domestic manufacturers. Participating organizations include Brush Wellman, Edison Welding Institute, GE Engines, The Ohio State University, and RTI Titanium. 
   Nationwide, Lockheed Martin, C-5 In-Service Modifications - $103.1 million for the procurement of 12 AMP kits that replace several difficult to maintain components and upgrade C-5 cockpits with modern avionics and flight instrumentation. Nationwide, US Naval Sea Cadet Corps, Operational Funding - $1.7 million to provide operational funding for the Cadet program, aimed at the development of young men and women ages 11 to 17 years old, by promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation and instilling qualities in Cadets that mold strong moral character and self-discipline.
 
 