SEN. VOINOVICH VOTES AGAINST BUDGET RESOLUTION, FOR FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the Senate's top "debt hawk," today voted against passage of S. Con. Res. 21, the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Resolution. His vote represents his opposition to Congress continuing to ignore America 's dire fiscal problems by using smoke and mirrors to mask long-term challenges.
   "Neither Republicans nor Democrats have offered a budget that even comes close to re-establishing our fiscal sanity," Sen. Voinovich said. "The Democrats actually increase the national debt by $2.4 trillion over five years. We must stop this charade once and for all. Both sides of the aisle have a clear, moral obligation to improve the fiscal health of our nation. And it starts with formulating a fair and honest budget."  
   The Budget Resolution voted on in the Senate today uses egregious tricks to give the appearance of a responsible budget by:
   1. Allowing for a dramatic increase in entitlement spending through the use of more than 20 reserve funds that are not included in the overall budget totals;
   2. Hiding increases in discretionary spending through the use of seven Cap Adjustments - appropriations for seven favored programs and agencies will not count toward the budget limit as if they don't even exist;
   3. Allowing for unlimited emergency spending, although a great deal of the spending that is currently designated as "emergency" is actually quite regular and predictable;
   4. Claiming that at least $400 billion in revenue will be collected from "closing the tax gap," or collecting more of the taxes that are currently owed but not paid. The fact is, this is much more difficult than they make it sound. The president's proposal to collect just 2 percent of this $400 billion resulted in cries from small businesses that the new administrative and compliance burdens would overwhelm them. These taxes should be collected, but if it was as easy as the Democrats make it sound, we would have found the money to fix the AMT years ago; and
   5. After a decade of Democrats calling for 10-year budgets because five-year budgets hide our long-term problems, Democrats are now settling for a five-year budget that continues to cover up the gathering fiscal storm looming on our horizon.
   "There is a serious lack of transparency in this budget resolution," Sen. Voinovich said. "There are gaping loopholes that the majority can exploit to cause spending and deficits to rise much higher than the budget resolution claims."
   Sen. Voinovich offered an amendment to the resolution this week which was passed by unanimous consent. His amendment requires that Congressional Budget Office (CBO) cost estimates of legislation include interest costs, forcing transparency and shedding light on the real effects of spending and tax cuts on the budget. Currently, every time new entitlement spending or tax cuts are enacted - and are financed through additional borrowing - the level of interest payments the government has to make on its debt increases. Those new interest costs represent additional government spending. Yet, CBO cost estimates ignore the effect of these interest payments on spending and the national debt. 
   "I am pleased that my colleagues at least agreed to fix this one loophole," Sen. Voinovich said. "Unfortunately, this is only one of many loopholes that remain in this budget. Experts say the most important step you can take is to first admit you have a problem. Well, we've got a big problem. Let's finally admit it and fix it. The question now is, do we have the moral courage to fix it - or, are we too interested in protecting our political hides to do anything?" 
   Fiscal Reality Check-Startling Statistics:
   * As Baby Boomers begin to retire just over nine months from now, we face a long-term fiscal imbalance of $50 trillion. That translates into $440,000 of future government debt for every American household - up from a mere $175,000 per household just six years ago.
   * Forty years ago, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid accounted for 3 percent of GDP. Today, they're up to 9 percent. In another 40 years, they'll be up to 18 percent - equal to total federal revenues and crowding out all other spending.
   * Since 1999, the national debt has increased from $5.6 trillion in 2000 to $8.6 trillion today - an increase of more than 50 percent in just seven years. This amounts to $29,000 of debt for every American.
   * 55 percent of the privately owned national debt is held by foreign creditors, including the Chinese government. That is up from 35 percent just five years ago. 
   * These numbers - which represent our past behavior - pale in comparison with the budget problems looming in our future as the Baby Boom generation begins to retire less than a year from now.
 
 