SEN. VOINOVICH FIGHTING FOR SENIORS
  Late yesterday, Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and six other senators sent the following letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding the implementation of the Medicare durable medical equipment, competitive bidding program thus far and its implications for Medicare beneficiaries who rely on oxygen, wheelchairs and other durable medical equipment to maintain their quality of life.
   Round one of a new competitive bidding program will be implemented in 10 cities nationwide, including areas of Cincinnati, Cleveland and Southeastern Ohio, and aims to save money for the Medicare program by limiting the amount of suppliers available to seniors for these goods. In Ohio alone, the program will affect almost 540,000 seniors. These Medicare beneficiaries have come to rely on the longstanding relationship they have with their durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies (DMEPOS) providers. Beginning July 1, many of these elderly individuals may be faced with obtaining services, equipment and supplies from multiple new suppliers, interrupting their lives and causing confusion for some of our most vulnerable citizens. Please see below for the letter: 
   April 23, 2008
  The Honorable Michael O. Leavitt
  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
  200 Independence Avenue, SW
  Washington, D.C. 20201
   Dear Secretary Leavitt:
   We write to bring to your attention our ongoing concerns with the durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS) competitive bidding program and ask that you join us in a personal meeting to discuss the program's status and next steps. Our overall concern is the implementation of the program thus far and its implications for Medicare beneficiaries receiving high quality health care. Our request is for resolution of these issues before moving ahead with future rounds of the program.
   Our first concern is the alleged discrepancies between information submitted by bidders and received by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). We have all heard from long-standing companies in our states who have offered quality homecare services for decades, but who have been excluded from the bidding program, apparently through no fault of their own. The vast majority of rejected bidders were informed that they had not submitted sufficient financial information, when in many cases, bidders have evidence they had. In other examples, reputable home oxygen providers were disqualified for allegedly bidding too low on certain individual Medicare codes, while other providers based outside the market area were offered contracts for similarly-priced bids.
   A second concern is the reports of companies receiving bids for areas thousands of miles away from their headquarters, which the companies have never before served. Maybe those companies will be able to quickly subcontract with local homecare providers, but we are worried the winning companies do not have enough time to set up those contracts by July 1, 2008.
   Finally, we are seeking more transparency from CMS as to how bidders' financial information and service capacity were evaluated and how the single payment amount was calculated. We have heard about numerous data anomalies and believe this information is key to the bidding program's success. At the very least an internal review should be done to ensure the accuracy and effectiveness of the criteria for future bidding.
   Almost four million Medicare beneficiaries will be impacted by Round 1 of the competitive bidding program. We all agree that it is of the utmost importance that we protect access to quality medical supplies for all of our seniors. As such, we hope to have a conversation with you about our outstanding concerns and a discussion about potentially delaying the program until all of the issues can be addressed. Our offices will be in touch with your staff about scheduling this meeting in the next several days.
 
 