SENATE APPROVES SEN. VOINOVICH'S REFORMS TO COLD WAR-ERA DEFENSE WORKERS COMPENSATION PROGRAM
  The U.S. Senate has approved reforms sponsored by Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH) to speed up the process of providing compensation and medical benefits to Cold War-era defense workers made sick by their exposure to dangerous materials during their employment  
   The legislation was part of the 2005 Department of Defense Authorization Bill which passed by a vote of 97-0 late last night. Specifically this legislation would help solve problems with the program, known as the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA), that have delayed the delivery of benefits to workers who need them. Voinovich helped created the program in 2001. 
   "The Cold War was won by the men and women who toiled away in our defense plants making the weapons that enforced the peace. While the compensation program has provided overdue compensation for many of those who contracted terrible illnesses from the materials they worked with, it has failed others. Agencies have had a chance to make it work but there are clearly some serious problems that need legislative fixes and this legislation will make the needed changes so workers can get the compensation they deserve," said Voinovich. 
   In the fall of 2003, after almost two full years of running the program, the U.S. Department of Energy had approved benefits in only 45 cases out of 18,823 applications filed-an approval rate of 0.2 percent. By June 3 these numbers had improved only minutely to 230 approvals of 24,354 applications, an approval rate of .9 percent. This still lags far behind the Department of Labor which, in its portion of the program, reported on June 4 having approved 13,132 of 54,888 applications-an approval rate of 24 percent. More than 16,000 applications were still undergoing further review. 
   To help solve the problem, the legislation would take oversight of the program away from the Dept. of Energy and consolidate it at the Dept. of Labor, which already runs the similar federal government workers compensation program. The reform legislation would also provide a guaranteed federal funding source for benefit payments instead of leaving payment up to DOE contractors and state workers compensation programs. 
   Voinovich was a lead sponsor of the original bill creating EEOICPA, which was signed into law by the President in 2001. The two parts of the program administered by the Department of Labor provide $150,000 in cash benefits, as well as medical care, to workers with radiation-induced cancer or beryllium disease contracted as a result of their work in defense-connected weapons facilities. Surviving family members can receive cash benefits also. A portion of the program administered by the Department of Energy assists sick workers in applying for state workers compensation benefits. 
   Having already passed the U.S. House of Representatives, the DOD Authorization Bill now heads to a joint House-Senate conference committee where the different versions of the bill will be reconciled before going to the President for his signature.
 
 