SEN. VOINOVICH ADDRESSES 2005 GAO HIGH-RISK SERIES PRESS CONFERENCE
  SPEECH: STATEMENT FOR PRESS CONFERENCE, 2005 GAO HIGH-RISK SERIES, WASHINGTON, DC
   Good morning. Thank you all for coming. [I am Senator Voinovich, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management and the Federal Workforce.] I am very glad to join my colleagues and would like to thank Senator Collins and Senator Lieberman for hosting this press conference.  
   I would also like to thank Comptroller General David Walker for his leadership and guidance on transforming the federal government. I have enjoyed working with David over the past six years. 
   Today's release of the GAO High-Risk Series continues an important tradition dating back to 1990. Since that time, GAO's work has provided a roadmap for reforming the operations of the federal government. 
   I was particularly pleased when GAO labeled Strategic Human Capital Management as high-risk in 2001. This designation helped spur an unprecedented level of Congressional action on civil service reform. 
   I would be remiss if I did not express my deep appreciation to Comptroller General Walker and his entire team, including GAO's Managing Director of Strategic Issues, Chris Mihm, for their unprecedented level of involvement in this reform effort. 
    Despite our progress, I agree with the Comptroller General's decision to leave human capital management on the 2005 high-risk list. Removing human capital from the high-risk list will require continued executive branch commitment and extensive Congressional oversight. 
   Congress has a duty to ensure that agencies use the flexibilities they have been granted and that strategic human capital planning is institutionalized in the executive branch. If agencies are not using new flexibilities or conducting workforce planning, we must find out why and what can be done to improve the situation. 
   Therefore, my Oversight Subcommittee will hold hearings on the new personnel flexibilities granted to the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security, as well as the new authorities that have been provided governmentwide. David, I may also hold an oversight hearing of GAO to see how you are using the flexibilities we gave you last year! 
   Clearly there is room for further improvement, and I am committed to working with all interested groups to address the federal government's human capital challenges. 
   Speaking of the high-risk list generally, I find it discouraging that this year marks the fifteenth anniversary for six high-risk areas. Unfortunately, this anniversary is not something worth celebrating. 
   As Chairman of the Government Management Oversight Subcommittee, it is difficult to overlook programs that have been on the high-risk list since its inception. I will hold a hearing on the GAO High-Risk Series next month and will hold follow-up hearings on specific high-risk program areas later this year. 
   Thank you again for coming today, and I now turn it back to Senator Collins.
 
 