SENS. VOINOVICH, BROWN ANNOUNCE NEW VA CLINICS COMING TO OHIO
  On Friday, May 25, Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) announced that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will open new community-based outpatient clinics in Parma and Hamilton. The new clinics will enhance access to quality health care for Ohio's veterans. 
   "Building these new clinics takes us one step closer to ensuring we keep our promise to our nation's veterans," Sen. Voinovich said. "The new facilities will help the VA provide better care closer to home. While we can never fully repay our veterans for their service, it is critical that we continue supporting programs that improve their quality of life."
   "Access to veterans' health care remains a major hurdle, but these new clinics are a step in the right direction." Sen. Brown said. "I look forward to working with the VA as a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, to continue to improve access to care for Ohio's veterans."
   The facilities, called community-based outpatient clinics, or CBOCs, will become operational in 2007 and 2008. Local VA officials will keep communities and their veterans informed of milestones in the creation of the new CBOCs.
   "VA is committed to providing world-class health care to the men and women who have served this nation," VA Secretary Jim Nicholson said. "These new clinics will bring VA's top-notch care closer to the veterans who have earned it."
   The senators have been long-time advocates of better VA care in Ohio. The new outpatient clinics in Parma and Hamilton will be part of a 30-mile radius initiative, guaranteeing that every veteran in Ohio is within 30 miles of a VA Primary Medical Care Center for regular doctor visits. The Parma facility is projected to have 3,700 visits annually and 5,000 at Hamilton.
   With 153 hospitals and more than 700 community-based clinics, VA operates the largest integrated health care system in the country. VA's health care budget of more than $34 billion this year will provide health care to about 5.5 million people during nearly 800,000 hospitalizations and 60 million outpatient visits. The clinic was among 38 approved in 22 states by the VA.
 
 