SEN. VOINOVICH VOTES TO FUND TROOPS
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) voted for passage of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007, which provides vital funding for our troops fighting the War on Terror. The bill also keeps Congress's promise to our military men and women by restoring funding for Ohio 's vital BRAC projects. This funding was stripped from the Continuing Resolution (C.R.) earlier this year by Democrats who used it to fund other programs. 
   "I am pleased that we have kept our promise to our troops and are providing them with funding crucial to success in Iraq and Afghanistan ," Sen. Voinovich said. "I am also elated that our work to restore BRAC funding has paid off. After BRAC was shortchanged in the final version of the C.R., I worked with the Ohio delegation to ensure that Congress was held to the commitment it made when it passed the BRAC legislation. We can no longer delay the implementation of BRAC recommendations that will benefit Ohio tremendously."
   After BRAC funding was cut in the C.R., Sen. Voinovich sent a letter to Senate leaders demanding they keep their promise to our military men and women and replace the missing funding in the supplemental. He also sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates urging him to fully fund Ohio 's vital BRAC projects with the funds included in the C.R.
   Although Sen. Voinovich is pleased that a compromise was reached on vital troop funding, he is disappointed that the $120 billion bill contains about $15 billion in funding for domestic programs and pet projects unrelated to the War on Terror. 
   "The majority of this funding is vital to keeping our commitments in the War on Terror, and I was hopeful that my colleagues would refrain from using this supplemental as a charge card for unrelated projects. Unfortunately, I was wrong," Sen. Voinovich said. "The sooner we realize we can't have it all, the better. We've spent $620 billion and every dime of it has been borrowed on the backs of our children and grandchildren. It is time to honestly account for our war costs and non-war costs and decide how we're going to pay for them - whether that means cutting spending or raising revenue.
   "I'm also pleased this bill adds critical benchmarks to measure our success, or, lack thereof, in Iraq. We must let the Iraqi government know that, while we're not going to set arbitrary timetables, we also aren't going to be there indefinitely. It's time we start measuring success and holding the Iraqi government accountable for the future of its country."
 
 