APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION REAUTHORIZATION BILL PASSES SENATE
  Late last night, the U.S. Senate passed S. 2832, vital legislation to reauthorize the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) at $510.9 million over five years. Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee, introduced the bill in May. 
   "Today's passage is great news for the 13 Appalachian states depending on ARC funding to fully achieve their economic potential," Sen. Voinovich said. "I am pleased that my colleagues realize the reauthorization of ARC is necessary to build upon the region's already tremendous successes. This is one of my top priorities, and I'm hopeful the House will act on it soon. As we move forward, I will continue to work to ensure that Appalachia's economic needs are met and quality of life is improved for the 23 million people who live and work in Appalachian states."  
   In April, Senator Voinovich held a field hearing in Marietta, Ohio, to hear testimony on the impact of the last reauthorization of the ARC and to examine how ARC has made a difference in people's lives. After the hearing, he spent two days traveling around Appalachian Ohio and was extremely impressed with the wonderful strides being made in the region as a result of ARC investments in technology, workforce training, and economic development. 
   ARC plays a key role in fostering economic development and improving quality of life for the 23 million people who live and work in Appalachia. The proposed legislation creates the designation of economically "at risk" counties and provides an appropriate federal matching rate for ARC-funded projects in those counties. Since ARC's inception, the region's poverty rate has been cut in half (from 31 percent to 13 percent), the infant mortality rate has been reduced by two-thirds and the percentage of adults with high school education has increased by over 70 percent. The legislation is co-sponsored by Senator DeWine (R-OH), Senator Clinton (D-NY), Senator Warner (R-VA), Senator Lott (R-MS), Senator Burr (R-NC), Senator Allen (R-VA) and Senator Dole (R-NC). 
   Key elements of the legislation: 
   Renews the Appalachian Regional Commission for five years (2007 - 2011). The agency's current authorization expires September 30, 2006. The proposed legislation is the same length as the bipartisan authorization Congress approved in 2002. 
   Authorizes the Commission for five years at the following levels: 2007: $95.2 million 2008: $98.6 million 2009: $102 million 2010: $105.7 million 2011: $109.4 million 
   The bill directs the Commission annually to designate those counties that are "at risk" of becoming economically distressed. These counties have fragile economies that are just on the cusp of meeting the criteria for being designated as distressed. The Commission itself recently adopted this targeting classification. The legislation would codify the Commission's existing practice. 
   Permits ARC to fund projects in the "at risk" counties at up to 70 percent of the cost of the project. Under current law, these projects may only be funded at 50 percent (the match rate for most ARC counties), while projects in designated distressed counties can be funded at 80 percent of the project costs. This provision reflects the special needs of "at risk" counties. 
   Continues all existing programmatic authorities, including the special program in telecommunications and technology. The bill proposes no changes in ARC's general programs, nor does it create any new authorities because of the strong history of accomplishment. 
   During his first term in the Senate, Sen. Voinovich authored the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 2002 (S. 1206), which was signed by the president on March 12, 2002. The bill reauthorized the economic development efforts of the Appalachian Regional Commission, providing $446 million over five years for these efforts and enacted a new, Voinovich-created technology initiative to help improve the region's telecommunication infrastructure and help businesses and residents take better advantage of e-commerce opportunities.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 