SEN. VOINOVICH ANNOUNCES NEARLY $1 MILLION TO CINCINNATI UNDERGROUND RAILROAD MUSEUM
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced that the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center received a grant in the amount of $989,100 from the U.S. Department of Education through its Underground Railroad Educational and Cultural Program (URR).  
  "I'm pleased the Center is getting the resources necessary to do this important work," Sen. Voinovich said. "The Center's commitment to educating future generations on this chapter of our history is imperative to our nation's progress. Only with an understanding of our history can young people become active and informed Americans." 
  In July, Sen. Voinovich successfully included a separate bill to reauthorize the Underground Railroad Educational and Cultural Grant Program in the Senate-passed Higher Education Act reauthorization bill. It passed the Senate 95-0. The House has yet to pass its version. 
  Cincinnati 's National Underground Railroad Freedom Center strives to put the Underground Railroad's history into concrete, human terms for visitors of all ages and races. The Center features exhibits, story theaters and public programs which aide patrons in uncovering, preserving and disseminating the legends and lessons embedded in the Railroad's history. 
  The grant provided by the URR will specifically serve in the education effort. Specifically, it will support Freedom Station activities, including a public access website archival digitization, and make possible regional and national outreach conferences. The funding will be available to the Center for the next three years. 
  The purpose of the URR is to facilitate the establishment of centers to house, display and interpret artifacts related to the history of the Underground Railroad. Additionally, the URR strives to make interpretive efforts available to institutions of higher education.
  For more information, please contact the U.S. Department of Education at (202) 401-1028.
 
 