SEN. VOINOVICH'S ISSUES STATEMENT ON RELEASE OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS COMMITTEE REPORT ON FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO KATRINA
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) made the following statement today on the release of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee report titled Hurricane Katrina: A Nation Still Unprepared:  
   "Hurricane Katrina exposed the strengths and deficiencies in the preparation and response of all levels of government to a catastrophic natural disaster. The report Hurricane Katrina: A Nation Still Unprepared, issued by Senators Collins and Lieberman represents a thorough and exhaustive review by the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. I applaud their efforts. As a senior member of the Committee and the Chairman of the Oversight of Government Management Subcommittee, I look forward to reviewing the report in its entirety. 
   Ever since the bungled response to Hurricane Katrina, I have felt strongly that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) needs to undergo major reforms if it is going to execute its mission effectively and have the confidence of the American people. I appreciate that this report makes bold recommendations to improve the preparedness and response capabilities of the Department of Homeland Security. I look forward to reviewing the legislation that will embody the recommendations to establish the National Preparedness and Response Authority, a revitalized and strengthened agency to replace FEMA; regional Strike Teams to provide for a more rapid and comprehensive response; a National Operations Center to strengthen command and control in a crisis; and the other far reaching reforms called for by the report. 
   Hurricane Katrina has shown us that we have serious needs for the repair and improvement of our nation's aging infrastructure and waterway systems. The desperate conditions these systems currently endure are impacting our economy, the environment, and the welfare of the American people. I am pleased that this report recommends that the Interagency Performance Evaluation Taskforce (IPET), along with the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), should have an ongoing responsibility to evaluate and review the design, construction, operation, reconstruction, and improvements to the levee system in Southeast Louisiana. I am also pleased that the report states that the independent review task forces should be extended to other levee systems that protect significant population centers throughout the country. We must continue to move forward in making certain our nation is prepared for future disasters. We have learned much from past mistakes and are now on the path to making certain we do not repeat them. 
   I am confident that the Committee will proceed with any legislative reforms in a thoughtful manner. I look forward to learning the views of Secretary Chertoff and his staff at the Department of Homeland Security on these recommendations. As a former government executive at the local and state level, I am keenly aware of the necessity for input by the men and women who will actually be responsible for implementing new structures, organizations and operating procedures. Their views, as well as the views of the broader emergency management community and other stakeholders, will be vital to the Committee's deliberations."
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 