SEN. VOINOVICH CONTINUES FIGHT AGAINST UNFUNDED MANDATES
  Today, at a hearing on the EPA's FY2009 budget at 10 a.m., U.S. Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Environment and Public Works Committee, will continue his fight against unfunded mandates on water and sewer infrastructure that threaten to financially cripple cities in Ohio and across the nation who can't afford to comply without flexibility and funding assistance. While cities are forced to comply with federal regulations or face federal fines, the funding is nearly nonexistent - making these regulations unfunded mandates.
   The proposed 2009 budget cuts funding to the Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund to $555 million - the lowest funding level in the program's history. Sen. Voinovich would like to increase the budget to $1.35 billion to ensure Washington isn't forcing cities into bankruptcy. The cost for Ohio's cities is estimated to be nearly $12 billion. That's more than 10 times what the entire nation received in funding to help comply with these mandates. These costs - which are often larger than a small city's entire yearly budget - are incurred by cities and passed along to taxpayers. 
   Please see below for Sen. Voinovich's opening statement from today's hearing as well as a letter he sent to EPA Administrator Stephen Johnson on the 11th.. Thanks, Chris. 
   OPENING STATEMENT
  SENATOR GEORGE V. VOINOVICH
  Committee on Environment and Public Works
  Hearing on the Environmental Protection Agency's FY2009 budget
  February 27, 2008
  Mrs. Chairman, thank you for calling this hearing on the budget of the Environmental Protection Agency. I would like to thank Administrator Johnson for being here.
  As a former Governor and Mayor, I know firsthand the enormous challenges that you have to address when crafting a budget. This is a process that requires responsible prioritizing and fiscal discipline to avoid breaking the bank.
  And this leads me to a point I've made time and time again: We must find a way to balance our nation's environmental, energy and economic policies. It might make us feel good to set lofty environmental goals, but those goals do little good when they are unachievable due to practical or economic considerations. They are even less good when they impose economic hardship to those who can't comply.
  The issue of unfunded mandates is a problem that is pervasive throughout government, but nowhere more so than in environmental regulation. At best, standards are set with little consideration as to how they will be met. At worst, standards are set without regard to the costs of compliance. The national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) and the Clean Water Act are prime examples of this disconnect between our policy objectives and a case study in unintended consequences.
  Leaving a discussion of the standards setting process to another day, I will simply say that if we set environmental standards, we must be ready, as a government, to help communities meet those standards.
  In regard to this year's budget proposal, I am concerned about funding for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act (DERA). DERA was designed to help meet our nation's air quality standards by reducing emissions from the nation's legacy fleet of over 11 million diesel engines. DERA authorized $1 billion over a five year period ($200 million annually). Properly funded, and leveraging match requirements for state and local governments at a ratio of $2 to $1, EPA estimated that DERA had the potential to contribute to a 70,000 ton reduction in PM emissions and generate $20 billion in economic and health benefits.
   You have requested $49.2 million for FY09 - in what will be the third year of a five year program. I can't stress enough the need for increasing DERA funding as we begin the appropriations process. DERA is a well balanced policy to reduce air emissions and it would be a shame to let the program sunset before its benefits can be fully realized.
   I am also disappointed to see that the administration's proposed funding for the Great Lakes Legacy Act is $35 million for FY2009. This is a significant decrease from the $49.6 million that the administration proposed two years ago. This program shows results - hundreds of thousands of cubic yards of contaminated sediments have been removed from the Great Lakes - and I strongly encourage you to work to increase funding for this program.
   Administrator, working with the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration, you have worked to make the restoration and protection of the lakes a priority at EPA. As co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, I am eager to find ways to improve the Collaboration's efforts and ensure the Great Lakes programs, like the Legacy Act, receive the funding they need to be successful. 
   As a member of this Committee, I have sought to bring attention to the nation's wastewater infrastructure needs. But as with previous years, EPA's budget is woefully inadequate. In fact, your request represents the lowest funding level in the program's history!
  Continued cuts to the SRF program - when EPA estimates the nation's need for wastewater treatment and collection at $193.5 billion - makes no sense. This especially concerns me because my state of Ohio has one of the largest needs in the nation at $11.7 billion.
   Here are a number of examples from Ohio alone: The city of Defiance, which has a population of 17,000 and recently lost 950 auto industry jobs, is required to spend $60 million over 20 years to fix the city's combined sewer overflow problems. In response, the city is being forced to double its rates. The city of Fostoria, population of 14,000, is facing a $35 million project. This city has lost 10 percent of its jobs over the past two years, in part due to their increasing water rates. They are being forced to increase their rates by $100 per year over the next 15 years. EPA is requiring the city of Fremont, population of 26,000 people (49 percent are considered low-income), to spend $63 million. Their rate increases will be 150 percent.
   EPA is simply not stepping up to the plate to assist the thousands of communities across the country facing substantial costs to comply with EPA orders. I must tell you that from my experience as a former mayor, county commissioner, and governor, I consider this to be an unfunded mandate. 
   Administrator, we are asking our communities to do the impossible. If the federal government is going to impose these costly mandates on struggling state and local governments, then it should provide funding and flexibility for compliance with those mandates.
   Again, I would like to thank you for your attendance today, and I look forward to hearing your thoughts on these issues. Thank you, Mrs. Chairman.
   February 11, 2008
   The Honorable Stephen Johnson
  Administrator
  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
  Ariel Rios Building
  1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20460
   Dear Administrator Johnson:
   I write today out of concern and frustration that we are facing an environmental and public health crisis in this country when it comes to water infrastructure. This is an issue that has been a long-standing concern of mine, and one that frankly, I feel is not being adequately prioritized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
   I have been interested in this subject for over 20 years. While mayor of the city of Cleveland, I experienced firsthand the difficulties in finding funding for water infrastructure. As governor, I successfully worked with Congress to rewrite the Safe Drinking Water Act that gave state and local governments more power in protecting their water supply and continually fought for legislation to further support and improve the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. As Senator, I have continually supported legislation to reauthorize the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and to increase funding for this important program.
   Last September, I attended an Environment and Public Works Subcommittee hearing called "Meeting America's Wastewater Infrastructure Needs in the 21st Century." At the hearing, I stressed my concern about the lack of funding for water and wastewater infrastructure projects to fulfill mandates from EPA. Many communities in Ohio and across the nation do not have the fiscal capacity or the federal aid needed to upgrade their water and wastewater systems as mandated by EPA.
   New reports have shed additionally light on the crisis. As you know, the recently released Clean Watersheds Needs Survey 2004 estimates the national needs for the wastewater treatment and collection at $193.5 billion. Ohio ranks as having one of the largest wastewater treatment collection needs at $11.7 billion. Only New York, Illinois and California have greater needs. For example, representatives of a sewer district in Northeast Ohio informed me that they will have to impose a rate increase of at least 12 percent each year for the next 30 years to finance the $80 to 120 million annual capital program mandated by EPA. This rate increase is on top of the $2.1 billion the sewer district has already spent to meet Clean Water Act requirements.
   Combined sewer overflow (CSO) also continues to be a problem. Combined sewer systems serve roughly 772 communities and roughly 40 million people nationwide. During heavy rainfall, CSO discharges can lead to serious water pollution problems. Your agency has identified almost $6.3 billion of improvements as necessary to address CSO problems in over 100 communities throughout Ohio. City officials in Akron, Ohio have proposed spending $426 million over 30 years to fix their city's CSO problems. Here again, EPA is not stepping up to the plate to assist a community substantially costs needed to mitigate the negative environmental and health effects brought about by an inadequate wastewater system. I must tell you that most communities consider this to be an unfunded mandate. Many of my communities are facing significant economic woes with major employers threatening to leave. Their ratepayers cannot afford these increases. 
  If the federal government is going to impose costly mandates on struggling state and local governments, then it should provide funding for compliance with those mandates. One of the most effective and popular sources of funding for wastewater collection and treatment projects is the Clean Water SRF Program. Billions of dollars have been distributed though the program to upgrade the nation's aging wastewater infrastructure. That is why I am continually disappointed that EPA's budgets propose severe spending cuts for the program.
   Time and again I have expressed my frustrations and urged EPA to provide the leadership necessary to resolve this problem. In my opinion, and in the opinion of many of my constituents, that has yet to happen. I strongly believe that if EPA is not able to provide the necessary assistance to communities struggling to comply with federal mandates, some flexibility must be given to communities that are grappling to find the financial capacity to get the job done.
   All parties involved need to come together to find a solution to this crisis. I would like to receive your suggestions on how relief could be provided to communities struggling to comply with various EPA mandates.
   I look forward to working with you and my colleagues to address the unmet water and wastewater infrastructure needs in this country. Together, I believe we can ensure that our towns and communities have the funding and flexibility needed to upgrade our aging infrastructure without unnecessarily burdening already strained local economies. 
   Sincerely,
   George V. Voinovich
  United States Senator
 
 