SEN. VOINOVICH CELEBRATES GREAT LAKES DAY, FIGHTS FOR ADEQUATE BUDGET FUNDING
  Tonight, U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, will speak at the Great Lakes Coalition Reception celebrating Great Lakes Day. Great Lakes Day, celebrated on February 28, is an annual event hosted by the Great Lakes Commission and its partners focused on the Great Lakes region's priorities of protecting the environment and growing the economy. 
   "Protecting and restoring the Great Lakes has been a top priority of mine throughout my political career," Sen. Voinovich said. "As co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, I am focused on working with the Great Lakes delegation to advance restoration efforts in this critical region. Working in a bipartisan effort, we can achieve this goal and protect the Great Lakes for generations to come." 
   Critically important to Great Lakes protection and revitalization is adequate funding. This week, Sen. Voinovich sent a letter to the Senate Banking Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Ranking Member Judd Gregg (R-NH) urging them to reject the president's imprudent proposed 16-percent cut to Great Lakes funding.
   The Great Lakes are one of the most significant and imperiled ecosystems in the nation. The lakes make up 90 percent of U.S. surface fresh water and 20 percent of the world's surface fresh water of which more than 40 million people depend on for drinking water. The Great Lakes also make up more than 5,000 miles of U.S. shoreline - greater than that of either the eastern or western seaboard. Unfortunately, the Great Lakes face unique challenges such as toxic sediment remediation, threats from invasive species, non-point source pollution, habitat loss and others.
   Last year's appropriations toward Great Lakes specific programs represent a small but vital portion of the estimated $26 billion needed to remedy the current problems. The president's proposed budget cuts come at a time when we are trying to implement the recommendations of the Great Lakes Regional Collaborative Strategy - a strategy ordered by the president's own executive order.
   Sen. Voinovich has a long history of support for the Great Lakes. In 1967, when he was elected to the state legislature with Lake Erie forming the northern border of his district, he saw firsthand the effects of pollution on Lake Erie and the surrounding region. In response, he committed himself to stopping the deterioration of the lake and waging what he calls the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" - the battle to reclaim and restore Ohio's Great Lake.
   Since coming to the Senate in 1999, Sen. Voinovich has supported numerous pieces of legislation to ban oil and gas drilling in the Great Lakes, protect the lakes from invasive species like the Asian carp, fight "dead zones" that threaten the lakes' vibrant plant and animal life and fund vital cleanup of contaminated sediments.
 
 