SEN. VOINOVICH AMENDMENT TELLS CONGRESS TO PUT IRAQ COSTS IN BUDGET
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the Senate's top "debt hawk," on Tuesday, March 27, 2007, introduced an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for 2007, calling on Congress to be honest and transparent about the true fiscal impact of the War on Terror by including the costs in the budget and regular appropriations moving forward.  
  The amendment, a "sense of the Congress," states that funding for ongoing combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan should no longer be considered emergency spending and states that all future war spending be accounted for in budgets passed each year by Congress. 
  "We all understand that on occasion we face natural disasters or unanticipated crises like Hurricane Katrina that require emergency resources," Sen. Voinovich said. "For this reason, we cannot estimate all of our emergency spending in the budget. But the ongoing combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan are far from unanticipated crises. We have been fighting the War on Terror for over five years. We have been involved in ongoing combat missions in Iraq for four years. It is time for us to be honest with the American people about the long-term commitments we've made in the Middle East and start making the tough decisions necessary to pay for them. It is unacceptable to rely on smoke and mirrors to fund this war."
  The White House has now requested war funding through 10 budget supplementals over the past five years. These supplemental war costs are not fully accounted for in the deficit estimates offered in the president's annual budget request, nor in congressional budget resolutions, but they have become an accepted practice by both the White House Office of Management and Budget and Congress. 
  Also, both the White House and the Democrats' budgets assume that the Global War on Terror will end in the middle of 2009, as neither calls for any funding beyond that point. This, Sen. Voinovich points out, is unrealistic since the Global War on Terror isn't going to end by then and neither will the costs of fighting it. Both sides are therefore hiding the true costs of the war in order to claim balanced budgets. 
  "Our fiscal health is in dire straits and is getting worse as the federal government continues to spend more than it takes in," Sen. Voinovich said. "While this funding is vital to keeping our commitments in the War on Terror, I hope my colleagues agree that running the charge card for today's needs and sticking the bill with our children and grandchildren is a moral outrage. The sooner we realize we can't have it all, the better. We've spent over half a trillion dollars and every dime of it has been borrowed on the backs of our children and grandchildren. We need to honestly account for our war costs and decide how we're going to pay for them - whether that means cutting spending or raising revenue.".
 
 