$1.5 MILLION AVAILABLE FOR CONTROL OF DEVASTATING VIRUS IN THE GREAT LAKES
  The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) will make $1.5 million in contingency funds available for activities related to the control of viral hemorrhagic septicemia (VHS) in the Great Lakes. Such control activities include confirmatory testing, surveillance and compliance, as well as education and outreach efforts. These activities will help prevent the spread of VHS. U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) has been fighting for this funding and progress in controlling VHS. 
   "Given the hard work that has gone into cleaning up Lake Erie, it should come as no surprise that I don't look kindly on rolling back the progress we've made," Sen. Voinovich said. "Today, the Great Lakes are facing a new enemy -- a virus spreading quickly that threatens the robust fish population. This funding is wonderful news in our fight against VHS and will help ensure the long-term stability of the Great Lakes."
   VHS is a destructive pathogen that causes internal hemorrhaging and death in a wide range of fish species. Dead and diseased wild fish have been reported in the St. Lawrence River as well as in Lake Erie, Lake Huron, Lake Michigan, Lake Ontario and Lake St. Clair. Outbreaks of VHS have also been reported in inland lakes in Michigan, New York and Wisconsin. The disease does not pose a risk to people, but it has been found to affect many different species of fish, including several commercially farm-raised species in the United States previously not known to be susceptible to the disease including baitfish species, coho salmon and channel catfish.
   The contingency funding that APHIS is providing will be used for surveillance and compliance activities such as laboratory upgrades to USDA's National Veterinary Services Laboratories to support confirmatory testing and an educational campaign that promotes biosecurity efforts to prevent spread of the disease. Surveillance activities will be risk-based and focus on states in the Great Lakes watershed and those states in surrounding watersheds.
   APHIS will develop cooperative agreements with state departments of natural resources, state departments of agriculture, tribal agencies and other appropriate agencies for surveillance and compliance efforts. Surveillance data collected in the coming months will give APHIS more information on VHS to better target future surveillance and regulatory actions.
   In addition to this funding, Sen. Voinovich introduced an amendment to the 2007 Agriculture Appropriations Bill that would have provided $1.5 million to Great Lakes states to help establish VHS testing facilities. He has also helped secure $1.8 million in the 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, which is awaiting Senate passage. He will continue to fight for the funding needed for Great Lakes states.
 
 