INFRASTRUCTURE: A SOLID FOUNDATION FOR OHIO
  I wholeheartedly believe it's time for Congress and the administration to get their heads out of the sand and realize that our nation is in the midst of an infrastructure crisis - and it's only getting worse.
  Infrastructure is an integral part of our everyday lives - it affects where we choose to live and work, the safety and quality of our commutes and our overall happiness. The startling deterioration of our nation's highways, waterways and infrastructure systems is impacting the economy, the environment and the welfare of the American people.  
  As a former governor of Ohio - the state with the second-largest number of bridges in the nation - I understand the seriousness of the problem and the amount of time and resources necessary to truly protect our citizens and the economic future of our country. 
  Revitalizing our decaying physical infrastructure is critical to keeping Americans safe and our nation competitive in the global marketplace. The recent bridge collapse in Minnesota illustrated the horrible result of not addressing this crisis immediately. This tragedy proved to be a worst-case scenario, and we simply cannot tolerate this risk factor any longer.
  That is why I, along with Sen. Tom Carper (D-DE), introduced the National Infrastructure Improvement Act in 2006 and again in March 2007. The bill was passed out of committee the day before the bridge collapsed and passed by the full Senate the day after the tragedy. 
  My bill gets to the heart of the infrastructure crisis by establishing a commission to determine and identify the infrastructure needs of our country and estimating the costs. It will then be the job of Congress and the administration to implement the plan. This legislation is an important step toward giving our nation's crumbling infrastructure the attention it deserves. 
  In addition to the Infrastructure Improvement Act, I have been an active voice on the importance of fully funding our nation's roadways, especially with my responsibilities as a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. In 2005, I was a co-sponsor of the Highway Bill, a long-overdue piece of legislation that funded several vital transportation projects in Ohio. 
  The 2005 Highway Bill was the best in our state's history and it significantly helped increase the reconstruction efforts in Ohio. Under the bill, Ohio received $6.646 billion - a $1.7 billion increase or 36 percent over the last bill. But nationally it fell short of the level needed to even maintain, let alone improve, our highway systems. According to the Department of Transportation, the bill fell provided $70.4 billion below what is needed to improve, and $38.8 billion below what is needed to maintain, our highway system. 
  The Infrastructure Improvement Act and the Highway Bill are both important first steps toward addressing the infrastructure crisis. Hopefully the next Highway Bill meets the needs of our critical infrastructure so we don't have another tragedy like the one in Minnesota. 
  Water infrastructure has also been a long-standing concern of mine. In fact, my first bill that I introduced as a young state legislator was a $375 million state bond issue to get the state of Ohio involved with wastewater treatment. 
  We currently have a real problem in Ohio in complying with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requirements. More than 100 communities in Ohio have been forced to improve their systems. Unfortunately, the federal government reduced its share of paying for the EPA requirements, creating unfunded mandates. I am outraged that citizens are going to have to shoulder the burdens of these stricter regulations and I committed to helping these communities meet the standards without throwing them into an economic slump.
   Our physical infrastructure is a critical piece to making America more competitive globally. Our needs are overwhelming and our resources are being squeezed. We should be rebuilding an infrastructure of competitiveness so that future generations have at least the same opportunity to enjoy our standard of living and quality of life.
 
 