SEN. VOINOVICH ISSUES STATEMENT ON STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) released the following statement today in anticipation of tonight's State of the Union Address by President George W. Bush:
   "When President Bush speaks to Congress tonight, he will speak to a nation with real concerns about the challenges we face at home - some of the most difficult challenges in our great history. Americans are concerned with the stability of our economy, the uncertainty of the job market and the rising cost of health care. President Bush's domestic legacy will depend on his ability to take real action on these critical issues. And the willingness of Congress to set aside partisanship will be vital to that success. We must all remember that a change in the political landscape of our nation has not changed the challenges we face.  
   "While I am deeply concerned about our long-term fiscal health and our nation's debt, I believe our economy needs a shot-in-the-arm to spur growth, restore consumer confidence and get people working again. The president has jump-started the debate and worked with leadership in the House to draft a plan. While I take pause when it comes to adding more to our national debt, I know Ohioans are hurting, and that we need to stimulate our economy and create new jobs. 
   "One way to create good-paying jobs is to assist struggling companies and their employees in the stimulus package. I plan to offer legislation soon to help these companies - many of which are Ohio manufacturers - by using tax credits early this year to stimulate their businesses, turn profits and possibly even create new jobs. I am also working to get this provision into the stimulus package Congress is currently debating. 
   "I also hope to hear from President Bush tonight on his long-term plan to restore the fiscal health of our nation. Nothing can be off the table if we want to ensure our long-term prosperity. Congress must view our tax code, entitlement system and budget process as the three pillars of our nation's fiscal foundation and not as separate entities. In 2008, we must reform all three areas to keep our obligations to future generations and to keep our nation strong.
   "In addition to boosting our economy through a responsible economic stimulus plan we must protect our nation's future competitiveness in the global marketplace. We can do this by finding a comprehensive and economically viable solution to climate change. However, this should not be done on backs of working families, as some of my colleagues are proposing. I hope President Bush joins me in this fight by supporting a plan to focus the American legacy of entrepreneurship and innovation on the challenge of finding a solution to climate change by creating incentives for the development and deployment of new technologies. This would help create high-paying jobs in Ohio and protect seniors and families from sky-rocketing natural gas, electricity and gasoline costs all while making our environment cleaner.
   "I also hope to hear from the president tonight on how to lower the cost of quality health care. Last year, President Bush embraced my call to let states explore health care reform options through my Health Partnership Act - legislation that I plan to reintroduce early this year. My bipartisan, bicameral bill has been well-received by both the Heritage Foundation and the Brookings Institute and is aimed at breaking the logjam in Washington by allowing states to experiment with health care reform options. For too many years, I have listened to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle talk about the rising cost of health care and the growing number of uninsured. And for too many years, I have seen little progress here at the federal level. It is time for change and I hope President Bush will join me in this call to action to lower the cost of quality health care.
   "While economic issues are once again dominating our airwaves and capturing our attention, we must not forget about the War on Terror. We must continue to protect our homeland and never let our guard down. And even though the situation on the ground in Iraq seems to be improving, and a precipitous withdrawal must be avoided, we must work to stabilize the country as quickly as possible so that we can start to bring our brave soldiers home where they belong."
 
 