OHIO AIR NATIONAL GUARD AND AIR FORCE GAIN NEW MISSIONS
  Ohio's Air National Guard is slated to receive new missions at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and Mansfield-Lahm Municipal Airport Air Guard Station. This is a big victory for Ohio's Air National Guard, which was stripped of key flying missions during the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. Mansfield-Lahm Municipal Airport Air Guard Station will gain the Joint Cargo Aircraft (JCA), which will provide critical airlift assets for both the National Guard and active forces. Wright-Patterson Air Force Base will gain a Measurement and Signature Intelligence (MASNIT) unit, which is critical to Air Force intelligence requirements. This unit will be implemented jointly by the Air Force and the Ohio Air National Guard, specifically by members of the 178th Fighter Wing based at the Springfield Air National Guard (SANG) Base.  
   During the BRAC process, U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), U.S. Senator Mike DeWine (R-OH), U.S. Representative Mike Oxley (R-OH) and U.S. Representative Dave Hobson (R-OH) opposed the closure of Ohio's key bases at Mansfield and Springfield. The group testified in support of Mansfield and Springfield at the BRAC Regional Hearing in Buffalo, New York, on June 27, 2005. Senators Voinovich and DeWine later sent a letter to the National Guard Bureau requesting new missions for Mansfield and praising the valuable role of the 179th Airlift Wing. 
   "These new missions are major victories for Ohio's National Guard. From the beginning of the BRAC process, I committed myself to keeping all of Ohio's military installations where they are currently located," Sen. Voinovich said. "I was extremely disappointed that the C-130 flying mission was stripped from Mansfield. After the decision, I committed myself to do everything in my power to bring new missions to Ohio's National Guard so they could thrive in the future and retain the people and expertise that are critical to our community and security. Ohio's National Guard members are true American heroes and will fulfill their new missions with the high skill and enthusiasm they have shown for decades." 
   "I am very pleased that the Air Force has recognized the Ohio Air National Guard's tireless work and exemplary service with these new missions," Sen. DeWine said. "The MASNIT mission at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) at Wright-Patterson is a big victory that is both timely and meaningful. The work the unit will do with NASIC will directly support the warfighter. The Joint Cargo Aircraft mission at Mansfield keeps these skilled pilots flying in a brand new aircraft that will serve our national defense and homeland security needs. The men and women at both bases should be commended for their continued, dedicated service to our country and congratulated on this well-deserved success." 
   "This public commitment to a new flying mission is great news for Mansfield, and comes at a most welcome time," Rep. Oxley said. "This announcement is a direct result of Mansfield sticking together during last year's base closure process to promote the outstanding work of the 179th." 
   "This is exciting news for Springfield, and a real tribute to the high-quality workforce and capabilities of the base," Rep. Hobson said. 
   At Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, the MASNIT unit will bring together disparate intelligence activities and technologies to support military commanders. The new mission will involve Active Duty and Air National Guard members, including Springfield personnel, analyzing data and images collected from satellites and other equipment that can be converted into usable intelligence. The work will be conducted at a MASNIT workstation based at the National Air and Space Intelligence Center at Wright-Patterson AFB. The Ohio Air National Guard will still maintain a separate command structure and retain administrative control over its personnel. 
   The new JCA that will come to Mansfield is designed to enhance the combat readiness of both the Air Force and the Army. It will replace aging aircraft such as the Air Force's C-130 and the Army's C-23, C-26 and C-12. This is an excellent solution for Mansfield, which is slated to lose its C-130 flying mission under BRAC. As the C-130 mission is phased out, the new JCA mission will work to retain the excellent personnel at Mansfield, maintain their flying skills, and sustain their contribution to the community and their nation's security. 
   Please find a copy of Senator Voinovich and Senator DeWine's letter to Lt. Gen. H. Stephen Blum of the National Guard Bureau below.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 