SEN. VOINOVICH ANNOUNCES $136,000 GRANT FOR FORT LORAMIE COMMUNITY FIRE COMPANY
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced that the Fort Loramie Community Fire Company has received a $135,969 grant from the Department of Homeland Security's Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP).  
   In May of this year, Senator Voinovich wrote a letter in support of Fort Loramie Community Fire Company's grant application to ODP Acting Executive Director Matt Mayer. 
   "I was glad to help secure these funds that will help the Fort Loramie Community Fire Company purchase new equipment to better carry out its mission," said Voinovich. "Clearly our first responders need proper resources to protect the community. I've encouraged the Department of Homeland Security to do more to support our first responders, and I'm glad to see it happening," Voinovich said. The Fort Loramie Community Fire Company, located in rural west central Ohio, will use the funds to purchase 25 sets of turnout gear, 15 portable radios, 35 rescue ropes, locking cabinets, powered rescue tools, extrication equipment, a thermal imaging camera, and a fixed full service generator. The proper equipment will permit Fort Loramie to provide better aid to its community and the surrounding fire departments. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation's firefighters and the services they deliver. For the FY 2005 program, Congress appropriated, and President Bush signed into law, $650 million in direct assistance to firefighters to improve the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. The Department of Homeland Security's Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP) administers the program, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. 
   Voinovich is a member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee which oversees the Department of Homeland Security, and he helped write the legislation creating the new agency in 2002. 
   For additional information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program please call 1-866-274-0960 or email firegrants@dhs.gov. For the most current information regarding the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program, visit www.firegrantsupport.com.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296.
 
 