$75 MILLION FOR APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION INCLUDED IN ENERGY AND WATER FUNDING BILL
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) has helped secure $75 million for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) in the 2008 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. The funding, which was passed out of the Senate Appropriations Committee today, is a $10 million increase over 2007 levels and a $10 million increase over the president's 2008 funding request. Sen. George Voinovich led the effort for the increased funding that began with a letter to the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee's chairman and ranking member earlier this year asking for $75 million funding level. 
   "Full funding of the ARC is a top priority of mine. I am very pleased that my colleagues understand the vital role the ARC plays in helping the region fully realize its economic potential," Sen. Voinovich said. "These funds are essential if we are going to build upon the already tremendous successes in Ohio and the other 12 Appalachian states."
   The ARC plays a key role in fostering economic development and improving the quality of life for 23 million people who live and work in Appalachia. Sen. Voinovich is a long-time supporter of the ARC and this year introduced vital legislation reauthorizing the commission at $510.9 million over five years. His proposed legislation creates the designation of economically "at risk" counties and provides an appropriate federal matching rate for ARC-funded projects in those counties.
   Since the ARC's inception, the region's poverty rate has been cut in half (from 31 percent to 13 percent), the infant mortality rate has been reduced by two-thirds and the percentage of adults with a high school education has increased by over 70 percent. 
   During his first term in the Senate, Sen. Voinovich authored the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 2002 (S.1206), which was signed by the president on March 12, 2002. The bill reauthorized the economic development efforts of the ARC, providing $446 million over five years for these efforts. It also enacted a new technology initiative, created by Sen. Voinovich, to help improve the region's telecommunication infrastructure and help businesses and residents take better advantage of e-commerce opportunities.
 
 