$20 MILLION INCLUDED IN INTERIOR BILL FOR DIESEL EMISSIONS REDUCTION
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today completed mark-up of the 2007 Interior Appropriations Bill, including $20.127 million in funding for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Program. The program is based on the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2005 (DERA), legislation introduced last June by Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and Sen. Thomas Carper (D-DE). Diesel Emissions Reduction Act, which passed as part of the 2005 Energy Bill, established voluntary national grant and loan programs for diesel emissions reduction projects and programs that improve air quality and protect public health. The Senate included only $1 million for diesel emissions reduction in last year's appropriations bill. The House of Representatives has included $28 million in their version of the FY2007 Interior Appropriations bill.  
   "I am terribly disappointed in the committee's decision to allot only $20 million for diesel emissions reduction. Although it is an improvement over last year's appropriation, it is simply not enough," Sen. Voinovich said. "If we want to clean up our air to improve the environment and protect public health, diesel retrofits are one of the best uses of taxpayers' money. This is vitally important for Ohio, which has 38 non-attainment counties. The president's initial budget request of $50 million is sound environmental, economic and budgetary policy, and I applaud the administration for understanding the vital importance of this issue. I will work with conferees to ensure that this receives the funding it deserves in the final bill." 
   DERA, which was co-sponsored by Senators Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), and Hillary Clinton (D-NY), was developed with the support of 200 environmental, industry, labor, and public officials with the goal of reducing emissions by retrofitting and replacing the 11 million existing engines. It enjoyed strong bipartisan support and passed by a vote of 92 to 1 in the Senate. 
   President Bush's 2007 Budget request included $49.5 million for the Diesel Emissions Reduction Program. As requested by Senator Voinovich, the coalition, and the president the appropriations bill consolidates existing diesel reduction programs--including the Clean School Bus USA Program, the Diesel Truck Retrofit and Fleet Modernization Program, and the Engine Idling Reduction Program--to be carried out within the program. 
   DERA is pivotal in the effort to clean the nation's air as on-road heavy-duty diesel vehicles, such as transit buses and garbage trucks, and non-road diesel vehicles, such as construction equipment and tractors, account for roughly one-half of the nitrogen oxide and particulate matter emissions from mobile sources nationwide. The Interior Appropriations bill will next be considered on the Senate floor for debate.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 