SEN. VOINOVICH CO-SPONSORS BILL TO ENABLE CIVIL NUCLEAR EXPORTS TO INDIA
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced that he has co-sponsored a bill to authorize President Bush to conduct civil nuclear cooperation with India. The bill would allow the president to waive certain requirements under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to permit nuclear-related exports to India. This bill follows an historic agreement reached in March by the president on civilian nuclear cooperation with India and promises to strengthen our nation's strategic relationship with India, enhance energy security and environmental protection and transform the friendship between India and the United States. "I have long believed that the United States and India have an excellent friendship and that we should expand our cooperation. This bill will provide the framework needed to expand our cooperation with India in the area of energy and nonproliferation," Sen. George V. Voinovich said. "I am very pleased that my colleagues were able to orchestrate this successful bipartisan effort to move this bill forward. This vital legislation will truly open a whole new world of U.S.-Indian relations."  
   The legislation - S. 2429 - comes at a time when the U.S. and the international community are dealing with rising energy demands in China and India. It will enable the United States and India to cooperate in civil nuclear power to reduce India's reliance on oil. This promises to have positive benefits for the environment as well as for the international oil market. 
   Safe and clean nuclear technology in India reduces India's need for fossil fuels. As Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has mentioned, a threefold increase in Indian nuclear capacity by 2015 would reduce India's projected annual carbon dioxide emissions by more than 170 tons. 
   In return for U.S. cooperation in the area of civil nuclear exports, India will agree to open its civilian nuclear reactors to international inspectors and operate its civilian nuclear program separately from its military program. The bill also offers the promise of new American jobs, as India has said it plans to import 12 nuclear reactors. U.S. companies could receive several of those contracts and benefit from enhanced business in the area of construction and civil nuclear technology. 
   "India is a democracy that functions with transparency and accountability. It has a 30-year record of responsible behavior on nonproliferation matters and it is time that we embrace India as part of the nonproliferation community," Sen. Voinovich said. "The United States has a lot to gain from expanding its strategic ties to India. I look forward to watching our friendship with India grow stronger in the coming years."
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 