SEN. VOINOVICH PRAISES PRESENTATION OF CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO TUSKEGEE AIRMEN
  On Thursday, March 29, 2007, the Tuskegee Airmen were presented the Congressional Gold Medal in honor of their distinguished military record. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award by the legislative branch of the U.S. government and is awarded to individuals who perform an outstanding deed or act of service toward the security, prosperity and national interest of the United States. Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and his wife Janet attended the ceremony, which included honors for 22 Ohio recipients.
  "I am so pleased that these outstanding men are finally getting the recognition they deserve from our nation's highest legislative body," Sen. Voinovich said. "I had the honor of presenting the Governor's Award for Public Service to the Tuskegee Airmen in 1997. Their dedication, patriotism and service resonates just as strongly today as it did back then. On behalf of every Ohioan, I'd like to offer a special word of gratitude for their sacrifices. The Tuskegee Airmen fought for the liberty we so often assume as our birthright, and they willingly did so during a time when that liberty was not fully extended to them and their families. Even with this high honor, we will never be able to fully repay them for their sacrifices." 
  The Ohio recipients of the Congressional Gold Medal are: Thomas Austin Sr. of Cleveland; Harold Brown of Hilliard; Hilton Carter of Columbus; Herndon Cummings of Dublin; Edward Doran of Cincinnati; Leslie Edwards Sr. of Cincinnati; Charles Feaster of Xenia; Robert Harvey Sr. of Dayton; Lawrence Hawkins of Cincinnati; Clarence Jamison of Shaker Heights; John Leahr of Cincinnati; Edward Lunda of Akron; Malcolm McCoy of Lima; Eddie McLaurin of Beavercreek; David McPheeters of Cincinnati; Robert Peeples of Columbus; Alvin Pittard of Cincinnati; Betty Tibbs of Newark; William Watkins of Columbus; Charles Westmoreland of Cincinnati; Edward Willett of Yellow Springs; and Charles Williams of Dayton.
  The "Tuskegee Experiment" began when, against a backdrop of rigid segregation during the Second World War, nearly 1,000 African-American men were recruited into an Army Air Corps program that trained them to fly and maintain combat aircraft. President Franklin D. Roosevelt ordered that the program be created, overruling his top generals. 
  The military aviators were trained at an isolated complex near Tuskegee, Alabama, and were not allowed to practice or fight with their white counterparts. Under the command of Colonel Benjamin David Jr., who later became the first black general in the U.S. Air Force, 450 of the fighter pilots escorted allied bombing missions over strategic targets in Europe.
  The Tuskegee Airmen distinguished themselves from their white counterparts by painting the tails of their airplanes red, which led to them being dubbed the "black red-tail angels." They never lost a bomber to enemy fighters during their nearly 1,600 missions with the 12th Tactical U.S. Army Air Force and the 15th Strategic U.S. Army Air Force. They did not escape all the casualties of combat, however, losing 66 of their fellow fighter pilots in battle with another 32 being forced down or shot down to be captured as prisoners of war.
  Four squadrons of Black Aviators became the 332nd Fighter Group, the largest such unit in the 15th Air Force, and collectively they earned 150 Distinguished Flying Crosses, Legions of Merit and the Red Star of Yugoslavia. After the war, the ground crews and administrative staff of the 332nd Fighter Group were stationed as the former Lockbourne Air Base just outside of Columbus, Ohio.
  Many of the men and women associated with the 332nd remained in the military, and spearheaded the effort to integrate the armed forces in the United States with their own integration into the U.S. Air Force in 1949. For all intents and purposes, this was the real beginning of the civil rights effort in the United States - their trail-blazing leading the way for so many others.
  Several of the Tuskegee Airmen continued to distinguish themselves in the military - three were elevated to "flag rank," and three others, all lieutenant colonels, share the distinction of having flown combat missions in the Second World War, the Korean Conflict and the War in Vietnam. Many others returned to civilian life to achieve positions of leadership.
  Today, a monument in Memorial Park at the Air Force Museum at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio, a statue in Honor Park at the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and a museum in Historic Fort Wayne in Detroit, Michigan, all commemorate the achievements of this distinguished group.
  In addition, the Tuskegee Airmen, Inc. National Scholarship Fund helps high school seniors who excel in math and science and need financial assistance pursue college careers in math, science or engineering.
 
 