SEN. VOINOVICH CO-SPONSORS BILL TO PROTECT U.S. AIRCRAFT FROM SHOULDER-FIRED MISSILES
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has co-sponsored a bill aimed at keeping dangerous weapons out of the hands of terrorists looking to kill Americans.  
   The Cooperative Proliferation Detection, Interdiction Assistance, and Conventional Threat Reduction Act of 2006 (S. 2566) would aid friendly foreign nations in the detection, interdiction and elimination of manmade and tactical missiles, including Man Portable Air Defense Systems, otherwise known as shoulder-fired missiles. The bill was introduced by Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN) and has extensive bipartisan support. 
   "This bill represents a cooperative and diplomatic effort to keep dangerous weapons out of the wrong hands," Sen. Voinovich said. "Eliminating stocks of weapons before they are obtained by criminals, terrorists or conflict-prone areas will help reduce instability throughout the world. This program will also help to limit the threat that these weapons pose against our troops fighting in the Global War on Terror." 
   Shoulder-fired missiles are commonly used in Iraq and Afghanistan by terrorists to shoot down U.S. helicopters. They are portable and easy to fire from long distances, making them a likely weapon of choice for terrorists who want to kill and retreat. They have been used largely in combat zones but could also be used to down domestic commercial planes. 
   The State Department has been working with countries that produce or have excess stocks of shoulder-fired missiles in an effort to eliminate or secure their supplies to keep them out of the hands of terrorists. They are also working with other countries to interdict shipments from unfriendly nations or arms dealers. 
   This bill would authorize increased funding for these important nonproliferation programs and would consolidate similar programs throughout the government to make them more effective.
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 