SENS. VOINOVICH, AKAKA WORK TO DEPOLITICIZE DHS CHIEF HUMAN CAPITAL OFFICER
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), Ranking Member of the Senate Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management, the Federal Workforce and the District of Columbia, today introduced legislation to depoliticize the Chief Human Capital Officer (CHCO) at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The bill is co-sponsored by Subcommittee Chairman Daniel Akaka (D-HI). 
   "As DHS prepares for its first transition between administrations, it is imperative that an able and capable workforce remains in place to continue the department's important mission," Sen. Voinovich said. "I believe a career-appointed CHCO is central to a smooth transition. While I have no intention to mandate the DHS CHCO be a career position, I believe the DHS secretary should have the flexibility and authority to hire a career employee to that position - just as all other agency heads do."
   "Most federal agencies are allowed to choose the CHCO position - a political or civilian employee - which best fits into the framework of the agency and its human capital strategy," Sen. Akaka said. "But DHS, by statute, does not have this flexibility. The work of a CHCO is critical to the support of effective government management and strategic workforce planning. Given DHS's critical mission and the fact that it remains on the Government Accountability Office High-Risk List, it is important to give DHS the same flexibility as other federal agencies in appointing its CHCO."
   Sen. Voinovich's bill would strike the provision of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 that requires the Chief Human Capital Officer to be appointed by the president. This differs from all other departments and agencies where the head of the agency is given the discretion to designate the position as a political appointment or career civil servant.
   Using that authority, agency heads have varied in appointing CHCOs who are political appointees or career employees. Of the 23 agencies that make up the Chief Human Capital Officers Council, 11 are career employees. DHS is covered by section 1401 of title 5, which directs the head of each agency to appoint the CHCO.
 
 