SEN. VOINOVICH CO-SPONSORS RESOLUTION URGING ACTION TO IMPROVE SECURITY SITUATION IN DARFUR, SUDAN
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) is an original co-sponsor of S. Res. 383, a resolution introduced today urging President Bush to take immediate steps to help improve the security situation in Darfur, Sudan, with an emphasis on civilian protection. Many of Darfur's 6 million inhabitants have been raped and killed by militias armed by their own government. Some estimate that as many as 400,000 people have died in the conflict, over 2 million have been displaced and 3 million are dependent on assistance to survive. The U.S. Government described the situation as genocide over a year ago, yet the violence continues unabated.  
   "The shocking atrocities taking place in Darfur cannot be ignored. I have long been concerned about the undeniable rise in hate and anti-Semitism throughout the world, and it is critical that we stop it. The safety of any one group is intrinsic to the safety of all. Although the 7,000 peacekeepers from the African Union have been valiantly working to maintain a ceasefire, it is now clear that a more experienced, better-equipped, better-funded force with a stronger mandate is needed to stop the violence. President Bush recently endorsed the idea that the United Nations (UN) take over the African Union mission. He also said NATO should provide extra help. Today we call on the President to further advocate for these ends. It is intrinsic that we win the war against hate and never again turn a blind eye to genocide," said Voinovich. The resolution condemns the continued violence in the region and the consistent disregard of the N'Djamena Ceasefire Agreement. It calls upon the Government of Sudan to immediately withdraw all military aircraft from the region, disarm the Janjaweed militia and cease all support for the Janjaweed and rebels from Chad. 
   It recommends that the UN Security Council approve as soon as possible a peacekeeping force for Darfur that is well-trained and equipped and has adequate number of troops. And it urges President Bush to deploy NATO troops to Darfur to support the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) until a UN peacekeeping force is fully deployed. It also calls upon NATO allies to support such a mission.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296.
 
 