SEN. VOINOVICH ISSUES STATEMENT ON REVISED CLEAN AIR PLANNING ACT
  Sen.George V. Voinovich (R-OH) released the following statement today on the release of Sen. Carper's revised version of the Clean Air Planning Act.  
   "Although I am pleased that Senator Carper came up with this proposal, I was hoping that his work over the last few months would bring us closer to a compromise. I am disappointed that his proposal actually moves away from what Chairman Inhofe and I put together in a move toward the middle. We pushed hard at the beginning of last year on Clear Skies with hearings and markups to find a compromise through the committee. We offered a lot, but no one wanted to negotiate. It seems that we're still in that same situation today. 
   "In reality, Senator Carper's bill is a lot more costly and less practicable than what he introduced in 2003. It also leaves out some key provisions. 
   "We must reform the new source review program if we want utilities to make the needed investments to reduce their emissions and become more efficient. 
   "We must enact the transitional provision that I included in Clear Skies to help counties with the air quality standards. The provision works to harmonize the reductions that we would achieve under multi-emissions legislation with the attainment dates for these standards. 
   "While these provisions are important, my main concern is with the impact this bill would have on our nation's competitiveness. It would result in higher electricity prices and add to the burden on our manufacturers. In the last five years, more than 3 million manufacturing jobs have been lost, in part because of high energy costs. 
   "Due to the unrealistic numbers on sulfur dioxide and mercury and since it would regulate carbon dioxide, the bill encourages fuel switching away from our nation's 250 year supply of coal to natural gas. This would add to the already outrageous costs of heating homes. Households that use natural gas for heat in my home state of Ohio have seen their costs increase by as much as 32 percent this past winter. Congress has had to increase the LIHEAP program that helps those not able to pay their costs by 149 percent since 1999. 
   "Fundamentally, the bill ignores America's need to harmonize our environment, energy and economic policies. Until Congress wakes up to the fact that they must be balanced, our country will continue to experience an energy crisis and continue to be too reliant on foreign sources of energy-which jeopardizes our economic and national security."
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 