SEN. VOINOVICH AMENDMENT TO HELP CREATE JOBS, EASE FORECLOSURE CRISIS PASSES SENATE
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich's (R-OH) legislation to create jobs and ease the foreclosure crisis passed the Senate early this morning. The legislation, in the form of an amendment to the compromise housing bill, passed overwhelming by a vote of 76-2. 
   Sen. Voinovich and Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) introduced the amendment yesterday that would allow companies in a loss position to elect to use accumulated AMT and R&D credits early to make new investments that will create jobs in lieu of the bonus depreciation provision included in the recently-enacted stimulus bill. These companies cannot benefit from bonus depreciation because they do not have any taxable income against which to take the deductions. Ironically, these are the companies who are struggling the most and who need tax relief the most. This will create jobs and, in turn, help people pay their mortgages.
   "Without a job and financial security it is extremely difficult to keep paying your mortgage," Sen. Voinovich said. "A good-paying job is the first step in ensuring Americans can achieve the dream of homeownership and sustain that dream throughout their lives. This amendment is crucial because Ohio is experiencing a foreclosure crisis that has nothing to do with speculators. Ohio has a foreclosure crisis despite the fact that house prices never went up there. Ohio families have been losing their homes because Ohio manufacturing workers have been losing their jobs."
   The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 included an accelerated bonus depreciation provision to give companies a strong incentive to increase their capital investments and help stimulate the economy. Unfortunately, this bonus depreciation provision does nothing for companies who are not currently profitable and are most impacted by this recession.
   Sen. Voinovich's amendment is also fiscally responsible because it involves an acceleration of existing tax benefits rather than creation of new benefits. Allowing these companies to recover their accumulated credits after they have made new capital investments would help to realize fully the intended economic benefits of the bonus depreciation provisions and would put these companies on equal footing with profitable companies.
   This is just the latest accomplishment for Sen. Voinovich over the past year dealing with the foreclosure crisis. Sen. Voinovich has now authored four pieces of legislation focused on helping to ease the current crisis and three of them have been passed by the Senate and one has been signed into law and remains the only legislation to become law that directly deals with this crisis.
   That bill, Sen. Voinovich's Mortgage Cancellation Relief Act, was passed by the Senate and the House and has been signed into law by the president. Sen. Voinovich was moved to draft this bill after hearing stories about how homeowners were working out deals with their lenders, and the lenders were forgiving part of the mortgages to make payments more affordable. He was then shocked to learn the IRS was taxing that loan forgiveness as income.
   This additional tax liability actually penalizes those who are trying to work out their financial problems in a responsible manner. Altering this tax penalty encourages homeowners and lenders to work together voluntarily so that payments are manageable and foreclosure can be avoided. So far, this is the only bill to become law that directly attempts to ease the foreclosure crisis. Sen. Voinovich is working on extending it for two additional years.
 
 