SEN. VOINOVICH HELPS SECURE NEARLY $500 MILLION FOR OHIO DEFENSE PROJECTS
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced he has worked to help secure $487.5 million for Ohio defense projects in the Senate version of the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill. The bill passed the Senate last night by unanimous consent. It will now go into conference where the differences between the House and Senate versions will the rectified. Sen. Voinovich will work with the conference to secure the funding in the final bill. It must then be passed by both the House and the Senate before going to the president for his signature.
   "There are multiple challenges affecting U.S. national security today, including the ongoing wars," Sen. Voinovich said. "It is critical that our Armed Forces are ready, equipped and well-trained. While funding is not limitless, and we must spend cautiously, we need to ensure that our troops get the investments they need now so they can defend our nation in the future. I am proud that my colleagues recognize the high quality of Ohio's defense firms and institutions." 
   Several projects were included in the bill that will benefit Ohio companies, institutions and communities. In addition to project funding, Sen. Voinovich helped secure report language that will ensure Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company remains competitive in the defense tire market and has equal and fair access to information and future markets.
   Funding was secured for the following Ohio projects: 
   Allen County:
   Intelligent Machining of Advanced Defense Materials - $2 million
   This project will develop an advanced, flexible, high-speed machining cell for processing the advanced materials used to manufacture military vehicles. It will also allow necessary updates to current technologies and fund the purchase of the Intelligent Machining Cell. These improvements will collectively reduce processing time and increase product quality.
   Cuyahoga County:
   Advanced Aerospace Carbon Foam Heat Exchangers - $2 million
   This project will result in faster engines and lower overall maintenance costs by replacing metallic heat exchangers with carbon foam. This technology will increase the efficiency of military aircrafts by lowering fuel costs, increasing durability and increasing safety by reducing the rate of overheating.
   Greene County and Montgomery County:
   Mission Critical Power System Reliability Surveys - $1 million
   This project will identify system and equipment component weaknesses that may result in a break of operations, security and other threats. Results and recommendations from the survey will serve as a critical basis for the implementation of corrective action.
   Lake County:
   Enhanced Vapor Aeration Capabilities (EVAC) - $3 million
   This project will seek to reduce the time and resources needed by soldiers to apply battlefield decontamination following biological or chemical terrorist attacks. The development of this technology has broader application to the defense industry.
   Modifications to modified Vaporous Hydrogen Peroxide (mVHP) for use against Toxic Industrial Chemicals/Materials (TICs/TIMs) - $2.5 million
   This project will jointly study the threat of large-scale biological and chemical terrorism as well as explore potential methods of minimizing or eliminating hazard.
   Montgomery County:
   Characterization of Airborne Environment for Tactical Lasers - $4 million
   This project would seek to overcome problems associated with the operation of tactical lasers by limiting the excess heat they produce, reducing their resultant impact on aircraft operations, and creating power to enable their deployment.
   Stark County:
   Hybrid Bearings - $3 million
   This project will allow for the development of a high-speed bearing to improve aerospace engine operations and meet the demands of aerospace applications, specifically for the Joint Strike Fighter.
   Summit County:
   Virginia Class Submarine - $470 million
   This project will sustain the industrial base production levels while simultaneously reducing long-term costs, sustaining workforce and skill sets, and preventing lag time for future contracts by funding an additional ship set to the Navy's 2008 Shipbuilding and Conversion Submarine Advanced Procurement budget.
 
 