SEN. VOINOVICH PROPOSES CLIMATE AMENDMENTS TO PROTECT CONSUMERS, JOBS, ECONOMY
  Today, U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), Ranking Member of the Senate Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee's Subcommittee on Clean Air, offered several amendments that balanced the need to address global climate change while not losing sight of growing America's economy to create high-paying jobs while protecting seniors and families from sky-rocketing natural gas, electricity and gasoline costs. 
   The amendments were offered during an EPW markup of America's Climate Security Act of 2007 - legislation written by U.S. Sen. Joseph Lieberman (D-CT). The bill would touch nearly every segment of the economy, sending a tornado that would rip through America's marketplace shuttering businesses, sending jobs overseas and sending energy costs through the roof for seniors and the most vulnerable.  
   "At a time when Congress should be looking to create an environment to grow our economy and create more high-paying jobs, some of my colleagues have chosen to take steps that would force jobs overseas while raising energy bills on seniors, families and our most vulnerable," Sen. Voinovich said. "There is a way to harmonize our energy, economic and environmental needs - but this bill doesn't do it. Some of my colleagues refuse to take a comprehensive view of the competing needs of the nation by harmonizing our energy, economic and environmental needs."
   Unfortunately, the full negative impacts of the Lieberman bill are still not completely known because the majority chose to rush the bill through committee without a non-partisan economic-impact analysis from the Energy Information Agency or the Environmental Protection Administration, which is the usual course of action for a bill of this magnitude. 
   What we do know is that economic modeling data presented during an EPW full-committee hearing on the bill in November presented a devastating critique of the Lieberman bill. The data, which was presented by highly regarded Charles River Associates economist Anne Smith (testimony attached), estimates that by 2020 the policy would result in:
   * The loss of as many as 3.4 million American jobs; 
   * An annual decrease in disposable income by as much as $2500; and 
   * Annual losses in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of $1 trillion. 
   In order to address the recommendations of the analysis, Sen. Voinovich introduced 12 amendments at the markup today that focused on energy cost containment and technological development. Two of the amendments offered included:
   Technology Certification Amendment: Sen. Voinovich believes that technology should drive the caps, rather than the caps driving technology, just as was done with the Clean Air Act. And the key to reducing carbon and other greenhouse gases is the development and deployment of new technologies. These technologies are needed to generate clean energy, to enhance efficiency and to capture and store carbon. The Lieberman bill makes the assumption that the cap and trade program will facilitate the timely development of this technology. Unfortunately, the bill lacks any reference to what technology is currently available or will be available in the future. If the needed technology is not available to meet the caps, the result will be tremendous harm to the economy without significant environmental improvement. This amendment corrects the situation by requiring certification from the administration - with guidance from a board chaired by the Office of Science and Technology Policy - that the technology needed to meet a cap is readily available. If the needed technology is not available, the program will not go into effect or will be suspended if it is already in effect.Off-Ramp Amendment: In order to protect American consumers from the exorbitantly high compliance costs of the Lieberman bill, Sen. Voinovich offered an amendment requiring the so-called Carbon Market Efficiency Board to act if natural gas prices, gasoline prices and electricity rates unrepentantly spike. The amendment forces the Board to be cognizant of the real impact this bill will have on those in society least able to afford it - the poor, the elderly and those living on fixed incomes - and to take action accordingly if prices spike with a moratorium on the requirements. 
   Although these amendments were not accepted by the committee, Sen. Voinovich did receive an important win on the issue of ensuring that foreign imports are held to the same emissions standards as domestic goods. His amendment, specifics of which are listed below, was withdrawn after he received a guarantee that the Senate Finance Committee and the EPW Subcommittee on Private Sector and Consumer Solutions to Global Warming and Wildlife Protection will hold hearings on the issue.
   General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) Legality Amendment: Much like when we debated the Kyoto Protocol, what's not being discussed is the fact that developing nations, such as China and India, are not taking the drastic steps the Lieberman bill is prescribing for the United States. Sen. Voinovich's second amendment works to ensure that products imported into the United States from foreign countries are held to the same standards as domestic goods. It will ensure that America does not suffer for symbolism while countries like China and India fail to adopt similar emissions and environmental standards. The reduction of greenhouse gasses and the advent of energy independence cannot be realized on the backs of working families and at the cost of Ohio jobs while other countries thrive. China and India have made clear that they oppose any inclusion of binding targets for reduction of their greenhouse gas emissions in a planned new international pact to fight global warming which is being crafted in Bali this week, although they are two of the world's leading polluters. ("China opposes binding emissions targets," Financial Times, November 7, 2007)
   These amendments are vitally important steps in Sen. Voinovich's effort to craft responsible climate policies that both reduce greenhouse gas emissions and also make energy affordable for all Americans. That can only be done through advancing technology and increasing energy supplies. A technology-based alternative would be less intrusive, less costly and will achieve greater reductions in emissions more quickly. 
   "Why are we moving forward with this bill without knowing how much it will cost American consumers, what the impact will be on American jobs and what burdens it could impose on the elderly and poor," Sen. Voinovich said.
   The prices of electricity, natural gas, gasoline and other necessities also skyrocket under the proposal. And, the impact will be far greater for states like Ohio who depend on coal for much of their electricity. In fact, Duke Energy - a major electricity provider in Ohio - recently released data indicating that customers in their service areas could suffer a 53 percent increase in electricity bills if this policy becomes effective in 2012. 
   An analysis from the Energy Information Administration (EIA) shows that energy costs for consumers and employers will be even more expensive - and burdens on hard-working Americans, the elderly and the poor will be even more severe - if Congress adopts carbon mandates but fails to enact policies to increase domestic energy supplies. That is exactly what the irresponsible America's Climate Security Act of 2007 proposes to do.
   EIA has also found that restricting the use of multiple low- or no-emission electricity generation technologies increases the use of natural gas for power generation and raises natural gas prices, electricity prices and CO2 permit prices. 
   "Unless Congress acts to increase domestic supplies of natural gas and nuclear power, consumers - particularly the poor - will endure severe economic hardship," Sen. Voinovich said.
 
 