NASA GLENN TO GAIN JOBS WITH NEW WORK ASSIGNMENTS
  Today, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) announced several new exploration work assignments for NASA Glenn Research Center, including the responsibility as lead to manage the contractor work package for the Crew Exploration Vehicle's (CEV) service module and spacecraft adapter integration. The new assignments will provide years of work for Glenn, and will likely have significant workforce impact.  
   "Our space program is more than high-tech machines and advanced computing; it's the product of smart people-very smart people-working together for our nation. NASA Glenn has proven time and again that it is a world class research facility and a major piece of NASA's vision and future. I am so pleased that NASA appreciates this and has awarded the Center the CEV service module project. NASA Glenn provides a vital component for both NASA and greater Northeast Ohio, and I will continue to work to secure the vision for NASA Glenn's long-term growth," said Voinovich. 
   The service module is a vital element of the CEV, which will replace the shuttle when it retires from service in 2010. It will provide major maneuvering capability with a propulsion system, generate power using solar arrays and keep the vehicle cool with heat rejection radiators. Glenn's CEV responsibilities will also include: Oversight and independent analysis of the CEV prime contractor; Flight test article and pathfinder production for the service module and spacecraft adapter; and Integration analysis and systems engineering and integration. 
   Glenn was also given lead responsibilities for the Crew Launch Vehicle upper stage, including: Designing and developing the thrust vector control subsystem; Designing and developing the electrical power and power distribution system; Developmental flight instrumentation package; Leak detection sensors development; Purge system; Hazardous gas detection system; Upper stage systems engineering and integration; J-2X engine thermal/vacuum testing at Glenn's Plum Brook Facility; and Vehicle integration design analysis support. 
   The center will also take the lead in the development of an upper stage module for the advanced development flight test. 
   Level II or project tasks include: Safety Reliability & Quality Assurance (SR&QA) - Lead for failure mode and effects analysis integration and program trends analysis; support for document maintenance, program trending, integrated hazards analysis, and quality audits; represent SR&QA at assigned systems integration groups; Systems Engineering and Integration - Integrated power systems integration group co-lead, book manager for several system requirements review interface requirements document; support to analysis & trades and process & tools office; and support to flight performance; thermal & environmental control and life support; command, control, communication and information; and extravehicular activity systems integration groups; Test and Verification - Lead for electrical power test bed definition/architecture; lead for power systems integration groups; support to avionics test architecture; and Advance Projects Office - Support architecture refinement and conceptual design of future elements.
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 