SEN. VOINOVICH WRITES LETTER ON VA BACKLOG
  Ohio's senior senator, George V. Voinovich (R-OH), today sent the following letter urging the Senate Budget Committee to provide additional funding to address the increasing backlog of pending claims within the Veterans Benefits Administration as it begins consideration of the Budget Resolution. For a PDF of the actual letter, please email me back and request one: 
   March 5, 2008
   The Honorable Kent Conrad
  Chairman
  Senate Committee on the Budget
  United States Senate
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   The Honorable Judd Gregg
  Ranking Member
  Senate Committee on the Budget
  United States Senate
  Washington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Chairman Conrad and Ranking Member Gregg:
   As the Budget Committee begins its consideration of the Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Resolution, I request your continued effort to make sure that our nation's veterans are given the appropriate care. I urge you to provide additional funding to address the increasing backlog of pending claims within the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). It is critical that VBA be given the resources necessary to deliver much needed benefits to our service veterans as quickly as possible.
   Between Fiscal Year 2000 and Fiscal Year 2007, the number of filed claims has increased 45 percent, from 578,773 to 838,141. For Fiscal Year 2009 the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) estimates a four percent increase in filed claims. There is a good chance that this estimate will increase given our continued presence in Iraq and Afghanistan.
   According to a recent VBA Workload Report released in February 2008, the total number of pending pension and compensation claims was up almost six percent compared to this time last year. Also, nearly 27 percent of claims have been pending for more than 180 days. There has also been a 50 percent increase since 2003 for claims requiring a disability rating determination, which dramatically increases time and resources.
   We must continue our efforts to ensure those who have served honorably in the defense of the United States receive the assistance they deserve. I hope that the Committee will continue to invest in the human capital and technology needed to address the claims backlog and deliver benefits in a timely manner. Our veterans kept their promise to defend the country and in return it is our duty to ensure they receive the support they have earned.
   Very respectfully yours,
   George V. Voinovich
  United States Senator
 
 