SENATE APPROVES $65.4 MILLION FOR APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION
  The 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill passed by the Senate last week includes $65.4 million for the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC). After a devastating cut to ARC funding in the House version of the bill, Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) urged his colleagues to increase funding to the Commission in the Senate version and hopes it stays at this level in the Conference Report.  
   "The support of ARC enables the Appalachian region to undertake projects it could not begin to consider if left to its own resources. These projects are creating and retaining jobs, providing vital services to thousands of households, and increasing access to educational opportunities. ARC support helps to remove barriers to economic competitiveness and enables communities to compete in the new service and technology economy," said Senator Voinovich. 
   Ohio can expect to receive an estimated $4 million from ARC in 2006 which the state will match dollar-for-dollar with general revenue funds. This will bring the total funding available for ARC investment in Ohio to $8 million. The funding will enable the 29-county Appalachian region of Ohio to increase job opportunities and per capita income; build capacity for competing in the global economy; improve basic infrastructures, and decrease isolation through improved transportation systems. 
   "Creating the ARC in 1965 is among Congress's most important accomplishments on behalf of southeast Ohio, and I was proud to write the law in 2002 to reauthorize the ARC for five more years. ARC empowers communities throughout Appalachian Ohio to galvanize their energy and resources to meet challenges and opportunities. Providing the resources for communities to help themselves is the highest calling of government," said Senator Voinovich. 
   The bill now is in conference committee to reconcile the differences between the House and Senate Energy and Water Appropriations bills.
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 