SEN. VOINOVICH SECURES OVER $1.4 MILLION FOR IRONTON-LAWRENCE COUNTY COMMUNITY ACTION ORGANIZATION
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) has secured a $1,417,211 grant from the Health Resources and Services Administration for the Ironton-Lawrence County Community Action Organization (CAO). The Community Action Organization's Rural Health Initiative Program operates four ambulatory medical centers in Lawrence County: Ironton, Kemp, South Point and Chesapeake Family Medical Centers. This Health Center Cluster strives to serve Lawrence County's population of approximately 63,000.  
   "This grant is wonderful news for Lawrence County. The four medical centers operated by the Rural Health Initiative Program provide quality health care to many residents in Lawrence County who - due to job loss, limited incomes, or lack of insurance - would not have access to health care were it not for CAO's clinics. Renewal funding will enable continued operation of these medical centers and enhance the quality of life for families in Appalachian Ohio," said Voinovich. 
   Lawrence County has high rates of poverty and unemployment, and a scarcity of economic development resources and health care services. These needs have become even more pervasive since the closing of the local hospital in 2001, which was the largest employer in the area. At that time, the Health Center Cluster extended their hours to include evenings and weekends, and immediately began a collaboration with the county health department to better provide required immunizations, including flu and pneumonia vaccines. 
   In addition, as one of many programs under the umbrella of the CAO, the Rural Health Initiative Program is able to refer patients to the many CAO programs that offer a completely different kind of care. That care may come in the form of housing, assistance with heating costs during winter months, weatherization of homes, or enrolling a child in Headstart. 
   For additional information, please contact the Health Resources and Services Administration Office of Legislation at (301) 443-1890.
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 