SEN. VOINOVICH SPEAKS ON FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
  Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the Senate's top "deficit hawk," took to the Senate floor last night to deliver an update to his recent speech on the fiscal health of the nation. He pointed out our growing national debt and said Congress is living in a "state of denial." Please see below for the text of the speech and feel free to quote from it:
   MR. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to speak for 15 minutes as if in morning business.
   Mr. President, as we prepare to consider the budget resolution next week, I rise today to comment on the need for fiscal responsibility and reform of the very financial pillars that support our Government's foundation. Building on a speech I gave last October and in the tradition of another member of this body, Senator Fritz Hollings, I hope to regularly provide my colleagues and the American people with updates on our growing national debt. 
   We need to be reminded of the fiscal realities in which we find ourselves. We cannot continue to live in a state of denial.
   The Congressional Budget Office projects a $219 billion budget deficit for 2008, which does not include the $152 billion economic stimulus package that President Bush recently signed into law. With the addition of the economic stimulus bill the 2008 projected deficit can be assumed to be $371 billion for 2008.
   But even that figure hides the true degree to which our fiscal situation has deteriorated, mainly because it uses every dime of the Social Security surplus - as well as surpluses in other trust funds - to hide the true size of the government's operating deficit.
   If you wall-off the Social Security surplus so that Congress can't spend it on other programs - as I believe we should do - then the government's operating deficit amounts to $566 billion, over 50 percent more than the reported deficit of $371 billion. But the annual difference between revenues and outlays is not what's truly threatening our future. It's the cumulative, ongoing increase in our national debt that really matters. But unfortunately many in Washington pretend this debt doesn't even exist.
   Mr. President, remember in 1992, when Ross Perot ran for President and was sounding the alarm, the national debt then was about $4 trillion. He projected that by 2007, the debt would increase to $8 trillion. Well, guess what? As of 2007, the national debt stood at almost $9 trillion. Ross Perot's doomsday predictions turned out to be too rosy! In the last 15 years we have added more to the national debt than in the previous 200 years. We should be shaking in our boots! It means that each man, woman, and child in the United States owes $30,000 of the federal government's debt. Think about that. Here are some additional fiscal facts:
   * 47.5 percent of the privately owned national debt is held by foreign creditors - mostly foreign central banks. That's up from 13.3 percent just five years ago. And who are these foreign creditors? The three largest foreign holders of U.S. debt are Japan, China, and the oil-exporting countries, or OPEC. Can you imagine how high our interest rates would soar if these countries moved out their investment? 
   * According to the S&P and Moody's, U.S. Treasuries will lose their triple-A credit in 2012 because of the government's deteriorating long term fiscal position. 
   * The dollar purchases one Canadian dollar and it takes $1.52 to buy one Euro.
   Our long-term fiscal situation makes short-term responsible budgeting even more important. The adoption of biennial budgeting for the federal government, like I had as governor of Ohio, would ensure Congress can get its work done on time while also conducting the oversight necessary to ensure that programs and agencies are functioning effectively.
   I have long championed this issue -I have been a co-sponsor of Senator Domenici's Biennial Budgeting Act since I came to the Senate in 1999 and have been advocating for its passage nearly 10 years. In 25 of the past 30 years, Congress has failed to enact all the appropriations bills by the start of the fiscal year - instead passing omnibus bills and continuing resolutions. And Government-by-CR has consequences: agencies cannot plan for the future. They cannot make hiring decisions. They cannot sign contracts.
   As a result, we get more waste and inefficiency from government. We get lower quality services provided to the people. And at the end of the day we get higher spending and less accountability and oversight of the taxpayers' money. This is irresponsible management and it has to stop. Biennial budgeting will ensure Congress does its job and actually looks back to see if the money we have spent is doing what it's supposed to.
   While biennial budgeting can restore order to the appropriations process, it will not solve our long-term entitlement problem or reform our tax code. We must enact fundamental tax reform to help make the tax code simple, fair, transparent, and economically efficient.
   And, tax reform is not just a matter of simply saving taxpayers time and effort. This is about saving taxpayers real money. The Tax Foundation estimates that comprehensive tax reform could save Americans as much as $265 billion in compliance costs associated with preparing their returns. Now, that would be a real tax reduction that wouldn't cost the Treasury one dime!
   In January 2005, President Bush announced the creation of an all-star panel, led by former Senators Connie Mack and John Breaux, and that panel spent most of the year engaging the American public to develop proposals to make our tax code simpler, fairer, and more conducive to economic growth. In November 2005, the panel issued its final report. While not perfect in everyone's mind, the panel's two plans provided a starting point for developing tax reform legislation that would represent a huge improvement over the current system. The panel's proposals belong as a key part of the national discussion on fundamental tax reform.
   Last January I introduced the Securing America's Future Economy, or SAFE, Commission Act - legislation that would create a bipartisan commission to look at our nation's tax and entitlement systems and recommend reforms to put us back on a fiscally sustainable course and ensure the solvency of entitlement programs for future generations. My colleague Senate Isakson has joined me as a cosponsor.
   Democratic Congressman Jim Cooper of Tennessee and Republican Congressman Frank Wolf of Virginia, introduced a bipartisan version of the SAFE Commission in the House, where they have 73 co-sponsors from both parties. This bipartisan, bicameral group has support from corporate executives, religious leaders, think tanks across the political spectrum from the Heritage Foundation to the Brookings Institution, and former members from both parties.
   On the heels of this, two of my colleagues, the Budget Committee Chairman from North Dakota and the Ranking Member from New Hampshire, recently introduced a bipartisan bill that would create a tax and entitlement reform task force very similar to my SAFE Commission- entitled The Bipartisan Task Force for Responsible Fiscal Action. I have signed on as a co-sponsor of the Conrad-Gregg proposal and I look forward to working with them to restore fiscal sanity to the U.S. government.
   I also would like to comment the efforts of Divided We Fail- a coalition comprised of the AARP, Business Roundtable, Service Employees Union, and National Federation of Independent Business for encouraging bi-partisan Congressional action on healthcare and lifetime financial security.
   I am encouraged that the Senate Budget Committee is planning to mark up the Bipartisan Task Force for Responsible Fiscal Action and I urge my colleagues to pass this critical legislation before the close of 2008. The next President, whom ever they may be, should be ready in January 2009 to work with the Task Force in addressing these critical reform issues.
   Mr. President, what we are doing now is not working for us. We know that oversight is an important part of our job, but oversight takes time. We must identify the programs that are mired with waste, fraud, and abuse.
   Another piece of legislation I introduced along side Senator Cornyn is The United States Authorization and Sunset Commission Act. This legislation would create a bipartisan commission to make recommendations to Congress on whether to reauthorize, reorganize, or terminate federal programs. It would establish a systematic process to review unauthorized programs and agencies, and, if applicable, programs that are rated as ineffective or results not demonstrated under the Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART). Hopefully the next Administration will adopt the criteria the Bush Administration has set for PART.
   This legislation does not take away our obligation to make difficult decisions about what programs to continue and those that we can no longer afford to support. What it does do is provide an opportunity to work smarter.
   I believe by establishing this Commission to do a thorough examination of programs and agencies, using established criteria, and a transparent reporting process, that we can carry out our oversight responsibilities more efficiently and effectively. The legislation will help us distinguish between worthwhile programs and those that have outlived their purpose, are poorly targeted, operate inefficiently, or simply are not producing results that taxpayer expects. I used such a commission as Governor of Ohio and it helped us work harder and smarter and do to more with less.
   As we near the end of the Presidential primary season and move into the nominating conventions, the Presidential candidates of both parties should address the critical issues of tax reform, entitlement spending, and budget process reform. All of the leading Presidential candidates are members of the U.S. Senate. The American electorate should demand that they take a stand on the SAFE Commission and The Bipartisan Task Force for Responsible Fiscal Action.
   Voters should demand Congress pass this bill this year and insist the Presidential Candidates pledge that upon being elected will guarantee that one of the first actions they will take as President is to make their appointments to the Task Force. The Presidential Candidates should have recommendations on tax reform, entitlement reform and biennial budgeting. But I am afraid the candidates, whether Democrat or Republican, will avoid these topics because these challenges require tough choices. Voters must ask candidates if they are willing to discuss our Country's financial future. If the candidates avoid the topic of responsibility in the campaign, how can voters trust them to be forthright after they are elected?
   The former Comptroller General David Walker has said, "The greatest threat to our future is our fiscal irresponsibility." He added, "America suffers from a serious case of myopia, or nearsightedness, both in the public sector and in the private sector. We need to start focusing more on the future. We need to start recognizing the reality that we're on an imprudent and unsustainable fiscal path, and we need to get started now."
   Mr. President, I have three children and seven grandchildren. My wife, Janet and I, are wondering whether they will have the same opportunities we have had, as well as, the same standard of living. I question what kind of legacy we will leave them as a nation.
   The time to act is now. When you look at the numbers, it is self-evident that we must confront our swelling national debt, and that we must make a concerted, bipartisan effort to reform our tax system, slow the growth of entitlement spending, and halt this freight train that is threatening to crush our kids' and grandkids' futures. We owe it to our children and grandchildren to take care of this problem now.
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
 
 