SEN. VOINOVICH: ENSURING PRODUCT SAFETY, PROTECTING IP RIGHTS
  Today, President Bush is set to speak about international trade and the safety of imported goods. While unsafe yet legal products are a big risk factor for Americans, just as dangerous if not more dangerous is the threat of counterfeit goods hitting American shelves. That's why Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH), along with Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) introduced S.522, the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act.
   The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act treats intellectual property (IP) theft with the seriousness it demands, offering a focused, aggressive solution to stop domestic and international counterfeiting. The legislation would safeguard the economic health of the United States, preserve jobs and protect the health and safety of American citizens by increasing the coordination among agencies charged with IP protection and making permanent many of the president's current initiatives to combat IP theft. 
   And there's movement on this bill. A House version was introduced back in September by Reps. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Brad Sherman (D-CA) and Joe Donnelly (D-IN). And the Senate Judiciary Committee tomorrow is holding a hearing on IP theft where S.522 should be discussed.
   Please find below a press release on S.522 that will provide some good insight into the pressing issue of IP theft.
   SENS. BAYH, VOINOVICH UNVEIL NEW LEGISLATION TARGETING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY THEFT
   Aggressive approach is needed to protect American jobs, ingenuity
   WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and Evan Bayh (D-IN) today introduced the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act, legislation that will significantly enhance intellectual property (IP) enforcement domestically and internationally. The new legislation will protect American jobs and businesses by improving the domestic coordination to combat IP theft and by creating a new international mechanism to work with like-minded countries to combat the pirates of the 21st century global marketplace. They were joined at the press conference by Joe Wiegand, Global Brand Protection Manager for Ford Motor Company, and by representatives from Indiana's Batesville Tool & Die and Ohio's Will-Burt Company who endorsed the legislation and spoke about the impact IP theft has on small manufacturers.
   "When we let other countries steal our ideas, we're letting them take our jobs, too - that has to stop," Sen. Bayh said. "Our legislation will treat intellectual property theft with the seriousness it demands to protect American jobs and safeguard the health and safety of our citizens."
   "In the fierce competition of the 21st-century global marketplace, intellectual property is one of the few areas where America has a clear advantage over foreign competitors. It is vital that we protect that advantage, level the playing field and ensure continued economic growth for Americans," Sen. Voinovich said. "I am so pleased to have the opportunity to work with Senator Bayh on safeguarding the economic health of our country by improving the management, coordination and effectiveness of domestic and international intellectual property enforcement."
   "We welcome this legislation because it represents a serious effort to address a crucial issue affecting all of us," Joe Wiegand said. "Coordination among the federal, state and local agencies with jurisdiction over counterfeiting has always been a requirement for effective enforcement."
   The strategy used by those who would steal intellectual property has evolved, and we must make sure that the government's response for combating intellectual property theft also evolves. The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act will increase cooperation among agencies in charge of IP investigations and add other agencies such as those that specialize in tracking terrorist financing, to the detriment of our national security interests.
   The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act would:
   * Create one organized force to combat IP theft that would facilitate the sharing of information;
   * Establish formal processes for consulting with small and medium sized businesses, industry associations and other interested groups and to develop resources to assist such stakeholders in protecting their intellectual property;
   * Establish an international task force of foreign countries to track and identify IP criminals;
   * Encourage reliable trading partners to join the task force; and
   * Require a Strategic Plan to identify the objectives of the Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act and the methods for achieving those objectives.
   According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, counterfeiting costs U.S. businesses as much as $250 billion annually and 750,000 American jobs have been lost due to counterfeit merchandise. IP theft also poses a threat to the health and safety of American citizens. Counterfeit drugs make up 10 percent of the pharmaceutical market, and $3 billion in phony auto parts are sold in the United States each year.
   The Intellectual Property Rights Enforcement Act enjoys support from 21 organizations: U.S. Chamber of Commerce; National Association of Manufacturers; Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association; The International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America; Precision Metalforming Association; National Electrical Manufacturers Association; Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America; International AntiCounterfeiting Coalition; Association of Equipment Manufacturers; Aerospace Industries Association; Electronic Industries Alliance; American Apparel & Footwear Association; Intellectual Property Owners Association; Grocery Manufacturers Association and the Food Products Association; American Electronics Association; Association for Competitive Technology; National Marine Manufacturers Association; Toy Industry Association; Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association; Specialty Equipment Marketing Association; and Lima/Allen County Chamber of Commerce.
 
 