SEN. VOINOVICH REMEMBERS CORETTA SCOTT KING
  "The future of our nation is dependent upon whether we put into practice the ideals and principles of peace, love, and justice that Dr. and Mrs. King espoused. The best way we can honor Dr. King's dream is to be relentless, as Mrs. King was, in our pursuit of bringing about true freedom and equality for all Americans through nonviolent means. I'm confident that-with God's help-each of us can continue to make a difference in the lives of our fellow citizens and fulfill Dr. King's dream for America and the world." - Sen. George V. Voinovich  
   Senator Voinovich is one of four Republican senators attending the funeral service of Mrs. Coretta Scott King today in Atlanta, Georgia. Although the Senator never had the opportunity to meet Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., he did have the opportunity to work with Mrs. King throughout her crusade to establish the Martin Luther King Day holiday and to ensure that it was properly celebrated throughout America. The senator's friendship with Mrs. King is close to his heart, and he is immensely honored at the opportunity to be present at her funeral. His friendship with Mrs. King began in 1980 during his term as mayor of Cleveland. As president of the National League of Cities, then-Mayor Voinovich made a commitment to Mrs. King that he would do everything in his power to make sure that each city in America would celebrate the King Holiday with proper events. They were committed to the establishment of a new tradition in this country. 
   As with any new initiative, there was some opposition. However, Senator Voinovich's upbringing in a family that valued public service strengthened his commitment to Dr. and Mrs. King. He knew the establishment of a King Holiday tradition in America was vital to Dr. King's legacy, and he called upon America's cities and towns to establish a Martin Luther King Day tradition. One of the highlights of Senator Voinovich's life was the day he and his wife Janet traveled to Atlanta for the inauguration of the King Holiday on January 26, 1986. They were invited personally by Mrs. King, and Mayor Voinovich was one of only two mayors present that day. The other was his good friend Andy Young, mayor of Atlanta. 
   He will never forget how eloquent the speakers were that day. "My emotions still soar when I describe the sense of kinship and empathy that arose from our walk through the streets of Atlanta after the service at Ebeneezer Baptist Church. With Senator Sam Nunn on one arm, Janet on the other--all of us singing, 'We shall overcome'," said Senator Voinovich. 
   When he was sworn in as governor of Ohio, he received a copy of the book titled A Testament of Hope: The Essential Writings of Martin Luther King Jr. from Mrs. King with the following inscription: "May these words of Martin serve as a guiding inspiration to you in your role as leader and exponent of the King legacy. Your friendship and support are deeply appreciated." 
   In January 1989, Mrs. King presented then-Governor Voinovich with the Distinguished Service Award from the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change for his work to keep alive Mr. King's commitment to nonviolent social change. 
   In 1992, he had the honor of having Mrs. King as keynote speaker at his first "Governor's Challenge Conference." The Governor's Challenge was held for the purpose of educating and breaking down barriers that led to intolerance. Outstanding communities were recognized for their efforts. 
   Also as governor, Voinovich was honored to issue an Executive Order in 1995 establishing the Ohio Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Commission, whose mission is to hold an annual ceremony to honor Dr. King as well as Ohioans who carry on his work. He is very proud to have been a part of making this day a special part of Ohio's history. 
   As senator, he was honored to co-sponsor a bill that authorized the President to award a gold medal on behalf of Congress to Dr. and Mrs. King. He also co-sponsored a bill authorizing the minting of the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Coin. 
   One of the items he cherishes most is the picture of Dr. King that hangs in his office in Washington on which Mrs. King wrote: "To George Voinovich, with deep appreciation for your support and commitment to the realization of Dr. King's dream."
   Contact: Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784. 
 
 