SEN. VOINOVICH LETTER TO PRESIDENT ON TRUTH IN BUDGETING
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), the Senate's top "Debt Hawk," today sent the following letter to President Bush regarding his administration's Fiscal Year 2009 budget. Specifically, Sen. Voinovich mentioned a permanent AMT repeal and a permanent reform of scheduled cuts in physician payment rates under Medicare - two policies the senator favors as long as they're done in a fiscally responsible manner.
   Previous budgets have reflected higher revenues from AMT collections and lower spending from severe cuts to doctors. But if fixing both of these problems is truly our shared goal in 2008, then the nation's budget should reflect that, and not count those revenues and spending cuts to justify further spending by showing funds that shouldn't exist in 2009 and beyond. Please see below for the letter: 
   January 7, 2008
   The President
  The White House
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   As you finish development of your fiscal year 2009 budget submission, I would like to bring to your attention two high-profile policy choices that have a tremendous impact on the federal government's finances. I support these policy choices, and I understand that you agree. Therefore, honesty and transparency in budgeting require that the budget effects of these policies be reflected fully in the budget submission that you send to Congress in February 2009.
   The first policy choice is permanent repeal of or relief from the individual alternative minimum tax (AMT). According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, if the 2001 and 2003 tax relief is made permanent (as your budget assumes), then the ten-year revenue loss from complete repeal of the AMT could exceed $1.5 trillion. Yet, with the exception of a one-year (2007) AMT "patch" that reduces revenue by about $50 billion, your fiscal year 2008 budget assumed collection of all AMT revenues from tax year 2008 forward. This assumption allowed the administration to project dramatically higher revenues and dramatically lower deficits and debt than it could have projected had it proposed full AMT repeal without offsets.
   In previous years, the administration stated that it supported full repeal of the AMT as part of "revenue-neutral" tax reform, which I took to mean revenue neutral vis-\xE0-vis a baseline that assumes that Congress makes the 2001 and 2003 tax relief permanent. Yet, the budget did not identify a single offset for this $1.5 trillion-plus revenue loss that the administration claims to support. In 2005, the President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform - headed by former Senators Connie Mack and John Breaux - proposed just such a revenue-neutral tax reform that included full repeal of the AMT and identified the specific offsets it would use. Despite the excellent work of the panel, however, you declined to endorse the recommendations. Thus it remains unclear how the administration would raise the revenues necessary to achieve the levels claimed in its budget. In fact, the administration's recent position has been that AMT relief should not be offset. If that is indeed the administration's position, then I hope that position is reflected in its ten-year budget projections.
   Similarly, your fiscal year 2008 budget submission stated that, "The Administration supports reforms in physician payments that do not increase costs for taxpayers or for Medicare and its beneficiaries." According to the Congressional Budget Office, a true permanent reform of the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) - upon which physician payments are based - could cost more than $250 billion over a ten-year period. The administration's budget submission, however, continues to claim the savings from the current unsustainable payment rate formula. I believe that an honest and transparent budget would specify the cost of reforming physician payment rates, and then either adjust the spending, deficit, and debt totals accordingly, or else identify specific offsets. 
  To summarize, previous budget submissions have included significant revenues from the AMT and significant savings from the current physician payment formula. Yet, the administration has indicated support for repeal or reform of these policies - changes that would add hundreds of billions (and perhaps trillions) of dollars to the national debt if not properly offset. I therefore urge you, in the development of an honest and transparent budget submission, either to:
   Adjust your revenue, outlay, deficit, and debt totals to account for these policy choices;
   Identify specific offsets that allow those totals to remain unchanged; or
   State transparently that the administration supports the continuation of current law with respect to the AMT and the SGR.
   I, of course, would prefer the second option so that we can address these problematic policies without adding trillions of additional dollars to the burden that our children and grandchildren must bear. Accomplishing this, however, requires presidential leadership, and I want you to know that I stand ready to work with you to make the tough choices necessary to achieve these goals.
   Sincerely,
   George V. Voinovich
  United States Senator
  cc: The Honorable Henry Paulson, Jr.
  The Honorable Jim Nussle
  The Honorable Joshua Bolten
 
 