SEN. VOINOVICH DISCUSSES AMERICAN COMPETITIVENESS, MATH AND SCIENCE EDUCATION
  Today, Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) participated in an event at Youngstown State University and discussed the importance of math and science education to the future economic competitiveness of Ohio and the nation. He highlighted his Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act of 2006, legislation he recently helped introduce which is aimed at improving our nation's competitiveness through advancements in and emphasis on math and science education.  
   "While innovation and productivity have traditionally been the source of our nation's preeminence, the gap between the United States and the rest of the world is closing quickly," Sen. Voinovich said. "The European Union and a growing India and China are nipping at our heels. Unless we develop an infrastructure of competitiveness, our children and grandchildren will not be able to enjoy the same standard of living and quality of life we have today. Realizing our full potential will be impossible without a highly educated and motivated workforce in the areas of science, engineering and math." 
   The PACE legislation reflects the recommendations of the non-partisan National Academy of Sciences (NAS) Report "Rising Above the Gathering Storm." The report has gained considerable attention since its release in fall 2005 because of its innovative look at ways to advance American competitiveness. 
   While Sen. Voinovich is pleased with the president's recognized effort to build an infrastructure of competitiveness through his American Competitiveness Initiative, the PACE Act goes even further toward implementing the recommendations of NAS. 
   "We need to raise a generation of innovators who have the math, science and engineering skills to solve the challenges we will face in the 21st century," Sen. Voinovich said. "If we're going to compete in the global marketplace, we must have more knowledge-based jobs. We need to redouble our efforts to make sure we don't have a 'brain drain' facing our nation."
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 