SEN. VOINOVICH TO VOTE TO PASS BOLTON OUT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH), a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, today will vote to pass U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton out of committee and clear the way for a vote by the full Senate. He also called on Democrats to keep the current situations around the world in mind when deciding how to vote when the nomination comes to the floor. Ambassador Bolton's recess appointment expires this fall when the Senate officially recesses. Sen. George V. Voinovich's statement follows:  
   "When John Bolton was recess appointed in 2005, I voiced my opposition but told him that I would work tirelessly to help him reform the United Nations. I also told him that his success in his new role would have an impact on our country, the world and the future of the United Nations. I have met and spoken regularly with him since his appointment, discussing my hope that the United States would indeed build a consensus at the United Nations and work with our allies. 
   "My observations are that while Ambassador Bolton is not perfect, he has demonstrated his ability, especially in recent months, to work with others and follow the president's lead by working multilaterally. I have watched him react to the challenges involving North Korea, Iran and recently the Middle East, speaking on behalf of the United States. I believe Ambassador Bolton has been tempered and focused on speaking for the administration. 
   "The troubling situations in Iran, Lebanon, North Korea and Sudan cannot be ignored. I cannot imagine a worse message to send to those opposing democracy than to replace the person our president has entrusted to lead our nation at the United Nations. 
   "For my colleagues in the Senate to now question Ambassador Bolton's renomination would jeopardize our influence in the United Nations and encourage those who oppose the United States to make Ambassador Bolton the issue, thereby undermining our policies and agenda. 
   "Today I will vote to pass Ambassador Bolton out of committee and will then - hopefully as early as next week - vote to confirm him on the floor. I call on my Democrat colleagues to keep in mind the current situation in the Middle East and the rest of the world when the Senate votes on his nomination. 
   "For the good of our country, the United Nations and the free world, we must end any ambiguity about whether John Bolton speaks for the United States so that he can work to support our interests at the United Nations during this critical time."
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 