SEPTEMBER IS NATIONAL PREPAREDNESS MONTH - ARE YOU PREPARED?
  Many of the disasters experienced every year by Ohioans occur with very little warning: winter weather can paralyze a region with blizzard-like conditions or ice storms; tornadoes can devastate communities; and flooding, as we've recently seen, can damage property and communications equipment and even take lives. And despite our best efforts to prevent them, acts of terrorism may happen with no warning at all.
   In 95 percent of emergency situations, bystanders or victims themselves are the first to provide emergency assistance. Regular folks doing dangerous work intended for professional first responders will never be safe - but it can be made safer if the people doing it have prepared properly for the moment.  
   Now, the question is: are you prepared? 
   Are you prepared to handle the loss your basic utilities? Losing these services for an hour or two is an inconvenience; to be without them for several days or weeks would be a severe disruption - both to individuals' lives and to local economies.
   September is National Preparedness Month, which is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Throughout the month, DHS will be working with organizations nationwide to educate citizens about the personal responsibilities involved with a natural or man-made disaster. 
   As a member of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, I am not only working to prepare for these emergencies, I'm personally challenging all Ohioans to get informed about potential threats and to be prepared to respond. There is obviously no way to prepare for every emergency. However, being informed of possible scenarios, making contingency plans and being prepared to the best of our ability will go a long way in the face of a disaster. 
   DHS's national preparedness campaign, called Ready, is aimed at educating and empowering Americans to better prepare and respond to emergencies. And one of their suggestions is to always have an emergency kit nearby. 
   A few recommended items to include in the kit are: water (enough to last several days, but an amount you can transport); food (at least a three-day supply of non-perishable food); a battery-powered radio and extra batteries; a flashlight and extra batteries; a first aid kit (don't forget prescription medications); cash; a whistle to signal for help; a change of clothes; a dust mask to help filter the air; moist towelettes and sanitary products; a Swiss Army knife or similar tool; and a wrench or pliers to turn off utilities.
   The campaign also specifically addresses child safety as a tool to help parents and teachers educate children ages 8-12 about emergencies and how they can help their families prepare. The Ready Kids Web site, www.ready.gov/kids, gives step-by-step information for creating a kid-friendly emergency supply kit, teaching parents and kids how to make a plan for an emergency. The Web site also talks about different types of weather events and other unexpected situations, describing where they are most common and how to correctly respond, and interactive games are available to quiz kids on what they've learned.
   The Ready campaign also addresses business preparedness in an effort to raise the business community's awareness of the need for emergency planning and motivate them to take action. This campaign encourages business owners and managers to develop a continuity plan to stay in business, talk to employees and protect investments.
   For more information on all of these programs, visit www.ready.gov or call 1-800-BE-READY. There's even a preparedness tip of the day throughout the entire month so make your daily call a family activity.
   We've all seen how expensive disasters can be. As governor, I experienced two massive floods in Ohio and saw first-hand those that anticipated disaster recovered better than those that did not. The cost of rebuilding can be lessened if we take individual responsibility for our families, homes and possessions. 
   A vital part of being prepared is communicating with your family and local community. This September, be sure to set aside a day to speak with your family, friends and neighbors about how you would respond in an emergency. Find out how you can get involved and take the time now to prepare for situations that may arise in the future. Preparation is the key to a swift response and safe outcome. 
   Being prepared is more than just a suggestion - it is our civic responsibility. It is vital that we reassess where we stand when it comes to disaster preparedness and learn to expect the unexpected.
 
 