SEN. VOINOVICH TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today will vote in favor of fiscal accountability by voting against cloture on the motion to proceed to repeal the estate tax. The senator's vote - that of the Senate's top "deficit hawk"-will reflect his strong belief that the decisions he and his colleagues make in the Senate today will affect the lives of their children and grandchildren long after they have left the Senate. Under current law, of the 2.4 million deaths nationally of people 25 years old or older in 2004, less than 1 percent incurred the estate and gift tax.  
   "Repealing the estate tax during this time of fiscal crisis would be incredibly irresponsible and intellectually dishonest," Sen. Voinovich said. "Congress should heed Americans' demand for fundamental tax and entitlement reform and not tax cuts when we're so deep in the red." 
   The reported deficit for FY2005 was $318 billion - and that's not taking into account the funds borrowed from the Social Security Trust Fund, which brings the total to nearly $500 billion. Even more, when utilizing the Department of Treasury's accrual accounting method, the deficit is a disturbing $760 billion. 
   Also, the national debt has increased from $5.6 trillion in 1999 to $8.4 trillion today - an increase of 50 percent. The House increased the debt limit to nearly $10 trillion which is an increase of 78 percent since 1999. Full repeal of the estate tax beginning in 2007 though 2016 would cost $368 billion according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. This assumes a phase-in, which means extending the full repeal after it is currently scheduled to expire in 2011. 
   "True fiscal conservatives should be focused on simplifying the tax code. Fundamental tax reform could, by some estimates, save taxpayers over $265 billion in costs associated with preparing their taxes," Sen. Voinovich said. "That would be a real tax reduction, and it would not cost the Treasury one dime. It would be a tax cut that would guarantee people are paying their fair share and would bring more money into the Federal Treasury. 
   "The choices Congress makes now are being measured against a backdrop of ever-increasing deficits, disaster relief funding, the cost of fighting the War on Terror and the challenges of staying competitive in the global marketplace. I am thinking not only about the present, but about our children and grandchildren and the legacy - or burden - we will leave them."
   Contact: Chris Paulitz and Garrette Silverman, 202/224-7784.
 
 