SEN. VOINOVICH ISSUES STATEMENT ON AMERICA'S INFRASTRUCTURE CRISIS
  U.S. Senator George V. Voinovich (R-OH) released a statement today on the urgent need for improvements to our nation's aging infrastructure. Sen. Voinovich has long-believed that America's infrastructure is collapsing due to insufficient funding. The collapse of the I-35W bridge in Minnesota last week made clear that the deterioration of our nation's infrastructure systems are impacting the overall welfare of the American people in addition to the economy and the environment. 
   Last week, the Senate unanimously passed the National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007 - legislation authored by Sen. Voinovich focused on addressing the deteriorating condition of America's roads, bridges, drinking water systems, dams and other public works. Sen. Voinovich's statement follows:
   "I would like to express my deepest sympathies to the families and loved ones of those who so tragically lost their lives and to those who were injured last week in the I-35W bridge collapse. Their lives have changed forever.
   "I have long been concerned with our nation's infrastructure and for years have lauded the accuracy of experts who warned that the infrastructure supporting our economy and quality of life is crumbling. Yet, we have continually failed to invest in the improvements necessary to keep pace with our growing population and increasing demands. 
   "The 2005 Highway Bill is a perfect example of this neglect. Upon passage, I made it blatantly clear that Washington has been turning a blind-eye to the infrastructure needs of this country. The bill fell far short of the level needed to improve, and maintain, our nation's highway system. In fact, the highway bill provided $70.4 billion below what is needed to improve - and $38.8 billion below what is needed to maintain our highway system. We simply cannot tolerate this sort of under-funding any longer.
   "As a former governor Ohio - the state with the second highest number of bridges in the nation - I understand the length of time and resources necessary to truly protect our citizens and the economic future of our country. That is why I worked hard to secure millions for the reconstruction of the Cleveland Innerbelt, the rehabilitation of the I-90 Bridge over the Cuyahoga River and for the Brent Spence Bridge in Cincinnati.
   "The deterioration of our nation's highways, waterways and infrastructure systems are impacting our economy, the environment and the welfare of the American people. The National Infrastructure Improvement Act of 2007, a bill I authored, which passed the Senate last week, gets to the heart of the infrastructure crisis by establishing a commission that will provide concrete recommendations for current and future infrastructure needs. 
   "Revitalizing our decaying physical infrastructure is a critical component of keeping America competitive in the global marketplace. Last week illustrated the horrible result of not addressing this crisis immediately - our nation's infrastructure needs can no longer be pushed to the backburner. It's time for Congress and the administration to get their heads out of the sand."
 
 