SEN. VOINOVICH LETTER ON LIHEAP, ENERGY/ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today sent a letter to President Bush urging him to consider releasing contingency funds for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). These funds would help states like Ohio provide assistance to low-income individuals with the costs of their home heating bills. At the same time, Sen. Voinovich emphasized the fact that poor environmental and energy policies are driving these costs up. And while the release of these funds would be a good short-term fix, we must have a long-term solution that balances our economic, environmental and energy needs. Please see below and attached for the letter: 
   January 9, 2008
   The President
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   The Energy Information Administration (EIA) estimates that households could pay substantially more for heating fuels this winter than during the 2006-07 winter. In fact, in my home state of Ohio, an estimated 60,000 families living in Appalachia and rural northwestern Ohio have seen the cost of propane and fuel oil, which they use to heat their homes, increase by 22 percent and 17percent, respectively, in the past year. This coming winter the EIA forecasts prices in the Midwest for propane and heating oil will increase 21.8 percent and 33 percent, respectively.
   As a result, nationwide applications for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) have increased by 26 percent from 4.6 million to about 5.8 million-about 15.6 percent of the eligible population so far this year. Indeed, in Ohio, more than half of the program's $37 million budget for the winter was exhausted during the first six weeks of the program. LIHEAP is a vital program for millions of our nation's lowest income individuals, and as the winter months begin, I urge you to consider releasing the $586 million in contingency funds recently appropriated in the Omnibus Appropriations bill to maximize the program's purchasing power.
   As you are aware, a major contributor to these skyrocketing energy prices are environmental policies that encourage the use of scarce energy resources while discouraging the use of abundant domestic energy supplies. For far too long we have failed to adequately balance our country's energy, environmental and economic policies. This has resulted in substantial unintended costs in the form of increased fuel and electricity prices and lost jobs. Moreover, because of the regressive effects of escalating energy prices, the economic consequences of these policies fall hardest on the most vulnerable members of our population -- the poor and elderly. If we continue to ignore the economic impacts of our country's environmental policies, we will further erode our competitive position in the world marketplace, while increasing costs for those among us who are least able to pay.
   Moving forward, we should take care that our environmental policies are not considered in a vacuum. They should be complimentary to -- not in opposition to -the country's energy and economic needs. In the meantime, we need to do the best we can now to help the least of our brothers and sisters.
   Sincerely,
   George V. Voinovich
  United States Senator
 
 