SEN. VOINOVICH RECEIVES AWARD FOR COMMITMENT TO GREAT LAKES
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) has received the Congressional Partnership and Conservation Award for 2006 from the Department of the Interior's Fish and Wildlife Service. This award was established to honor those who are working to sustain and enhance fish and wildlife and their habitats and to engage citizens in the shared stewardship of our natural resources. Sen. Voinovich was specifically cited for this work to help restore the Great Lakes.  
   "I am honored to receive this reward. Like anything worth having, the Great Lakes are worth fighting for. Continued vigilance and international cooperation will help us work through the many challenges that we face in keeping the Great Lakes headed in the right direction," said Voinovich. "Great Lakes restoration is a national priority. We need everyone citizen to join us in the effort so that this global resource can be used and enjoyed by our children, grandchildren and generations to come." 
   Since the beginning of his public career, Senator Voinovich has dedicated himmyself to fighting the "Second Battle of Lake Erie" to reclaim and restore Ohio's Great Lake. During his career in the Senate, Senator Voinovich has demonstrated his strong commitment to Great Lakes restoration. He has introduced legislation, conducted oversight hearings and held regular meetings with the public officials and other stakeholders in both the United States and Canada. 
   As a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, Senator Voinovich has supported the Great Lakes and many issues of interest to the Fish and Wildlife Service. In addition, he will be chairing a full committee hearing on March 16 on Great Lakes restoration. The Great Lakes hearing will focus on establishing an implementation strategy for the comprehensive restoration plan released by the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration (GLRC) last December. Senator Voinovich actively sought the development of this plan and urged the GLRC to develop a final plan that provides immediate and long-term impacts to the Great Lakes.
   Contact: Marcie Ridgway, 202/224-6296. 
 
 