SEN. VOINOVICH CO-SPONSORS BIPARTISAN BILL TO INVEST $1.8 BILLION FOR WATER INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
  Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) on Friday, March 9, became an original co-sponsor of the Water Quality Investment Act - bipartisan legislation introduced today which would authorize $1.8 billion in federal grants to help modernize antiquated sewer systems. These sewers frequently overflow directly into rivers, lakes, streams and coastal waters during wet weather events, threatening water quality and public health and undermining local economies. Sens. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Olympia J. Snowe (R-ME) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) are also original co-sponsors of the bill. 
  "Our legislation holds the federal government responsible for paying its fair share for the nation's pressing water and wastewater infrastructure needs," Sen. Voinovich said. "We cannot expect cities to spend millions of dollars for water infrastructure upgrades without help from the federal government. We have a ticking time bomb ready to blow up if we don't act now."
  The city of Akron, for example, must spend $426 million over 30 years to fix the city's combined sewer overflow problems. $4 billion is needed to fix all of Ohio's combined sewer overflows problems.
  The legislation would authorize a $1.8 billion, five-year federal grant program in the Clean Water Act. The program would provide funds directly to local governments in the first year of the program. Over the next four years, funding would be allocated to states, based on need, to address problems of overflowing sewer systems. States will then distribute the funding to local governments. 
  Many municipalities face problems with their Combined Sewer Systems where sanitary sewage, industrial discharge and storm water are sent through the same pipe on the way to be treated. When flooding or heavy rainfall occur, excess water, sewage and industrial waste are discharged into bodies of water, creating a public health hazard and harming water quality and the environment. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that about 850 billion gallons of untreated wastewater and storm water from these systems are released into streams, lakes, rivers and estuaries each year.
  Separate sewer systems are not immune from those problems facing combined systems, and often overflow as well, sending untreated sewage into the waterways, streets, parks and homes of communities in every state. EPA estimates that between 3 billion and 10 billion gallons of untreated waste are spilled from these systems each year.
 
 