SEN. VOINOVICH APPLAUDS SENATE CONFIRMATION OF LIOI FOR NORTHERN DISTRICT JUDGE
  On Thursday, March 8, Sen. George V. Voinovich applauded his colleagues in the Senate for voting to confirm Judge Sara Lioi, of Canton, to be U.S. District Court Judge for the Northern District of Ohio. She was confirmed by voice vote. 
  The senator, along with former Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), recommended Judge Lioi to President Bush in April. After being approved the first time by the president last July, Judge Lioi then passed the Senate Judiciary Committee in late September but her confirmation never came up for a vote by the full Senate. 
  "I applaud my colleagues for finally confirming this fine jurist and remarkable public servant," Sen. Voinovich said. "Judge Lioi is well-prepared to serve on the bench and I'm proud to have recommended and supported her throughout this long process." 
  Judge Lioi joined the law firm of Day, Ketterer, Raley, Wright & Rybolt, Ltd. in the fall of 1987 and was promoted to partner in that firm in December 1993. In November 1997, during his second term as governor, Voinovich appointed Lioi as a judge in the Stark County Court of Common Pleas, Central Division. She was elected to a four-year term in November of 1998 and then re-elected for a six-year term in November 2002. 
  She graduated in 1983 from Bowling Green State University with a Bachelor of Arts degree and continued her education at The Ohio State University, receiving her Juris Doctor degree in 1987. 
  Once she's sworn in, Judge Lioi will fill a position that was vacated in a year ago by Judge Lesley Wells.
  Please see below for a statement submitted to the record by Sen. Voinovich regarding Judge Lioi:
  Statement Of Senator George V. Voinovich on the CONFIRMATION of JUDGE Sara Elizabeth Lioi
  Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, thank you for allowing me to speak on behalf of a very deserving person from the state of Ohio, as the Senate considers her nomination to the federal bench. I am here to express my strong support for Judge Sara Lioi, who the President has nominated to serve on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. 
   Judge Lioi has a distinguished and impressive record as an attorney in private practice, as an Ohio Court of Common Pleas Judge, and as a community leader in Stark County, Ohio, where she has deep roots. 
  A native of Stark County, Judge Lioi graduated from GlenOak High School and from Bowling Green State University, where she graduated summa cum laude and earned the distinction of Phi Beta Kappa. 
  Later, Judge Lioi went on to attend my law school alma mater, The Moritz College of Law at The Ohio State University, receiving her law degree in 1987. After graduating from law school, Judge Lioi joined the law firm of Day, Ketterer, the oldest law firm in Stark County, Ohio, as an associate. Judge Lioi was later recognized by her colleagues when they elected her to the firm's partnership in 1993. 
  In November 1997, when I was governor, I appointed Judge Lioi to fill a vacancy on the Stark County Common Pleas Court. Since then, Stark County voters have twice re-elected her. 
  Since ascending to the bench, Judge Lioi has disposed of over 9,500 cases and conducted over 350 trials, over 335 of which were jury trials. In sum, she has broad courtroom experience, both on and off the bench. This extensive experience will serve her well as a federal trial court judge.
  Judge Lioi's legal credentials are not the only reasons I support her nomination. Today, too many people do not take the time to become involved in their communities; however, Judge Lioi remains involved in a number of civic organizations. A graduate of Leadership Stark County, she has remained active with that program, as well as other not-for-profit community agencies, including Community Services of Stark County, Stark County Humane Society, Walsh University Advisory Board, and the Plain Local Schools Foundation. We need judges who not only have exceptional legal skills, but who also recognize how the law impacts individuals and communities, and involvement in one's community facilitates this understanding. 
  As a result of Judge Lioi's fine academic and professional achievements, I am not surprised that the American Bar Association found her unanimously well-qualified to serve as a federal district court judge. 
  In reviewing Judge Lioi's academic and professional record it is clear that she is well-qualified to serve as a judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, and I urge my colleagues to vote to approve her nomination to the federal bench. 
  Thank you.
 
 