SEN. LUGAR ADDRESSES BRAC HEARING
  Sen. Dick Lugar made the following statement at today's BRAC hearing examining the DFAS facility in Lawrence: 
   On behalf of the State of Indiana, thank you for holding this hearing on the impact of Secretary Rumsfeld's 2005 Base Realignment and Closure recommendations for the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) facility located at the Major General Emmett J. Bean Federal Center in Lawrence, Indiana. I am pleased to join with our Governor, Mitch Daniels, Congressman Dan Burton, Congresswoman Julia Carson and Indianapolis Mayor Bart Peterson in sharing our support for the Secretary's recommendations.  
   Mr. Chairman, I am already on record before this commission in support of the BRAC process to eliminate excess physical capacity, to be a path for transformation, to rationalize infrastructure with our national defense strategy, and to reconfigure our military infrastructure in a manner that will maximize our war-fighting capability and efficiency for the next twenty years. It is paramount that we implement prudent cost-cutting measures throughout the Department of Defense, and indeed in all sectors of our government, using practical business models and proven solutions. 
   Consideration of these facts and hard-core analyses should incorporate the unique assets and distinctive qualities of the Bean Federal Center facility, the town of Lawrence and the larger Indianapolis community that our witnesses will speak about today. My good friend, Governor Mitch Daniels, who worked to improve the management and efficiency of our federal bureaucracy during his tenure as President Bush's Director of the Office of Management and Budget, is here to speak to these issues in greater depth. He has asked our additional distinguished witnesses to provide detailed information regarding the Fort Benjamin Harrison facilities that members of the Commission visited last week and Indiana's unique qualifications to support Secretary Rumsfeld's suggested course of action. 
   I believe the original plan to consolidate 3,495 DFAS jobs at the former Fort Benjamin Harrison facility are in direct accord with the overall BRAC objectives. It supports our nation's next generation military strategy, the Department of Defense's business consolidation efforts, and the DFAS transformation strategy. 
   Mr. Chairman, for many years Congress and its investigative arm - the General Accountability Office (GAO) - have harped on the inefficiencies embodied in the dissimilar pay and accounting systems that each of the services operate. It is appropriate for the Commission to review ways to forge a better pay system for all the men and women in uniform and the many others whose compensation flows through the twenty-six DFAS facilities. 
   The mobilization of tens of thousands of Reservists over the past few years offers a very real glimpse into some of the challenges that DFAS continues to face in modernizing, despite the investment of billions of taxpayer dollars. For instance, a mobilizing reservist can expect a latency of several days in order to move from a reserve duty pay roster to an active duty pay roster - with an expectation that the same delay will confront them on the way home. These lost days of productivity cost of millions of dollars to the taxpayer. Similar pay issues cause significant financial hardships to our service men and women and their families. These challenges are not new. Reservists reported identical problems in 1991 and in March of 2003 a GAO report found that DoD was investing more than $1 billion to modernize and $18 billion a year to operate 1,731 disparate business systems. I support the Secretary's effort to address these problems through the BRAC process. 
   In closing Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that Hoosiers are proud of their military heritage. With 590,000 veterans in a state of 6.2 million people, and tens of thousands in uniform today, Hoosier veterans not only speak with pride and patriotism, but serve the cause of freedom with valor. This is equally true of the talented and experienced civilian work force that populates the military installations in the State of Indiana. As a former Mayor of Indianapolis, I am proud to advocate the qualities of my home city and to offer any further assistance I can in your weighty endeavors over the next few weeks.
 
 