SEN. LUGAR, AARP INDIANA HOST VHP DAY AT STATE FAIR GROUNDS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that members of his staff and volunteers from AARP Indiana will be interviewing local veterans for the Veterans History Project at the Indiana State Fair. Lugar staff and AARP Indiana volunteers will be at the AARP booth next to the Senior Building on the State Fair Grounds in Indianapolis on August 18, 2005, from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.  
   The Veterans History Project has already preserved the memories of more than 5,500 Hoosier veterans in the permanent collection at the Library of Congress. 
   "We have been fortunate to have shelves of information about notable figures from the U.S. Military such as Generals Patton and Eisenhower and Admirals Halsey and Spruance," Lugar said. "Histories of the average GI, the men and women who carried the burden of protecting our freedom, are sorely lacking." 
   Veterans interested in participating are encouraged to visit the AARP booth next to the Senior Building on the State Fair Grounds in Indianapolis on August 18 from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Those unable to attend should contact Senator Lugar's office at (317) 226-5555 or vetproject@lugar.senate.gov. 
   "Most Americans have simply lost touch with what it means to serve in the Armed Forces or to serve a cause greater than self. I believe it is important that veterans communicate to the next generation an understanding of the sacrifices and hardships involved in life in the military, which cannot be gained by reading books or watching movies," Lugar added. "I am pleased to work with AARP to help ensure the memories of Indiana veterans are preserved in this important collection." 
   "These stories are vitally important, and AARP is excited to join with Senator Lugar on this endeavor," said Irene Wegner, from the State Office of AARP Indiana. 
   "The Library of Congress estimates that 1,700 veterans die in this country each day," Lugar noted. "That sobering fact was an important reason Congress began this program. I am pleased that I and my staff can help Hoosiers record and preserve these powerful oral histories." 
   AARP Indiana joined in a celebration of Lugar collecting more than 5,000 interviews at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway on Sunday, May 22, 2005, Armed Forces Day. Dr. James H. Billington, the Librarian of Congress, participated in the event and presented Lugar with an award from the Veterans History Project. 
   "Senator Lugar is by far the most energetic collector of veterans' stories in Congress, which means Indiana is by far the best represented state in the Library's Veterans History Project archive," Dr. Billington said during the ceremony.
 
 