FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT OF IRAQ RECONSTRUCTION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the eighth letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the eighth letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq.
   This week, the Committee on Foreign Relations heard from four government officials during an oversight hearing on the U.S.-led stabilization and reconstruction mission in Iraq. 
   Our witnesses were Stuart Bowen, the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction; Joseph Christoff, the Director of International Affairs and Trade at the GAO; Ambassador James Jeffrey, the Senior Advisor to the Secretary of State and Coordinator for Iraq Policy; and James Kunder, the Assistant USAID Administrator for Asia and the Near East. Their statements are attached and can be found linked to the Committee website.
   The Committee requested a realistic discussion about what our reconstruction mission can achieve with the money Congress has appropriated. Beyond that, I asked the witnesses to gauge what the Iraqi government itself can achieve and whether other international support will be forthcoming.
   Measuring achievement in nation reconstruction, much less one with an ongoing insurgency, is a complex proposition. GAO pointed out that although broad goals have been set for Iraq reconstruction, "limited performance data and measures make it difficult to determine and report on the progress and impact of U.S. reconstruction." Mr. Christoff offered an example of why we need better metrics:
   Water is consistently reported as how many households we can serve with the additional capacity that we generate at the water treatment plants. The problem in Iraq is that 65 percent of the water leaks as it's going through the distribution system, and the water pipes are right next to the sanitation pipes. So, in addition to that, they're contaminated. So, we really don't know how many households get potable, drinkable water. We know how much water we generate, but, as a result of leakage and contamination, we really don't know how many people are drinking clean water. That's an outcome measurement, unlike the output measurement that talks about generation.
   As we all know, lack of security has also affected outcomes. In addition to the effects of attacks, Mr. Bowen noted that of the $18.5 billion appropriated in FY 2004 to stabilize and reconstruct Iraq, $5.8 billion has been used to train and equip security forces. This is an expense that reconstruction planners did not envision in the comparative calm that existed in the summer of 2003. On top of this diversion, Ambassador Jeffrey estimated that 20 percent or more of the spending associated with individual contracts has been devoted to personnel and fixed site security. Together, these factors have diminished the effect of each reconstruction dollar.
   An unclassified chart on page six of Mr. Christoff's testimony, compiled from DIA data, shows that attacks on infrastructure number approximately 500 per month. Noting the effects that this has had on the critical areas of power generation and oil output, Mr. Bowen stated:
   "We were above prewar levels in oil output, we were above prewar levels in electricity last July. We are now substantially below them, because of attacks upon infrastructure...and unless the Iraqis develop the capacity to protect their own infrastructure, then they are going to...continue to limp along at these sub-prewar levels. And that's unacceptable, because that is the lifeblood of the economy. Without an oil sector that's working well, their national income is not going to be sustainable at levels sufficient enough to pay off this debt that we've been talking about, sufficient to fund the rest of the reconstruction, most of which has yet to start, and ultimately to bring prosperity to the Iraqi people."
   Iraqis have taken steps to turn this around, with more than $3 billion budgeted for oil infrastructure improvements this year. Nevertheless, as we read in recent news reports, corruption is systemic. An Iraqi official who was to direct infrastructure protection forces embezzled the money and was last known to be in Syria. Our witnesses acknowledged that these reports were true. With 95 percent of Iraq's budget dependent on oil revenues, Iraqis have a vital interest in ending corruption and reducing the number of terrorist attacks against oil infrastructure.
   As we proceed into the budget cycle for 2007 and evaluate the funding levels requested for Iraq, a finite set of measurable goals is necessary to provide the Congress and the American people with an estimate of the level of reconstruction effort that must be sustained. Noting that the initial $20-plus billion U.S. reconstruction program would soon be coming to an end in Iraq, Ambassador Jeffrey said: "We do not anticipate the U.S. Government and the American taxpayer providing funds of that magnitude. As I said, we'll be looking to the Iraqis themselves, and the international community, the international financial institutions to take on that burden." He also shared (as was detailed in the 2207 Report I sent to you previously) that international donors have made good on only $3.2 billion of their more than $13 billion of commitments.
   We must make certain that any new funds are being distributed according to a clear set of priorities; we must work with the new Iraqi government to help it stem corruption; and we must work to ensure that local and regional leaders are capable of protecting water, electrical, and other infrastructure projects as we phase down our military involvement. I was impressed by our witnesses' candor about the challenges ahead, and hope that you find their analysis to be useful.
 
 