HYDROGEN AND FUEL CELL ANALYSIS GRANTS AVAILABLE
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Energy is accepting grant applications for the following two projects on hydrogen and fuel cell analysis:
   Lessons Learned from Stationary Power Generation -The objective of this project is to identify the lessons learned from prior stationary power programs, including the most significant obstacles, how these obstacles have been approached, outcomes of the programs, and how this information can be used in the Department of Energy's Hydrogen Program. Applicants interested in this grant should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?mode=VIEW&oppId=12505.  
   Environmental Impacts of Hydrogen Systems - The purpose of this project is to systematically identify and examine possible near and long-term ecological and environmental effects of the production of hydrogen from various energy sources (based on the Department of Energy's hydrogen production strategy) and the use of that hydrogen as a transportation fuel and for stationary power. Applicants interested in this grant should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?mode=VIEW&oppId=12506. 
  Lugar supported the Energy Policy Act, which was signed into law by President Bush in 2005 and authorizes $3.7 billion over five years for hydrogen and fuel-cell research, as well as infrastructure to support hydrogen-powered cars. It also creates a hydrogen research program in conjunction with federal labs, universities and auto manufacturers to design hydrogen cars. The legislation will help to modernize America's energy production and distribution systems, encourage conservation and improve our environment and our national security by encouraging the development of clean domestic energy resources. 
   "The Energy Policy Act represents an important step towards addressing our nation's long-term energy needs," said Lugar. "This landmark legislation will help to modernize America's energy production and distribution systems, encourage conservation and improve our environment and our national security by encouraging the development of clean domestic energy resources." 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   "While the challenges are great, there is reason for optimism," said Lugar. "Our current energy balance is the result of industrial and consumption choices of the past. Despite our import dependence today, the U.S. is in a strong position to choose a different path, a path toward real energy security. Success would free future generations of Americans from the energy dilemma that threatens to compromise our security and prosperity. It could also lead to opportunities in many new industries that could reinvigorate our economy." 
   Applications for these grants must be accessed, completed and submitted through http://www.grants.gov by April 18, 2007. Applicants are highly encouraged to register soon to allow at least 21 days to complete the registration process. When finished, applicants should call the Grants.gov Helpdesk at 1-800-518-4726 to verify successful registration. 
   Questions regarding the application process may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov.
 
 