SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES RESOLUTIONS ON GLOBAL PEACEKEEPING, BROADER MIDDLE EAST REFORM IN SUPPORT OF G-8 AGREEMENTS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar commended the results of the G-8 Summit and the Leaders' agreement on initiatives addressing weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, global peacekeeping, the Broader Middle East and North Africa, HIV/AIDS and Africa. Lugar introduced a bill supporting the President's global peacekeeping initiative that was endorsed by the G-8, a resolution urging G-8 follow-up support on Broader Middle East reform and modernization - including the creation of a Twenty First Century Trust. Lugar also urged passage of the U.S.-Africa Partnership Act to support trade with Africa and the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act. 
   WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND TERRORISM. Lugar applauded the G-8 initiatives to continue and increase cooperation to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and combat terrorism. Under President Bush's leadership, seven more nations have agreed to contribute funds to the Global Partnership Against Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction. G-8 leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the Proliferation Security Initiative and pledged to support efforts to enhance the IAEA's integrity by adopting the proposals put forward by President Bush in a speech at the National Defense University last February. Lastly, the G-8 agreed to coordinate efforts in states where there have been weapons of mass destruction programs such as Libya and Iraq. Lugar said, "The United States continues to provide important leadership by formulating an action plan for activities in the coming year, expanding the number of countries involved, and increasing the money committed to stopping the proliferation of weapons and materials of mass destruction."
   GLOBAL PEACEKEEPING. Lugar has introduced S. 2514, a bill supporting the President's Global Peacekeeping Operations Initiative, and he congratulated the G-8 for adopting the goal of training 75,000 additional international peacekeepers in the next several years. "The need for additional peacekeeping troops, particularly in Africa, is growing," Lugar said. "Conflicts in Sierra Leone, Ethiopia/Eritrea, Cote d'Ivoire, Liberia, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and the Sudan have devastated the continent and set back economic and social progress for millions of Africans."
   BROADER MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA. Lugar welcomed the G-8 agreement to engage nations of the Broader Middle East and North Africa to promote reform and modernization as an excellent first step. The G-8 agreed on both a political statement as well as a plan of support for promoting change in the region that focused on democracy, political reform, education, women's rights, free markets and investment.
   Senator Lugar has introduced S. Res. 375, a resolution that encourages members of the G-8 and nations of the Middle East, North Africa and Central and South Asia to follow-up the G-8 Summit with meetings, conferences and other events, to further explore and implement the initiatives outlined and to consider the creation of a Twenty First Century Trust. Such a Trust, in coordination and partnership with the G-8 and countries of the Greater Middle East, could be a vehicle for action that would set broad goals and criteria and allow countries of the region to establish priorities for reform and modernization in the new millennium.
   HIV/AIDS. Senator Lugar praised the G-8 endorsement of a new global HIV vaccine enterprise to accelerate efforts to develop an HIV vaccine. The initiative will streamline research and development efforts. Dr. Helene D. Gayle, director of HIV, TB and Reproductive Health at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation likened the G-8 effort to the Genome Project to map DNA at a recent meeting with Lugar, and noted that it will bring top scientists from around the world to focus on a vaccine.
   The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, in collaboration with the Rockefeller Foundation, is joining forces with the American biotechnology industry in an effort to provide new medical technologies, such as an HIV/AIDS vaccine, to the world's poorest people. The two foundations are helping to establish a new organization, BIO Ventures for Global Health, to help small biotechnology companies address the problems they confront in developing new medical products for poor countries. "The Gates-Rockefeller initiative is precisely the type of innovative model that the G-8 should encourage its members to adopt to help fight this pandemic" Lugar said.
   In addition, Lugar urged passage of S. 2500, the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act of 2004, which he introduced last week. The legislation would require the U. S. Government to develop a coordinated strategy to provide assistance to orphans and vulnerable children in developing countries. Currently, there are an estimated 14,000,000 children who have been orphaned by AIDS, most of whom live in sub-Saharan Africa. Experts predict this number to soar to over 25,000,000 by 2010.
   "The unprecedented AIDS orphan crisis in sub-Saharan Africa has profound implications for political stability, development, and human welfare that extend far beyond the region," said Lugar. "It is imperative that the international community respond to this crisis that threatens stability within individual countries, the region, and around the world." In addition to requiring the U.S. Government to develop an orphans strategy, Lugar's bill also would support programs that eliminate school fees, provide school food programs and promote the inheritance rights of orphans and widows with children.
   AFRICA. Lugar raised concern about two issues: 1) the brewing catastrophe in Darfur, in the west of Sudan, and 2) trade with Africa. The G-8 has a longstanding relationship with African nations, formalized in the African Action Plan which addresses issues such as peace and security, health, trade, debt relief, water, and institutional government.
   Lugar said "The international community should be unified in its condemnation of the human rights violations that precipitated the humanitarian crisis in Sudan and that threatens to end the lives of hundreds of thousands of Sudanese civilians. The immediate coordinated response of the international community toward acts of impunity in Darfur and obstruction of ready humanitarian assistance is paramount. The international response is especially critical in light of the recent framework agreement for peace achieved only days ago in Sudan after years of effort and suffering. This is an opportunity Sudan must recognize and seize for its future."
   Lugar urged passage of S. 1900, The United States Africa Partnership Act of 2003 (USAPA), which he introduced last November. USAPA is the third installment of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA).
   * Lugar said, "First, AGOA has demonstrated that a commitment to good governance and a positive investment climate is important to economic growth. Second, the experience of AGOA has demonstrated that regional integration is as essential to development as access to the U.S. and other foreign markets."
   * Lugar's bill extends overall AGOA benefits from 2008 to 2015. AGOA contains a provision that allows least developed countries (LDCs) to export capped quantities of apparel made from third country fabric to the U.S. duty free. All other countries must use U.S. or African fabric inputs in order to receive duty-free treatment. This "special rule" for LDCs expires on September 30, 2004. The proposed bill extends this provision until September 30, 2008. It also develops initiatives to provide technical assistance and capacity building in the area of agriculture and provides for increased cooperation in the areas of transportation and infrastructure. The companion House bill, H.R. 4103, known as the AGOA Acceleration Act of 2004, has been reviewed by the Ways and Means Committee and is expected to be considered shortly by the full House.
 
 