SEN. LUGAR, HOUSE COLLEAGUES OFFER NEW AGRICULTURE DIRECTION
  Sen. Dick Lugar unveiled the Food and Agriculture Risk Management for the 21st Century Act (FARM 21) that would end the current market and trade distorting farm subsidy system and replace it with a new system of risk management accounts and insurance tools managed by farmers.  
   U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Joseph Crowley (D-NY) and Dave Riechert (R-WA) joined Lugar at a U.S. Capitol press conference today. Senate and House bills will be introduced in the next couple days. 
   "Current Federal Farm Programs target payments to a relatively narrow sector of American farmers and provide direct payments regardless of commodity prices. The bulk of these payments are made to growers of just five crops. Cotton, rice, corn, wheat, and soybean farmers receive about 85 percent of the annual payments provided by U.S. taxpayers," said Lugar, an Indiana farmer and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. 
   "The current farm subsidy system is inequitable, inefficient, and disconnected from the core goal of maintaining a family farm safety net. It is also self-perpetuating, in that it stimulates over-production and stagnant prices that produce calls for greater government support. 
   "We need a true safety net that would embrace all farmers, avoid incentives to overproduce commodities when market signals do not exist, and lower costs for taxpayers," Lugar said. 
   "The reforms proposed today would make our farm and food policies as modern and entrepreneurial as our farmers, and at the same time, provide additional resources to America's hunger, energy, and environmental needs. These changes will also bring our farm policies into compliance with our existing global treaty obligations and jump start current multilateral trade negotiations." 
   The plan would save $20 billion by 2012 and $55 billion by 2018. The savings over the next five years would be invested in: $5 billion for debt relief, $6 billion for conservation, $6 billion for nutrition programs, and $3 billion for renewable energy. 
   Lugar also met today with Executive Director of the World Food Program Josette Sheeran, actress Drew Barrymore and the world's fastest marathon runner, Paul Tergat, to discuss the George McGovern-Robert Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program (See photo link at www.lugar.senate.gov/farmbill). 
   Lugar's new farm bill would increase the McGovern-Dole program by $1.1 billion over five years. The McGovern-Dole program provides food assistance in secular schools in developing nations. The program has shown success in improving attendance of children, especially girls. Participant countries are required to have in place a sustainability plan, meaning they will eventually take over the administrative and funding responsibility for the school meals program. 
   More details on the Lugar farm bill can be found at: www.lugar.senate.gov/farmbill.
 
 