SEN. LUGAR PRAISES QUICK ACTION ON THE MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION AT WHITE HOUSE CEREMONY
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today attended the White House ceremony announcing the first 16 countries to qualify for U.S. Millennium Challenge Corporation assistance.  
   "This is an important beginning of the President's bold initiative to jump-start economies in some of the poorest countries," Lugar said. 
   On May 6, the Millennium Challenge Board named the 16 countries that are now eligible to negotiate contracts with the organization and receive substantial funding for programs intended to boost economic growth and eliminate poverty. Just the night before, the Senate unanimously confirmed Paul V. Applegarth to be the Chief Executive Officer of the MCC. Mr. Applegarth had been reported out of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on April 29 by a vote of 19-0. 
   "Forward movement on the MCC is a sign that, despite the partisan environment of an election year, we can pursue a common vision of a peaceful and prosperous world," Lugar said. 
   In the omnibus legislation reported earlier this year, the Congress appropriated $1 billion for the MCC for fiscal year '04. When the Senate Foreign Relations Committee reported out its authorization bill on March 4, it doubled authorized funding for the MCC to $2 billion for '05. 
   The MCC uses quantitative, objective criteria to select countries. It is designed to be results-oriented. Recipient countries draw up their own development plans, determine priorities, and negotiate contracts with the MCC setting forth measurable goals. In addition to benefiting the chosen recipients, the initiative is intended to showcase success and serve as a major incentive for non-qualifying countries to accelerate reforms that will lead to their own MCC participation. 
   The countries selected by the MCC board were: Armenia, Benin, Bolivia, Cape Verde, Georgia, Ghana, Honduras, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mali, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Senegal, Sri Lanka and Vanuatu.
 
 