SEN. LUGAR, MELINDA GATES URGE DEVELOPMENT OF AIDS, MALARIA, TB VACCINES
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman today welcomed Melinda Gates, co-founder of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, to a reception in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing room to highlight the urgent need to develop vaccines for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other infectious diseases. 
   Lugar and Sen. John Kerry (D-MA) introduced the S. 1698, the Vaccines for the New Millennium Act, last September to accelerate the development of vaccines for diseases affecting developing countries.  
   Lugar made the following statement at today's reception: 
   "The AIDS pandemic in sub-Saharan Africa has taken a horrific toll in lost lives and broken families. It has diverted enormous human potential from the normal course of development and threatened the political stability of nations. Even as Africa struggles with these consequences, public health experts warn of a 'second wave' of countries on the verge of potential AIDS crises, including China, India, Russia, Nigeria, and Ethiopia. 
   "The Foreign Relations Committee has sought to expand the response of the United States to the HIV/AIDS crisis. Together with counterparts in the House of Representatives, we passed the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief in 2003 and the Assistance for Orphans and other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act in 2005. 
   "Through PEPFAR, the United States has reached more than 42 million people with prevention programs and is treating some 400,000 men, women, and children with anti-retroviral medications in 15 of the most afflicted countries in Africa, Asia, and the Caribbean. The U.S. is also providing assistance to some of the millions of orphans this disease has created. 
   "But, even as we strive to help those living with HIV/AIDS and implement programs to prevent new infections, the disease is outpacing us. 
   "An estimated 4.9 million people were newly infected last year. This means that every day around the globe, some 14,000 people contract HIV/AIDS. 
   "That is why today we are looking toward the future and underscoring the urgency of developing vaccines that could prevent the spread of this disease. 
   "Last year, Senator Kerry and I introduced the Vaccines for the New Millennium Act, which seeks to accelerate the development of an AIDS vaccine, as well as vaccines for tuberculosis, malaria, and other deadly diseases in the developing world. Representatives Pete Visclosky and Pete King stepped forward on the House side to provide robust sponsorship in that chamber. 
   "But governmental efforts are only part of the story. In the private sector, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has provided extraordinary leadership and commitment to the goal of developing vaccines to combat the world's deadliest diseases. Through their generous support for new health technologies and health programs in the developing world, many lives are being saved." 
   Lugar's bill would require the United States to develop a comprehensive strategy to accelerate research and development in vaccines for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other infectious diseases that threaten developing countries. The strategy would require an increase in public-private partnerships, whereby public entities such as governments, team up with companies or private foundations to conduct research or vaccine trials. In addition, the bill would require the U.S. Government to commit to purchase vaccines for these diseases once they are developed through "advance market commitments." 
   Melinda Gates affirmed that HIV/AIDS prevention is the number one focus of the Gates Foundation. Despite scientific challenges, she expressed optimism that HIV/AIDS can be prevented through development of an affordable vaccine. 
   Representatives of NGOs, embassies and government agencies as well as Members of Congress attended the reception. Additional speakers included Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and Dr. Melinda Moree, President and CEO, PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative.
 
 