SEN. LUGAR TO REPRESENT BUSH IN UKRAINE
  President George W. Bush has asked U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar to represent him in Ukraine during the November 21, 2004 run-off election between Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich and the opposition candidate Viktor Yushchenko. In August 2001, President Bush asked Lugar to be the official representative of United States at the 10th anniversary of Ukrainian independence.  
   On Monday, November 15 at 12 noon, Lugar will hold a press conference on the Ukrainian elections. At the press conference he will also announce new Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction legislation that he will introduce. The press conference will be in the Senate Radio Gallery of the U.S. Capitol. 
   In a statement today on the mission to Ukraine, Lugar said: 
   "On November 4, at his press conference, President Bush expressed his unequivocal support for democracy around the world. He said: 'I simply do not agree with those who either say overtly or believe that certain societies cannot be free. It's just not part of my thinking.' I agree with the President. 
   "The United States must be at the forefront of international efforts to secure freedom. Democracy must be the core of our foreign policy. It must be a central element of our outreach and diplomacy. Our country must be prepared to play an active role in ensuring that democracy and basic freedoms are promoted and preserved around the world. 
   "I visited Ukraine in August of this year and enjoyed a 25 minute telephone conversation with President Kuchma. We discussed the need for a free and fair electoral process. He invited me to return to witness the elections. I am pleased now to do so. 
   "When the Soviet Union crumbled, Ukraine emerged as one of the most geo-strategically significant states in the world. The breadbasket of Europe inherited the third largest nuclear arsenal. Senator Sam Nunn and I visited Kiev in 1992 to discuss Ukraine's nuclear future and to offer Nunn-Lugar assistance to dismantle their arsenal. After spirited debate, the leaders of Ukraine wisely chose a nuclear-free status. The U.S. has provided more than $670 million to dismantle hundreds of SS-19 and SS-24 ballistic missiles, silos, long-range bombers, and nuclear air-launched cruise missiles. 
   "In those days the United States did not have an Ambassador or an embassy in Ukraine. I visited with Secretary of State Baker and informed him of the conditions in Ukraine and the need for a strong diplomatic presence as well as American assistance. Although the times and circumstances have changed, the need for strong American interest and diplomacy in Ukraine has not. 
   "The November 21st run-off is critical to the future of Ukraine. A secure and democratic Ukraine is in the national security interests of the United States, NATO, the European Union, and Russia. The future of Ukraine will be decided not necessarily by the outcome, but by the conduct of the upcoming elections. To date, the campaign has been marked by widespread political intimidation and the failure to give equal coverage to opposition candidates by the media. Numerous allegations of the government's illegal utilization of administrative resources to promote allies in parliamentary elections and unlawful use of federal tax and legal investigations are troubling. Free and fair elections with equal access to media outlets in the absence of physical intimidation and misappropriated funds will be a tribute to Ukraine's maturing democracy and will place Ukraine on a path to join the community of European democracy. 
   "A fraudulent or illegal victory would leave Ukraine's leadership and country crippled. The new president would lack legitimacy with the Ukrainian people and the international community. A Ukrainian government whose authority reflected the lack of respect for the democratic rights of its citizens could have deleterious effects on Europe with the potential proliferation of crime, illegal immigration, narcotics and other problems to its neighbors and the region. 
   "The Bush Administration has invested a great deal of time and energy to deliver a firm message to Ukraine. The Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Secretary of State, former Secretaries of State Madeleine Albright and Henry Kissinger, and Congressional leaders have visited, written and called Ukrainian leaders to press for a free and fair election process. Secretary of State Powell's leadership and the efforts of our Ambassador, John Herbst, have left no doubt of the impact an illegitimate election could have on the future of Ukraine and the U.S.-Ukrainian relationship. 
   "With the stakes so high, I applaud the thousands of election observers who will be sent by the U.S. and European states through organizations such as the National Endowment for Democracy and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The presence of experienced election observers and democracy advocates will serve to dissuade illegal activities and make fraud more difficult to disguise. The future of the country rests with Ukrainian voters, but the United States and the West must continue to support a foundation for democracy, rule of law and a market economy, which will allow Ukraine to prosper and reach its full potential. 
   "Ukraine has made wise decisions in the past. The voluntary dismantling of its nuclear arsenal and the peaceful, democratic handover of power from former President Kravchuk to President Kuchma in 1994 highlight an important record of progress. Will Ukraine continue its march towards membership in Western institutions? 
   "With democratic forces challenged in Russia and Belarus, the West must commit itself to ensuring a free and fair electoral process in Ukraine. This is a true turning point in Ukraine's history that could have widespread effects beyond its borders and the region. 
   "My mission will not be to advocate the election of one candidate or another, but to promote the need for a free and fair process. This election is important to the United States, and my presence in Ukraine during this important time is meant to underscore President Bush's support for the future of Ukraine. Free and fair elections in Ukraine embody our hope and goal of a Europe whole and free."
 
 