SEN. LUGAR, USDA HOST BROADBAND WORKSHOP
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development and Lieutenant Governor Becky Skillman's Indiana Office of Rural Affairs will host a workshop on broadband access in Indiana on Tuesday, December 13 from 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the Holiday Inn-Airport, located at 2501 South High School Road in Indianapolis.  
   "Technologies are changing and USDA administers programs that can provide important financial and technical resources for rural America," Lugar said. "I am pleased that Lieutenant Governor Skillman's Office of Rural Affairs and USDA will be sharing this important information with Hoosiers." 
   Lugar contacted USDA in September to request a broadband access forum. 
   The workshop will provide information on how to apply for the Rural Broadband Access Loan and Loan Guarantee Program, the Community Connect Grant Program, and the Distance Learning/Telemedicine Loan and Grant Program. The workshop is FREE, but space is limited and participants are encouraged to register prior to the workshop. 
   Discussions will include what programs are available, eligibility, and other requirements; the application process, including the business plan and market survey, system design, credit support requirements and financial forecasts. The USDA Rural Broadband Access Loan and Loan Guarantee Program provides loans and loan guarantees for the construction, improvement, and acquisition of facilities and equipment for broadband service in eligible rural communities. Priority is given to applications that are proposing to serve areas where no residential broadband service currently exists. Information on the USDA Rural Broadband access Loan and Loan Guarantee Program is available at: http://www.rurdev.usda.gov. 
   To register for this FREE Forum, contact Linda Gray at (317) 232-8895 or lgray@ora.in.gov. For event questions, contact Lane Ralph at Senator Lugar's Office at (317) 226-5555. Broadband policy questions should be directed to Mary Campanola at USDA at (202) 720-8822
 
 