SEN. LUGAR WELCOMES 100TH E85 PUMP IN INDIANA
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar today recognized the Lassus Handy Dandy station in Roanoke, Indiana, for its recent addition of an E85 pump, marking the 100th pump in the state and an important addition to the infrastructure necessary to make renewable fuels available to Hoosiers. 
   "Today we are celebrating the 100th E-85 pump in our state. In June 2005, I visited Indiana's first pump in Terre Haute. The opening of this Lassus Handy Dandy E85 pump in Roanoke is a symbolic milestone on the path to greater energy security for Indiana. Our nation is in desperate need for more such pumps, and likewise flex-fuel cars, so that we have the equipment in place to use new biofuels under research and production.
   "Consumers need outlets where they can purchase the product and vehicles that have fuel flexibility. The Lassus Handy Dandy station in Roanoke, therefore, serves a vital role in our effort to move towards greater energy independence," wrote Lugar in a letter to be presented at the ceremony on Friday.
   A representative from the Lugar Northeast Indiana Community Service Center will also present a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol Building at Lugar's request.
   The Lassus Handy Dandy is located at: 9029 North Main Street, Roanoke, Indiana 46783. Lassus Handy Dandy is locally owned and operated and has 30 convenience stores in Northeast Indiana and Northwest Ohio.
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on oil. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 