SEN. LUGAR WELCOMES PROGRESS ON BROADER MIDDLE EAST MODERNIZATION, REFORM
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today welcomed the positive statement on modernization and reform from the first Forum for the Future in Rabat, Morocco. At the Forum, leaders from countries across the Broader Middle East and North Africa region, along with the G-8 nations, agreed to cooperate in seeking to modernize and support reforms in their political, economic and educational systems.  
   "It is important that the G-8 countries work alongside countries in the Broader Middle East and North Africa region," Lugar said. "Reform from within is the only way to bring about the social, economic and political transformations necessary for modernization, prosperity and stability, and this Forum recognizes that." 
   The launch of the Forum for the Future at the G-8 meeting at Sea Island, Georgia last June was a response to numerous calls for reform. Successful, sustainable gains in democracy and freedom rooted in the region are being reflected by actions in Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Qatar, and other nations of the Broader Middle East and North Africa, and are not directed from the outside. 
   Lugar has been a strong supporter of the Bush Administration's efforts to promote transformation in the Broader Middle East and North Africa. Last year, Lugar proposed a resolution to encourage a formal mechanism for members of the G-8 and nations of the Middle East, North Africa and Central and South Asia to cooperate and set broad goals to allow countries of the region to establish priorities for reform and modernization in the new millennium. 
   The Bush Administration is supporting the Forum's goals, in part, through the Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI) which was established in December 2002 to promote political, educational and economic reform in the Middle East and to create opportunities and empowerment for women in this region. MEPI is working to reinforce the reform efforts already underway in many parts of the Middle East. The Administration reports that, using more than $200 million allocated by Congress between funding year 2002-2004, MEPI has already set in motion nearly 100 programs designed to strengthen the capacity of civil society organizations and create the building blocks for democratic change in 14 Arab countries.
 
 