SENATE ENERGY BILL INCLUDES MANY SEN. LUGAR INITIATIVES
  The energy bill being debated this week in the Senate includes major provisions initiated by Sen. Dick Lugar. 
   "I am pleased that we have been able to work with the Energy Committee and Majority Leader Reid to include important provisions in this bill," Lugar said. "Our nation will continue to be threatened so long as we remain dependent on foreign sources of oil. We need decisive action to bolster our energy security and national security. The Senate has the opportunity now to make a significant step toward this goal." 
   Title V of the bill regarding Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards is derived in part from a bill Lugar introduced with Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL), the Fuel Economy Reform Act. The Obama-Lugar provisions would set targets for a 4 percent annual increase in fuel economy and gives the President the authority to institute a more sophisticated CAFE program based on vehicle attributes.  
   Title V of the bill also contains mandates for automakers to produce flexible-fuel vehicles, which are able to run on E85 ethanol or regular gasoline. Because the automobile fleet takes more than a decade to turn-over, Lugar has advocated for such a mandate in his National Fuels Initiative. 
   The bill includes a renewable fuel standard (RFS) similar to the Biofuels Security Act, sponsored by Lugar and Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA). The greatly expanded RFS would guarantee a market for investment in new biofuels production, with special preference to biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol derived from diverse feedstocks like corn stover and switchgrass. 
   Lugar's Energy Diplomacy and Security legislation makes up the entirety of Title VII. It urges the Secretary of State: (1) to establish strategic energy partnerships with the governments of major energy producers and major energy consumers, and with governments of other countries; (2) expand energy emergency preparedness mechanisms; and (3) create a regional-based ministerial Hemisphere Energy Cooperation Forum; and (4) integrate energy security priorities into core State Department activities and create a new coordinator for international energy affairs. 
   Most provisions of the Energy Efficiency Promotion section of the bill (Title II) come from legislation that Lugar co-sponsored with Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Pete Domenici (R-NM). This title would reduce our nation's use of fossil fuels by improving the efficiency of vehicles, buildings, home appliances and industrial equipment. 
   Lugar has pressed the Bush Administration to develop and expand loan guarantees for renewable fuel facilities, a program which has lagged under bureaucratic inertia at the Department of Energy. Section 124 of the bill also focuses on this goal. 
   Last August in a speech (http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/press/speech/purdue.html) at Purdue University Lugar called for steps to optimize flex fuel vehicles in order to reduce the mileage gap between E85 and regular gasoline The bill initiates a study to do so. GM subsidiary SAAB already has developed engines along those lines. 
   Lugar and Harkin's Ethanol Infrastructure Expansion Act is reflected in Title I of the bill. This calls for a feasibility study of shipping biofuels via pipeline. Doing so would connect current production concentrated in the Midwest with markets throughout the country. 
   The bill also includes a Lugar co-sponsored effort to assess capacity for carbon dioxide storage. 
   Detailed information on Lugar's energy legislation can be found at: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/legislation/index.html.
 
 