SEN. LUGAR RECOGNIZES E85 PUMPS IN NORTHERN INDIANA
  Sen. Dick Lugar today recognized three Hoosier gas stations in Northern Indiana for their E85 pumps as part of an ongoing effort to recognize concrete actions to reduce America's dependence on foreign energy sources.  
   A representative from Lugar's office will present a certificate of recognition to representatives at the Culver Express at 203 N. Main in Culver; Meijer at 3602 South Bremen Highway in Mishawaka; and Meijer at 23062 US 33 in Goshen. The certificate is signed by Lugar and recognizes their "dedication and outstanding contribution to our nation's energy security through the promotion of alternative fuels." 
   Lugar also welcomed the announcement this week that Gas America in Knightstown will operate the first B10 pump in Indiana. B10 is fuel that is 10 percent biodiesel and 90 percent diesel. 
   "Ethanol and biodiesel are positive for Indiana's economy and essential to solving an energy crisis that threatens our nation's security," said Lugar. "These pumps are an important addition to the infrastructure necessary to make renewable fuels available to more Americans. Using biofuels in your cars and trucks is something individuals can do to make a real difference." 
   "Hoosier service stations selling E85 have gone from one in 2005 to approximately 80 today, with new stations being added all the time. There are about 160,000 flexible fuel vehicles in the state that can use E85, and I'm urging car companies to make virtually all their new cars flex-fuel." 
   Lugar has introduced the National Fuels Initiative which calls for E85 pumps to be installed in at least 25% of the nation's fuel stations within ten years, require all vehicles marketed in the U.S. to be flexible fuel capable and increase fuel economy (CAFE) standards. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 