TWELVE ARTS GRANTS AWARDED TO HOOSIER ORGANIZATIONS STATEWIDE
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified today that twelve of arts organizations in Indiana will receive funds from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA). 
   "I congratulate these Hoosier organizations on being selected to receive funding from the National Endowment for the Arts," said Lugar. "Arts education is important in the development of many cognitive and creative skills, and I welcome the successes of arts programs in our schools and communities."  
   The awards are listed below and organized alphabetically by city. 
   BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA
   The Boys and Girls Clubs of Bloomington has been awarded a $10,000 grant to support the Crestmont Boys and Girls Club's design of a public art work called the Bike Archway Project. Youth, parents and residents of Crestmont, a public housing neighborhood, will work with a professional artist to create a large scale sculpture using recycled scrap metal. 
   Indiana University has been awarded a $10,000 grant to support the creation and tour of exhibition panels depicting accomplished traditional artists from Indiana to be displayed in libraries and museums, including public presentations with the artists. 
   EVANSVILLE, INDIANA
   The Evansville Philharmonic Orchestral Corporation has been awarded a $10,000 grant to support in-school concerts for children in ten elementary and middle schools. The grant will also support six Music for Life concerts for senior citizens. 
   FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
   The Fort Wayne Dance Collective has been awarded a $20,000 grant for workshops on traditional West African drum and dance. The project will feature master drummer Alsyco Diabate and master dancer Moustapha Bangoura. 
   The Fort Wayne Philharmonic Orchestra has been awarded a $10,000 grant to support Unplugged, an informal classical concert series. The concerts, hosted by a local celebrity, will feature casually dressed orchestra members under live video images projected on a large screen. 
   INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA
   The Indiana Arts Commission has been awarded a $632,100 grant. 
   The Indiana Repertory Theatre has been awarded a $30,000 grant to support the development, production and community outreach activities associated with the play "Interpreting William" by James Still. In a partnership with the Conner Prairie Museum, the world premiere play will explore the life of the mythic 19th century frontier man, William Conner. 
   The Indiana Symphony Society has been awarded a $20,000 grant to support Arts Everyday. This music education program is expected to provide in-school arts instruction for 2,700 elementary school students and more than 130 classroom teachers. 
   The Indiana Symphony Society has also been awarded a $10,000 grant to support the production and distribution of the 13-part radio series Indianapolis On-the-Air featuring the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra and heard on more than 250 radio stations. 
   Young Audiences of Indiana has been awarded a $45,000 grant to support Young-at-Arts. In partnership with the Day Nursery Association, professional artists who are trained and experienced in early childhood arts education will lead age-appropriate learning experiences in music, dance, theater, and visual arts. 
   Young Audiences of Indiana has also been awarded a $20,000 grant to support the Summer Arts for Youth program which engages economically disadvantaged youth, ages 6 to 11, in multidisciplinary arts and literature activities. 
   NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
   The Fischoff National Chamber Music Association has been awarded a $10,000 grant. Funds will support a series of programs for audiences throughout Northern Indiana and will include residency programs presented in schools, community centers, public libraries, and museums. 
   Please contact NEA at 202-682-5414 with questions regarding these grants. Questions regarding the grants process in general may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator for Senator Lugar, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov.
 
 