REPORT SAYS SEN. LUGAR SUMMER NUTRITION PROGRAM SUCCEEDING
  In 2000, Sen. Dick Lugar worked to pass legislation to reduce the bureaucratic obstacles in reimbursement and remedy a decline in participation in the Summer Food Service Program (SFSP). Since the program's implementation in 2001, the "Lugar Pilots" have experienced continued growth and dramatic increases in access of children to summer meals. 
   According to a report by the Food Research and Action Center (FRAC) titled "State of the States 2006," the original 13 states in the Lugar pilot program "have increased attendance in the Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) 37 percent since 2000" while the rest of the nation has dropped 25 percent.  
   "The need to feed youths in the summer time is a nationwide problem and it is clear we have a proven method. I sincerely hope that we can extend the Lugar Pilots to all 50 states as quickly as possible," Lugar said. "The continued increase in children receiving better nutrition year-round is exciting." 
   The SFSP was created by Congress in 1969 to help fill the gap in low-income neighborhoods by providing needy children with the nutrition they need to learn, play and grow throughout the summer months when school lunches are not provided. Lugar recognized, however, that too many schools and other potential providers chose not to participate because of bureaucratic red tape in receiving reimbursements. This lack of participation led to children not having the opportunity to receive summer meals, which is especially concerning because many children in low income homes receive the bulk of their nutrition from school that do not operate in the summer. 
   As a result, Lugar introduced the Lugar Pilots in 1999. The Lugar Pilots program is part of the SFSP and has operated in 13 states (including Indiana) and Puerto Rico since 2001. Lugar successfully worked in 2004 and 2005 to add states to the program, and through his legislation a total of 26 states and Puerto Rico are now participating in the program. In the 109th Congress, Lugar introduced legislation to expand the Lugar Pilots to the rest of the nation. 
   Due to additional changes pressed forward by Lugar, non-profit organizations in Lugar Pilot states may now apply to administer summer feeding programs. Evaluation from Food and Nutrition Service found that total SFSP participation by sponsors and children increased during each of the first three years in the pilot states. Food and Nutrition Service is planning to conduct a further evaluation of the program and report their findings to Congress next spring. 
   Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. The National Council of La Raza recognized his efforts in child nutrition nationally in 2004 with a Capitol Award highlighting his efforts to promote nutrition programs for low-income Americans, especially children. Lugar also has been recognized by FRAC and the School Nutrition Association, among others for his work in child nutrition. 
   Internationally, Lugar has been honored by the Friends of the U.N. World Food Program with the Leaders in the Fight Against Hunger award for his work to strengthen the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs, to expand food stamps, to support food banks, and to advance international food aid operations. 
   On the web: 
  FRAC's State of the States 2006: http://www.frac.org/pdf/2006_SOS_Report.pdf
 
 