SEN. LUGAR ANNOUNCES BIOMASS RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) are offering a combined total of up to $18 million in FY2007 for research and development of biomass-based products, biofuels, bioenergy, and related processes. The grant solicitations are for projects aimed at increasing the availability of alternative and renewable fuels.
   "All possibilities for growth in biofuels production must be explored to decrease our 'oil addiction.' I believe that alternative fuels, combined with hybrid and other technologies, can begin to move us away from our extreme dependence on oil in the next decade," said Lugar. "This is not a short-term proposition, but we can offset a significant portion of demand for oil by giving American consumers a real choice of automotive fuel."  
   From the funding announcement:
   Maximum award amounts will not exceed $1 million. Eligible applicants include state and federal research agencies, national laboratories, private-sector groups and nonprofit organizations. Consortia of two or more groups also are encouraged to apply. The closing date for pre-applications is July 11, 2007. Pre-applications must be submitted electronically at www.grants.gov. Prospective grantees whose pre-applications have been selected for further processing must submit final applications within 45 days of the notification. 
   "While the challenges are great, there is reason for optimism," said Lugar. "Our current energy balance is the result of industrial and consumption choices of the past. Despite our import dependence today, the U.S. is in a strong position to choose a different path, a path toward real energy security. Success would free future generations of Americans from the energy dilemma that threatens to compromise our security and prosperity. It could also lead to opportunities in many new industries that could reinvigorate our economy." 
   On the first day of the 110th Congress, Lugar introduced the National Fuels Initiative, multifaceted legislation that seeks to diversify the energy mix by encouraging sustained production and use of non-petroleum based fuels. The bill would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as FFVs by 2016, require the major U.S. gasoline companies to carry E85 renewable fuel in 50 percent of their gas stations and extend and increase the renewable fuels standard established by the Fuels Security Act of 2005. 
   Lugar also strongly supported the Energy Policy Act, which was signed into law by President Bush in 2005 and represents an important step towards addressing our nation's long-term energy needs. The legislation will help to modernize America's energy production and distribution systems, encourage conservation and improve our environment and our national security by encouraging the development of clean domestic energy resources. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   For more information regarding this funding announcement, interested applicants should visit http://a257.g.akamaitech.net/7/257/2422/01jan20071800/edocket.access.gpo.gov/2007/pdf/07-2865.pdf or contact Lisa Siesennop of USDA Rural Development by phone at (202) 690-3810 or by e-mail at lisa.siesennop@wdc.usda.gov 
   Questions regarding the application process may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 