SEN. LUGAR TO ADDRESS ENERGY SECURITY, IRAN'S NUCLEAR AMBITIONS ON CHICAGO CLIMATE EXCHANGE
  Next week, U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar will address energy security, Iran's political and nuclear ambitions and trading carbon credits on the Chicago Climate Exchange.  
   Monday, May 15, 2006: Lugar will discuss energy security with The New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman. The event, Curing the Oil Addiction: "Petropolitics" and the Threat to Global Security, is sponsored by Foreign Policy and will be moderated by Moisés Na?m, Editor in Chief, Foreign Policy magazine. The event will take place from 10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. in the Root Room at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 1779 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington DC. 
   Tuesday, May 16, 2006: Lugar will chair a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Energy Security And Oil Dependence. Vinod Khosla, President of Khosla Ventures, and Jason S. Grumet, Executive Director of the National Commission on Energy Policy, will testify at the hearing. The hearing will take place at 9:30 a.m. in room 419 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. 
   Wednesday, May 17, 2006: Lugar will chair a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Iran's Political/Nuclear Ambitions and U.S. Policy Options. The Honorable Robert J. Einhorn, Senior Adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, David Albright, President and Founder of the Institute for Science and International Security, Dr. Kenneth M. Pollack, Director of Research and Senior Fellow at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution, Karim Sadjadpour, Iran Analyst at the International Crisis Group, Dr. Patrick Clawson, Deputy Director for Research at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, and Dr. Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at the Nixon Center will testify. The hearing will take place at 9:30 a.m. in room 419 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. 
   Thursday, May 18, 2006: Lugar will chair another hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Iran's Political/Nuclear Ambitions and U.S. Policy Options. The Honorable Frank G. Wisner, Vice Chairman for External Affairs, American International Group, Inc., Dr. Vali R. Nasr, Professor of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, Julia Nanay, Senior Director at PFC Energy, and James A. Phillips, Research Fellow for Middle Eastern Affairs in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at the Heritage Foundation will testify. The hearing will take place at 9:30 a.m. in room 419 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. 
   Thursday, May 18, 2006: Lugar will hold a press conference with the Chicago Climate Exchange regarding the trading of carbon credits. The press conference will take place at 2:30 p.m. in S-116 (the Foreign Relations Committee room) of the U.S. Capitol Building.
 
 