ANDERSON RECEIVES $200,000 EPA GRANT
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified that the City of Anderson was selected by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to receive $200,000 for a hazardous substance assessment grant under the Brownfields Assessment, Revolving Loan Fund and Cleanup Grants Program. The grant is part of $69.9 million in grants announced today by the EPA to promote redevelopment of abandoned and contaminated or potentially contaminated waste sites in 44 states and two territories, as well as three tribes. In all, 209 applicants were selected to receive 292 grants for assessment or cleanup of properties.  
   Anderson will use the hazardous substances grant to inventory and prioritize brownfields, perform approximately four Phase I and Phase II environmental site assessments and prepare cleanup plans for brownfields around the city. Funds also will be used to conduct community involvement activities and human health risk evaluations. 
   Brownfields are sites where expansion, redevelopment or reuse may be complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant or contaminant. 
   "This community-wide brownfield assessment grant will provide critical funding for Anderson as it moves forward with redeveloping abandoned and underutilized properties throughout the community. A preliminary inventory has determined there are over 128 brownfield sites in Anderson. This EPA assessment grant provides Anderson with valuable tools to proceed to the next step of remediation with the ultimate goal of redevelopment," said Lugar, who wrote a letter to EPA Administrator Stephen L. Johnson in support of Anderson's application. 
   The $69.9 million in grants announced today include: 184 grants totaling $36.6 million for conducting site assessment and planning for eventual cleanup at one or more brownfields sites or as part of a community-wide effort; 96 grants totaling $18.3 million for cleanup activities at brownfields sites; 12 grants totaling $15 million to capitalize a revolving loan fund and provide subgrants for cleanup activities at brownfields sites. Revolving loan funds are generally used to provide low interest loans for brownfields cleanups. 
   The brownfields program encourages turning America's estimated 450,000 problem properties to productive community use. In addition to industrial and commercial redevelopment, brownfields approaches have included the conversion of industrial waterfronts to river-front parks, landfills to golf courses, rail corridors to recreational trails, and gas stations to housing.
 
 