SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES BILL TO EXPEDITE DRUG MANUFACTURING PROCESS
  Sen. Dick Lugar introduced the Pharmaceutical Technology and Education Enhancement Act on Thursday, May 11, 2006.  
   "By expanding pharmaceutical science, technology and engineering research within our universities, this bill aims to expedite the drug manufacturing process, thereby producing quality pharmaceuticals at a more affordable cost to consumers," Lugar said. 
   The legislation would establish a partnership between the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Technology and Education whose member institutions include Purdue University, Duquesne University, Illinois Institute of Technology, University of Puerto Rico (Mayaguez & San Juan), University of Connecticut, University of Iowa, University of Kentucky, University of Kansas, University of Maryland, University of Minnesota, and Rutgers University. 
   "This collaboration will expand the ability of those in the academic research field to contribute to the medical technology and pharmaceutical industries to create better quality products with more efficient, less costly manufacturing," Lugar continued. 
   In 1999, 8.2 percent of total health care spending in the United States was attributed to prescription drugs. By 2010, prescription drugs are expected to account for 14 percent of our nation's health care spending. Additionally, the average cost of bringing a new drug to market has risen 50 percent in the last five years, now costing as much as $1,700,000,000. 
   "This trend of rising pharmaceutical costs is disturbing as it discourages innovation and impedes efforts to fight disease and address important public health concerns. High pharmaceutical manufacturing costs associated with outdated manufacturing processes significantly contribute to the rising cost of prescription drugs and overall health care in our country," said Lugar. 
   "Without a change in the pharmaceutical manufacturing process, health care costs in this country will continue to rise and prevalent public health concerns will remain unanswered."
 
 