SENS. LUGAR, BAYH SECURE $7 MILLION FOR RESEARCH, TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS AT CRANE
  U.S. Senators Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh have helped secure $7 million for research and technology projects at Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC), Crane in Southwestern Indiana. The funding was included in the U.S. Department of Defense Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008, which the Senate unanimously approved last week. 
   The bill includes $4 million for a Joint Technology Insertion and Accelerated System Integration Capability for NSWC Crane's Electronic Warfare program. The funds will give NSWC Crane the ability to fully integrate new technologies into existing electronic warfare systems.
  The additional $3 million is for a collaborative project between NSWC Crane and Indiana University for a new Advanced Linear Accelerator Facility. The facility will enable Crane to perform advanced research and testing on microelectronic components used in defense applications. Once complete, the new facility will allow for a full range research and testing to occur at one site, reducing the cost to taxpayers.
  "The Naval Surface Warfare Center is the largest employer in southern Indiana," Senator Lugar said. "This additional funding to construct an electronic warfare systems facility will strengthen Crane's mission capabilities and continue to diversify its portfolio."
  "It is incumbent on us to provide our armed forces with what they need to appropriately test and then integrate new technology into our military capabilities," Senator Bayh said. "Crane has a proud history as a leader in developing cutting-edge technologies vital to the success of our military. These funds will increase that capacity and ensure that the latest innovations are being employed to support our troops, their mission and their safety."
  NSWC Crane employs nearly 4,000 Hoosiers, making it Indiana's 12th largest employer and contributes more than $320 million to Indiana's economy annually. In efforts to preserve and enhance its military value, Crane has adapted over the years to the military's evolving needs, including focusing on weapons systems testing and development.
  The defense appropriations bill now heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. The final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature.
 
 