SEN. LUGAR SECURES $1 MILLION FOR SECOND HARVEST FOOD BANK OF EAST CENTRAL INDIANA
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar voted today to secure $1 million for the relocation and renovation of the Second Harvest Food Bank of East Central Indiana. The funding was included in the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill which passed in the Senate today by a vote of 88-7.
  "I am pleased that funding was provided for the Second Harvest Food Bank. I visited the facility and saw the foundation problems with the building," said Lugar. "A climate controlled facility is important to servicing the needs of families needing food." 
  Due to structural instability, Second Harvest Food Bank of East Central Indiana was forced to relocate its regional operation. The location will move from Anderson to Muncie. Second Harvest Food Bank has worked with the local municipality to prevent the condemnation of the building until the purchased structure can be renovated.
  "It was so kind of Senator Lugar to give me the good news personally. It means a lot to us here in East Central Indiana to have his support - I know we can count on Senator Lugar as we continue to work towards ending hunger in East Central Indiana and the entire state," said Lois Rockhill, Executive Director of the Second Harvest Food Bank.
  Second Harvest Food Bank of East Central Indiana's mission is to provide a coordinated approach to alleviating hunger in the region. Since 1985, the program has provided more than $57 million worth of food to low-income Hoosiers through pantries, meal programs and direct distribution.
  "Over the years, I have visited numerous Hoosier food banks and have been especially impressed by the remarkable work of these organizations. In many cases, they are partnered with churches and faith-based organizations and making a tremendous difference in our communities. We should support this activity, which not only feeds people, but also strengthens community bonds and demonstrates the power of faith, charity and civic involvement," said Lugar.
  Lugar has consistently supported legislation that supports food banks and anti-hunger efforts in the U.S. He is the author of the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act which was included in the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and allows farmers and small business owners to receive tax deductions for food products contributed to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters for calendar years 2006 and 2007. In the 110th Congress, he has introduced a bill to increase the valuation to full market value of the donation and make the provisions a permanent part of the Internal Revenue Code.
  In addition, the farm bill introduced by Lugar, FARM 21, would direct savings into nutrition programs to increase funding for food banks, food stamps, the Simplified Summer Food program which provides needy children with nutrition during the summer months when school lunches are not provided and the McGovern-Dole program which provides food assistance in secular schools in developing nations. 
  More details on the Lugar farm bill can be found at: http://lugar.senate.gov/farmbill.
  Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. His efforts in child nutrition have been recognized nationally by the National Council of La Raza with a 2004 Capitol Award highlighting his efforts through the years for nutrition programs for low-income Americans, especially children. Lugar also has been recognized by FRAC and the School Nutrition Association, among others for his work in child nutrition.
  Internationally, Lugar has been honored by the Friends of the World Food Program with the Leaders in the Fight Against Hunger award for his work to strengthen the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs, expand food stamps, support food banks, and advance international food aid operations.
  This project was included by the Senate Appropriations Committee on July 12, 2007, at the request of Lugar. The legislation heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. Should projects be retained in the House-Senate conference report, the final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature.
 
 