INDIANA COMMUNITIES AWARDED NEARLY $5 MILLION IN DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE GRANTS
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar was notified that 23 Indiana communities have been awarded grants totaling $4,680,028 from the U.S. Department of Justice. 
  The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program allows states, tribes and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own local needs and conditions. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice for any one or more of the following purpose areas: 1) law enforcement programs; 2) prosecution and court programs; 3) prevention and education programs; 4) corrections and community corrections programs; 5) drug treatment programs; and 6) planning, evaluation and technology improvement programs.  
  Table omitted (The documents can be viewed at: http://lugar.senate.gov/press/record.cfm?id=282563&&year=2007&)
  The Arrest Program enhances victim safety and offender accountability in cases of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking by encouraging jurisdictions to implement pro-arrest policies as an effective intervention that is part of a coordinated community response. An integral component of the Arrest Program is collaborative partnerships between criminal justice agencies, victim services providers, and community organizations which respond to domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.
  The LAV program is designed to strengthen civil and criminal legal assistance programs for adult and youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking who are seeking relief in legal matters arising as a consequence of that abuse or violence. Eligible applicants include nonprofit, nongovernmental legal services organizations; nonprofit, nongovernmental victim service agencies; public entities operating in their nongovernmental capacity; and Indian tribal governments. 
  The CASOM grants are awarded to state, local and tribal jurisdictions to develop or enhance sex offender management practices for offenders under community supervisions. The Office of Justice Programs awards implementation and enhancement grants that are intended to assist jurisdictions either to implement strategic plans already developed or to enhance existing sex offender management strategies. 
  The High-Risk Youth Offender Reentry and Family Strengthening Initiative aims to reduce the likelihood that youth are re-incarcerated once they have successfully completed the reentry project. The initiative is particularly interested in programs or strategies that address family strengths and needs in an integrated, comprehensive, communitywide approach that focuses on change, not only at the individual level, but also at the family and community levels.
  Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act funds are to be used to improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science and medical examiner services and/or to eliminate backlogs in the analysis of forensic evidence, including controlled substances, firearms examination, forensic pathology, latent prints, questioned documents, toxicology, and trace evidence. 
  Forensic Casework DNA Backlog Reduction Formula furthers the U.S. Department of Justice's mission by offering an opportunity for states and units of local government with existing crime laboratories that conduct DNA analysis to improve DNA laboratory infrastructure and analysis capacity so that DNA samples can be processed efficiently and cost effectively, as well as to analyze backlogged forensic DNA casework samples from Uniform Crime Report (UCR), Part 1 Violent Crimes. These improvements are critical to preventing future DNA backlogs and to helping the criminal justice system use the full potential of DNA technology. 
  Please contact the Office of Justice Programs at 202-307-0703 for more information regarding these grants. Questions regarding the grants process in general may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator for Senator Lugar, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 