SEN. LUGAR SECURES $4 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR INDIANA HYBRID BUSES
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar secured $4 million to fund the acquisition of electric hybrid buses for transit operators across the State of Indiana. The funding is included in the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill which passed in the Senate today by a vote of 88-7.
  "I am pleased that funding was included to assist Indiana communities purchase hybrid buses," Lugar said. "The initiative from the Indiana Transit Association is a compelling example of the leadership needed to reduce our dependency on foreign oil. Leadership by private industry and across government is an essential component in making meaningful progress in reducing our oil dependence." 
  The funding will provide communities with additional money to pay the cost differential of acquiring electric hybrid buses. The average bus costs $300,000 and transit operators would petition to receive additional funds to acquire electric hybrid buses, which cost approximately $500,000. The Indiana Transportation Association estimates that approximately 30 buses per year statewide will be replaced.
  The Indiana Transportation Association has created a partnership between Indiana's manufacturing industry, agricultural industry and public transportation operators to promote an electric hybrid/soy biodiesel initiative. GM Allison Transmission, Cummins, Inc., Remy International, and other Indiana-based companies are cooperating to build the electric hybrid technology specifically for transit buses. Many transit operators are already using varying degrees of biodiesel blends in their bus fleet.
  The Indiana Transit Association, a consortium of transit authorities in the State of Indiana, requested funding for this initiative. A non-federal match of 20 percent is required.
  This project was included by the Senate Appropriations Committee on July 12, 2007, at the request of Lugar. The legislation heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. Should projects be retained in the House-Senate conference report, the final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature. 
  On June 21, 2007, the Senate passed an energy bill that focuses on new sources of energy and conservation to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. The bill includes major provisions initiated by Lugar, including incentives for flexible fuel cars, requirements for greater use of ethanol mixed with petroleum fuels, provisions to promote energy efficiency, and increased energy diplomacy. Most provisions of the Energy Efficiency Promotion section of the bill (Title II) come from legislation that Lugar co-sponsored with Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Pete Domenici (R-NM). This title would reduce our nation's use of fossil fuels by improving the efficiency of vehicles, buildings, home appliances, and industrial equipment. For more information, read "Senate Approves Energy Bill: Includes Several Lugar Initiatives" at http://lugar.senate.gov/press/record.cfm?id=277560&&year=2007&.
  For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. His efforts to recognize professionals, scholars, students or businesses that demonstrate leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign energy sources has included transportation leaders and hybrid bus initiatives in Indiana.
 
 