SEN. LUGAR FITNESS, NUTRITION, HEALTH PROMOTION FACT SHEET
  Sen. Dick Lugar will host his 27th Annual Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge this week. The event, which combines two annual traditions, Lugar's run and walk and Indiana Sports Corporation's Corporate Challenge, will bring hundreds of competitors to the campus of Butler University on Saturday, September 17, 2005. 
   In conjunction with the event, Lugar will again host an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday September 16 from 10am-2am. This year's Health Fair is sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield and features more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.  
   "Each year I look forward to the highlight of the Fitness Festival and Lugar Run, Walk at Butler's campus," Lugar said. "The annual opportunity brings together Hoosiers to promote nutrition, health and physical education. This is essential as we work to ensure that all Hoosiers have the knowledge and motivation necessary to adopt healthy lifestyles." 
   In addition to these annual events, Lugar is a consistent supporter of legislation that promotes fitness, nutrition and health. 
   FITNESS 
   Lugar is a long-time runner and logs approximately 15 miles a week. He is the only Member of Congress to participate in all 24 Capital Challenge races sponsored each spring by the American Council of Life Insurers in Washington, D.C. which invites teams representing the legislative, executive and judicial Branches of the federal government and the media. 
   Carol White Physical Education Program (PEP). Earlier this year, Lugar contacted Senate appropriators in support of funding for the Carol White Physical Education Program (PEP). Also, it provides incentive grants for local school districts to develop programs that promote daily physical education and establish minimum weekly fitness requirements. With childhood obesity reaching "epidemic proportions" according to former Surgeon General David Satcher, and fewer than 50% of schools offering physical education classes, PEP funding can address this important healthcare issue. 
   Improved Nutrition and Physical Activity Act (IMPACT). In June 2005, Lugar introduced the IMPACT Act, which would establish grants to provide health services for improved nutrition, increased physical activity and obesity prevention. 
   NUTRITION 
   Lugar is very active in the development of child nutrition policy. He has been recognized for this commitment by many child nutrition groups and is credited with preserving these valuable programs for all children by stopping school lunch block grants in 1996. He reaffirmed his commitment to child nutrition programs last year when he worked to expand important programs during the 2004 Child Nutrition Reauthorization bill. 
   Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act. In January 2005, Lugar re-introduced the Good Samaritan Act which would make it easier for farmers and small business owners to contribute products to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters by allowing the deduction of the full market value of food donated. At this time, the demands on our country's food banks is even greater due to Hurricane Katrina. 
   Hunger Free Communities Act. In May 2005, Lugar introduced the Hunger Free Communities Act to help gather more information on domestic hunger and strengthen local efforts through grants to organizations such as food banks. It would commit the U.S. to the goals of cutting U.S. food insecurity and hunger in half by 2010 and ending U.S. hunger by 2015. 
   School Meals Programs. Over 28 million children are fed federally subsidized school meals each day in America. Of these 28 million, nearly 16 million children receive free or reduced priced meals due to the low-income levels of their parents. In Indiana, over 600,000 children participate, with over 250,000 receiving free or reduced meals. For many children, a major portion of their nutritional needs are supplied at school, making it crucial that we safeguard this nutritional source to increase their health and educational opportunities. The 2004 Child Nutrition Reauthorization bill streamlined the application and review process for children eligible for meal assistance allowing more eligible children to participate, provided safeguards against fraud and abuse, increased food safety standards during food preparation and service, and automatically qualified homeless, runaway and migrant children are automatically eligible for free meals. 
   Lugar Pilots. The Summer Food Service Program provides free meals and snacks to nearly 2 million children daily during the summer months in lower income areas. In 2000, Lugar drafted and passed the Summer Food Service Pilot Program (referred to nationally as the "Lugar Pilots") to increase participation in the program by streamlining bureaucratic accounting requirements for participating public providers of summer meals. According to the 2005 summer nutrition status report by the Food Research and Action Center (FRAC), the 13 states that implemented the Lugar Pilots in 2001 have increased participation by more than 25 percent. 
   In May 2005, Lugar introduced legislation to expand the Lugar Pilots to the entire nation. 
   Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot. In 2002, Lugar worked to pass a pilot program that provides fresh fruits and vegetables to children in 25 schools in Indiana and in three other states. The pilot program was initiated to address the severe lack of fresh fruits and vegetables in the diets of most American youth. The program aims to improve the overall nutrition a child receives at schools and impact their future eating choices to include fruits and vegetables. 
   To date, this program includes 25 schools in Indiana, and an additional 175 schools in seven states. 
   HEALTH 
   Lugar has been a long-time supporter of expanded health coverage for children and healthy lifestyle overall. He continues to introduce legislation which addresses the three risk factors most responsible for premature deaths and much of our health care costs: poor diet, physical inactivity and tobacco. 
   In addition to health legislation, Senator Lugar and Mrs. Lugar are strong supporters of the March of Dimes, an organization committed to improving the health of babies by preventing birth defects, premature birth and infant mortality. 
   Health Promotion FIRST. In March 2004, Lugar introduced Health Promotion FIRST (Funding, Integrated Research, Synthesis, and Training) Act which would build the foundation for a stable, coordinated strategy to develop the basic and applied science of health promotion, synthesize research results and disseminate findings to researchers, practitioners and policy makers. 
   The bill directs the Department of Health and Human Services to develop strategic plans focusing on the following: 
   * How to develop the basic and applied science of health promotion; 
   * How best to utilize the authority and resources of the Department of Health and Human Services and other federal agencies to integrate health promotion concepts into health care and other elements of society; 
   * How to synthesize health promotion research into practical guidelines that can be easily disseminated; 
   * How to best support and develop the health promotion professional and scientific community. 
  Additional funding is provided to the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control to supplement current activities related to health promotion research and dissemination. 
   Covering Kids Act of 2005. In May 2005, Lugar co-sponsored the Covering Kids Act to provide grants to states, faith-based organizations, safety net providers, schools, and other community and non-profit organizations to conduct innovative Medicaid and S-CHIP outreach and enrollment efforts. 
   Currently there are nearly 10 million children in the United States without health insurance coverage. Over half of these children live in families with incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty level and are eligible for coverage under either the State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP) or Medicaid, but are not enrolled in those safety net programs.
 
 