SENS. LUGAR, BAYH SECURE $2.5 MILLION FOR CITY OF INDIANAPOLIS
  U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh voted to secure $2.5 million for the Indianapolis Monument Circle Renovation project and the transit center in downtown Indianapolis. The funding was approved as a part of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill which passed in the Senate today by a vote of 88-7. 
  "As mayor of Indianapolis, I found Monument Circle to be a defining landmark for the city. The circle serves as a gathering place for many in the state and is even the focal point of the City of Indianapolis flag. I am happy to support the renovation of such an important landmark in Indiana," said Lugar.
  "The new transit center will be a vital hub for the Indianapolis metropolitan area, providing valuable alternative transportation options for Hoosiers and helping alleviate the growing congestion and strain on area streets and highways," said Bayh.
  $2 million will be used for the new transit center in downtown Indianapolis. The funding will be used for construction of the center and to purchase additional fuel-efficient buses for the Indy-Go fleet. Some features of the new transit center include: long range bus transfers, taxi-stands, weather protection, retail businesses, and passenger assistance. A non-federal match of 20 percent is required.
  $500,000 has been allocated for the renovation of Monument Circle in downtown Indianapolis. The last renovation of this area occurred over 30 years ago. The funds will be used to create the design plans for the project. Improvements will include brick replacement on sidewalks and streets, electrical and lighting infrastructure upgrades and new tree plantings surrounding the circle. 
  Funding was requested by Mayor Bart Peterson.
  This project was included by the Senate Appropriations Committee on July 12, 2007, at the request of Lugar and Bayh. The legislation heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. Should projects be retained in the House-Senate conference report, the final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature.
 
 