SEN. LUGAR SECURES $500,000 FOR CONNERSVILLE INTERMODAL STUDY
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar voted today to secure $500,000 for a feasibility study of an Intermodal Port in Connersville. The funding was approved as a part of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill which passed in the Senate today by a vote of 88-7. 
  "The prospects for this study are exciting because of the positive economic impact an intermodal port would have on Connersville and East Central Indiana. I am hopeful that the creation of this facility will help develop the logistics industry in Fayette County and capitalize on the proximity to several population centers in the U.S.," Lugar said.
  Funding would be used to complete a feasibility study to create an intermodal facility with rail, air and road capabilities on a city-owned 74 acre site to increase economic development opportunities in the Town of Connersville and East Central Indiana. A non-federal match of 20 percent is required.
  The proposed site is roughly equidistant to Indianapolis, Cincinnati and Dayton, and near US 40 and Interstate 70. It is on 74 acres of land owned by Connersville and contiguous to the Connersville and New Castle Railroad, Connersville Municipal Airport and State Route 1 highway. The Connersville Municipal Airport has a 6,500 foot runway and is in the process of expanding the runway to 8,500 feet. Community leaders have indicated that once the extension of the airport taxiway' is complete, the airport could handle additional large cargo jets and the intermodal facility could build on the existing air cargo business.
  In March 2007, Mayor Max Ellison, Economic Development Director Doug Howard, Union Leader John Pavy, and other Fayette County leaders visited Lugar in Washington, D.C. to discuss economic development opportunities for Connersville and Fayette County.
  This project was included by the Senate Appropriations Committee on July 12, 2007 at the request of Lugar. The legislation heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. Should projects be retained in the House-Senate conference report, the final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature.
 
 