ENERGY BILL INCLUDES SEN. LUGAR INITIATIVES
  The energy bill approved by the Senate tonight includes provisions initiated by U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar. 
  "This bill is an important step but we need to do more. We need to continue to get more serious about our energy predicament. The bill includes a renewable fuel standard which is very important to reduce our dependence on imported oil, but I was hopeful that we would have included tax incentives in the bill as well," said Lugar, who was one of nine Republicans that voted to include the tax provision in the bill, though the measure failed by one vote.
  "We need to continue to get more serious about our energy predicament. This bill is an important step but we need to do more. I was hopeful that we would have included tax incentives in the bill, but unfortunately we fell one vote short," said Lugar who was one of nine Republicans who voted to include tax incentives in the bill. "The bill does include a renewable fuel standard which is very important to reduce our dependence on imported oil."
  The bill includes a renewable fuel standard (RFS) similar to the Biofuels Security Act, sponsored by Lugar and Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA). The greatly expanded RFS would guarantee a market for investment in new biofuels production, with special preference to biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol derived from diverse feedstocks like corn stover and switchgrass.
  The bill also raises vehicle fuel efficiency standards which Lugar has supported.
  A Lugar provision urges the Secretary of State to integrate energy security and priorities into core State Department activities and creates a new coordinator for international energy affairs.
  Many provisions of the Energy Efficiency Promotion section of the bill come from legislation that Lugar co-sponsored with Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Pete Domenici (R-NM). This section would reduce our nation's use of fossil fuels by improving the efficiency of vehicles, buildings, home appliances, and industrial equipment.
  In an August 2006 speech (http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/press/speech/purdue.html) at Purdue University, Lugar called for steps to optimize flexible fuel vehicles in order to reduce the mileage gap between E85 and regular gasoline. The bill initiates a study to do so. GM subsidiary SAAB already has developed engines along those lines.
  Lugar and Harkin's Ethanol Infrastructure Expansion Act is reflected in the bill too. This calls for a feasibility study of shipping biofuels via pipeline. Doing so would connect current production concentrated in the Midwest with markets throughout the country.
  On Tuesday, December 18, at 9:00 a.m., Lugar will keynote a discussion at the Brookings Institution on "Energy Security, Energy Urgency: Key Issues Facing the Next President." Lugar will discuss the "need for leadership" by the next president in combating energy threats to U.S. national security. Brookings Institution, 1775 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, D.C. December 18, 2007 09:00AM Contact: (202) 797-6105, communications@brookings.edu; http://www.brookings.edu
  Detailed information on Lugar's energy legislation can be found at: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/legislation/index.html.
 
 