ENERGY GROUP SUPPORTS SEN. LUGAR'S FUEL ECONOMY BILL
  Recommendations of the Energy Security Leadership Council support large portions of the Fuel Economy Reform Act, a bill introduced by Sen. Dick Lugar, along with Sens. Barack Obama (D-IL), Joseph Biden (D-DE), Gordon Smith (R-OR), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Norm Coleman (R-MN) and Dick Durbin (D-IL). The legislation would reduce U.S. gasoline consumption by nearly half a trillion gallons by 2028 and greatly decrease our dependence on foreign oil. The Energy Security Leadership Council is part of Securing America's Future Energy (SAFE).  
   Lugar commended the Council for its commitment to addressing the nation's energy security needs. 
   "Leadership by private industry, the military and across sectors and levels of government is an essential component in making meaningful progress," Lugar said. "The Council and SAFE have made an important contribution to our ongoing policy debate. Increasing fuel economy is one facet of a comprehensive energy strategy that the United States must adopt in the interest of our national security." 
   The Fuel Economy Reform Act would charge the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) with creating regular annual increases in fuel economy with a target of one mile per gallon each year. The experts at NHTSA would base these standards on attributes of a vehicle such as size and weight and would be able to revise the annual increase if they conclude that the target cannot be reached with current technology or without compromising the safety of the entire fleet or is not cost-effective when compared to the economic and geopolitical value of a gallon of gasoline saved. 
   To assist domestic manufacturers in developing more fuel-efficient vehicles, the legislation would provides tax incentives for companies to retool parts and assembly plants. This would strengthen the U.S. auto industry by allowing them to compete with foreign hybrid, E-85 and other fuel-efficient vehicles. The bill would also allow more Americans to benefit from a tax credit for the purchase of fuel-efficient vehicles by lifting the current cap that only makes eligible the first 60,000 buyers per manufacturer each year. 
   For more information on the Fuel Economy Reform Act and Lugar's more than decade-long effort to increase America's energy security, visit the Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy.
 
 