INDIANA AWARDED $200,000 GRANT TO CUT DIESEL EMISSIONS
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 5 has awarded a $200,000 grant to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management to cut diesel emissions from locomotives at the Ports of Indiana facility in Jeffersonville. The port is in Clark County, which fails to meet national outdoor air quality standards for fine particles (soot).  
   "This project will reduce diesel emissions, improve fuel efficiency and improve local air quality. These goals are important progress in our efforts not only to reduce energy usage and pollution, but also to address the national security challenges of U.S. dependence on petroleum products," said Lugar. 
   The grant will be used to upgrade as many as four rail switch engines that operate full time on the port property with technologies that will reduce diesel emissions, improve fuel efficiency and have a direct effect on local air quality. 
   The grant is part of EPA Region 5's Midwest Clean Diesel Initiative, a collaboration of federal, state and local agencies, along with communities, non-profit organizations and private companies working together to reduce emissions from diesel engines in the Midwest. 
   As part of an overall goal to strengthen U.S. energy security, Lugar advocates for greater awareness of the national security and environmental consequences of fossil fuel use. He has advocated strongly for increased research and commercialization of clean coal technologies, renewable power and innovative technologies and efficiency practices to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on oil. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 