SEN. LUGAR WELCOMES DOE STUDY ON PLUG-IN HYBRIDS
  Sen. Dick Lugar welcomed the release of a study by the Department of Energy's Pacific Northwest National Laboratory which concluded that "off-peak" electricity production could fuel 84 percent of the country's 220 million vehicles if they were outfitted with plug-in hybrid technology. 
   According to the Department of Energy, batteries used in current hybrids have the capacity to store enough power to handle the average American's daily commute. The ability to plug these batteries into the U.S. electrical grid offers the prospect of reducing America's dependence on imported oil. 
   "This study is part of the innovation and experimentation necessary to reduce energy consumption and integrate alternative energy sources into our economy and way of life," said Lugar. "Plug-in and hybrid technologies combined with the use of biofuels are parts of a comprehensive energy strategy necessary to move the U.S. away from its extreme dependence on foreign oil." 
   Lugar supports existing consumer tax incentives for the purchase of hybrid vehicles and has introduced the National Fuels Initiative, which would expand the current incentives and offer tax credits for manufacturers to re-equip, expand or establish facilities to produce advanced technology vehicles. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on oil. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   More information on the study is available at http://www.pnl.gov/news/release.asp?id=204.
 
 