DEAR COLLEAGUE LETTER #3: GUIDE TO IRAQ ELECTIONS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the third letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the third letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq. 
   Dear Colleague: 
   This week, Iraqis are going to the polls for the third time in 2005. They will elect a 275-member Council of Representatives that will form the basis of the permanent Iraqi government. These Representatives will serve four-year terms and will elect a President, a Prime Minister, other government ministers, and the Federal Supreme Court. 
   In a White House meeting today with President Bush, Vice President Cheney and Secretaries Rice and Rumsfeld, Ambassador Khalilzad and General Casey briefed us from Baghdad about what to expect after Thursday's election. They said that we should anticipate that the work of the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq to certify election results could take up to three weeks. After elections have been certified, members of the Council of Representatives must undertake the politically complex process of building coalitions and forming a government. The briefers cautioned that given the multiplicity of parties and interests, solidifying a parliamentary government will not be instantaneous. They indicated that under some scenarios, the selection of ministers might not be finalized until April. 
   The news from Iraq suggests that candidates are campaigning and that interest among voters is extremely high. One poll conducted by the International Republican Institute (IRI) indicates that 85% of eligible Iraqis intend to vote in Thursday's election. The success of the election is critical for the achievement of stability in Iraq. With more than 200 parties and contestant groups vying for seats in the Representative Council, understanding this parliamentary-style election and the possible outcomes requires a close examination of election procedures and participants. With that it mind, I would like to share with you the enclosed Brief Guide to Iraq General Elections, produced by Danilo Bakovic and his IRI team in Baghdad. The report illuminates the upcoming elections in a concise format. 
   Mr. Bakovic brings a wealth of personal and professional experience to the task of analyzing transitional elections. A native of Belgrade, he was a member of the executive board of the People's Movement Resistance, which played an important role in peacefully removing the Serbian dictator, Slobodan Milosevic. He also led the "Fight Against Corruption Project" in Serbia and ran as a candidate for parliament. 
   An electronic version of the Brief Guide to Iraq Elections can be found on my website at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq. I hope you find this resource useful.
 
 