SEN. LUGAR PRAISES AGREEMENT TO CONTINUE NUNN-LUGAR IN KAZAKHSTAN
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar praised today's agreement between the United States and Kazakhstan to continue Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program work in that country. 
   "I congratulate the Administration and the country of Kazakhstan, led by President Nazarbayev, in extending our joint cooperation under the Nunn-Lugar program. The signing of this agreement provides an opportunity to celebrate the impressive record of cooperation the U.S. and Kazakhstan have enjoyed. I applaud the close partnership our countries have and look forward to continued success in our shared commitment to stopping the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and reducing the threats citizens of our countries face," Lugar said.
   The agreement extends vital Nunn-Lugar work on biological pathogens and other efforts to account for, secure and destroy material and equipment that could be used for weapons of mass destruction for at least another seven years.
   The Nunn-Lugar program has already assisted Kazakhstan in eliminating all of its nuclear weapons following the collapse of the Soviet Union when it was the world's eighth largest nuclear power. The program also helped eliminate nuclear weapons in Ukraine and Belarus, which were the third and fourth largest nuclear powers.
   In November 1991, Lugar (R-IN) and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA) authored the Nunn-Lugar Act, which established the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. This program has provided U.S. funding and expertise to help the former Soviet Union safeguard and dismantle its enormous stockpiles of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, related materials, and delivery systems. In 2003, Congress adopted the Nunn-Lugar Expansion Act, which authorized the Nunn-Lugar program to operate outside the former Soviet Union to address proliferation threats. In 2004, Nunn-Lugar funds were committed for the first time outside of the former Soviet Union to destroy chemical weapons in Albania, under a Lugar-led expansion of the program.
   The Nunn-Lugar scorecard now totals 7,206 strategic nuclear warheads deactivated, 667 intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) destroyed, 486 ICBM silos eliminated, 119 ICBM mobile launchers destroyed, 615 submarine launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs) eliminated, 456 SLBM launchers eliminated, 30 nuclear submarines capable of launching ballistic missiles destroyed, 155 bomber eliminated, 906 nuclear air-to-surface missiles (ASMs) destroyed, 194 nuclear test tunnels eliminated, 370 nuclear weapons transport train shipments secured, upgraded security at 12 nuclear weapons storage sites, and built and equipped 12 biological monitoring stations.
   Beyond nuclear, chemical and biological elimination, the Nunn-Lugar program has worked to reemploy scientists and facilities related to weapons of mass destruction in peaceful research initiatives. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs.
   On the web:
   The Nunn-Lugar program: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/
  The Nunn-Lugar scorecard: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/scorecard.html
 
 