SEN. LUGAR COMMENTS ON TOYOTA PRODUCING CAMRY IN LAFAYETTE, IND.
  Earlier today, Sen. Dick Lugar participated live via satellite in the announcement that Toyota will produce the Camry at the SIA plant in Lafayette. His remarks follow:  
   I just simply want to affirm, right at the start, that this is a win-win for Indiana and for Toyota. It's an exciting opportunity for Toyota to discover the extraordinary academic facilities in Lafayette and West Lafayette, Indiana, and the extraordinary working force in Tippecanoe County and the adjoining counties that will provide at least many of the 1,000 new jobs that are coming into this enterprise. 
   It's an exciting opportunity, once again, to affirm that Indiana is competitive in the world. We are going to be the best. We are affirming that in manufacturing, agriculture and biosciences, and in each of the ways in which humanity will be served and the spirits and hopes and lives of people will be uplifted. 
   I applaud Governor Daniels and the Indiana legislature and all who are working together. First of all, to provide support for the governor and public officials to go to Japan and to other countries to tell about Indiana, to indicate why we are the best and why people ought to be involved with us in making not only cars and goods and services of all sorts and making of new things that will benefit humanity, but because this enhances at least the communication worldwide that so many have pointed out recently, Tom Friedman in particular, that the world is flat. We have a world that is linked by communication, by thoughts and deeds. Now some may still be in denial, but thank goodness not on this day in Lafayette when we celebrate this remarkable new enterprise. 
   Let me just say that on hand with me here in Washington is Charlie Ing, who is the Washington representative for Toyota. I am indebted to Charlie for introducing me to the Prius car which I bought over a year ago. I have had an extraordinary experience learning about that technology and from that experience, trying to tell Americans about the need for energy conservation, the need for energy production for alternative needs, and the ways that we in Indiana could become literally almost energy independent all by ourselves. 
   But it comes really from experiments, and Toyota has been at the forefront of trying to think through the hybrid technology, and now the plug in battery situation, which many of us would welcome, at least as a second opportunity, in the Prius situation. 
   I would just say that the announcement that these Camry cars will come to Indiana, will be produced in Indiana by Indiana workers, will be driven by Indiana residents, indicates once again, the coming together of great forces in a very timely way. 
   I am excited by the fact that SIA has done so well and Tom Easterday has welcomed this new opportunity as we all do. I thank, once again, each one of you who are a part of this celebration. I hope that, in fact, you will be advocates for constructive change, because the change that is occurring in Lafayette today is clearly for the better of the history of our state of Indiana.
 
 