SENS. HARKIN, LUGAR CALL FOR STUDY OF PIPELINE DISTRIBUTION OF ETHANOL
  Sens. Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Richard Lugar (R-IN) today continued their efforts to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil by introducing legislation that would direct the U.S. Department of Energy to study the feasibility of transporting ethanol by pipeline from the Midwest to the East and West coasts.  
   Demand for ethanol is growing in this region and there may be economic benefits to transporting it through dedicated pipelines. Such a dedicated system, however, could take a decade or more to build. Therefore it is important to study the issue and begin the planning process now. The Ethanol Infrastructure Expansion Act of 2007 will provide this critical information. 
   Harkin is the Chairman of Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee, the committee charged with crafting a new farm bill, and has said farm-based renewable energy will be a major driving force in the new farm bill. 
   "The most promising liquid fuel alternative to conventional gasoline today is ethanol," said Harkin. "We must do all that we can to reduce our dependence on oil using sources that will boost the rural economy and improve environmental quality. As we promote these ideas, however, we have to take into account the full range of infrastructure issues that broader ethanol use entails. The rapid growth of ethanol production and use necessitates the very near-term study of transporting ethanol by pipeline." 
   "We must explore every option for reducing our dependence on foreign oil. Overcoming problems in moving ethanol through pipelines, as Brazil has done, is important in developing the full promise of America's renewable fuels. This legislation will help determine U.S. infrastructure planning and development," Lugar said. 
   Creating a dedicated pipeline system could enable Iowa's ethanol producers to deliver their products to states with a growing demand, like California, New York, and Pennsylvania, at a lower cost. Ethanol use has increased by more than 20 percent annually over the past several years and a number of studies estimate that ethanol could account for 20 to 30 percent or more of America's transportation fuel in the future. 
   Senators Harkin and Lugar have been longtime advocates of expanding production of ethanol and other farm-based renewable fuels. On the first day of the 110th Congress, the senators introduced The Biofuels Security Act, a comprehensive plan to increase production and use of biofuels. The legislation would require that nearly every new vehicle sold in the United States be flex-fuel within 10 years and provides for expanded E-85 fueling infrastructure. It also establishes a new, more aggressive renewable fuels standard (RFS) that requires 30 billion gallons of ethanol and biodiesel to be included in the United States motor vehicle fuel supply annually by 2020 and 60 billion gallons by 2030. The current RFS requirement of 7.5 billion gallons by 2012 is expected to be met by July of this year. It is for that reason the senators have focused on expanding biofuel production from a variety of feedstocks and employing innovative production methods.
 
 