SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON SECRETARY RUMSFELD'S RECOMMENDATIONS TO BRAC
  Sen. Dick Lugar released the following statement on the recommendations made by Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld for the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. Sec. Rumsfeld's recommendations include a net employment gain of more than 2,000 jobs for Indiana: with gains at the Defense Finance and Accounting Service in Indianapolis and Air Guard Station in Fort Wayne; closure of five reserve and recruiting centers for a loss of 85 jobs; closure of the Newport Chemical Depot; an 11.6 percent employment reduction related to Crane; and realignment at the Terre Haute Air Guard station.  
   Lugar said: 
   "Today the Secretary of Defense submitted his recommendations to the Base Realignment and Closure Commission on adjusting base structure around the nation and within our own State. 
   "The BRAC Commission now has a significant job ahead. The nine-member panel, which has already scheduled a series of hearings for next week, has the next four months to take the large deposit of data and recommendations and ensure that they are accurate; that the data collections that have been made since Congress authorized this round are complete; and that all 397 bases in the nation were evaluated on their military worth, their importance to their local economies, and the effect that closure would have on military readiness and ability to respond to crises. 
   "Changes recommended for Crane mark an 11.6 percent decline in the Crane or Crane related employment in the state. That means that 7,500 out of 8,500 jobs related to the recommended Crane changes would continue. Six hundred eighty three jobs at Crane would be moved elsewhere in the country. Nearly 3,500 jobs would be added to the Defense Finance and Accounting Service in Indianapolis, and 256 jobs would be added to the Fort Wayne International Air Guard Station. 
   "Secretary Rumsfeld's recommendation would mean a net increase of more than 2,000 jobs in Indiana. The Indiana congressional delegation and Governor Daniels will work with each community potentially impacted by these recommendations during the coming months as the BRAC Commission makes its study. We will work to retain the substantial gains for our state and to mitigate any losses. 
   "We will stay in communication with Secretary Principi - the Commission Chairman - and the other BRAC members to ensure that the data collected in close secrecy over the past months is complete and unbiased, and that the decisions are based on the criteria Congress mandated. Congress's next official actions will come in the fall, after we receive recommendations from the Commander-in-Chief. Between now and then, we will actively monitor the process. 
   "Historically, the Secretary's recommendations have remained about 80% intact. The Commission will take the next four months to cull through the Secretary's findings and recommendations. They will have public hearings and make site visits, operating in an open and transparent fashion."
 
 