SEN. LUGAR ENCOURAGES BUSH ADMINISTRATION CASE ON AGRICULTURE TRADE
  Sen. Dick Lugar has encouraged the Bush Administration to continue on an agricultural policy course that would cut the domestic budget deficit, cut the U.S. trade deficit and increase markets and income opportunities for American farmers. His encouragement came as world trade talks in Geneva hit a stalemate over agricultural subsidies. 
   In an October 12 letter to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns, and copied to U.S. Trade Ambassador Rob Portman, Lugar wrote: "These important trade negotiations proceed with the United States from abnormal domestic budget deficits and extraordinary increasing external trade deficits with the rest of the world. 
   "I appreciate that many senators for whom I have great respect believe that neither our trade negotiations nor our attempt to cut domestic budget deficits should impinge upon the Farm Bill of 2007 or any farm legislation that would follow," wrote Lugar, a former Chairman and current member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. 
   "My strong encouragement to you and agricultural policy makers in the administration is to continue your advocacy that the future of American farming lies in our competitive abilities to export our products much more vigorously and successfully as we reduce our costs through research and new production methods. 
   "Such policies may result in substantially less direct payments to farmers and subsidies of many varieties. You will have my support as you attempt to fashion new policies for American agriculture that offer much more promise of growth in our markets and much more comprehensive utilization of the products we are now able to produce. In addition, you will have my strong support for much more vigorous agricultural research programs and conservation programs which have sometimes been slighted in favor of direct payments to producers for products which were already in oversupply or for which no foreign markets were created and serviced," continued Lugar, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
   "After reading the enclosed article in The Washington Times of October 11, 2005, I was encouraged that our United States Trade Representative, Rob Portman, had stated, 'The United States is committed to breaking the deadlock in multilateral talks on agriculture and unleashing the full potential of the Doha Round.' According to the article, Mr. Portman indicated that the United States must prepare to cut subsidies that most distort trade by 60% over five years and that the European Union and Japan would have to match that with a cut of 83%. In addition, Mr. Portman has made other suggestions with regard to curtailment of agriculture export subsidies credit programs and food aid programs which might displace commercial sales or distort the reduction of trade impediments," Lugar wrote. 
   Lugar has been an advocate for free market expansion of American agriculture through exports, bio-fuels and ending crop subsidies and replacing the current scheme with crop insurance. He offered an income assurance plan - which would have been less trade and market distorting - as an alternative to the current farm bill. Lugar's proposal was defeated. He voted against the current farm bill.
 
 