SEN. LUGAR FOOD BANKS PROVISION TO BE INCLUDED IN KATRINA TAX RELIEF PACKAGE
  Provisions of Sen. Dick Lugar's Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Act will be included in the Grassley-Baucus tax relief package for individuals affected by Hurricane Katrina.  
   "I deeply appreciate Chairman Grassley and Ranking Member Baucus including this important provision in the tax relief package for the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Given the disaster on our Gulf Coast, demand on food banks has been rising. These tax deductions would be an important step in increasing private donations to the non-profit hunger relief charities playing a critical role in meeting the nutritional needs of all those displaced by Katrina," Lugar said. 
   The Good Samaritan Act provisions would make it easier for farmers and small business owners to contribute products to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters by allowing the deduction of the full market value of food donated. Currently this reduction is available to large corporations, but not small businesses. The provision would last only for this tax year, to increase assistance for Hurricane Katrina victims. 
   "I believe the enactment of this legislation would be a great incentive to redirect food from being discarded to being distributed to hungry families," added Lugar. 
   "Over the years, I have had the opportunity to visit numerous Hoosier food banks, and have been especially impressed by the remarkable work of these organizations. In many cases, they are partnered with churches and faith-based organizations and are making a tremendous difference in our communities. We should support this private sector activity, which not only feeds people, but also strengthens community bonds and demonstrates the power of faith, charity, and civic involvement. 
   "In addition to donations by small businesses, each citizen can make an important contribution to the fight against hunger at a local level. I encourage individuals to continue donating as much as possible to their local food banks to ensure that victims of Katrina and local residents have sufficient supplies," Lugar said. 
   The Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Act was incorporated into the Charity, Aid, Recovery, and Empowerment Act of 2003 (CARE Act) and passed the Senate by a vote of 95-5 on April 9, 2003. The House passed similar legislation, but the bill did not make it out of the conference committee. 
   Lugar is also an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus, which has more than 30 members. The Senate Hunger Caucus provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the rest of our world. Lugar joined the Hunger Caucus to further promote issues that he has long supported, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion. 
   To locate your local food bank, visit Second Harvest's website: http://www.secondharvest.org/
 
 