DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE ACCEPTING GRANT APPLICATIONS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture is accepting grant applications to support risk assessment research concerning the introduction of genetically modified organisms into the environment. Grants awarded will not exceed $400,000.  
   Applications for this grant must be submitted through http://www.grants.gov by Thursday, February 15, 2007. Research proposal requests should be limited to a total budget of $400,000 for 2-5 years of support. Proposals requesting a total budget of more than $400,000 will be returned to the applicant without review. Conference proposal requests should be limited to a total budget of $10,000.
   Awards will not be made for food safety risk assessment or risk management, human or animal health risk assessment or risk management, social or economic research, methods for seed storage, clinical trials, commercial product development, product marketing strategies, product stewardship, marketing or trade issues associated with genetically modified organisms, or other research deemed inappropriate to risk assessment or risk management. 
   Interested applicants should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?mode=VIEW&oppId=11859 for more details. 
   From the grant synopsis: Investigations of effects on both managed and natural environments are relevant. Applications to the USDA Biotechnology Risk Assessment Grants (BRAG) Program must seek partial funding for a conference or address one of the following areas: 1) Identify and develop practices to minimize risks associated with genetically engineered organisms; 2) Research methods to monitor the dispersal of genetically engineered organisms; 3) Research to increase knowledge about the characteristics, rates, and methods of gene transfer that may occur between genetically engineered organisms, and related organisms; 4) Perform assessments to provide analysis which compares impacts of organisms modified through genetic engineering to other types of production systems; 5) Other areas of research designed to further the purposes of the USDA BRAG program.
   Contact: Kim Preston, 202/224-4814, Kim_Preston@lugar.senate.gov. 
 
 