SEN. LUGAR VOTES AGAINST SENATE FARM BILL
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar said today that he was encouraged that the Senate showed increased interest in farm policy reform during this year's debate, with more senators voting for his reform alternative (37 votes compared to 30 votes five years ago). A majority of senators did vote to limit payments to the largest producers of certain crops, although those amendments failed because a super-majority of three-fifths of the Senate was required. For the second time in five years Lugar opposed the farm bill. 
   "I hope that reform momentum can continue to build until we have a more fiscally responsible safety net for all farmers rather than subsidies for a select few. Our policy must be more encompassing of all agricultural, rural economic development, energy security, nutrition, and environmental needs of the United States," Lugar said.
   "Farm commodity prices are higher than ever and this overall trend will continue in the future because there are more people in the world, who are consuming more food. And there are limited productive agricultural acres to supply food, fiber and fuel. Strong demand will continue at home and abroad. We need a policy that is more equitable, less trade distorting and allows for greater opportunities than provided in this bill."
   Lugar noted his alternative, the Farm Ranch Equity Stewardship and Health (FRESH), approach would have not only reformed farm policy, but provided responsible budget increases to fund nutrition, conservation, renewable energy, and rural development sections of the bill.
   "This farm bill includes many positive elements in the non-crop subsidy sections, but the funding is precarious. It relies on tax and funding gimmicks that could leave nutrition programs under-funded in five years, leaving our most vulnerable Americas at greater risk," Lugar said.
   "I will continue to work in the House-Senate farm bill conference and future debates to constructively strengthen American agriculture, nutrition, energy, and rural development for the best interests of all American taxpayers and our national security," Lugar said.
   More information on FRESH can be found at www.lugar.senate.gov/farmbill.
 
 