INDIANA RECEIVES MORE THAN $3 MILLION IN GRANTS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Indiana communities will share $3,127,474 in grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as part of its Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. Communities receiving grant money are listed at the end of the release.  
   "This funding is important because it provides necessary assistance to those Hoosiers who need it most," Lugar said. "I am pleased Congress has appropriated this money and that FEMA continues this valuable program." 
   The funds will support social service agencies to help feed and shelter the hungry and homeless. EFS funds are used to supplement food, shelter, rent, mortgage and utility assistance programs for people with non-disaster related emergencies. 
   According to the FEMA, jurisdictions that qualified for awards were chosen based on the following criteria: 
   1. Most current 12-month national unemployment rates; 
  2. Total number of unemployed within a civil jurisdiction; 
  3. Total number of individuals below the poverty level within a civil jurisdiction; and, 
  4. The total population of the civil jurisdiction. 
   More specifically, jurisdictions were selected to receive funding according to one of the following criteria: 
   * Jurisdictions, including balance of counties, with 13,000+ unemployed and a 3.8% rate of unemployment. 
   * Jurisdictions, including balance of counties, with 300 to 12,999 unemployed and a 5.8% rate of unemployment. 
   * Jurisdictions, including balance of counties, with 300 or more unemployed and an11.0% rate of poverty. 
   A national board of volunteer agencies chaired by FEMA administers the EFS Program. The National Board qualifies local jurisdictions for annual EFS funding awards based on criteria involving current population, unemployment and poverty levels. Grants are awarded to local social service agencies that are chosen by local boards in the qualifying jurisdictions. In addition, 8% of the year's total EFS appropriation was set aside by the National Board for state grants to aid the needy in jurisdictions that did not otherwise qualify for assistance. 
   For more information on how funds will be allocated in each county, visit http://www.efsp.unitedway.org.
   Table Omitted (The document can be viewed at: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=266975)
 
 