SEN. LUGAR APPLAUDS CHANGE IN STUDENT VISAS
  Sen. Dick Lugar applauded the completion of the State Department's review of the Visas Mantis clearance procedure. This clearance process applies to international student (F-1) visas, as well as others.  
   Following September 11, 2001, the average time for a Mantis clearance could take over two months, often causing significant delays for students who returned home unexpectedly for family or medical emergencies, or deflecting business to other countries when the initial wait became too costly. 
   As a result of the State Department's review, students (F visas) will now have their Mantis clearance valid for the duration of their course of study. Temporary workers (H visas), exchange visitors (J visas) and intra-company transferees (L visas) can receive a Visas Mantis clearance valid for the duration of their approved activity to a maximum of two years. 
   Equally critical is the dramatic decline in the average processing time of these clearances to less than fourteen days - without compromising security. 
   "Declining overseas admissions costs us not only much needed revenues for colleges and universities, but much more importantly, we lose the best opportunity we have to introduce foreign students to all that America has to offer the world," Lugar said. "Extending the Mantis validity demonstrates that we will not step back from our commitment to keep America safe, but also that we recognize the need to maintain our contacts in the international education and business arenas." 
   As noted in the recently released "Open Doors" study by the Institute for International Education - the premier document on international student enrollment in the United States -international enrollment in U.S. colleges and university declined by 2.4% in the 2003/2004 academic year, the first decline since the 1971/1972 year. 
   Lugar chaired an October 6, 2004, Foreign Relations Committee hearing that explored the problems facing international students studying in the U.S. Indiana University President Dr. Adam Herbert and Purdue University President Dr. Martin Jischke testified about the problems facing international students and the enormous cultural and economic impact they have in the United States.
 
 