SEN. LUGAR DISCUSSES ENERGY SECURITY WITH KAZAKH AND TURKMEN LEADERS
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar met with senior government officials in Astana, Kazakhstan, and Ashgabat, Turkmenistan on January 10, 11, and 12. Lugar discussed opportunities for expanding cooperation with the United States, including energy security and the Nunn-Lugar cooperative threat reduction program. 
  "U.S. strategic and economic interests intersect in Central Asia. With Russia to the north and Iran and Afghanistan to the south, energy-rich Central Asia is at the frontline of American national security priorities," Lugar said. "We have tremendous opportunities in the region, but it will take time and consistent high-level effort to build constructive relationships. This region needs to have a much higher priority on America's foreign policy agenda.
  "In Kazakhstan, we have a record of 15 years of collaboration on weapons destruction through the Nunn-Lugar program. This is a solid foundation on which to continue building our relationship," Lugar said.
  "Turkmenistan has undergone extraordinary changes in the year since President Berdimuhammedov came into office. I had a friendly candid discussion with the President, and he indicated a strong desire to build a growing constructive relationship with the United States."
  Lugar encouraged the governments of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan to pursue trans-Caspian transportation options for oil and gas. He also discussed the benefits of private investment in the energy sector.
  "Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan rely almost exclusively upon Russia to transport their oil and gas to world markets. In turn, Russia has occasionally demonstrated willingness to use its control over these supplies for political gain at the expense of our European allies. Opening trans-Caspian export routes will dilute Russia's control over energy supplies. Likewise, having multiple export options will reinforce the political independence of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan," Lugar said. "Kazakh and Turkmenistani officials indicated a willingness to work with the United States and their neighbors on these issues."
  Included in Lugar's discussions with Kazakh officials was the status of the Kashagan oil and gas field. Located in the Caspian Sea, Kashagan is one of the largest oil fields in the world. A dispute amongst members of the consortium developing the field and the Kazakh government has strained the investment environment in Kazakhstan. CEOs of major oil companies were scheduled to be in Astana for negotiations on January 13 and 14. Lugar met with the government and other parties to the negotiations and said he was pleased that "negotiations achieved a prompt and constructive resolution."
 
 