GRANTS MADE TO INDIANA FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified recently that six Indiana communities will receive firefighter assistance grants totaling more than $657,000 from the Department of Homeland Security for purchasing equipment and training programs. 
   The awards are among grants made to fire departments throughout the U.S. announced this week in round seven of the 2004 Assistance to Firefighter Grant program.
   "I strongly support the efforts of Indiana fire departments to conduct operations, promote fire safety and equip themselves with the tools and the training they need to perform effectively," Lugar said. "I have seen first-hand how these funds have an important impact on Indiana fire departments. These funds help increase the level of service firefighters are able to provide to our communities."
   For the 2004 program, $750 million was appropriated to provide direct assistance to firefighters to improve the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States.
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration (USFA), part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. On March 1, 2003, FEMA became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
   Communities receiving grants are:
   Fire Department Name: Harris Township Fire Department 
  Program Area: Fire Prevention
  Federal Share: $20,232
  City: Granger
   Fire Department Name: Ashley Fire Department
  Program Area: Firefighting Vehicle
  Federal Share: $115,783
  City: Ashley
   Fire Department Name: Greensburg Fire Department 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Federal Share: $121,783
  City: Greensburg
   Fire Department Name: Beech Grove Fire Department
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety 
  Federal Share: $233,831
  City: Beech Grove
   Fire Department Name: White River-Hazelton Volunteer Fire Department 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Federal Share: $39,745
  City: Hazelton
   Fire Department Name: Benton Township of Monroe County Volunteer Fire Department Inc. 
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Federal Share: $126,132
  City: Unionville
 
 