EPA MIDWEST CLEAN DIESEL INITIATIVE INVITES NOMINATIONS FOR LEADERSHIP AWARDS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 5's Midwest Clean Diesel Initiative (MCDI) is calling for nominations of organizations for its clean-diesel leadership awards. The annual awards program is designed to raise awareness and recognize both public and private organizations that have made significant, measurable improvements in air quality through the development and/or implementation of actions to clean up diesel emissions. 
   Nominees will be judged on general criteria including how they directly or indirectly reduce air pollution through clean diesel actions, if they provide a model for others to follow and positive outcomes that are continuing or sustainable. They will also be judged on whether they demonstrate effective collaboration and partnerships, have measured outcomes of a project and used innovative technology or approaches to reducing diesel emissions. 
   Entries will be reviewed and awardees selected by the co-chairs of the leadership group made up of EPA, Illinois EPA, Ohio Environmental Council and Cummins, Inc. 
   Entries must include a completed application form that can be found along with submission instructions at http://www.epa.gov/midwestcleandiesel. They must also include a maximum two-page summary of accomplishments and estimated emission reductions. Pictures, graphics and a list of recognition supporters may also be sent with the application. 
   The MCDI is a collaboration of federal, state and local agencies, along with communities, non-profit organizations and private companies working together to reduce emissions from diesel engines in the Midwest. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 