SEN. LUGAR'S RENEWABLE FUELS BILL INTRODUCED AS AMENDMENT TO SENATE ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar today offered his renewable fuels legislation as an amendment to the comprehensive Senate energy bill. The amendment is expected to be voted on this week.  
   "I am pleased that this important piece of legislation enjoys broad bipartisan support and I encourage my colleagues to support this monumental effort as a cornerstone of comprehensive energy policy. Ethanol and biodiesel are premier, high performance fuels that have tremendous environmental benefits," Lugar said. "Increasing the production of these renewable fuels would significantly improve rural economies not only in my home state of Indiana, but also in all 50 states and around the world. In addition, it will spur investment in valuable infrastructure which is critical to the viability of a national renewable fuels system." 
   Lugar was joined by a bi-partisan group of 21 Senators upon introducing the Fuels Security Act in March 2005. The act would more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel, and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. 
   "This legislation would play a vital role in increasing America's security because renewable fuels are a key component to energy independence for our country," Lugar said. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose, in a time of relatively low fuel prices. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. Lugar also has co-authored and supported legislation to dramatically increase the use of renewable fuels in all U.S. vehicles. 
   Specifically, this bill would require the use of 4 billion gallons of renewable fuels per year in 2006 increasing to 8 billion gallons per year by 2012. Thereafter the requirements may be increased based on the nation's production and use of these fuels, as well as consideration of our economy and environment. It also encourages Federal agencies to use ethanol and biodiesel in their fleet vehicles. In 2004 more than 185 billion gallons of transportation fuel was consumed in the U.S. 
   "The development of renewable fuels would help ensure national and economic security and gas price stability. With high oil prices, ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from biomass becoming increasingly important. Hoosiers growing the feedstocks for these fuels will add to our nation's security while helping our communities prosper," Lugar added. 
   "The New Petroleum" by Senator Dick Lugar former CIA Director James Woolsey may be found at: http://lugar.senate.gov/new_petroleum.html.
 
 