SEN. LUGAR SUMMER NUTRITION PROGRAM INCREASES PARTICIPATION BY 41 PERCENT
  The 13 states originally included in the Lugar Pilot program increased participation in the Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) over the last five summers by 41.3 percent, while participation in non-pilot states fell by 11.9 percent according to the new report, "Hunger Doesn't Take a Vacation," from the Food Research and Action Center (FRAC). 
   In 2000, U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar worked to pass legislation to reduce bureaucratic obstacles in reimbursement and remedy the decline in participation in the SFSP. The Lugar Pilot program simplifies the cost accounting and paperwork rules, which allows for modestly higher meal reimbursement rates.  
   "Less red tape means more children are fed," says FRAC President Jim Weill. "The federal government's summer meals programs are supposed to serve all children who need the meals. It is time for Congress to make it simpler for groups to offer the meals." 
   Since the program's implementation in 2001, the Lugar Pilot states have experienced continued growth and dramatic increases in access of children to summer meals. The program is part of the SFSP and has operated in 13 states (including Indiana) and Puerto Rico since 2001. Lugar successfully worked in 2004 and 2005 to add states to the program, and through his legislation a total of 26 states and Puerto Rico are now participating in the program. In the 109th Congress, Lugar introduced legislation to expand the Lugar Pilots to the rest of the nation. 
   "The need to feed youths in the summer time is a nationwide problem and it is clear we have a proven method. I sincerely hope that we can extend the Lugar Pilots to all 50 states as quickly as possible," Lugar said. 
   The SFSP and the National School Lunch Program (NSLP), both federal programs, offer children from low-income families and neighborhoods the kind of nutritious meals and snacks in the summer that they would receive during the school year. 
   In addition to the 41.3 percent increase in participation in the Lugar Pilot states, the report says: 
   * Participation in the SFSP and NSLP in the 13 original states increased 4.3 percent from 2004 to 2005. 
   * SFSP participation alone increased 7.9 percent in the 13 states from 2004 to 2005. 
   * Six more states were added to the Simplified Summer Food Program beginning in 2005 (Colorado, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Ohio, and Oregon). 
   * Participation in the Summer Nutrition programs grew in half of the new states in 2005. 
   * Participation in the SFSP grew in the six new states by 8.9 percent, with the number of organizations operating the program growing by 13.4 percent and the number of locations where children could receive meals increasing by 15.9 percent. 
   The SFSP was created by Congress in 1969 to help fill the gap in low-income neighborhoods by providing needy children with the nutrition they need to learn, play and grow throughout the summer months when school lunches are not provided. Lugar recognized, however, that too many schools and other potential providers chose not to participate because of bureaucratic red tape in receiving reimbursements. This lack of participation led to children not having the opportunity to receive summer meals, which is especially concerning because many children in low income homes receive the bulk of their nutrition from school that do not operate in the summer. 
   Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. The National Council of La Raza recognized his efforts in child nutrition nationally in 2004 with a Capitol Award highlighting his efforts to promote nutrition programs for low-income Americans, especially children. Lugar also has been recognized by FRAC and the School Nutrition Association, among others for his work in child nutrition. 
   Internationally, Lugar has been honored by the Friends of the U.N. World Food Program with the Leaders in the Fight Against Hunger award for his work to strengthen the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs, to expand food stamps, to support food banks, and to advance international food aid operations. 
   On the web: 
  The Food Research and Action Center: http://www.frac.org
 
 