SICKLE CELL TREATMENT ACT PASSED
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Sickle Cell Treatment Act (S. 874) to expand services for patients with the blood disorder that primarily affects African-Americans was included in the FSC/ETI bill passed by the House and the Senate. The Act, cosponsored by Lugar, is waiting signature by the President to become law.  
   "This bill is fundamentally important to the health and welfare of minorities," said Lugar. "The programs provided in this legislation ensure Americans affected by sickle cell disease have access to treatment services and centers. I am pleased that this program is included in the FSC/ETI bill." 
   Sickle cell disease affects about one in 300 African-American newborns. It is an inherited defect in blood that causes normally round blood cells to take on a sickle shape. These sickle-shaped cells clog the bloodstream, creating obstructions that result in severe medical complications. The disease affects approximately 70,000 Americans; more than 2,500,000 Americans, mostly African-Americans, have the sickle cell trait. Sickle cell disease is most common in African-Americans and in those of Hispanic, Mediterranean, and Middle Eastern ancestry. 
   The Sickle Cell Treatment Act will increase health care access for patients by providing federal matching funds for sickle cell disease-related services under Medicaid making it easier for doctors to treat patients with the disease and increasing state funding for physician and laboratory services. 
   The legislation also enhances the number of services available to sickle cell disease patients by allowing states to receive a federal funding match for treatment expenses such as genetic counseling, community outreach and education. 
   Additionally, the bill creates 40 sickle cell disease treatment centers across the country and establishes a National Sickle Cell Disease Research Headquarters through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. This National Coordinating Center will coordinate the research conducted by health professionals and universities to help educate patients with the goal of finding a cure for sickle cell disease. 
   The Sickle Cell Treatment Act has the support of the American Medical Association, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), the NAACP and the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America.
 
 