SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES BILL TO ESTABLISH POST-CONFLICT RESPONSE CORPS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Republican leader Dick Lugar today introduced the "Reconstruction and Stabilization Civilian Management Act of 2007." The bill authorizes the creation of a federal response capability to address post-conflict situations with active and standby components as well as a civilian reserve, a concept first introduced by Lugar and Sens. Joe Biden and Chuck Hagel in 2004 and recently endorsed by President Bush in his State of the Union Address. 
   Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA) is introducing companion legislation in the House of Representatives.  
   "International crises are inevitable, and in most cases, U.S. national security interests will be threatened by sustained instability. The war on terrorism necessitates that we not leave nations crumbling and ungoverned. We have already seen how terrorists can exploit nations afflicted by lawlessness and desperate circumstances. They seek out such places to establish training camps, recruit new members, and tap into a global black market in weapons," said Lugar. 
   "In this international atmosphere, the United States must have the right structures, personnel, and resources in place when an emergency occurs. A delay in our response of a few weeks, or even days, can mean the difference between success and failure." 
   Lugar's bill would give statutory status to the State Department's Office of the Coordinator of Reconstruction and Stabilization. It authorizes $80 million for the operations of the new office and the training, equipment and travel of a 250-person active duty component made up of employees from the State Department and United States Agency for International Development (USAID). This active duty corps should include people with technical skills including civil engineering, police expertise, agricultural knowledge, health and education, and political organization. This corps would be trained and available for rapid deployment with the military for initial assessments and programming purposes and likely be the first civilian team on the ground in post-conflict situations, before establishing an embassy. 
   "Establishment of such a corps is a modest investment when seen as part of the overall national security budget. Even in peace time, we maintain active duty military forces of almost 1.4 million men and women who train and plan for the possibility of war. Given how critical post-conflict situations have been to American national security in the last decade, I believe it is reasonable to have a mere 250 civilians who are training for these situations and are capable of being deployed anywhere in the world, at any time they may be needed," said Lugar. 
   Lugar's bill also calls for a 2,000 person standby component drawn from State, USAID and other federal agencies. It also authorizes the creation of a civilian reserve that would draw highly skilled personnel from the American general workforce. The bill requires that at least 500 volunteers be recruited, trained and available to serve within a year of the bill's passage in this new civilian reserve. The bill also authorizes expenditures for a $75 million crisis response fund, one-third of which can be used if necessary for the organization, training and emergency deployment of the response corps. 
   A previous version of Lugar's bill passed the Senate unanimously last June, while the Executive Branch first moved to implement elements in July 2004 by creating a new Office of Stabilization and Reconstruction headed by a Coordinator reporting directly to the Secretary of State. 
   Under Lugar's chairmanship in 2003, the Foreign Relations Committee organized a Policy Advisory Group of government officials and outside experts to provide Members with advice on how to strengthen the ability to plan and implement post-conflict missions. After much study, it was clear a well-organized and strongly led civilian partner was needed to work with the military in complex emergencies. The Committee judged that the State Department was best positioned to lead this effort.
 
 