SEN. LUGAR DISCUSSES ENERGY ISSUES WITH BUSH
  Sen. Dick Lugar yesterday met with President George W. Bush and a bipartisan group of 12 senators in the residence of the White House to discuss energy issues facing the United States. 
   "The President simply indicated that he knew each one of us had intense interest in the subject and that he did, too. I appreciate his concern about our dangerous dependence on foreign oil and I welcome his efforts. The energy situation facing our country is daunting. Regardless of whether it is Mother Nature or developing countries that are straining the oil supply, something must be done in the very near future to decrease our dependence on oil," Lugar said after meeting with the President.  
   Sens. Evan Bayh (D-IN), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Pete Domenici (R-NM), Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Ken Salazar (D-CO), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Gordon Smith (R-OR), and Jim Talent (R-MO) joined Lugar for the meeting. 
   A decade ago, Lugar began pushing for a national biomass ethanol research program. Witnesses at Agriculture Committee hearings he chaired from 1996 to 1999 said this would be the most efficient method to produce ethanol. In 1999, Lugar and former CIA Director James Woolsey co-authored a seminal article that linked foreign policy and high cost of securing foreign oil flowing to the United States with the development of homegrown ethanol derived from any form of cellulose ("The New Petroleum," Foreign Affairs). Lugar then authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. 
   In 2005, Lugar led 21 bipartisan Senators in introducing the Fuels Security Act to more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. This legislation laid the groundwork for the renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed Congress in July 2005. 
   Lugar also joined with Sens. Barack Obama (D-IL) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) in introducing the Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFVs) within ten years. FFVs can use both regular gasoline and E-85 renewable fuel (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content). 
   In addition, Lugar is an original cosponsor of Bayh's bill, the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act. This bill would provide for changes in oil conservation, new measures to improve fuel economy, tax credits for hybrid cars and advanced fuels, encourage use of renewable fuels, and set new regulations for federal fleets. 
   As Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Lugar held a hearing on the "High Costs of Oil Dependence" in November 2005. In his opening statement, Lugar said, "Our weak response to our own energy vulnerability is all the more frustrating given that alternatives to oil do exist. Oil's importance is the result of industrial and consumption choices of the past. We now must choose a different path. Without eliminating oil imports or abandoning our cars, we can off-set a significant portion of demand for oil by giving American consumers a real choice of automotive fuel. We must end oil's near monopoly on the transportation sector, which accounts for 60 percent of American oil consumption." 
   On Feb. 6, 2006, Lugar addressed the U.N. Security Council, saying, "Like the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the potential scarcity of energy supplies and the imbalances that exist among nations represent grave threats to global security and prosperity. . . When we reach the point that the world's oil-hungry economies are competing for insufficient supplies of energy, fossil fuels will become an even stronger magnet for conflict than they already are. . . The bottom line is that critical international security goals, including countering nuclear weapons proliferation, supporting new democracies, and promoting sustainable development are at risk because of over-dependence on fossil fuels." 
   On the web: 
   Senator Lugar's energy web page: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy 
  The Biomass Research and Development Initiative: http://www.bioproducts-bioenergy.gov/
 
 