NUNN-LUGAR UPDATE JUNE 2007
  Sen. Dick Lugar today announced the following progress in the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program for May 2007: 
   * 9 strategic nuclear warheads were deactivated 
   * 9 ICBM mobile launchers were destroyed 
   * 4 train shipments of nuclear weapons were sent to safe and secure storage 
   In November 1991, Senator Lugar (R-IN) and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA) authored the Nunn-Lugar Act, which established the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. This program has provided U.S. funding and expertise to help the former Soviet Union safeguard and dismantle its enormous stockpiles of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, related materials, and delivery systems. In 2003, Congress adopted the Nunn-Lugar Expansion Act, which authorized the Nunn-Lugar program to operate outside the former Soviet Union to address proliferation threats. In 2004, Nunn-Lugar funds were used for the first time outside of the former Soviet Union to secure chemical weapons in Albania, under a Lugar-led expansion of the program. 
   The Nunn-Lugar scorecard now totals 6,982 strategic nuclear warheads deactivated, 644 ICBMs destroyed, 485 ICBM silos eliminated, 100 ICBM mobile launchers destroyed, 611 SLBMs eliminated, 436 SLBM launchers eliminated, 30 SSBNs destroyed, 155 bomber eliminated, 906 nuclear ASMs destroyed, 194 nuclear test tunnels, 348 nuclear weapons transport train shipments, 12 nuclear weapons storage site security upgrades, and 9 biological monitoring stations built and equipped. 
   Beyond the scorecard's nuclear elimination, the Nunn-Lugar program secures and destroys chemical weapons, and works to reemploy scientists and facilities related to biological weapons in peaceful research initiatives. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. They otherwise would be the world's the third, fourth and eighth largest nuclear weapons powers, respectively. 
   Lugar makes annual oversight trips to Nunn-Lugar sites in the former Soviet Union. This August, the visit will include Moscow events commemorating the 15th anniversary of the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   Nunn-Lugar definition of terms ICBM - Intercontinental ballistic missile
   SLBM - Submarine launched ballistic missile
   SSBN - Nuclear submarine capable of launching ballistic missile
   ASM - Air-to-surface missile 
   On the web: 
   The Nunn-Lugar program: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/
   The Nunn-Lugar scorecard: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/scorecard.html.
 
 