PRESIDENT SIGNS LEGISLATION TO INCREASE IRAQI, AFGHAN TRANSLATOR VISAS
  President George W. Bush today signed S. 1104, a measure to increase the number of special immigrant visas allotted to Iraqi and Afghan nationals who have served for at least a year as an interpreter or translator for the U.S. armed forces or embassies in Iraq and Afghanistan. Sen. Dick Lugar originally introduced the measure in the Senate with Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-MA).  
   Because of their service to the United States, many interpreters and translators are in mortal danger in Iraq and Afghanistan. Under the previous program, only 50 translators per year could be admitted, creating a 10 year backlog. The measure signed today authorizes 500 visas per year for fiscal years 2007 and 2008. It also authorizes the State Department to recommend interpreters for admission to the U.S. 
   "Foreign nationals who are willing to risk their lives to support our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan deserve recognition," Lugar said. "I was originally alerted to the need for this legislation last July when members of the Indiana National Guard contacted me about the brave interpreters with whom they had worked. I then wrote to the Secretary of State about the issue, encouraging her to develop a policy to address these various situations." 
   "Our military personnel, aid workers and diplomats would be unable to function without these interpreters at their sides. They deserve the special recognition this legislation allows and many need the safety it will provide for them and their families." 
   "In addition, I was pleased to learn that the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of State have worked out the necessary security protocols and procedures that will enable these individuals to come to the United States and that the Department of State is expanding its offices in Jordan and Syria to process cases. Those new procedures and offices are necessary to process applicants who have proven remarkable in their service to the U.S. mission," Lugar added.
 
 