INDIANA EXCHANGE STUDENTS PARTICIPATE IN CULTURAL BRIDGES RECEPTION
  Sen. Dick Lugar yesterday spoke to more than 250 high school students from predominantly Muslim countries, including seven students who spent the last year living with Hoosier host families and attending Indiana high schools. The students are participants in the Youth Exchange and Study (YES) Program administered by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs at the State Department, which brought nearly 670 high school aged students from 25 countries in the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia to the U.S. in 2005-2006 school year.  
   The participants are concluding their exchange year with a week in Washington, DC, and attended a special Cultural Bridges reception hosted by Lugar and Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-MA) on Wednesday, June 14. After September 11, 2001, Lugar and Kennedy introduced legislation to establish the Cultural Bridges program and provide scholarships for high school students from countries with significant Muslim populations. The State Department established the YES program in October 2002 as a result. 
   Lugar congratulated the students on their accomplishments and advised them to use their experiences in the U.S. to make a positive contribution in their home countries. "I hope from this experience that you may have an idea of how you will make a difference in your community," Lugar said. "We have a sense of the future, and the future is you." 
   Students live with host families, attend high school, engage in activities to learn about American society and values, acquire leadership skills, and help educate Americans about their home countries and cultures. 
   Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs Dina Powell also attended the reception. 
   YES students attending the reception, who spent the year in Indiana included: 
   Faisal Ahmad from Kuwait was hosted by a family in Greenfield; Qais Ahmad from Jordan was hosted by a family in Municie and attended Southside High School; Adel Al-Fareh from Yemen was hosted by a family in Bloomington and attended Bloomington South High School; Mohammad Khattak from Pakistan was hosted by a family in Anderson; Mohammad Hawili from Lebanon was hosted by a family in Indianapolis and attended Perry Meridian High School; Rosene Salmo from Iraq was hosted by a family in Bloomington; Talib Talib from Iraq was hosted by a family in Bloomington.
 
 