SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES CLIMATE CHANGE RESOLUTION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today joined with Committee Ranking Member Sen. Joe Biden (D-DE) to introduce the Lugar-Biden Climate Change Resolution, which calls for U.S. participation in international climate change agreements. 
   Lugar and Biden introduced the resolution as they endorsed a major new report by the Pew Center on Climate Change calling for new and more flexible approaches to address climate change. 
   "It's critical that the international dialogue on climate change and American participation in those discussions move beyond the disputes over the Kyoto Protocols," Lugar said. "This is what Pew sought to do by bringing together an impressive group of experts and representatives from a number of countries and international business." 
   Staff from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee also participated in the Pew dialogues. 
   "The flexible roadmap developed in this report provides us with a way to seek a number of complementary international strategies that are more than just a 'one-size-fits-all' approach," Lugar said. "The United States has to reduce its over-reliance on high-carbon petroleum products, not only to address climate change and reduce pollution, but we also have to face the national security challenges that reliance creates. Tomorrow, the Foreign Relations Committee is holding a hearing on these national security challenges. Oil is the new currency in foreign policy." 
   Lugar is pushing for the greater use of cellulosic ethanol as a transportation fuel. 
   "In addition to providing American foreign policy with more room to maneuver in the world, cellulosic ethanol emits far fewer greenhouse gases than oil," Lugar said. "I'm also optimistic about the development of a market in the trading of carbon credits, and the potential of farmers and foresters to gain both by the production of cellulosic ethanol and in sequestering carbon." 
   In addition to calling for new international discussions on climate change, the Lugar-Biden Climate Change Resolution proposes an official Senate Observer Group to ensure bipartisan Senate support for any new agreements. 
   "President Reagan had the foresight 20 years ago to establish an official Senate observer team to follow arms control negotiations," Lugar explained. "That is the way to build bipartisan support in the Senate for major international issues like climate change." 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose, in a time of relatively low fuel prices. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. Lugar also has co-authored and supported legislation to dramatically increase the use of renewable fuels in all U.S. vehicles. 
   For more information, read "The New Petroleum" at http://lugar.senate.gov/new_petroleum.html.
 
 