SEN. LUGAR PAYS TRIBUTE TO PREMATURITY AWARENESS DAY
  Sen. Dick Lugar today joins in acknowledging November 15 as Prematurity Awareness Day and efforts to curb the growing number of premature births. The event is part of a five-year plan launched in 2003 by the March of Dimes to use the combined power of awareness, education and research to significantly decrease the number of premature births in the United States.  
   "The rise in the number of premature births throughout the country and Indiana, despite all of our achievements in medicine, is astounding. Nationally, more than 480,000 babies were born preterm in 2002. Nearly 13 percent of Indiana's infants are born preterm and in half of the cases, doctors cannot identify the cause," noted Lugar. 
   Many preterm infants suffer lifelong health problems such as cerebral palsy, mental retardation, chronic lung disease, and vision and hearing loss. Reducing the number of premature births would improve the health of hundreds of thousands of infants born each year. 
   The financial cost of caring for preterm infants is also significant. The March of Dimes estimates that the national hospital bill for infants with a diagnosis of prematurity/low birth weight was $15.5 billion in 2002. 
   To expand and coordinate research on the prevention of preterm birth and the most effective care for preterm babies, Lugar co-sponsored the Prematurity Research and Expansion and Education for Mothers Who Deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Act. Lugar co-sponsored similar legislation in the 108th Congress. 
   The goals of the PREEMIE Act are to reduce preterm labor and delivery, promote evidence-based care for pregnant women at risk of preterm labor and for infants born preterm and reduce infant mortality and disabilities cause by prematurity. This legislation is supported by the March of Dimes, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the Association of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses, among others. 
   "This bill has the potential to make a real difference in the lives of many people," said Lugar. 
   Prematurity Awareness Month activities and Prematurity Awareness Day activities across Indiana include pink and blue lights on buildings and in parks, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit tours, conferences for health professionals and volunteers, rallies, and candlelight vigils. 
   The March of Dimes has designated the month of November as Prematurity Awareness month to draw national attention to the effects of preterm birth. More information is available at http://www.marchofdimes.com/ or the Indiana Chapter at 1-800-844-9255. 
   Lugar and his wife Char have been long-time advocates of the March of Dimes. Mrs. Lugar, a former member of the national board of directors of the March of Dimes, established an endowed fund for fighting birth defects and infant deaths. The fund includes support for prenatal care provided aboard the "Mom-mobile," which tours Indianapolis neighborhoods.
 
 