SENATE PASSES UN CONVENTION AGAINST CORRUPTION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar announced final Senate passage this afternoon of the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. The Convention was signed by the United States in December 2003 and transmitted to the Senate for advice and consent in October 2005. Sen. Lugar chaired a hearing on the Convention on June 21, 2006, and the Foreign Relations Committee passed it on August 1.  
   "Fundamental U.S. national security interests demand that the United States work hard to establish a global climate of intolerance for corruption and bribery. Ratifying this Convention is an essential element in that campaign," said Lugar. 
   The United Nations Convention Against Corruption obliges parties to take measures designed to prevent corruption, criminalize bribery and other corruption-related offenses, cooperate in the investigation and prosecution of such offenses, and adopt procedures to recover assets stolen by corrupt officials. The Convention also improves the tools through which law enforcement agencies can investigate and prosecute money laundering, which can and has been used to fund terrorism. 
   "The United States has a strong national security interest in opposing corruption and bribery worldwide. For example, we want to prevent foreign officials from accepting bribes that might lead to a dangerous container being allowed onto a ship bound for our shores. We want to prevent bribes that might help a criminal or terrorist gain access to our country. And we want to prevent bribes that might provide terrorists with access to nuclear material, chemical and biological weapons, MANPADS, or other dangerous items," said Lugar. 
   By requiring parties to strengthen their anti-corruption efforts, the Convention will help level the playing field for U.S. companies, which are already prohibited by U.S. law from bribing foreign officials. The Convention will also provide mechanisms to assist U.S. law enforcement in obtaining overseas evidence and suspects in domestic corruption-related cases. The Administration has indicated that U.S. law already complies with the obligations of this treaty, with no need for further legislation. 
   "The U.S. Departments of State and Justice worked closely with the Foreign Relations Committee to build a consensus for Senate passage. I appreciate the strong support of Secretary Rice and Attorney General Gonzalez, and I commend the officials who negotiated a treaty that will benefit both American national security and economic interests. I also appreciate the insightful advocacy on behalf of the Convention by Transparency International and the National Foreign Trade Council." 
   The Convention entered into force on December 15, 2005. The United States will now join 64 nations who are parties to the Convention. About 80 countries have signed, but not yet ratified the Convention. The first conference of the parties is scheduled for December 2006.
 
 