SEN. LUGAR COMMENDS LIABILITY AGREEMENT WITH RUSSIA
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar released the following statement today: 
   "I commend the efforts of President Bush and Secretary Rice in concluding a liability protocol with Russia on the disposition of 34 metric tons of plutonium in both the United States and Russia. Previous failure to reach agreement on liability had led to delays in efforts to eliminate enough weapons-grade material for more than 16,000 nuclear weapons. 
   "Russia has 134 metric tons of dangerous plutonium that is not currently covered by any cooperative threat reduction program. The signing of the liability protocol will allow the U.S. and Russia to begin work on identifying the process that will be used to accomplish the goals outlined and agreed to in the 2000 U.S.-Russian Plutonium Disposition Agreement. 
   "While important work remains, the signing of this protocol represents a significant step forward in cooperation on plutonium disposition and a whole range of nonproliferation, security and defense issues." 
   The Department of Energy Plutonium Disposition Program works closely with the Nunn-Lugar program. In November 1991, Senator Lugar (R-IN) and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA) authored the Nunn-Lugar Act, which established the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. This program has provided U.S. funding and expertise to help the former Soviet Union safeguard and dismantle its enormous stockpiles of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, related materials, and delivery systems. 
   The Nunn-Lugar program has deactivated nearly 7,000 nuclear warhead and thousands of missiles systems that would have delivered these bombs. The Nunn-Lugar program secures and destroys chemical weapons and works to reemploy scientists and facilities related to biological weapons in peaceful research initiatives. 
   The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. 
   Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. They otherwise would be the world's third, fourth and eighth largest nuclear weapons powers, respectively. 
   On the web: 
  Nunn-Lugar Program: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/
 
 