SEN. LUGAR COMMENDS CLIMATE CHANGE STUDY
  Sen. Dick Lugar commended the Military Advisory Board on today's release of the study, "National Security and the Threat of Climate Change." The study highlights the potential national security challenges of climate change.  
   "To adequately prepare our security and diplomatic forces for future threats, we need to understand how climate change might be a source of conflict and instability. We also must ensure that our security infrastructure can adapt to new circumstances, a component of which will require use of new fuels." Lugar said. "Leadership by the military is critical to making progress to reduce our oil dependence and mitigate the impacts of climate change." 
   The Military Advisory Board members come from all branches of the armed services. The board includes a former Army chief of staff, commanders-in-chiefs of U.S. forces in global regions and a former shuttle astronaut and NASA administrator. They were supported in the report by the CNA Corporation, a nonprofit research and analysis organization. The study effort brought together eleven retired four-star and three-star admirals and generals to provide advice, expertise and perspective on the impact of climate change on national security. 
   On March 13, 2006, Senator Lugar said the following in a speech at The Brookings Institution, "The threat of climate change has been made worse by inefficient and unclean use of non-renewable energy. In the long run this could bring drought, famine, disease, and mass migration, all of which could lead to conflict and instability. There are no unilateral solutions to climate change. I have urged the Bush Administration and my colleagues in Congress to return to a leadership role on the issue of climate change. I have advocated that the United States must be open to multi-lateral forums that attempt to achieve global solutions to the problem of greenhouse gases." 
   Lugar has been supportive of the alternative energy research at the Department of Defense, such as a successful test flight a U.S. Air Force B-52 bomber in December 2006. Lugar has also secured funding for energy research at Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center and IUPUI. 
   With Senator Joe Biden (D-DE), Senator Lugar introduced S.Res.30, approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee last month, calling for the Bush Administration to re-engage in international climate change negotiations. Senator Lugar also has co-sponsored the "Global Climate Change Security Oversight Act."
 
 