U.S. TO PARTICIPATE IN INTERNATIONAL DISEASE READINESS CENTER
  The United States Congress has approved legislation supporting U.S. participation in the Regional Emerging Disease Intervention (REDI) Center in Singapore. "This new regional multinational organization will focus on disease surveillance and bioterrorism concerns and will play an important role in responding to the avian flu," Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar said.  
   The REDI Center was established by Singapore as a response to the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak in 2003. The organization facilitates "the international exchange of information and expertise on the surveillance, prevention, and control of, and research on communicable and non-communicable diseases, and on bioterrorism concerns," according to the memorandum of understanding between Singapore and the United States signed in October 2003. 
   Its public health programs have increased in importance with the emergence and spread of the avian flu. Its activities include: 
   * Training public health researchers, laboratory workers, and doctors and nurses in surveillance, safety techniques and rapid response to outbreaks of disease. Training also includes research methodology, laboratory diagnosis and safety and regulatory practices; 
   * Acting as a catalyst for regional research collaboration in infectious diseases, including the genomic sequencing of the avian influenza virus; 
   * A demonstration project in Indonesia on control of avian influenza; 
   * An assessment and training program for hospital workers in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos; 
   * Developing a roster of experts from throughout the Asian region who could be deployed internationally in the event of a natural disaster or public health emergency. 
   "The Center is still small with a budget of under $1 million. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services would like to make greater use of the Center as a regional outpost for the CDC, NIH and other U.S. public health related activities in Asia and is actively recruiting an American director for the Center," Lugar said. 
   At a November 9 Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the avian flu, Lugar said: 
   "I am pleased that the Administration last week issued its long-awaited national pandemic plan. However, I am concerned that up to that point, the Administration response to avian influenza had been underfunded and behind schedule. Five years have passed since the GAO recommended that the Department of Health and Human Services complete the national pandemic plan. It has been nearly a year since Tommy Thompson, as departing Secretary of HHS, expressed "grave concern" about avian influenza. Other countries, such as Canada and Japan, seem to be much farther along in their preparation and have had national plans in place for some time. 
   "The President must make clear who is in charge of mobilizing government preparedness efforts, and he must give that person his vocal and sustained support. The President will find many willing partners in Congress for this endeavor. 
   "With no plan forthcoming, in February, Senator Obama and I added $25 million to the State Department authorization bill for an avian influenza initiative. In June, we co-authored an article in the New York Times calling for the government to promptly take a leadership role. The Foreign Relations Committee staff has met with an array of experts, including Dr. Margaret Chan, the World Health Organization's lead pandemic official, and I have written to HHS Secretary Mike Leavitt asking for updates. Along with 8 other Senators, I co-sponsored Senator Obama's pandemic legislation, S. 969, one of several bills attempting to strengthen our response to the threat of avian influenza. 
   "In September, still lacking a final plan from the Administration, the Senate voted to add $3.9 billion for civilian pandemic preparedness to the Defense Department appropriations bill. Two weeks ago, to ensure that pandemic preparedness funds do not get sidetracked by procedural disputes, the Senate added $7.9 billion to the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill - more than the $7.1 billion the administration said last week it would request. 
   "The pandemic threat is a problem of many dimensions that will require coordination between many government agencies. Are the countries of Southeast Asia sufficiently equipped and motivated to stamp out the bird flu among their poultry populations, which could reduce the chances that the virus will mutate into a human pandemic form? We will need to know as soon as possible when the virus becomes easily transmissible between people. Do countries such as China, Burma, and Laos have reliable, country-wide disease reporting systems and laboratory facilities to make prompt diagnoses? How can we assist in this process? 
   "If a human outbreak is detected, will it be feasible to contain it in a small area for a sufficient period of time to allow the rest of the world to take protective measures? What arrangements, if any, have been made for the international sharing of scarce anti-viral drugs and the new, still unproven H5 N1 vaccine? The administration's proposal does not appear to allocate much money for preventing or stopping pandemic influenza at its source, which, as Dr. Donald Burke of Johns Hopkins University noted in an article last week, would be much more cost-effective than waiting until it gets to our shores. 
   "If the pandemic does reach the United States, how much medicine and vaccine will be available? Who will get priority and how will these vaccines and treatments be physically distributed? What steps will the government take to restrict the spread of the disease? Banning international travel, closing schools, canceling all public events, or declaring a national stay-at-home holiday period are among measures suggested by experts. If many thousands of people in a metropolitan area become very ill with flu over a short period of time, as some fear, how will hospitals and emergency rooms handle the overwhelming surge of patients? 
   "In 2003, a SARS outbreak in Southeast Asia killed 800 people, a relatively small number compared to the casualties expected in a flu pandemic. Nevertheless, SARS caused great fear and a sharp economic downturn in several Asian nations. Are American businesses prepared if a large number of workers and customers don't show up for an extended period? Will workers be able or willing to keep transportation, electricity, phone, and water systems operating and supermarkets stocked? In this era of globalization, how will international trade be affected? Have the many businesses that rely on regular deliveries of materials from overseas or elsewhere made plans for possible supply-chain disruptions?"
 
 