SEN. LUGAR SIGNALS THAT LONG TREK ON AGOA MAY BE NEAR COMPLETION, PRAISES PROGRESS ON AFRICAN TRADE BILL
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today praised House of Representatives passage of the third installment of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA III), and called on the Senate to quickly do the same. 
   "Given the concerns in the Senate about the possibility of considering and passing the third installment of the African Growth and Opportunity Act legislation, I was encouraged to see that the House passed AGOA III by voice vote," said Lugar. "I urge the Senate to quickly accept identical legislation."
   In November of last year, Lugar introduced S. 1900, the third installment of the AGOA legislation, which has been a tremendous success. S.1900 extends the third country fabric provision, which expires in September, until 2008. It also extends overall AGOA benefits until 2015 and provides new benefits including technical assistance, investment incentives, and links in the fields of transportation and infrastructure.
   In an effort to generate support for S.1900, Lugar has sent out Dear Colleague letters highlighting the benefits of and seeking co-sponsors for the legislation. Currently, 11 senators are co-sponsors of the bill. He also held a reception featuring Bono, the lead singer of U2 and long time crusader for aid and trade to the African subcontinent. Key advocates of AGOA from the House were present. Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley and Ranking Member Max Baucus joined in expressing support for the AGOA III legislation.
   Lugar has met at length with the African Diplomatic Corps regarding the importance of the AGOA III legislation and the importance of building on the progress accomplished by the legislation so far. The Diplomatic Corps expressed their gratitude to Lugar on his leadership on AGOA since its inception and his efforts to ensure that AGOA receives timely renewal.
   "It is critical to continue to build upon the initial success begun under the original AGOA legislation and the AGOA II amendments by enacting AGOA III," said Lugar.
   Lugar indicated that he was pleased to hear that the Senate leadership, on a bi-partisan basis, is willing to adopt the House passed AGOA III bill by unanimous consent. He is hopeful that, realizing the importance of this legislation and the fact that the key third country fabric provision expires in September, Senators on both sides of the aisle will permit this legislation to proceed through the UC procedure without objection. He urges all of those who supported S.1900 to lend support to this legislation and to the efforts of Finance Committee Chairman Grassley and Ranking Member Baucus in securing timely passage.
 
 