SEN. LUGAR PRESENTS ENERGY PATRIOT AWARD TO GASAMERICA
  On Saturday, July 14, U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar presented the July 2007 Lugar Energy Patriot award to GasAmerica Services, Inc. at its Knightstown truck stop located at I-70 and State Road 109. Stephanie White, President and CEO, accepted the award on behalf of the Indiana-owned company which operates 90 locations throughout Indiana and Ohio. 
  "We are celebrating because this is the very first B10 pump in our state. My hope is that it marks the beginning of a movement to give Hoosiers more options at the pump," said Lugar. "The opening of this B10 pump as well as the recent addition of seven E85 pumps at GasAmerica locations is significant progress in furthering the availability of biofuels. 
  "There are now more than 90 E85 pumps in Indiana, hopefully with more to come." 
  In late-April, GasAmerica began carrying B10, a blend of 10 percent biodiesel and 90 percent No. 2 diesel - making it the first truck stop to offer soy biodiesel to truck drivers traveling Indiana's interstates.
  "GasAmerica is an Indiana company that has embraced biofuels, offering their customers a choice of E85 for flex-fuel vehicles, biodiesel for diesel vehicles and gasoline blended ethanol for standard gasoline vehicles. The Knightstown truck stop is one more step in their path to providing another customer base a choice. We commend them on their continued entrepreneurial spirit," said Kellie Walsh, the inaugural Lugar Energy Patriot, and current Executive Director of Central Indiana Clean Cities Alliance, a not-for-profit organization that assists member companies with implementation and use of alternative fuels. 
  The Energy Patriot award is part of an ongoing effort by Lugar to recognize professionals, scholars, students or businesses that demonstrate leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign energy sources. 
  An editorial profile of GasAmerica is below and may be published in its entirety. A photo of Lugar and Stephanie White at the Knightstown truck stop is also available at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/energy/links/patriot/.
  For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on oil. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil and provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
  Additionally, the recent energy bill passed by the Senate includes major provisions initiated by Lugar. For more information, read "Senate Approves Energy Bill: Includes Several Lugar Initiatives" at http://lugar.senate.gov/press/record.cfm?id=277560&&year=2007&.
  PROFILE OF A PATRIOT
  Each month, Senator Lugar profiles a student, professional, scholar, or business that has demonstrated leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. 
  GASAMERICA SERVICES, INC. 
  For more than 90 years, GasAmerica has been making fuel and food convenient for Hoosiers. Today, they're giving customers even greater choice by offering biofuels including E85, a blend of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline, and B10, a blend of 10 percent biodiesel from soybeans and 90 percent diesel, at stations throughout Indiana and Ohio.
  Herbert White opened White Petroleum in 1916 with a plant and a delivery truck and three years later added his first gasoline station in Shirley, Indiana. In 1983, his grandson, Richard White, reincorporated the 27-station company as GasAmerica Services, Inc., and today Herbert Whites' great-grandchildren Stephanie and Keith oversee the Indiana-owned company. 
  From the current headquarters in Greenfield, President and CEO Stephanie White coordinates the operation of 90 stations throughout Indiana and Ohio, including the recent addition of seven E85 pumps in Indiana and the first truck stop in Indiana to sell B10 biodiesel to interstate drivers. 
  "GasAmerica is an Indiana company that has embraced biofuels, offering their customers a choice of E85 for flex-fuel vehicles, biodiesel for diesel vehicles and gasoline blended ethanol for standard gasoline vehicles. The Knightstown truck stop is one more step in their path to providing another customer base a choice. We commend them on their continued entrepreneurial spirit," said Kellie Walsh, the inaugural Lugar Energy Patriot, and current Executive Director of Central Indiana Clean Cities Alliance, a not-for-profit organization that assists member companies with implementation and use of alternative fuels. 
  While the E85 and B10 pumps are new additions to GasAmerica locations, the company has been blending ethanol into gasoline (E10) for more than 20 years. 
  "Ethanol has been and will continue to be an important part of our product mix. We believe it's important to retain a reliable supply which helps spread our risk. Ethanol is a vital part of our products," said Stephanie White. 
  While E85 is currently less than 10 percent of total fuel sales, Jim Gentry, Fuel Manager for GasAmerica, views biofuels as an important step in reducing U.S. dependence on foreign oil and is optimistic about future sales. Along with Stephanie White, he continues to look for market signals and demand from customers as GasAmerica evaluates the potential for E85 pumps at new and existing locations. 
  In the meantime, using their website, www.gasamerica.com, and in-store brochures, GasAmerica is educating its loyal customer base on the economic and environmental impact of biofuels as well as its effectiveness as a fuel source. In May 2007, GasAmerica advertised its fuel offerings for the first time ever in a television commercial featuring Indy Racing League (IRL) driver Jeff Simmons. As a 100 percent ethanol-fueled racing league, the IRL is a fitting compliment to the GasAmerica family. 
  In late-April of this year, the GasAmerica Knightstown truck stop became the first in Indiana to sell B10 biodiesel to interstate drivers. Distributed by Integrity Biofuels in nearby Morristown, Indiana, the fuel represents unique partnerships for Indiana companies to lead the energy industry and potential for economic growth for the state. 
  GasAmerica plans large signage along I-70 to attract truck drivers to the new B10 pump and additional pumps to accommodate interstate demand. 
  Like their motto, "That's Convenience," GasAmerica is helping biofuels become convenient for Hoosiers by offering E85 and biodiesel to Indiana drivers. 
  "It's good for economy, good for environment and good for the state," said Stephanie White.
  Senator Lugar agrees. That is why we congratulate GasAmerica on being our July 2007 Lugar Energy Patriot.
  Locate your nearest GasAmerica E85 pump at: http://www.gasamerica.com/storelocator.asp.
 
 