SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON NAMING PAUL WOLFOWITZ TO HEAD WORLD BANK
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar made the following statement on the naming of Paul Wolfowitz to head the World Bank. Lugar spoke this morning to Wolfowitz and Treasury Secretary John Snow.  
   "I strongly support the nomination of Paul Wolfowitz to be President of the World Bank. I have appreciated opportunities to work with Paul Wolfowitz since he and Rich Armitage were the nucleus of a Reagan Administration team advising the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the Philippines. Paul Wolfowitz was Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs and Rich Armitage was Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs. Their testimony was instrumental in my understanding of political trends in the Philippines and my subsequent participation in leading a United States election observer group at the request of President Reagan in February of 1986. 
   "I noted the same astute judgment and extraordinary political and economic counsel when I visited with Paul Wolfowitz during his tenure as United States Ambassador to Indonesia. He exemplified remarkable vision in forwarding the interest of the United States and Indonesia as our country became much more involved in substantial economic and political development in countries that needed capital and technical expertise. 
   "In recent years, his leadership in academia and in defense and security policy has been principled and outspoken. He has always responded to invitations of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to testify even during the most controversial times of his advocacy and service. In recent months, the Foreign Relations Committee has held hearings on the activities of international banking institutions and has found substantial reason for these institutions to institute reforms comprehensively and promptly. Frequently, the World Bank has taken reform leadership to strengthen its own procedures and to offer examples of how other international institutions might bring more transparency and more effectiveness in fighting the effects of poor decision-making and corruption. 
   "I look forward to the leadership of Paul Wolfowitz at the World Bank. I am confident that he will bring integrity, intelligence, creativity and vigor to this vital responsibility."
 
 