SENATE PASSES POLAND YOUTH EXCHANGE BILL
  The U.S. Senate approved legislation to establish a United States-Poland Parliamentary Youth Exchange Program last night. U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar introduced the bill, S.377, that would establish a program for American and Polish youth. 
   Action by the House of Representatives is required for the bill to proceed toward becoming law.  
   "An exchange between the youth of the United States and Poland would demonstrate the benefits of friendly cooperation between our nations based on common political and cultural values. I urge my colleagues in the House of Representatives to take up this bill to strengthen long-lasting ties between both countries," said Lugar. 
   "As a Rhodes Scholar, I had the opportunity to discover international education at Pembroke College - my first trip outside of the United States. The parameters of my imagination expanded enormously during this time, as I gained a sense of how large the world was, how many talented people there were, and how many opportunities one could embrace. Student exchange programs do more than benefit individual scholars and advance human knowledge. Such programs expand ties between nations, improve international commerce, encourage cooperative solutions to global problems, prevent war, and give participants a chance to develop a sense of global service and responsibility," said Lugar. 
   "Funding a great foreign exchange program is a sign of both national pride and national humility. Implicit in such a program is the view that people from other nations view one's country and educational system as a beacon of knowledge - as a place where international scholars would want to study and live. But it is also an admission that a nation does not have all the answers - that our national understanding of the world is incomplete. It is an admission that we are just a part of a much larger world that has intellectual, scientific and moral wisdom that we need to learn. 
   "The United States and Poland have enjoyed close bilateral relations since the end of the Cold War. Most recently, Poland has been a strong supporter of efforts led by the United States to combat global terrorism, and has contributed troops to and led coalitions in both Afghanistan and Iraq. Poland also cooperates closely with the United States on such issues as democratization, human rights, regional cooperation in Eastern Europe, and reform of the United Nations. As a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union (EU), Poland has demonstrated its commitment to democratic values and is a role model in its region. 
   The youth exchange bill passed the Senate in September 2006 by unanimous consent; the House did not complete action on the bill prior to adjournment of the 109th Congress. Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN) was the lead sponsor in the House of Representatives and plans to introduce the bill again in the 110th Congress. 
   Lugar also authored the legislation that established the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange, which provides 250 full scholarships annually for American high school students to live with a host family and attend school in Germany for a year. 
   In addition to S.377, the Senate passed Lugar's bill, S.494, that endorses further enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and would facilitate the timely admission of new members to NATO. The House passed a similar version of the bill on March 6; a technical difference must be resolved between the bills before it can become law. 
   Lugar is also an original cosponsor of S.676, which was approved by the Senate yesterday to provide that the Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank or the Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank may serve on the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation.
 
 