SEN. LUGAR SECURES FUNDS FOR FORT WAYNE
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the City of Fort Wayne will receive $5 million for the Institute for Converging Orthopedic Biomaterials Research (ICOR) and $150,000 for Crossroads Youth Home as part of the Science, State, Commerce, Justice and Related Agencies Conference Report that passed the Senate today. The bill now heads to the President for his signature.  
   The funds will assist the City in the completion of the next phase of the Northern Indiana Innovation Center and result in new businesses in orthopedic devices. ICOR will be a part of the Northern Indiana Innovation Center, which helped to develop a biomedical research center and business incubation facility. 
   ICOR will capitalize on the Northeast Indiana specialty in orthopedic biomaterials and the convergence of industry leaders in the region. Drawing upon these capabilities, ICOR seeks to continue to develop a best-in-class applied development and prototyping lab and research center dedicated to the commercialization, product/process optimization and convergence of advanced materials technologies focused on orthopedic biomaterials. In addition, ICOR will help to strengthen existing industry players into new markets and products, attracting public and private investment and developing related technologies. 
   The bill also provides $150,000 for the Interdependent Living Program (ILP) facilitated by Crossroads Youth Home in Fort Wayne. Crossroads is a permanent home for at-risk youth through age 18. 
   ILP serves young adults who are enrolled in the residential program and preparing for life outside of a group home environment. The program will lay a foundation for successfully transitioning youth from a structured environment with built-in support systems into their communities and schools. ILP is designed to improve the success rates of transition and lower the chances of re-entry into residential treatment or foster care. 
   The concept of the program is to teach all aspects of independent living including: money management, food preparation, finding employment, interviewing and resume writing, purchasing and maintaining a vehicle, obtaining a drivers license, applying for college, completing financial aid forms establishing and maintaining good credit, budgeting, locating housing, and other essential aspects of becoming self-sufficient. Crossroads staff will help develop an individualized success plan and educate residents on career opportunities, financial advice and educational opportunities.
 
 