SEN. LUGAR SECURES $200,000 FOR IPD
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Indianapolis Police Department will receive $200,000 as part of the Science, State, Commerce, Justice and Related Agencies Conference Report that passed the Senate today. The funds will be used to help expand the wireless network, convert to a digital camera system and purchase ballistic threat body armor. The bill now heads to the President for his signature.  
   The funds will continue improvements made by IPD to ensure that field officers remain safe. In 2004, IPD officers were involved in a high powered rifle ambush that resulted in the death of one officer and serious injury to four others. The ballistic threat body armor provided in the bill is rifle retardant, worn over the regular uniform, covers more of the body including upper arms, neck, sides, and groin area, and has a chest plate that covers vital organs. 
   The technological improvements to expand the wireless connection, upgrade digital photo technology, and move the department toward a paperless electronic system will enhance upgrades currently underway. 
   The bill also provided $340,000 in funds for state methamphetamine programs. The Indiana State Police will receive $300,000 for a statewide forensic science project to train faculty and students at universities across the state in standard curriculum and lab procedures. The partnership will help alleviate the strain on state police resources in order to process drug cases more quickly. 
   There is currently an 8,500 case backlog at the Indiana State Police laboratory, and approximately 20 percent are meth cases. 
   The Indiana Department of Correction will receive $40,000 to develop methamphetamine treatment units at nine facilities. These treatment units will engage offenders in therapeutic activities 15 hours per day, seven days per week. These units will assist offenders in recovery of methamphetamine and drug addiction and teach the social and cognitive skills required to stay drug free.
 
 