SEN. LUGAR SECURES FUNDS FOR BALL STATE, DELAWARE COUNTY
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Ball State University will receive $1 million for the Bioenergetics Research Initiative as part of the Science, State, Commerce, Justice and Related Agencies Conference Report that passed the Senate today. The funds will be used to study the effect of microgravity on human performance during space travel, which also has applications for human skeletal muscle research and understanding the consequences of inactivity for general health. The bill now heads to the President for his signature. 
   The funding will allow the Human Performance Laboratory (HPL) at Ball State University to continue to conduct bioenergetics research in four main areas: 1) Skeletal Muscle Function with Spaceflight and Aging, 2) Clinical Exercise Physiology, 3) Metabolic Regulation of Skeletal Muscle, and 4) Pediatric Exercise. 
   Currently, HPL is testing American and Russian crewmembers' muscles before and after stays greater than six months aboard the international space station. HPL also is involved in ground-based studies using bed rest as a model to simulate spaceflight. The goal of these studies is to gain insight into the changes in human skeletal muscle with long-duration spaceflight. HPL is working to develop optimized exercise programs to protect the skeletal muscle and health of crewmembers. 
   In addition to its work with NASA, HPL is partially funded by the National Institute of Health (NIH) to investigate the impact of aging on skeletal muscle function. Similar to the NASA studies, HPL is engaged in resistance exercise paradigms in older men and women to determine the role that exercise plays in rehabilitating aging muscle. HPL is examining whole-body benefits along with the cellular triggers that may cause muscle wasting and growth, using an integrative biology approach. As a result, they are able to examine the positive role that exercise has on individuals from the "whole body to the gene" level. 
   The clinical issue of inactivity has serious health implications for individuals of all ages. 
   The bill also provides $200,000 for Delaware County to upgrade the existing 911 Communication System. The Delaware County Commissioners may use the funding to contribute to the cost of a second transmitter site, modernization of the command center equipment and software, radio upgrades utilizing the 800 MHz trunked radio system, and software upgrades for mobile data terminals. 
   Delaware County contains nine separate local law enforcements jurisdictions. There are 12 more agencies with local emergency response jurisdiction and responsibilities. Coordinating communication is critical for response time, deployment strategies and the safety of both responders and the public. Current system deficiencies affecting communication include 13 year old equipment, coverage gaps, frequency/channel capacities, analog-only equipment, and outdated controls at central dispatch. The impacts of system deficiencies include communication "dead spots," traffic overloads, limitations in the ability to create "talk groups" for individual scene response as well as major disaster/multiple jurisdictional events, and limitations in the ability to seamlessly communication between jurisdictions. 
   The upgrade is necessary to join Delaware County with the State of Indiana's 800MHz trunked system, also know as Hoosier Project SAFE-T.
 
 