SEN. LUGAR SECURES $340,000 FOR METH PROGRAMS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Indiana State Police and the Indiana Department of Corrections received funds for methamphetamine programs as part of the Science, State, Commerce, Justice and Related Agencies Conference Report that passed the Senate today. The bill now heads to the President for his signature.  
   The bill provides $300,000 for the Indiana State Police for a statewide forensic science project to train faculty and students at universities across the state in standard curriculum and lab procedures. The partnership will help alleviate the strain on state police resources in order to process drug cases more quickly. There is currently an 8,500 case backlog at the Indiana State Police laboratory, and approximately 20 percent are meth cases. 
   In 2004, 1549 meth labs were seized in Indiana and the State Police estimate law enforcement currently seizes an average of four meth labs a day. The joint effort will help alleviate the enormous strain on state police resources and to allow the State Police lab to dedicate its resources to processing meth cases. 
   Funding also may contribute to the cost of accreditation of higher education laboratories and may be used to provide financial support for student internships at state police labs to work on actual cases. An initial goal is to establish academic programs in the field of forensic science while giving faculty and students hands on experience and creating a permanent pipeline of Indiana graduates in the forensic science field who will stay and work in the state. 
   The bill also provides $40,000 to the Indiana Department of Correction to develop methamphetamine treatment units at nine facilities. These treatment units will engage offenders in therapeutic activities 15 hours per day, seven days per week. These units will assist offenders in recovery of methamphetamine and drug addiction and teach the social and cognitive skills required to stay drug free.
 
 