SEN. LUGAR JOINS VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT 5 STAR COUNCIL
  Sen. Dick Lugar today joined the Library of Congress' Veterans History Project 5 Star Council. Dr. James Billington, the Librarian of Congress, invited Lugar to join the Council because of his commitment to the Veterans History Project.  
   "Among the many Congressional members involved, Senator Lugar is by far the most energetic collector of veterans' stories in Congress, which means Indiana is by far the best represented state in the Library's Veterans History Project archive," Dr. Billington said. 
   The Five Star Council is a group of prominent leaders invited by the Librarian of Congress to advise the Veterans History Project and bring it increased visibility nationwide. Members include Reps. Steny Hoyer, Ron Kind, and Amo Houghton; Sens. John Kerry, Max Cleland, Bob Dole, Chuck Hagel, Daniel Inouye, Ted Stevens, and John Warner; and former broadcasters Walter Cronkite and Tom Brokaw. 
   Through his state-wide network, Lugar has submitted over 7,000 interviews, more than any other person. Lugar also has incorporated more than 235 partner organizations around the state to assist with veteran's interviews. AARP Indiana plays a major role in collecting these interviews in addition to libraries, schools and civic organizations throughout the state that turn the materials over to Lugar's office for submission to the Library of Congress. 
   Lugar also joined Dr. Billington and Ken Burns from Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) today at the Library of Congress to celebrate Burns' new documentary, "The War," about World War II and highlight the Veterans History Project. Burns will be in Indianapolis on April 18 at the request of WFYI, Indianapolis' public broadcasting station, to draw attention to the public outreach campaign between PBS and the Library touting the Veterans History Project and the need to collect interviews of aging veterans. 
   Lugar's office continues to accept requests from veterans for interviews by phone at 317-226-5555 or via email at vetproject@lugar.senate.gov. Interested veterans will be contacted to set up an interview appointment. Participants receive a certificate from Lugar acknowledging and thanking them for their willingness to take part in the project. 
   Lugar joined with the Library of Congress in February 2002. The histories submitted on behalf of Hoosier veterans will be permanently archived by the Library of Congress and over time will be available for research and study. 
   The Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, with more than 130 million items on approximately 530 miles of bookshelves. The collections include more than 29 million books and other printed materials, 2.7 million recordings, 12 million photographs, 4.8 million maps, 5 million music items and 58 million manuscripts.
 
 