SEN. LUGAR RECEIVES SPIRIT OF ENTERPRISE AWARD
  Sen. Dick Lugar was recognized today by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce with the Spirit of Enterprise award for his support of pro-business issues during the second session of the 109th Congress. 
   "Senator Lugar proved to be a valuable ally to the business community last year, supporting measures to stimulate job creation and spur economic growth," said Tom Donohue, Chamber President and CEO. "The business community is grateful for Senator Lugar's dedication to a pro-growth agenda and we are proud to present him with this award." 
   The Chamber awards the Spirit of Enterprise based on rankings it gives Members of Congress for key business votes. Key votes are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities by the Chamber's board of directors. Lugar scored 100 percent with the Chamber in 2006 and has compiled a 91 percent cumulative ranking during his tenure in Congress. 
   In the 110th Congress, Lugar has continued his pro-economic growth voting record by opposing the FY2008 Senate Budget Resolution because it did not provide a realistic framework for spending and would require tax increases of more than $700 billion. 
   Lugar also supports the extension of many of the current tax policies implemented in 2001 and 2003 that have been strengthening America's economy. Since the enactment of the 2003 tax bill, which lowered the capital gains rate, doubled the child tax credit, created the 10 percent tax bracket, and reduced the marginal tax rates for all taxpayers, 7.4 million jobs have been created. The U.S. economy has also added jobs for 41 continuous months and fiscal year 2006 tax receipts were $2.407 trillion, 11.8 percent higher than those in fiscal year 2005. 
   This is the nineteenth year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of Members of Congress who support a pro-business legislative agenda. Lugar is a past recipient of the Spirit of Enterprise award. 
   In 2006, Lugar received the "Small Business Champion" award from the Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council, the "Hero of the Taxpayer" award by the Americans for Tax Reform, and has repeatedly received the nonpartisan "Watchdog of the Treasury" award for fighting wasteful spending. 
   Lugar ranked first out of all members of Congress in the 106th and 107th Congresses in economic efficiency according to a study published in the Investor's Business Daily and completed by the Department of Economics at the University of Delaware.
 
 