SEN. LUGAR ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FLOOD AID FOR DECATUR
  The Federal Emergency Management Agency notified Sen. Dick Lugar today that $2,040,527 in Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) funds have been awarded to the Indiana Department of Homeland Security for a voluntary project to acquire flood damaged homes in the City of Decatur.  
   "This is good news for Decatur," Lugar said. "I commend Mayor Isch and the Indiana Department of Homeland Security for their hard work in preparing this winning application. Homeowners in Adams County have been waiting a long time for assistance." 
   Lugar wrote FEMA Acting Undersecretary R. David Paulison earlier this month urging timely consideration of the application. In his February 1 letter, Lugar wrote: 
   "Areas of Northeast Indiana experienced significant flooding damages in both July and September, 2003. The State of Indiana is applying for assistance to facilitate the relief and buy-out of residential structures located in floodways. An application for pre-disaster mitigation funding in 2003 was not approved. 
   "I commend our state officials, the Maumee River Basin Commission, and City of Decatur Mayor Fred Isch, for their creativity, diligence and commitment to seeking assistance for more than two years on behalf of these homeowners. Throughout my tenure in the Senate, I have supported the policies of the organization and voted for increased resources for FEMA. I support the State of Indiana in their efforts to prepare this application, and I hope you will give a timely and thorough examination to this worthwhile proposal." 
   The homes are located in the southeastern part of Decatur in the floodplain of St. Mary's River and were damaged in flooding that occurred in 2003, 2004 and 2005. Many homes were substantially damaged, meaning the cost to repair the homes was equal to or greater than 40 percent of the market value of the structures prior to the flood damage. The status of these structures as such requires that they either be bought out or elevated according to the City's participation in the National Flood Insurance Program, state law and the local floodplain ordinance. 
   Through a partnership of federal, state and local governments and land owners, the properties will be purchased at pre-disaster fair market value, the homes demolished and the area kept as open space in perpetuity.
 
 