SEN. LUGAR COMMUNITY CENTER PARTNERS WITH FORT WAYNE KOMETS TO SKATE AGAINST HUNGER
  The Lugar Community Service Center is partnering with Community Harvest Food Bank, Headwaters Park and the Fort Wayne Komets to host a food drive on Sunday, January 27. In exchange for a non-perishable food contribution, guests will receive one dollar off Sunday's admission to the ice rink in Headwaters Park located in downtown Fort Wayne from noon to 8 p.m. All food donations will benefit Community Harvest Food Bank. Guests may skate with the Komets from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
  "While food drives are popular during the holiday season, it is important to remember that hunger knows no season," said Lugar. "Community Harvest makes a difference in the lives of many people in Northeast Indiana all year long, and it depends on contributions from citizens to meet the needs of our community." 
  The Lugar Community Service Center is home to a permanent food barrel to collect donations for Community Harvest year round. In December, approximately 100 pounds of food were collected by volunteers and visitors to the community center. 
  A list of items needed by Community Harvest Food Bank is available at: http://www.communityharvest.org/food_drives1.htm.
  Community Harvest Food Bank of Northeast Indiana, Inc. was founded in 1983 with the goal of providing free and immediate food assistance to those in need. Over the last 25 years, Community Harvest has collected more than 60 million pounds of donated food and groceries and utilized 200,000 volunteer hours in area hunger relief. 
  Lugar has long supported hunger issues, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion. Federal funding for food banks, food stamps and nutrition programs would increase under the comprehensive farm bill reform introduced by Lugar. The Farm, Ranch, Equity, Stewardship and Health (FRESH) Act would end depression era federal crops subsidies that benefit only a few farmers and direct savings to assist more hungry Americans, expand access to healthy foods for children and consumers and assist conservation practices, renewable energy and rural development. More information is available at www.lugar.senate.gov/farmbill.
  In 2006, the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act authored by Lugar became law. The bill allows farmers and small business owners to receive a tax deduction for food products contributed to food banks, pantries, and homeless shelters for donations from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007. Previously, this deduction was available only to large corporations, not small businesses. In the current Congress, Lugar has introduced a bill to make this deduction a permanent part of the Internal Revenue Code.
  Lugar is also an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus, which provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the rest of our world.
  The Lugar Community Service Center is located in Covington Plaza at 6384-A West Jefferson Boulevard in Fort Wayne. Visit the Lugar Community Service Center website at http://lugar.senate.gov/contact/ne.cfm for more news and events. If you are interested in volunteering, please stop by or call (260) 422-1505.
 
 