SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON RUSSIAN SUSPENSION OF TREATY
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Ranking Member Dick Lugar made the following statement today regarding the announcement by Russia President Putin to suspend the Convention Armed Forces in Europe Treaty: 
  On May 28, 2007, Russia requested an Extraordinary Conference of States Parties to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe--the CFE Treaty--to discuss what Russia identified as "exceptional circumstances" that may lead it to suspend implementation of the treaty. On July 14, 2007, President Putin signed a decree "to suspend the Treaty." 
  President Putin's decision has tremendous implications for the security of Europe and for U.S.-Russian relations, and Russia's decision could lead to the potential unraveling of a treaty that has served as a cornerstone of European security since the end of the Cold War.
  In 1990, the CFE was conceived as a mechanism to reduce post-Cold-War arsenals of conventional weapons in Europe and has evolved into a stabilizing influence through its wide range of agreed verification measures. This Treaty should not be relegated to the dustbin of history. That is not in the interest of all European States, including Russia, nor of the United States.
  The CFE Treaty was originally designed to limit the possibility of a surprise attack on Europe, when the Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact still existed. It imposes numerical limits on major conventional military weapons-battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, artillery, combat aircraft, and attack helicopters-that can be deployed within Europe. These limits are verifiable through an extensive regime of inspections, transparency measures, and data exchanges. To be sure, since the Cold War ended, most countries, especially in central Europe, have reduced their levels of conventional weapons well below the limits specified by the Treaty. Nonetheless, the verification measures that continue in place to the present day provide a level of openness and predictability important to the continued stability of Europe.
  The "exceptional circumstances" cited in Russia's July 14 suspension decree are of Russia's own making, and Russia holds the key to their resolution. At the end of the last decade, the CFE Treaty was updated to reflect post-Cold-War realities in Europe. The Adapted CFE Treaty was signed in 1999 at Istanbul, Turkey; however, it has not entered into force. Ratification of the treaty by the United States and its NATO allies will not occur until Russia implements political commitments it made at the time of the treaty's signing.
  In 1999, Russia pledged that it would fully withdraw its forces from the territories of Georgia and Moldova, which were part of the former Soviet Union. One of the CFE Treaty's fundamental tenets is that a nation must give its consent for the stationing or deployment of foreign military forces on its territory. NATO nations have insisted that Russia live up to this fundamental principle and abide by its commitments. In the Senate, we have made clear to administration officials that we would give advice and consent to ratification of the Adapted CFE Treaty's provisions only when and if Russia satisfied these commitments.
  Russia has protested that its commitments regarding Georgia and Moldova were not related to the CFE Treaty. However, both the Georgian and Moldovan Governments have said repeatedly that they want Russian forces withdrawn from their territories. This has become a central issue in the CFE Treaty debate. Russia possesses the ability and the means to fulfill these commitments, needing only to close a single, largely abandoned Russian base in Georgia, and to withdraw a few hundred troops and an ammunition storage depot in Moldova. Russia has made progress in Georgia, but very little in Moldova since 2004.
  The United States and its NATO Allies believe that the Adapted CFE Treaty offers the best path toward ensuring a Europe united and at peace, one in which Russia honors its commitments. If this were to occur, then, and only then, would the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the United States Senate be likely to begin a careful, expeditious review leading to U.S. ratification of the Adapted CFE Treaty. But, given Russia's recent decision, that outcome is now much less likely.
 
 