SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES ENERGY SECURITY ACT
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar has introduced the Energy Diplomacy and Security Act (S. 2435), which "recognizes energy security to be a foremost concern for United States national security and would realign of our diplomatic priorities to meet energy security challenges." 
   Lugar announced the bill at a major energy policy speech on March 13. The text is available at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/energy/ or http://www.brookings.edu/comm/events/20060313.htm. This week, Lugar also co-sponsored the American Fuels Act (S. 2446), introduced by Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL).  
   "Energy issues pose a multitude of challenges for United States national security, foreign policy, economy, and environment. Meeting these challenges requires a rigorous and farsighted policy to move us toward a sustainable energy future, which will include international partnership. The bill calls upon the President to improve the focus and coordination of federal agency activities in international energy affairs. The bill further would ensure that concern for energy security is integrated into the State Department's core mission and activities, and to this end, it calls for the creation of a Coordinator for International Energy Affairs within the Office of the Secretary," Lugar (R-IN) said. 
   "The bill calls upon the Federal Government to expand international cooperation on energy issues. The bill seeks to enhance international preparedness for major disruptions in oil supplies. A particular priority is to offer a formal coordination agreement with China and India as they develop strategic petroleum reserves. This would help draw them into the international system, providing supply reassurance, and thereby reducing potential for conflict. The bill also calls for extension of petroleum supply disruption to developing nations, which are most vulnerable," Lugar continued. 
   "The bill would also stimulate regional partnerships in the Western Hemisphere. Most of our oil and virtually all of our gas imports come from this Hemisphere. The bill would create a Western Hemisphere Energy Forum modeled on the APEC energy working group. This would provide a badly-needed mechanism for hemispheric energy cooperation and consultation, and would promote private investment in the Hemisphere," Lugar said. 
   "Finally, the bill would enhance international partnerships with both major energy producing and consuming countries. We must engage major oil and natural gas producing countries. Not working with major oil and gas exporters will lead to unproductive political showdowns and conflict. Strategic energy partnerships with other major consuming countries are also crucial for our national security. Energy security is a priority we hold in common with other import dependent countries, and partnership with the world's largest consumers will increase leverage in relation to petro-states and speed our own conversion to sustainable energy sources. In addition to seeking new avenues of cooperation, the bill would give focus to existing bilateral energy dialogues, which have lacked clear objectives and political backing," Lugar said. 
   A decade ago, Lugar began pushing for a national biomass ethanol research program. Witnesses at Agriculture Committee hearings he chaired from 1996 to 1999 said this would be the most efficient method to produce ethanol. In 1999, Lugar and former CIA Director James Woolsey co-authored a seminal article that linked foreign policy and the high cost of securing foreign oil flowing to the United States with the development of homegrown ethanol derived from any form of cellulose ("The New Petroleum," Foreign Affairs). Lugar then authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. 
   In 2005, Lugar led 21 bipartisan Senators in introducing the Fuels Security Act to more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. This legislation laid the groundwork for the renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed Congress in July 2005. Lugar also joined with Sen. Evan Bayh in introducing the Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFVs) within ten years. FFVs can use both regular gasoline and E-85 renewable fuel (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content).
 
 