SEN. LUGAR SECURES FUNDING FOR OHIO RIVER PROJECT
  Sen. Dick Lugar last night voted to authorize funding for the Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission (ORSANCO) as part of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The legislation now heads to a conference with the House of Representatives.  
   "Given the millions of individuals, including Hoosiers, that rely on the river for drinking water, it is critical that the ODS system is fully functional to protect the quality of the river as a primary source of drinking water. With federal support, ORSANCO will be able to upgrade the aging ODS units, ensuring that pollutants will not go undetected," Lugar said. 
   Lugar met with Joseph H. Harrison of Evansville, one of three Indiana ORSANCO Commissioners, on March 22 to discuss the importance of modernizing this system. ORSANCO estimates that system modernization will cost $2.5 million. ORSANCO operates 9 Organic Detection System (ODS) Station locations including one in Evansville. The water plants along the Ohio River share information on water quality to mitigate the impact of potential pollutants in the water system. 
   Indiana has 358 miles of coastline on the Ohio River and 3,882,781 Hoosiers live in the watershed. Three cities in Indiana get their drinking water directly from the Ohio River: New Albany (population 35,000), Evansville (population 300,000) and Mt. Vernon (population 7,300). There are 56 municipal wastewater treatment plants in Indiana that treat water and discharge into the Ohio River, and there are 18 power plants in Indiana that rely on water from the Ohio River for operations. The Ohio River Basin is one of the most densely populated and industrialized regions of the country. More than 25 million people - nearly 10 percent of the population - live in the Ohio River Basin, and 5 million people rely on the Ohio River as a source for drinking water. 
   With assistance from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Ohio River ODS Replacement Project will provide real time daily monitoring of pollutants in the Ohio River and the necessary information for drinking water utilities to respond with appropriate treatments. With the much needed replacements and improvements to the existing ODS units, officials will be better equipped and prepared to detect contamination in the case of unreported pollution, catastrophic disaster or intentional damage to the river. Many of the ODS units have not been upgraded in more than 15 years and the equipment was designed to last 10 years. As the units age and their reliability diminishes, the ODS is increasingly unable to detect chemicals or trace the source of pollutants. 
   Chartered by Congress in 1936, ORSANCO is an interstate compact created in 1948 by eight states (Pennsylvania, Illinois, Kentucky, New York, Ohio, Indiana, Virginia, and West Virginia). ORSANCO's mission is to control existing and future pollution in the rivers, streams and waters in the Ohio River Basin within the eight states. Funds will be provided from the Ohio River Basin Environmental Management Program.
 
 