SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT CONCERNING BROWN VS. BOARD OF EDUCATION
  Sen. Dick Lugar issued the following statement marking today's 50th Anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision regarding Brown vs. Board of Education. 
   "Today marks the 50th anniversary of Brown vs. Board of Education, a U.S. Supreme Court landmark decision that sent shockwaves through the educational establishment. For the first time, the highest court in the country decided that "separate educational facilities are inherently unequal" and a violation of the 14th Amendment.  
   "Before Brown vs. Board of Education, Indianapolis Public Schools had been forced by state law to scrap separate black and white schools. That change, however, did not necessarily result in integrated classrooms. Segregated communities left most of our schools racially homogeneous. 
   "It was in this environment that I was elected to the Indianapolis Public School Board in 1964. Like much of the country, Indianapolis was experiencing the civil rights movement, and the Indianapolis Public Schools were in the middle of it all. 
   "Our meetings were picketed and protested, and citizens staged "sit-ins" at the downtown headquarters. The U.S. Supreme Court had ruled on May 17, 1954, that separate but equal could not stand; yet in the 10 years that followed, IPS had not done much to integrate its schools. 
   "To further the discussion, and to seek input on what would later become known as the Shortridge Plan; I held neighborhood meetings in school buildings around Indianapolis to discuss ideas for peacefully integrating the city schools. At one such meeting on the near Westside, participants literally picked up the furniture and threw it at each other. The police had to be called to restore order. 
   "Later, the Shortridge Plan was adopted by the Board, but not enthusiastically. Under the Shortridge Plan, IPS was to establish a college preparatory high school that would voluntarily draw the best and the brightest from all over Indianapolis, regardless of race. Some Board members, and the community at large, saw this step as far too disruptive. Those individuals felt that the School Board should not be involved in matters of race and sociology. 
   "The plan worked because young Hoosiers responded. Before the plan was implemented, Shortridge was 90% African American, 10% Caucasian. The racial makeup of the applicants to the first entering class under the new plan was astounding: 53% Caucasian, 47% African American. In a year, the school became a national example of how young African American and Caucasian students could through their own individual choices come together to learn and study. 
   "Unfortunately, in my second year of service on the Board, polarization set in. A majority of the Board no longer felt that we should be involved in questions of race. In an election for President of the Board, I lost 4-3. The issue of race, however, could not be avoided. Years later, the federal courts implemented an involuntary busing system that forced our schools to seek some racial balance. 
   "Brown vs. Board of Education set us, and the rest of the nation, on an important path. While the Court opinion outlawed the notion of "separate but equal," it persuaded us to address the larger issue of living together as one society. Brown v. Board of Education helped us to become a better nation. But we still have much work to do. 
   "Today, we face a different type of segregation, namely, the gap between those who receive a quality education and those who do not. The gap in reading achievement between blacks and whites is staggering - nationally, it's 28 percentage points at the 4th-grade level. The gap in reading achievement between Hispanics and whites is also alarming - nationally, 29 percentage points at the 4th-grade level. We are experiencing two education systems - separate and unequal. This is unacceptable. 
   "The federal government's first major entry into public education was in 1965 when the Elementary and Secondary Education Act was passed to provide federal aid to school districts with large percentages of children in poverty. The intent was to help level the playing field - to give extra aid to those children most in need. Despite a discretionary funding amount of $55.6 billion in fiscal year 2004, increased from $35.6 billion in 2000, achievement gaps have remained wide. 
   "To help close these gaps and to help ensure that all children have an equal opportunity to learn, Congress and the Administration worked together to pass the No Child Left Behind education reform act in 2002. 
   "Under No Child Left Behind, states must describe how they will close the achievement gap and make sure that all students, including those who are physically disadvantaged, achieve academic proficiency. In addition, they must produce annual state and school district report cards that inform parents and communities about state and school progress. Schools that do not make progress must provide supplemental services, such as free tutoring or after-school assistance. If corrective actions do not yield adequate progress after five years, schools must make dramatic changes in the management. 
   "The idea is not to establish federal control over the schools, but simply to push states and local school districts to take a hard look at each school's strong and weak points. 
   "In many schools, an overall high performance has often hidden a weak performance by some student sub-groups. Because of this dynamic, the act requires that each sub-group be reported separately. Overlooking the fact that only one in six African Americans graduate with proficient reading skills is simply not acceptable. 
   "Some have complained about the increased focus on school testing. But if we want each child to earn a meaningful high school degree, testing in lower grades is an important tool to reveal the strengths and weaknesses of each school. Testing allows schools to learn which students need help and what subjects must be taught better. 
   "We all have the same goal - to improve our schools. All students must have the opportunity to get ahead-regardless of race or residence. On May 17, 1954, the United States Supreme Court unanimously declared that separate but equal could not stand as the law of the land. It is our job - fifty years later - to make sure that we are faithful to this principle of equal opportunity. The success of all of our children and the economic future of our country depend on our determination."
 
 