SEN. DICK LUGAR'S FOOD AND AGRICULTURE RISK MANAGEMENT FOR FARM21 INTRODUCED IN SENATE
  Sen. Dick Lugar's Food and Agriculture Risk Management for the 21st Century Act (FARM 21) has been introduced in the U.S. Senate.  
   The bill, S. 1422, would end the current market and trade distorting farm subsidy system and replace it with a new system of risk management accounts and insurance tools managed by farmers. FARM 21 would direct savings into deficit reduction, nutrition programs, conservation efforts and renewable energy development. A copy of the bill, summary and other information can be found at http://lugar.senate.gov/farmbill.. 
   Lugar announced the bill last week. The House version will be introduced by U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Joseph Crowley (D-NY) and Dave Riechert (R-WA). 
   "Current Federal Farm Programs target payments to a relatively narrow sector of American farmers and provide direct payments regardless of commodity prices. The bulk of these payments are made to growers of just five crops. Cotton, rice, corn, wheat, and soybean farmers receive about 85 percent of the annual payments provided by U.S. taxpayers," said Lugar, an Indiana farmer and former chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. He is the first advocate for this taxpayer-friendly approach who sits on either the Senate or House Agriculture Committees. A growing list of outside humanitarian, conservation and taxpayer advocacy groups have endorsed the reform. 
   "The current farm subsidy system is inequitable, inefficient and disconnected from the core goal of maintaining a family farm safety net. It is also self-perpetuating, in that it stimulates over-production and stagnant prices that produce calls for greater government support," Lugar said. 
   "We need a true safety net that would embrace all farmers, avoid incentives to overproduce commodities when market signals do not exist, and lower costs for taxpayers." 
   "The reforms proposed today would make our farm and food policies as modern and entrepreneurial as our farmers, and at the same time, provide additional resources to America's hunger, energy and environmental needs. These changes will also bring our farm policies into compliance with our existing global treaty obligations and jump start current multilateral trade negotiations," Lugar said. 
   The plan would save $20 billion by 2012 and $55 billion by 2018. The savings over the next five years would be invested in: $5 billion for debt relief, $6 billion for conservation (a 33 percent increase in these programs), $6 billion for nutrition programs (a 4 percent increase these programs), and $3 billion for renewable energy (a 448 percent increase these programs). 
   More details on the Lugar farm bill can be found at: http://lugar.senate.gov/farmbill.
 
 