SEN. LUGAR CO-SPONSORS ?COVERING KIDS ACT OF 2005'
  Sen. Dick Lugar co-sponsored the "Covering Kids Act of 2005" introduced today in the Senate that seeks to increase health coverage among uninsured, low-income children. This bill would provide grants to states, faith-based organizations, safety net providers, schools, and other community and non-profit organizations to conduct innovative Medicaid and S-CHIP outreach and enrollment efforts. Grants may also be used to promote the understanding of the important role that health insurance coverage plays in ensuring quality health care for pregnant women and children.  
   "The Children's Health Insurance Program has been under used," said Lugar (R-IN). "I believe there would be greater participation if more people knew about the available insurance, and had information to identify those children eligible so their mother or father could be notified. This bill will help increase the number of needy who obtain essential health insurance coverage." 
   Currently, there are nearly 10 million children in the United States without health insurance coverage. Over half of these children live in families with incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty level and are eligible for coverage under either the State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP) or Medicaid, but are not enrolled in those safety net programs. Studies have shown that the families of many eligible children are not familiar with the availability of safety net coverage or face other barriers that prevent enrollment. 
   Specifically, the "Covering Kids Act of 2005" would appropriate $100 million dollars to already appropriated S-CHIP funds for additional outreach and enrollment efforts. Ten percent of grant funding would be set aside for grants to the Indian Health Service, tribal organizations and urban Indian programs for outreach and enrollment to Native American children. 
   This legislation requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to give priority to grantees that propose to target geographic areas with high numbers of children who are eligible, but not enrolled in Medicaid and S-CHIP, including those who live in rural areas and those areas with large numbers of racial and ethnic minorities. 
   Further, the legislation also allows States flexibility to streamline Medicaid and S-CHIP enrollment processes. Because two-thirds of uninsured children live in families that receive benefits through other federal programs, this legislation gives states the option of using income and resource eligibility determinations made under other government programs to fast-track enrollment under Medicaid and S-CHIP. 
   Lugar has been a long-time supporter of legislation to expand health coverage for children. Earlier this year he co-sponsored the Children's Express Lane to Health Coverage Act of 2005 which similarly would amend the Social Security Act to give states the option of determining that Medicaid or State Children's Health Insurance financial eligibility is satisfied when a family presents evidence that their child is already enrolled in a program with comparable income guidelines. Those programs include the National School Lunch Program, the Food Stamp Program, the Summer Feeding Program and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC). 
   "In the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, I have been involved in the school lunch program for years," Lugar said. "Many children eligible for school lunches are also eligible to receive health care under the Children's Health Insurance Program. The difficulty comes when red tape and bureaucracy prevents the sharing of information between the two programs." 
   This reform would simplify state administrative processes, reduce paperwork burdens for families and the government, help increase insurance coverage and potentially reduce costs across a number of federal programs.
 
 