INDIANA'S HIGHWAY FUNDING INCREASES MORE THAN 46 PERCENT
  Sen. Dick Lugar voted to approve the highway bill passed by the Senate today that would increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 46 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $969 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $308 million.  
   Lugar worked to ensure that Indiana received more money by supporting an increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state based on the contributions to the Highway Trust Fund that are largely generated by the federal fuel tax. Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar has been a long-time advocate to improve Indiana's funding status in an effort to level the playing field with other states by mitigating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which would bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the amendment that would allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $308 million average yearly increase would help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. "In addition, several renewable fuels amendments I supported and worked to pass were included in this transportation bill. The development of renewable fuels would help ensure national and economic security and gas price stability. With high oil prices, ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from biomass become increasingly important." 
   One of the amendments Lugar worked to pass is the Clean School Bus Program, which establishes a grant program at the EPA whereby schools may retrofit or upgrade their bus fleet to improve environmental standards and possibly use clean-burning fuels, such as biodiesel. 
   Another amendment Lugar co-sponsored would provide a tax credit to gas stations encouraging them to install and/or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content). With more than five million E-85 capable vehicles in the U.S. and about one million additional vehicles expected annually, the United States could realize an immediate reduction in gasoline consumption by approximately 4.5 billion gallons per year and an annual reduction in fleet greenhouse gas emissions of 26.5 million tons. 
   Lugar also co-sponsored an amendment to pass an E-85 labeling requirement for vehicles sold in the U.S. This amendment would ensure that those vehicles sold in the U.S. are clearly labeled so owners are aware of their E-85 capabilities. 
   Earlier this year, Lugar introduced S. 650, the Fuels Security Act of 2005. This legislation would more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. Specifically, it would require the use of four billion gallons of renewable fuels per year in 2006 increasing to eight billion gallons per year by 2012 
   As former Chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose, in a time of relatively low fuel prices. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. Lugar also has co-authored and supported legislation to dramatically increase the use of renewable fuels in all U.S. vehicles. 
   The Senate voted 89-11 to pass the transportation bill. The measure now moves to conference with a bill passed by the House of Representatives earlier this year.
 
 