SENS. LUGAR, BAYH SECURE FUNDING FOR TERRE HAUTE EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT
  U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh voted to secure $500,000 for the City of Terre Haute's Emergency Interoperability Communications Equipment. The funding was approved as a part of the Senate Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill which passed in the Senate today by a vote of 75-19. 
  "It is essential to Hoosiers that we ensure our law enforcement officers have adequate support, equipment and training, especially in the area of communication capabilities," Lugar said. "These brave men and women fill the invaluable role as first responders and are the backbone of our communities."
  "We owe it to our local law enforcement agencies to make sure they have the resources they need to effectively fight crime and respond to emergencies," Bayh said. "In situations where every minute counts, it's vital that local police and sheriff's officers have the ability to communicate, share information and in the end do what is necessary to keep their communities safe and protect their fellow Hoosiers."
  The $500,000 will be used to enhance the capability of emergency radio communications among the different public safety agencies. A study conducted by the City of Terre Haute identified gaps in coverage that interfere with communications between emergency personnel. By enhancing communications capabilities, the City hopes to improve its ability to protect residents, as well as public safety personnel. Terre Haute's comprehensive plan includes purchasing communications equipment that will enhance in-building coverage and user priority and emergency identification notification. The new equipment will also improve interoperability among public safety agencies and back-up power to the communications system.
  Funding was requested by Mayor Kevin Burke.
  This project was included by the Senate Appropriations Committee on June 28, 2007, at the request of Lugar and Bayh. This legislation heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. Should the funding be retained in the House-Senate conference report, the final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature.
 
 