SENS. LUGAR, BAYH SECURE FUNDING FOR DELAWARE COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE
  U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh voted to secure $450,000 for the City of Muncie Police Department and the Delaware County Sheriff's Office. The funding was approved as a part of the Senate Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill which passed in the Senate today by a vote of 75-19.  
  "It is essential to Hoosiers that we ensure our law enforcement officers have adequate support, equipment and training, especially in the area of communication capabilities," Lugar said. "These brave men and women fill the invaluable role as first responders and are the backbone of our communities."
  "We owe it to our local law enforcement agencies to make sure they have the resources they need to effectively fight crime and respond to emergencies," Bayh said. "In situations where every minute counts, it's vital that local police and sheriff's officers have the ability to communicate, share information and in the end do what is necessary to keep their communities safe and protect their fellow Hoosiers."
  $300,000 will be used to upgrade the current police communications system. New radio equipment is necessary for the Muncie Police Department to comply with Indiana's Project Hoosier Safe-T Net program. This involves digital "smart zone" radios that are equipped to allow police communications anywhere in the State of Indiana.
  The remaining $150,000 will be used to improve the Delaware County Sheriff's Department Dispatch and Records Management software system. The Delaware County Emergency Communications Center system operates through a Computer Aided Dispatch and Records Management software system that is more than 15 years old. This software manages thousands of 911 phone requests and dispatches among all first responder disciplines. While the system remains operational, the current software does not properly operate with newer operating systems. The estimated cost of the new software is approximately $1 million.
   The Indiana Project SAFE-T program was instituted to ensure all law enforcement communication equipment is interoperable statewide.
   Funding was requested by Mayor Dan Canan and Delaware County Commissioners John H. Brooke, Tom L. Bennington and Larry W. Bledsoe, Jr.
  This project was included by the Senate Appropriations Committee on June 28, 2007, at the request of Lugar and Bayh. This legislation heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. Should the funding be retained in the House-Senate conference report, the final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature.
 
 