SEN. LUGAR ANNOUNCES TWO BIOENERGY GRANT OPPORTUNITIES
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) are offering grants for research that will lead to the improved use of biomass and plant feedstocks for the production of fuels such as ethanol or renewable chemical feedstocks. The grant solicitations are for projects aimed at increasing the availability of alternative and renewable fuels.
  "All possibilities for growth in biofuels production must be explored to decrease our dependence on foreign oil. Alternative fuels, combined with hybrid and other technologies, can begin to move us away from our dependence on oil in the next decade," said Lugar. "This is not a short-term proposition, but we can offset a significant portion of demand for oil by giving American consumers a real choice of automotive fuel." 
  From the funding announcement for Plant Feedstock Genomics Research:
  Specifically, applications are sought for fundamental research on plants that will improve biomass characteristics, biomass yield, or sustainability. Biology approaches to identify genetic indicators enabling plants to be efficiently bred or manipulated, or research that yields fundamental knowledge of the structure, function and organization of plant genomes leading to improved feedstock characterization and sustainability are also encouraged.
  Eligible applicants include U.S. colleges and universities, non-profit organizations, for-profit commercial organizations, state and local governments and unaffiliated individuals. Consortia of two or more groups also are encouraged to apply. The closing date for applications is January 23, 2008. Applications must be submitted electronically at www.grants.gov. 
  For more information regarding this funding announcement, interested applicants should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?&mode=VIEW&flag2006=true&oppId=15647 or contact Deborah Greenawalt of U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science by e-mail at Deb.Greenawalt@science.doe.gov
  From the funding announcement for Biomass Research:
  The DOE and the USDA jointly solicit applications for financial assistance addressing research and development of biomass based products, bioenergy, biofuels, and related processes. This joint USDA/DOE solicitation for the fiscal year 2007 reflects the technical areas identified in the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000 as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. These technical areas will assist the DOE and USDA in developing and maintaining a balanced portfolio of activities, under the Federal Government's Biomass program to effectively advance cost effective utilization of biomass for the productions of biobased fuels and products.
  Eligible applicants include U.S. colleges and universities, non-profit organizations, for-profit commercial organizations, state and local governments and unaffiliated individuals. Consortia of two or more groups also are encouraged to apply. The full announcement can be found at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/FY07Notice9008.pdf. The closing date for applications is November 16, 2007. For further information please contact Lisa Siesennop, Business Grant & Analyst, by phone at 202-690-3810 and email at lisa.siesennop@wdc.usda.gov 
  "While the challenges are great, there is reason for optimism," said Lugar. "Our current energy balance is the result of industrial and consumption choices of the past. Despite our import dependence today, the U.S. is in a strong position to choose a different path, a path toward real energy security. Success would free future generations of Americans from the energy dilemma that threatens to compromise our security and prosperity. It could also lead to opportunities in many new industries that could reinvigorate our economy."
  On June 21, 2007, the Senate passed an energy bill that focuses on new sources of energy and conservation to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. The bill includes major provisions initiated by Lugar, including incentives for flexible fuel cars; requirements for greater use of ethanol mixed with petroleum fuels, provisions to promote energy efficiency, and increased energy diplomacy. For more information, read "Senate Approves Energy Bill: Includes Several Lugar Initiatives" at http://lugar.senate.gov/press/record.cfm?id=277560&&year=2007&.
  For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
  Questions regarding the application process may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator, at 202-224-4814 or at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 