SENS. LUGAR, BAYH SECURE FUNDING FOR SHELBYVILLE EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT
  U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh voted to secure $300,000 for the City of Shelbyville's Emergency Interoperability Communications Equipment Acquisition. The funding was approved as a part of the Senate Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill which passed in the Senate today by a vote of 75-19. 
  "It is essential to Hoosiers that we ensure our law enforcement officers have adequate support, equipment and training, especially in the area of communication capabilities," Lugar said. "These brave men and women fill the invaluable role as first responders and are the backbone of our communities."
  "We owe it to our local law enforcement agencies to make sure they have the resources they need to effectively fight crime and respond to emergencies," Bayh said. "In situations where every minute counts, it's vital that local police and sheriff's officers have the ability to communicate, share information and in the end do what is necessary to keep their communities safe and protect their fellow Hoosiers."
  Funds will be used to integrate the City and Shelby County emergency communication systems into the statewide, interoperable, wireless communications system for local, state and federal first responders. This interoperable system operates on an 800 MHz radio voice and data communications system. It supports both analog and digital radios, allowing police, fire and emergency medical first responders to communicate more freely and safely during routine, emergency and task force operations. Funding will be used to purchase the 800MHz radios necessary to implement Project Hoosier SAFE-T in the City and the County.
   The Indiana Project SAFE-T program was instituted to ensure all law enforcement communication equipment is interoperable statewide.
   Funding was requested by Mayor Scott Furgeson.
  This project was included by the Senate Appropriations Committee on June 28, 2007, at the request of Lugar and Bayh. This legislation heads to a conference with the House of Representatives. Should the funding be retained in the House-Senate conference report, the final legislation is voted on again by both congressional bodies. The bill then heads to the President for his signature.
 
 