HUNTINGTON RESIDENT RECEIVES SEN. LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 15, U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar honored Nicholas Hancock of Huntington for his commitment to health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 29th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk. 
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards.
   Hancock is an avid bike rider and experienced advocate of safety, health and fitness. He has voluntarily led weekly training rides for the Huntington community and taught bicycle safety at local community events and schools. Hancock has been an Educator and Leader of the Boy Scout Troop for Bicycle Safety and led various bicycle rides for youth groups in the community.
   Four years ago, Hancock organized the "Huntington Bicycle Challenge" Adventure Race and Scenic Road Tour, in an effort to bring more visitors to the county. The Huntington Bike Challenge is a two-day event that showcases the many sceneries of Huntington County. The Bike Challenge attracts experienced bikes with a 60-mile course, as well as weekend riders with moderate courses of 25-miles or 6.2-miles per day for families.
   Hancock also worked with the State of Indiana to develop a 13-mile mountain bike trail located in the Salamonie Reservoir.
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting fitness and health. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April 1989. Lugar presents the award each year in honor of Ray's life and commitment to physical fitness and health.
   Other 2007 recipients included: Greensburg's "Anytime Fitness" owner Michael Gelfgot for his dedication to educating rural Indiana residents about fitness and nutrition; Indianapolis' Julie McKenney for her work as the founder of the IUPUI Sport Complex Summer Camps; and Michael Goebel of Evansville for his work as educator and his advocacy of the highest level of physical fitness.
   The 29th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk was held on the campus of Butler University. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 14. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 