INDIANAPOLIS RESIDENT RECEIVES SEN. LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 15, U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar honored Julie McKenney of Indianapolis for her commitment to health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 29th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk. 
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards.
   McKenney is the current Director of the Indiana University Natatorium and the Michael A. Carroll Track & Soccer Stadium at Indiana University-Purdue University-Indianapolis (IUPUI).
   McKenney helped start the IUPUI Sport Complex Summer Camps. For the past 22 years, the Day Camp has initiated thousands of central Indiana's youth on a life-long path of health and fitness. Campers from ages of 5 to 12 have explored new sports and gained sport-specific training that challenges them to improve skills, strength and endurance.
   In addition, McKenney helped secure bids for the 2006 and 2007 USA Track & Field Outdoor National Championships and the USA Swimming Junior & Senior National Championships. Her responsibilities this year are marked by the 25th anniversary of the IU Natatorium and Carroll Stadium facilities. She is leading the effort to raise awareness and funding to renovate the facilities, thereby maintaining the facility's status as a world-renowned venue. In her local community, she is a volunteer supporter of the soccer club and high school.
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting fitness and health. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April 1989. Lugar presents the award each year in honor of Sear's life and commitment to physical fitness and health.
   Other 2007 recipients included: Greensburg's "Anytime Fitness" owner Michael Gelfgot for his dedication to educating rural Indiana residents about fitness and nutrition; Nicholas Hancock of Huntington for his work as the creator and organizer of the "Huntington Bicycle Challenge;" and Michael Goebel of Evansville for his work as an educator and his advocacy of the highest level of physical fitness.
   The 29th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk was held on the campus of Butler University. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 14. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 