GREENSBURG RESIDENT RECEIVES SEN. LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 15, U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar honored Michael Gelfgot of Greensburg for his commitment to health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 29th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk. 
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards.
   Gelfgot is part owner of Anytime Fitness with locations in Greensburg, Rushville, Aurora, and New Castle, Indiana.Gelfgot immigrated to the U.S. 12 years ago from Russia. When he moved to Indiana, he quickly realized that knowledge of health and physical fitness was lacking in many rural communities. He sought to fill this need with his business by providing education about how the body works and how exercise improves a person's quality of life.
   For the last four years, Gelfgot has dedicated his life to educating rural Indiana residents about fitness and nutrition. With Mike's combination of passion, fitness knowledge, energy, and a true desire to help people live healthy lifestyles, he has successfully built his business in rural Indiana.
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting fitness and health. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April 1989. Lugar presents the award each year in honor of Ray's life and commitment to physical fitness and health.
   Other 2007 recipients included: Indianapolis' Julie McKenney for her work as the founder of the IUPUI Sport Complex Summer Camps; Nicholas Hancock of Huntington for his work as the creator and organizer of the "Huntington Bicycle Challenge;" and Michael Goebel of Evansville for his work as educator and his advocacy of the highest level of physical fitness.
   The 29th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk was held on the campus of Butler University. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 14. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 