EVANSVILLE RESIDENT RECEIVES SEN. LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 15, U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar honored Michael Goebel of Evansville for his commitment to health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 29th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk. 
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards.
   Goebel has been a physical education teacher and coach at Mater Dei High School for 33 years. As a teacher and coach, he consistently strives for excellence. He encourages his students to be multi-sport athletes and to stay fit throughout the year. Each student is motivated to reach their maximum level of physical fitness.
   Goebel's teams have accumulated tremendous winning records, including 12 state wrestling championships and one state football championship title. As a wrestling coach, he has the highest winning percentage in the National Federation of Interscholastic Coaches Association. Goebel has been named Wrestling Coach of the Year in Indiana on eight occasions and twice named the national coach of the year.
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting fitness and health. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April 1989. Lugar presents the award each year in honor of Ray's life and commitment to physical fitness and health.
   Other 2007 recipients included: Indianapolis' Julie McKenney for her work as the founder of the IUPUI Sport Complex Summer Camps; Nicholas Hancock of Huntington for his work as the creator and organizer of the "Huntington Bicycle Challenge;" and Greensburg's "Anytime Fitness" owner Michael Gelfgot for his dedication to educating rural Indiana residents about fitness and nutrition.
   The 29th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk was held on the campus of Butler University. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 14. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 