SEN. LUGAR REQUESTS FLAG IN HONOR OF ALEXANDRIA ETHANOL PLANT
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar today recognized the grand opening of POET Biorefining in Alexandria with a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol Building. 
   "Congratulations to the people of Alexandria and POET Biorefining for opening this ethanol plant," said Lugar, whose representative will present the flag and read a letter at the ceremony.
   "This is POET's second ethanol biorefinery in Indiana, and a third is currently under construction. It is a tribute to the people of Alexandria and all Hoosiers that world-class new energy companies are coming to recognize the vast opportunities we have in Indiana. I applaud POET for its leadership, nationally, and in Indiana."
   "Biofuels offer the dual opportunity of an economic revitalization of rural America and a solution to a serious national security problem. Ethanol plants like the one we are celebrating in Alexandria create jobs and bring new sources of revenue into our communities. They also provide new local markets for our farmer's commodities and will soon produce even more fuels from farm, municipal and industrial wastes. This is a tremendous opportunity for growth in rural communities," Lugar said.
   On September 14, 2007, Lugar spoke at the grand opening of the first POET biorefining facility in Portland, Indiana and toured the facility.
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 