SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENTIAL MISSION TO ALGERIA, MOROCCO
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar made the following statement today on the release of all Moroccan prisoners held by the Polisario in Tindouf, Algeria. Lugar was President Bush's envoy to oversee the conclusion of the diplomatic efforts to release these remaining prisoners, some who have been held for more than two decades. Lugar was in Algiers and Tindouf, Algeria earlier today for meetings and overseeing the transfer of the Moroccans. He is now in Morocco where the men are being reunited with their families. He will be in Rabat on Friday for official meetings and a press conference. Following Lugar's statement is a fact sheet, today's White House statement and the U.S. State Department statement.  
   U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar: 
   "President George W. Bush asked me to undertake a mission to Algeria and Morocco to explore how the United States could help to bring about the release of 404 Moroccan prisoners of war, some of whom have been held for more than twenty years. The prisoners are the last remaining group from among approximately 2,000 Moroccan POWs who were captured by the Polisario Front during the conflict fought over the status of the Western Sahara between 1975 and 1988. 
   "I have met with President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria in Algiers and with Polisario leader Mohamed Abdelaziz in Tindouf. I stressed that numerous UN Security Council resolutions have called for the release of these prisoners, that we view their release as a humanitarian issue and that their continued detention benefits no one. 
   "I am very pleased to announce that the Polisario leadership, responding to the humanitarian concerns that have been expressed, has released all remaining 404 Moroccan prisoners. The prisoners were flown home to Morocco via aircraft chartered by the U.S. military, under the auspices of the International Red Cross, where they will rejoin their families and loved ones. The release was witnessed by our delegation in Tindouf in Western Algeria. We then flew to Agadir, Morocco, to be present for their repatriation. 
   "The United States has long viewed the release of these prisoners as an important humanitarian goal and a constructive step for peace and stability in North Africa. State Department and White House officials have worked patiently and skillfully with diplomats in the region, the United Nations, the Red Cross, and others to move this process toward the conclusion we reached today. Specifically, I would like to thank U.S. Ambassadors Richard Erdman and Thomas Riley. The U.S. military also was instrumental in providing support for this mission, and I would specifically thank General James Jones, Supreme Allied Commander Europe, who joined our delegation in Algeria and Morocco. 
   "Beyond its humanitarian importance, the release of the prisoners is a reminder of the need to maintain peace in the region and advance stability and economic cooperation. The United States strongly supports an Algerian-Moroccan rapprochement and a peaceful political solution to the question of the Western Sahara, within a UN framework, that honors the principle of self-determination. Although our mission is purely humanitarian, I am hopeful that Algeria and Morocco can seize on this occasion to create a climate conducive to the settlement of the Western Sahara issue. 
   "The United States also supports efforts to expand trade and economic cooperation with the region. It is vital that the United States remain engaged in North Africa and the wider Arab world so that we can work with friends to expand opportunities for democracy, economic development and peace. 
   "I want to express our appreciation for the wise decision of the Polisario leadership to resolve this longstanding issue. I also want to express my appreciation to President Bouteflika for his strong leadership and help in facilitating the successful outcome of our humanitarian mission. I also want to express my admiration for Moroccan dedication in keeping the issue of the prisoners before the world community and, specifically, for Morocco's advocacy on the issue in the United States. I look forward to my meetings tonight with the Moroccan foreign minister and tomorrow with the Prime Minister and King Mohammed VI. 
   "I am honored to be part of this mission to reunite these 404 men with their families and their country. I thank President Bush for establishing this mission and am especially delighted that the United States was able to play a timely and positive role. 
   "Today, in a world where there is all too much suffering and violence, the values of cooperation and compassion have scored a victory. Thank you."
 
 