PRESIDENT SIGNS U.S.-INDIA PEACEFUL ATOMIC ENERGY ACT
  President George W. Bush today signed the Henry J. Hyde United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act of 2006 into law. 
   "This agreement is the most important strategic diplomatic initiative undertaken by President Bush. By concluding this pact and the far-reaching set of cooperative agreements that accompany it, the President has embraced a long-term outlook that seeks to enhance the core strength of our foreign policy in a way that will give us new diplomatic options and improve global stability," said Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar, who attended the White House bill signing.
   "This legislation will allow the United States to engage in peaceful nuclear cooperation while safeguarding U.S. national security and nonproliferation efforts, as well as Congressional prerogatives. It is an opportunity to build a vital strategic partnership with a nation that shares our democratic values and will exert increasing influence on the world stage," Lugar continued.
   The bill also includes the IAEA Additional Protocol Implementing Legislation. In President Bush's 2004 speech at the National Defense University, he called on the Senate to ratify the U.S. Additional Protocol with the IAEA. He said:
   "We must ensure that the IAEA has all the tools it needs to fulfill its essential mandate. America and other nations support what is called the Additional Protocol, which requires states to declare a broad range of nuclear activities and facilities, and allow the IAEA to inspect those facilities ? Nations that are serious about fighting proliferation will approve and implement the Additional Protocol. I've submitted the Additional Protocol to the Senate. I urge the Senate to consent immediately to its ratification."
  "Our credibility as the leader of global non-proliferation efforts is at stake. Along with many other nations, we are asking the IAEA to perform critical functions aimed at preventing nuclear proliferation. An effective IAEA is very much in the national security interest of the United States," Lugar said.
   For excerpts from the House-Senate Conference Committee read the press release at: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=266671
 
 