SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON KOSOVO INDEPENDENCE
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar, the Ranking Member on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, released the following statement today on the U.S. recognition of Kosovo following the announcement yesterday of its independence:
   This is an important step in putting the bloody history of the Balkans in the past, but our work there is not done. The US and our allies must support the integration of Kosovo into international and Euro-Atlantic institutions. We must also be prepared to work closely with Serbia and assist with their goals of joining the European Union and engaging European institutions. In my view, lasting stability and security in Southeastern Europe requires the military, economic, and political integration of emerging democracies into existing European structures. 
   An international mission led by the European Union will take over from the United Nations as the leading civilian mission in Kosovo. The goal must be the creation of a functioning democracy and free market economy based on the rule of law. I am hopeful that the United States and the European Union have the infrastructure in place to secure a peaceful outcome in the region and to protect the minorities living in Kosovo, as well as their property and cultural heritage. We must not permit hostilities, social unrest, or inter-ethnic violence to reemerge in the Balkans. The trans-Atlantic community bears a special responsibility to prevent acts of violence such as those that occurred in 2004 when minorities were attacked and churches and homes were vandalized and burned.
   This has been a difficult process for Serbia and the Serbian people. I am pleased that President Boris Tadic sees Serbia's future in Europe. It is now time for NATO and the European Union to stand ready to accelerate engagement and consider membership in trans-Atlantic institutions upon Belgrade's fulfillment of its obligations to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Serbia's entry into NATO's Partnership for Peace program was an important step in the right direction.
   It is important that the international community remains committed to the full and complete implementation of the Ahtisaari Plan. United Nations Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari describes his proposal as "a foundation for a democratic and multi-ethnic Kosovo in which the rights and interests of all members of its communities are firmly guaranteed and protected by institutions based on the rule of law." I could not agree more and now is the time to ensure that the layers of minority protections in the plan are fully implemented.
   When the Senate returns to session next week, I will offer a resolution expressing the strong support of the Senate for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to extend invitations for membership to Albania, Croatia, and Macedonia at the April 2008 Bucharest Summit. The so-called "Adriatic Three" will each play an important role in preserving peace and stability in Southeastern Europe.
   These three countries occupy critical geostrategic locations and are best situated to deter and disrupt any efforts by any party to destabilize the region through violence. NATO membership for these countries would be a success for Europe, and the United States by continuing to extend the zone of peace and security into a region that produced a world war and numerous regional conflicts that have cost the lives of hundreds of thousands, including Americans.
   The United States must express its strong support for continued enlargement of NATO to democracies that are able and willing to meet the responsibilities of membership. In addition, the Administration must provide leadership at the upcoming summit to secure this important step in the development of the NATO Alliance. Albania, Croatia, and Macedonia have clearly stated their desire to join NATO and are working hard to meet the specified requirements for membership.
   The governments in Tirana, Zagreb, and Skopje have been preparing for NATO membership for more than eight years. Each of them is undergoing a historic process of democratic and free market transformation after emerging from decades of occupation. They have made important progress in establishing civilian control of their militaries and demonstrating their ability to operate with the military forces of NATO nations at Alliance standards. Albania, Croatia, and Macedonia continue to make important contributions to the United Nations-mandated International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) operating under NATO leadership to assist the Government of Afghanistan. In addition the three candidates have made important improvements in their democratic processes; toleration of ethnic diversity; respect for human rights; building a free market economy; and promotion of good neighborly relations.
   Bruce Jackson, President of the Project on Transitional Democracies, wrote in the Washington Post on February 4, that the decision "to invite Albania, Croatia and Macedonia to join NATO ... is the culmination of a 15-year effort to end the wars that followed the breakup of Yugoslavia." Mr. Jackson points out that "critics say that Albania, Croatia and Macedonia are not ready for NATO membership ... But the fact is that Albania, Croatia and Macedonia have spent more than eight years in rigorous preparation for NATO membership."
   Mr. Jackson concludes by pointing out that: "Any further delay on the candidacies of Albania, Croatia and Macedonia will diminish regional stability just as Kosovo begins its extended period of supervised independence, and will confuse and undercut the European Union as it takes over chief security responsibilities from the United States and NATO throughout the region. An inability to close this chapter in the Balkans would also dangerously slow our engagement with Europe's East."
   Now is the time for NATO to invite these three important Balkan leaders to join the Alliance. If NATO is to continue to be the preeminent security Alliance and serve the defense interests of its membership, it must continue to evolve and that evolution must include invitations to new states that qualify for membership. Potential NATO membership motivates emerging democracies to make important advances in areas such as the rule of law and civil society. A closer relationship with NATO will promote these values in Albania, Croatia, and Macedonia and contribute to our mutual security.
   Five years ago, the United States Senate unanimously voted to invite seven countries to join NATO. Today, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia are making significant contributions to NATO and are among our closest allies in the global war on terrorism. It is time again for the United States to take the lead in urging its allies to bring in new members, and to offer timely admission of Albania, Croatia, and Macedonia to NATO.
 
 