DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ACCEPTING GRANT APPLICATIONS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Energy is accepting grant applications for three projects on energy efficiency and renewable energy information dissemination, outreach, training, and technical analysis/assistance. Applications for these grants must be completed by Thursday, March 15, 2007. 
   The Department of Energy is requesting applications in the following three areas of interest:  
   * E85 Optimized Engine - The Department of Energy is seeking applications for consideration of financial support through a cooperative agreement in the area of (or for) optimized ethanol flexible fuel light duty vehicles. Applicants interested in this grant should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?mode=VIEW&oppId=12293. 
   * Enabling Technologies for Fuels and Lubricants -The Department of Energy is interested in the direct substitution for petroleum-based fuels by non-petroleum based fuels (either as components blended into conventional fuels or as alternative fuels) and fuel as an enabler of advanced combustion systems providing clean, highly-efficient engines for future vehicles. Applications are sought for the development of fuels, fuel additives or lubricants. Applicants interested in this grant should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?mode=VIEW&oppId=12294. 
   * Efficiency Clean Combustion and Fuels Co-Development - The research in this activity focuses on developing technologies for passenger vehicle engines operating in advanced internal combustion regimes, including Homogeneous Charge Compression Ignition (HCCI) and other modes of low-temperature combustion (LTC) to increase efficiency beyond current advanced diesel levels and reduce engine-out emissions of Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) and Particulate Matter (PM) to near-zero levels. Applicants interested in this grant should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?mode=VIEW&oppId=12295. 
  "I believe that alternative fuels, combined with hybrid and other technologies, can begin to move us away from our extreme dependence on oil in the next decade," said Lugar. "This is not a short-term proposition, but we can offset a significant portion of demand for oil by giving American consumers a real choice of automotive fuel." 
   On the first day of the 110th Congress, Senator Lugar introduced the National Fuels Initiative, multifaceted legislation that seeks to diversify the energy mix by encouraging sustained production and use of non-petroleum based fuels. The bill would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as FFVs by 2016, require the major U.S. gasoline companies to carry E-85 renewable fuel in 50 percent of their gas stations, and extend and increase the renewable fuels standard (RFS) established by the Fuels Security Act of 2005. 
   Lugar also strongly supported the Energy Policy Act, which was signed into law by President Bush in 2005 and represents an important step towards addressing our nation's long-term energy needs. It authorizes $3.7 billion over five years for hydrogen and fuel-cell research, as well as infrastructure to support hydrogen-powered cars. It also creates a hydrogen research program in conjunction with federal labs, universities and auto manufacturers to design hydrogen cars. The legislation will help to modernize America's energy production and distribution systems, encourage conservation and improve our environment and our national security by encouraging the development of clean domestic energy resources. 
   "While the challenges are great, there is reason for optimism," said Lugar. "Our current energy balance is the result of industrial and consumption choices of the past. Despite our import dependence today, the U.S. is in a strong position to choose a different path, a path toward real energy security. Success would free future generations of Americans from the energy dilemma that threatens to compromise our security and prosperity. It could also lead to opportunities in many new industries that could reinvigorate our economy." 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
   Contact: Kim Preston, 202/224-4814, grants@lugar.senate.gov. 
 
 