SEN. LUGAR, REP. PENCE FILE REVISED MEDIA SHIELD BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar and Rep. Mike Pence today introduced a revised Free Flow of Information Act, or Media Shield bill. If passed, the bill would set national standards that must be met before a federal entity may subpoena a member of the news media in any government criminal or civil case.  
   Lugar and Pence will testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee Wednesday about their revised bill, which now says a reporter cannot be compelled to reveal a source unless the disclosure of the identity of a source is necessary to prevent imminent and actual harm to national security. 
   "The free flow of information is an essential element of democracy. Compelling reporters to testify and, in particular, forcing them to reveal the identity of their confidential sources without extraordinary circumstances, hurts the public interest," Lugar said. 
   "Now is the time for Congress to reaffirm the ideal of a free and independent press," said Pence. "Now is the time for the Free Flow of Information Act. Nothing less than the public's right to know is at stake." 
   Background 
   Under the revised language, there would be no absolute protection for confidential sources. In cases of potential harm to national security, which is the matter of most concern, a Federal court could compel disclosure of confidential sources. 
   This revision permits a Federal entity to compel the disclosure of confidential sources if: 
   1. The general conditions for disclosure are met all non-media sources have been exhausted and testimony sought is essential to the case or investigation; and 
   2. Disclosure of the identity of a source is necessary to prevent imminent and actual harm to the national security. 
   More than two dozen reporters have been subpoenaed or questioned within past year about confidential source information. Nine of these reporters have been either sentenced or threatened with jail for refusing to reveal confidential sources. Compelling reporters to testify, and in particular, compelling them to reveal the identity of their confidential sources, is a detriment to the public interest. Without the promise of confidentiality, many important conduits of information about our government will be shut down. 
   Thirty-one states and the District of Columbia have various statutes that protect reporters from being compelled to testify or disclose sources and information in court. Eighteen other states have recognized a reporter's privilege through judicial decisions. Recently, 34 state attorneys general came out in support of a reporter's privilege to end the confusion that is undermining these state laws and judicial decisions. The Free Flow of Information Act strikes a balance between the public's need for information and the fair administration of justice.
 
 