SEN. LUGAR CONGRATULATES PHILLIP NELSON OF PURDUE ON WORLD FOOD PRIZE
  Sen. Dick Lugar today attended the announcement at the State Department naming Dr. Phillip E. Nelson of Purdue University as winner of the 2007 World Food Prize for his pioneering research in aseptic food processing which has enabled large-scale storage and transportation of fruits and vegetables. Eliminating post-harvest spoilage, his research has made it affordable and convenient to transport and deliver food in developing countries without the need for refrigeration.  
   "I congratulate Dr. Nelson on receiving the 2007 World Food Prize. His innovative research has changed the humane business of food distribution and thereby the dimensions of hunger in the world," said Lugar. "Dr. Nelson was born in Morristown, Indiana, and has had a wonderful career at Purdue University - today is a great day for Indiana brought about by another Hoosier champion." 
   Following the announcement, Lugar called Dr. Nelson to congratulate him. 
   Lugar addressed the World Food Prize Symposium in 1997, and at the time urged agricultural research to increase crop yields, the lowering of trade barriers and strengthening farming industries in developing countries. Ten years later, he continues to advocate for reform of U.S. farm policy that would bring America into compliance with world trading rules and benefit developing countries while also bringing gains to the American economy. 
   The Food and Agriculture Risk Management for the 21st Century Act (FARM 21) introduced by Lugar would replace the current market and trade distorting farm subsidy system with a new system of risk management accounts and insurance tools managed by farmers. The bill, S. 1422, would direct savings into nutrition programs as well as deficit reduction, conservation efforts and renewable energy development. 
   More details on the Lugar farm bill can be found at: www.lugar.senate.gov/farmbill. 
   The World Food Prize was conceived by Dr. Norman E. Borlaug, recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. Since 1986, The World Food Prize has honored outstanding individuals who have made vital contributions to improving the quality, quantity, or availability of food throughout the world. Previous laureates have been recognized around the world, including from Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Cuba, Denmark, India, Mexico, Sierra Leone, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United Nations and the United States. 
   The 2007 World Food Prize will be formally presented to Dr. Nelson at a ceremony at the Iowa State Capitol on October 18, 2007.
 
 