SENATE APPROVES SEN. LUGAR LEGISLATION TO CREATE NEW MILITARY MEDALS
  The U.S. Senate has unanimously approved bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Dick Lugar that will create separate campaign medals for American soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   It is a long-standing tradition for members of the armed forces who have served in conflicts overseas to have their service recognized with a medal. The Pentagon initially has proposed honoring servicemen and women who are fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan with the "Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal," which recognizes any overseas service in support of anti-terrorism operations, regardless of location. 
   This legislation reflects the belief of Senator Lugar and other members of Congress that the wars being fought in Iraq and Afghanistan deserve special recognition. It authorizes the creation of unique campaign medals denoting service in Iraq or Afghanistan. 
   "Soldiers who have been apart from their families, in harms way and often in very tough conditions, deserve special recognition for their sacrifice," said Lugar, who served in the Navy from 1957-1960. "It is my hope that the men and women who become eligible for this award understand the pride and appreciation Americans have for their service." 
   In the early 1990s, during Operation Desert Storm, service members received three separate military decorations for their service: the Southwest Asia Service Medal and medals from the Kuwaiti and Saudi governments. For service in Kosovo, servicemen and women received the NATO Service Medal and the Kosovo Campaign Medal. 
   Lugar was one of the first members of Congress to call for unique medals denoting service in Iraq and Afghanistan. Last September he joined with Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) in introducing legislation authorizing an Iraqi Liberation Medal. That bill prompted discussion of the matter in both the House and Senate. The effort gained momentum this spring when similar legislation passed unanimously in the House.
 
 