SEN. LUGAR HOSTS BONO ON AFRICAN TRADE PROMOTION
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today hosted a reception with Bono to promote passage this year of S. 1900, the African Growth and Opportunity Act III: The United States Africa Partnership Act of 2003. Lugar's bill would extend this current, very successful, African trade law.  
   Bono, described speaking to members of the House and Senate as "Mickey Mouse addressing Walt Disney," said "trade is the most important thing to our friends in Africa." Bono founded the organization DATA (Debt, AIDS, Trade, Africa) in 2002 and has met with Lugar three times to help advance Lugar's bills to relieve Africa's debt burden, provide more U.S. funds to fight and cure HIV/AIDS in poor countries, expand global nutrition programs, and support AGOA. 
   Lugar said, "Such legislation is critical to further bolster the progress already made under AGOA and to ensure that African development is enabled." 
   House members attending the reception were confident of House passage but were concerned about legislation becoming bogged down in the Senate. 
   Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, whose committee has jurisdiction of the bill, attended the reception. In a statement he said, "I strongly support extending the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act. In three short years, AGOA has made a difference. Investment in Africa is up. And trade from Africa is up. Because of AGOA, many African families can now feed their children. For the first time, there's a new sense of hope in many countries. 
   "But I don't think we've reaped the full benefits of the program. There's more we can do. I commend my colleagues who have taken the initiative to introduce broad renewal legislation this year. I support their efforts. Current uncertainty surrounding the program can lead to investment flight from Africa to other parts of the world, most notably Asia. I don't want to see that happen." 
   Grassley expressed concern about moving legislation this year. "I'm afraid a broad bill - which I'd like to see - will get bogged down in partisan politics," he said. 
   Bono and all the speakers stressed that his was one issue that can rise above partisanship. Addressing Lugar, the Senior Democratic member on the House Ways and Mean Committee, Charlie Rangel (NY-15) said, "Senator Lugar, you make it very difficult to be as partisan as I am. You are a great friend of Africa." Speakers from Conservative Republican Sen. John Sununu (R-NH) to Liberal Democrat Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-7) stressed there could be bipartisan consensus on moving this bill, this year. "Don't pull the rug out from under" African trade, McDermott said.
 
 