SEN. LUGAR CALLS FOR A COMMEMORATIVE STAMP FOR ROTARY
  Sen. Dick Lugar has introduced a Concurrent Resolution expressing the sense of the Congress that a commemorative stamp should be issued in honor of Rotary International's work to eradicate polio and to celebrate Rotary's centennial anniversary.  
   The measure, which Lugar (R-IN) and Sen. Russell Feingold (D-WI) are sponsoring in the Senate, seeks a commemorative postage stamp issued to honor the 100th anniversary of Rotary International and its efforts to eradicate polio. 
   "Rotary is a wonderful American and international institution," said Lugar. "This service club played an important role in the eradication of polio in this country, and they continue to work for the complete purging of this disease worldwide. I am hopeful this measure will encourage the U.S. Postal Service to issue a commemorative stamp to support Rotary in their good works." 
   Rotary's PolioPlus program to eradicate polio throughout the world has helped to vaccinate more than 2,000,000,000 children against the disease. Rotary is the only nongovernmental organization working in partnership with the World Health Organization, UNICEF, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to achieve the goal of the total eradication of polio by 2005. 
   "It is my hope that a commemorative stamp could serve a dual purpose of honoring Rotary's fight against polio and celebrating Rotary's centennial anniversary," said Lugar. The organization will celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2005. For its 75th anniversary, 60 nations issued commemorative stamps, although the United States did not. However, in 1955, the U.S. Postal Service did issue a stamp acknowledging Rotary's 50th anniversary. 
   A similar measure has been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives. If the measures clear both houses, the resolution will be sent to the U.S. Postal Service as an indication of the sense of the Congress on this issue. 
   Lugar is a member of the Downtown (Indianapolis) Rotary Club.
 
 