SEN. LUGAR PRAISES REPEAL OF JACKSON-VANIK ON UKRAINE
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar announced that his bill authorizing the extension of permanent normal trade relations treatment to Ukraine passed the Senate today. Ukraine has been subject to the provisions of the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974, which sanctions nations for failure to comply with freedom of emigration requirements. This bill permanently repeals the application of Jackson-Vanik to Ukraine. Lugar and Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) had written their Senate colleagues on October 24, 2005, pressing for action before the Senate adjourned for the session.  
   "Extraordinary events have occurred in Ukraine in the last year. A free press has revolted against government intimidation and reasserted itself. An emerging middle class has found its political footing. A new generation has embraced democracy and openness. A society has rebelled against the illegal activities of its government. It is in our interest to recognize and protect these advances in Ukraine," said Lugar, who served as President Bush's personal representative during the Ukrainian run-off election in November 2004. 
   Since the end of the Cold War, Ukraine has demonstrated a commitment to meet the requirements necessary for normal trade relations and has expressed a strong desire to abide by free market principles and good governance. 
   "The United States has a long record of cooperation with Ukraine through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program. Ukraine inherited the third largest nuclear arsenal in the world with the fall of the Soviet Union and, through the Nunn-Lugar program, the United States has assisted Ukraine in eliminating this deadly arsenal and joining the Nonproliferation Treaty as a non-nuclear state," said Lugar. "The passage of this bill signals the commitment of the U.S. to support freedom and prosperity in Ukraine. The U.S. should continue to work with Ukraine to address trade issues between the two nations and ensure trade benefits to American businesses, farmers and ranchers." 
   The Jackson-Vanik amendment was included in the 1974 Trade Act to pressure then-communist nations to permit free emigration. Since 1992, Ukraine has been found in compliance with freedom of emigration requirements and has been certified annually as qualifying for a waiver of Jackson-Vanik sanctions. In addition, the United States and Ukraine have a bilateral trade agreement in place. This legislation will stimulate further market reforms and encourage Ukraine to continue its commitment to safeguarding individual liberties. 
   Action by the House of Representatives is required in order for the bill to proceed toward becoming law. 
   The Senate also passed the Agreement with Canada on Pacific Hake/Whiting Treaty, the Convention for the Strengthening of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (Antigua Convention) Treaty, and the Convention on the Conservation and Management of the Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean (WCPF) Treaty
 
 