SEN. LUGAR RECOGNIZES JAILED JOURNALISTS DAY
  Sen. Dick Lugar placed the following remarks into the Congressional Record yesterday in support of jailed journalists. Lugar introduced the Free Flow of Information Act in the Senate with Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) earlier this year, which is the companion to the House version introduced by Reps. Mike Pence (R-IN) Rick Boucher (D-VA). 
   Lugar, Dodd and Pence also testified in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee at a hearing on the Free Flow of Information Act in July 20, 2005.  
   SUPPORT FOR JAILED JOURNALISTS DAY
   Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, today is "action day" to support jailed journalists around the world, as declared by the independent organization, Reporters Without Borders. I rise today to express my support for this cause and to emphasize that our country has long believed that a free press is a cornerstone of democracy, both here and abroad. Last year, at my urging, Congress created a free press institute at the National Endowment for Democracy to promote, as part of our democracy-building efforts, free, independent and sustainable news media organizations overseas. This year, I introduced the Free Flow of Information Act to allow journalists in this country to protect the identity of their confidential sources. After I introduced the legislation, a reporter for one of America's most respected media organizations, Judith Miller of the New York Times, was jailed for 85 days for failing to disclose a confidential source, while another, Matt Cooper of Time Magazine, was also threatened with jail for the same reason. I believe that in order for the United States to foster the spread of freedom and democracy globally, we must support an open and free press at home. 
   According to Reporters Without Borders, 112 journalists are currently jailed in 23 countries, including places like China, Cuba, Eritrea and Burma. This is not good company for the United States to keep. I urge the administration and our diplomats overseas to do everything they can to gain the release of these jailed journalists, who were doing nothing more than trying to keep their fellow citizens informed. I ask that the following information from Reporters Without Borders be included in the record. 
   Thursday, November 17, 2005: 
  16th Jailed Journalists' Support Day 
   Reporters Without Borders calls on the media to demonstrate their solidarity with imprisoned journalists We were exceptionally active when journalists were being held hostage in Iraq, and our challenges may seem less urgent now. But that is not the case. A total of 186 media people (112 journalists, 3 assistants and 71 cyber-dissidents) are imprisoned in 23 countries. 
   What crimes have they committed? They have revealed sensitive issue, called for democracy and greater respect for individual freedoms, refused to give in to censorship or to an enforced line of thought. In short, they simply tried to do their jobs. 
   In an appeal for solidarity with imprisoned journalists, Reporters Without Borders is organizing the 16th consecutive annual day of action. We are urging the worldwide news media- throughout the world- to acknowledge the fate of those who have to struggle every day for the right to report the news. 
   To break the silence concerning their plight and to bring it to the public attention of the public, Reporters Without Borders calls on the news media to highlight the case of an imprisoned journalist on this year's "action day", Thursday, November 17. 
   The jails of three countries alone are holding more than half of the world's imprisoned journalists. The three countries that constitute the world's biggest prisons traps for the press are China (with 31 journalists behind bars), Cuba (23), and Eritrea (13). 
   Mobilization is needed to ease the harsh reality of prison conditions. Denied contact with their families and even proper nourishment, most of these journalists live within poor or non-existent sanitary conditions. They are frequently isolated from fellow prisoners and left to cope in terrible isolation. 
   The purpose of this Day is above to free these journalists from yet another prison, that of silence and oblivion. Unless their cases are regularly brought before international public the guilty governments will retain impunity. They will have no reason to worry about the fate of prisoners in their jails. Publicity thus becomes a sort of "life insurance" contributing directly to the protection of the prisoners. 
   It also allows a furtherance of the struggle begun by the imprisoned journalists. Articles that media write about them underscore the reasons and the circumstances of their arrest as well as the issues the journalists were working on before they were imprisoned. In speaking about their case, the sponsor circumvents the censorship they suffered and exposes the unfairness of their imprisonment. 
   A media's decision to cover the plight of a journalist demonstrates its commitment to defend the right to freely inform and to be informed. It allows journalists to show their solidarity with colleagues with whom they share their passion for a job that is so crucial to ensuring democracy. 
   Since this campaign was launched in 1989, more than 100 journalists have been sponsored by media all around the world. Some media outlets decided to cover their plight without endorsing one particular case. Almost half of them have been released and in part as a result of the support from their sponsors. Several journalists sponsored by International media have been released like Fatimah Nisreen (The Maldives) amnestied on 9 May 2005 or Raul Rivero (Cuba) released on 30 November 2004. 
   On the day of their release, many journalists stressed the value of not feeling "utterly forgotten". It gave them the courage to continue to bear their imprisonment. 
   The struggle the news media undertake alongside Reporters Without Borders to defend the existence of a free press is not hopeless. Even when those steps appear to have been in vain, we know that international backing for a prisoner brings essential psychological support and often protects his or her life. This achievement alone represents a victory over authoritarianism and repression carried out by so many governments. 
   Please find below: 
   - a few examples of cases of jailed journalists 
   - press freedom barometer - Key statistics 
   - the list of 112 journalists imprisoned worldwide (as of November 2, October 2005) 
   - the list of the current sponsors 
   A few cases of jailed journalists... 
   Yu Dongyue - CHINA 
   A journalist and art critic with the Liuyang News, he was arrested on 23 May 1989 during student demonstrations in Tienanmen Square in Beijing. He was convicted on 11 July that year of "sabotage" and "counter-revolutionary propaganda" and jailed by the Beijing intermediate municipal court for 20 years, with five years deprivation of civil rights. His sentence was cut by two years in March 2000 but he is not due to be released until 21 May 2007. Yu is suffering from psychological problems as a result of long spells in solitary confinement. 
   Miguel Galv?n Gutiérrez - CUBA 
   Journalist with the independent news agency Havana Press, he was accused of being "a mercenary in the pay of a foreign power" and convicted to 26 years in jail. As with other dissidents arrested at the time, his arrest reportedly came after a long search of his home and seizure of papers and equipment such as a typewriter, fax machine and phone. He appeared last August before the prison disciplinary council for sending information to Miami radio stations. He was then put in solitary confinement, without electricity, and was not allowed to use the phone. His health has steadily worsened in prison. His frequent spells in solitary confinement (73 days in his first 11 months) aggravated his ailments, including frequent diarrhea, stomach and joint pains, swollen feet and a paralyzed arm and, in April 2005, high fever, urinary problems and back pain. He does not get the medicine he needs. 
   Win Tin - BURMA 
   Win Tin, one of the political mentors of Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, continues to serve his 20-year prison sentence. He is regularly offered freedom in exchange for a signed promise to give up all political activity. But "Saya" (Teacher), as his friends call him, has always refused to cut such a deal and break his ties with the National League for Democracy, which was cheated out of its landslide victory at the 1990 general elections. 
   He was convicted of "subversion" and "anti-government propaganda." In 1996, he was held for five months in a dog-kennel at Rangoon's Insein prison. He has since had two heart attacks and lost most of his teeth. Now 75, he has been shuttling back and forth between his cell and the spartan prisoners' wing of Rangoon hospital for the past few years. 
   These days, Burma's military rulers treat him with a little more respect and he now has his own cell. But he is still not allowed to write anything. 
   Akbar Ganji - IRAN 
   This Iranian journalist with the reformist daily Sobh-e-Emruz, Neshat and Asr-é-Azadegan was arrested on 22 April 22, 2000 when he returned from a conference in Berlin that the Iranian authorities considered "anti-Islamic" and "anti-revolutionary." 
   In January 2001, he was sentenced to 10 years in jail and to banishment. 
   He had to answer 10 charges, based on complaints filed by the ministry of intelligence, the police and a former minister of intelligence. The prosecutor accused him of "acting against national security", "circulating propaganda against the Islamic system", and "insulting religious figures." 
   He was also accused of publishing articles accusing senior officials of involvement in the murder of regime opponents and intellectuals in 1998. In May 2001, his sentence was reduced from 10 years to six months. In July 2001, the Supreme Court increased it to 6 years. 
   Akbar Ganji was held in Evin prison in Tehran, where he was able to continue reading and writing. But he was not able to telephone his family or receive medical treatment despite suffering from acute asthma. He began a hunger strike on June 11 and lost 44 kilos in the course of the next month. Akbar Ganji finally calls off his hunger strike after more than 60 days. He was sent back to Evin prison in early September. 
   Pham Hong Son - VIETNAM 
   Medical doctor and local representative of a foreign pharmaceutical company. 
   He has been in prison since March 2002 for translating and posting online an article from the local US embassy website called "What is democracy?" and an essay called "Encouraging signs for democracy in Vietnam." He had earlier written and posted on Vietnamese online discussion groups several articles advocating democracy and human rights. 
   He was sentenced to 13 years imprisonment in June 2003 for "spying," followed by three years of house arrest, by the Hanoi People's Court. The prison sentence was reduced on appeal to five years on 26 August that year. 
   He has a groin hernia which could kill him if he does have an operation. 
   Dominique Makeli - RWANDA 
   Dominique Makeli, a Radio Rwanda commentator, has been in prison in Rwanda since 18 September 1994. After being moved several times, he is now in the main prison in Kigali. 
   The public prosecutor told Reporters Without Borders in October 2001 that he was accused of "incitement to genocide in his reporting." He had reported on an apparition of the Virgin Mary in Kibeho (west of Butare) in May 1994 and had quoted her supposed words : "The parent is in heaven." 
   The prosecutor said people would have understood this as divine support for President [Juvenal] Habyarimana and, by extension, for the policy of exterminating Tutsis. This was disputed by Makeli and many witnesses. 
   His case-file was sent in August 2004 to a gacaca (a village court system revived by the authorities). 
   Complete biographies of these journalists and others are available upon request. Please contact Lucie Morillon, Reporters Without Borders Washington Director, (202) 256-5613 or lucie.morillon@rsf.org 
   Press freedom key statistics as of November 2, 2005 
  Reporters Without Borders has been defending the public's right to news and information for 20 years. It intervenes as soon as possible when the freedom to inform and be informed is under threat is at risk, or as soon as a journalist somewhere in the world is imprisoned anywhere just for doing their his/her job. Journalists are still being routinely targeted in more than half the world's countries represented at the United Nations. 
   By paying for defense lawyers when to assist journalists are tried at their trial, giving financial aid to the families of murdered or imprisoned journalists who have been killed or imprisoned, waging public- awareness campaigns and taking care offering help to of journalists who are forced to flee their country, Reporters Without Borders takes action every day to combat censorship. 
   Press freedom barometer 
   * Worldwide, more than 684 journalists have been killed since 1992. 
   * More than 1,450 journalists were arrested, beaten, threatened, kidnapped or otherwise harassed and more than 320 media were censored in 2004. 
   * 53 journalists have been killed since the start of 2005. 
   * 5 media assistants have lost their lives since the start of 2005. 
   * 73 journalists have been killed in Iraq in March 2003, making it the deadliest war for the press since World War II. 
   * Worldwide, 112 journalists and 3 media assistants are currently in prison for doing their job. 
   * 71 cyber-dissidents are currently in prison, 62 of them in China. 
   112 journalists are currently in prison just for trying to report the news. 
   The jails of three countries alone are holding more than half of the world's imprisoned journalists. The three countries that constitute the world's biggest prisons traps for the press are China (with 31 journalists behind bars), Cuba (23), and Eritrea (13). 
   Their crimes? Revealing embarrassing facts, demanding more respect for civil rights, or refusing to submit to censorship or adopt a particular set of views. Physical and psychological harassment, intimidation and permanent surveillance are also routine. 
   The 112 journalists imprisoned worldwide (as of November 2, October 2005) 
   Afghanistan (1) Ali Mohaqiq Nasab: sentenced to two years in prison. 
   Algeria (1): Mohammed Benchicou: sentenced to two years in prison. 
   Burma (6): 
   Lazing La Htoi: arrested on July 27 July, 2004. and still awaiting trial. 
   Ne Min: sentenced to 15 years. 
   Monywa Aung-Shin: sentenced to 7 years. 
   Than Win Lhaing: sentenced to 7 years. 
   Thaung Tun: sentenced to 8 years. 
   Win Tin: sentenced to 20 years. 
   China (31): Asia continues to be the world's most repressive continent for journalists. In East Asia, China is ranked 159th in the Reporters Without Borders Worldwide Press Freedom Index (of 20 October 2005), making. That puts it among one of the world's 10 worst countries. Some media haves been privatized, but the government's propaganda department is watchful scrutinizing the media and the banned media has been banned from covering dozens of sensitive subjects in the course of the last year. Crackdowns by the authorities and violence against journalists by armed groups prevent are keeping the media from expressing themselves freely. 
   Ching Cheong: imprisoned in jail since April 22, April 2005. Still awaiting trial. 
   Tashi Gyaltsen, Lobsang Dhargay, Thoe Samden, Tsultrim Phelgay, Jampel Gyatso: imprisoned since January 14, January 2005. Awaiting trial. 
   Shi Tao: sentenced to 10 years in prison. 
   Zhao Yan: awaiting trial. 
   Li Minying: sentenced to 6 years. 
   Yu Huafeng: sentenced to 8 years. 
   Zhang Wei: sentenced to 6 years. 
   Zuo Shangwen: sentenced to 5 years. 
   Ou Yan: his release date has yet to be announced. although he has already completed a 2-year prison sentence. 
   Wang Daqi: sentenced to a1 year in prison, he was not freed after completing serving his sentence. 
   Lu Wanbin: arrested on 22 December 2001. Awaiting trial. 
   Ma Linhai: arrested on 24 November 2001. Awaiting trial. 
   Feng Daxun: he was never released after completing a three3-year prison sentence. 
   Jiang Weiping: sentenced to 9 years. 
   Xu Zerong: sentenced to 13 years. 
   Li Jian: arrested in November 1999. No news about his trial. 
   Zha Jianguo: sentenced to 9 years. 
   Gao Hongming : sentenced to 8 years. 
   Yu Tianxiang: sentenced to 10 years. 
   Gao Qinrong: sentenced to 13 years. 
   Qin Yongmin: sentenced to 12 years. 
   Fan Yingshang: sentenced to 15 years. 
   Zhang Yafei: sentenced to 11 years. 
   Hu Liping: sentenced to 10 years. 
   Yu Dongyue: sentenced to 20 years. 
   Chen Renjie and Lin Youping: sentenced to life imprisonment in July 1983. 
   North Korea (1): There has been no news of Song Keum Chul since he was jailed in 1996. 
   Cuba (24): 161st place in the Worldwide Press Freedom Index. Two journalists have just joined the 21 others who have been imprisoned since the March 2003 crackdown. One of them, Oscar Mario Gonz?lez Pérez, is awaiting trial and faces up to 20 years in prison under Law 88, which that protects "Cuba's national independence and economy." 
   Lamasiel Gutiérrez Romero: sentenced to 7 months in prison. 
   Albert Santiago Du Bouchet Fern?ndez: sentenced to 1a year in prison. 
   Normando Hern?ndez Gonz?lez: sentenced to 25 years. 
   Omar Moisés Ruiz Hern?ndez: sentenced to 18 years. 
   Juan Carlos Herrera Acosta: sentenced to 20 years. 
   Alejandro Gonz?lez Raga: sentenced to 14 years. 
   Alfredo Felipe Fuentes: sentenced to 26 years. 
   Mijail Barzaga Lugo: sentenced to 15 years. 
   Mario Enrique Mayo Hern?ndez: sentenced to 20 years. 
   Pablo Pacheco ?vila: sentenced to 20 years. 
   Fabio Prieto Llorente: sentenced to 20 years. 
   Adolfo Fern?ndez Sainz: sentenced to 15 years. 
   Héctor Maseda Gutiérrez: sentenced to 20 years. 
   Julio César G?lvez Rodr?guez:: sentenced to 15 years. 
   Alfredo Manuel Pulido L?pez: sentenced to 14 years. 
   José Ubaldo Izquierdo Hern?ndez: sentenced to 16 years. 
   Victor Rolando Arroyo Carmona: sentenced to 26 years. 
   Miguel Galv?n Gutiérrez: sentenced to 26 years. 
   Pedro Arg?elles Mor?n: sentenced to 20 years. 
   Omar Rodr?guez Saludes: sentenced to 27 years. 
   José Luis Garc?a Paneque: sentenced to 24 years. 
   Ricardo Gonz?lez Alfonso: Reporters Without Borders correspondent, sentenced to 20 years. 
   Ivan Hern?ndez Carrillo: sentenced to 25 years. 
   Egypt (1): Abd al-Munim Gamal al Din Abd al Munim has been subject to serving out an indefinite internment order since 30 October 1993. 
   Eritrea (13): 166th in the Worldwide Press Freedom Index-, is a "black hole" country for news. 
   Not one of the 13 journalists currently detained has in custody has ever been given a trial or officially. So therefore, none has received an official sentenced. 
   Hamid Mohamed Said, Saleh Al Jezaeeri and Saidia Ahmed have been in prison since February 2002. 
   Seyoum Tsehaye, jailed since 21 September 2001. 
   Temesgen Gebreyesus and Said Abdulkader, since 20 September 2001. 
   Mattewos Habteab and Yusuf Mohamed Ali, since 19 September 2001. 
   Medhanie Haile, Emanuel Asrat, Dawit Isaac and Fessehaye Yohannes, since 18 September 2001. 
   Dawit Habtemichael, since September 2001. 
   Ethiopia (2): Neither of the two imprisoned journalists have been tried, and so neither of them have been or officially sentenced. 
   Shiferraw Insermu and Dhabassa Wakjira: imprisoned prisoners since 22 April 2004. 
  Iraq (5): Five journalists are being held incommunicado by the US Army without any information being provided to them.. 
   Hameed Majeed: detained since S 15 September 2005. 
   Ali Omar Abrahem Al-Mashadani: detained since 8 August 2005. 
   Samer Mohamed Noor: imprisoned behind bars since 4 June 2005. 
   Ammar Daham Naef Khalaf: detained since 11 April 2005. 
   Abdel Amir Younes Hussein: in prison since 5 April 2005. 
   Iran (6): Mohammad Sedigh Kabovand: sentenced to 18 months. 
  Madh Amadi: awaiting trial, in prison since 28 July 2005. 
   Masoud Bastani: awaiting trial, in prison since 25 July 2005. 
   Siamak Pourzand: sentenced to 11 years in prison. Following Thanks to international pressure, he was given leave to return home for an indefinite period in December 2002, but was returned to sent back to prison on 30 March 30, 2003. 
  Hossein Ghazian: received a four -and-a a -half years in prison term. 
   Akbar Ganji: sentenced to 6six years in prison. 
   Laos (1) Thongpaseuth Keuakoun was sentenced to 20 years in prison. 
   Libya (1) Abdullah Ali Al-Sanussi Al-Darrat has been in prison since 1 January 1, 1973 and, is not by all accounts, has yet to known to have been sentenced. 
   Maldives (3) 
   Jennifer Latheef : sentenced to 10 years in prison 
   Colonel ? Mohammed Nasheed ? : awaiting trial 
   Abdullah Saeed : awaiting trial. 
   Morocco (2): Anas Tadili: sentenced to 10 months in prison on a non-political charge dating back 10 years, and then was given an additional 6 months in a press case. The sentences were commuted to 1 year on appeal (on September 29, 2004) to one year. The Judicial authorities are investigating some 10 other accusations that have been brought against him. 
   Abderrahmane El Badraoui : sentenced to 4 years. 
   Nepal (2): 
   Nagendra Upadhyaya and Tejnarayan Sapkota: detained under an anti-terrorist law, and awaiting trial. 
   Uzbekistan (4): 
   Nosir Zokirov: sentenced on 26 August 26, 2005 to 6 months in prison. 
   Sabirjon Yakubov: sentenced to 20 years in prison. 
   Jusuf Ruzimuradov: arrested on 18 August 18, 1999. Sentenced to 8 years in prison. 
   Mohammed Bekjanov: sentenced to 15 years in prison. 
   Rwanda (4): 
   Father Guy Theunis: imprisoned since 10 September 2005, pending trial. 
   Jean-Léonard Rugambage: detained since 7 September 2005, pending trial. 
   Tatiana Mukakibibi: detained since 2 October 1996. Has not yet been tried. 
   Dominique Makeli: imprisoned since 18 September 1994. Not yet tried. 
   Sierra Leone (1) Paul Kamara: serving prison sentences totaling 4 years (two year sentences). 
   Tunisia (1) Hamadi Jebali : sentenced on 31 January 1991 to 1a year in prison for defamation. Given an additional 16-year sentence on 28 August 1992 for "membership in an illegal organization" and "wanting to change the nature of the state." 
   Turkey (2) Memik Horuz: sentenced to 15 years in prison on 13 June 2002. 
   Sinan Kara : sentenced to 9 months in prison. 
   Working together to advance the cause of press freedom Reporters Without Borders would like to thank the sponsors of imprisoned journalists for all they have done and will continue to do to achieve obtain the release of those they have their adopted colleagues. 
   Since 1989, we have been inviting the French and international news media to adopt journalists who are in prison just for doing their jobs. On 17 November, sponsors are will be asked to take special initiatives specific actions to pressure authorities for releasing of their adopted journalists and to publicize their cases, so that they will not be forgotten and so that the publicity affords will offer them some protection from their jailers. By writing to journalists in prison, contacting their families, protesting to the relevant competent authorities, and getting viewers, listeners, readers and Internet users interested in their cases, the news organizations, festivals and city halls who are sponsors can help Reporters Without Borders to support these men and women whose only crime is was wanting to reporting the news. 
   Thanks to the media that support a journalist: 
   93.3 Radio Québec, Christian Action for the Abolition of Torture and Executions (ACAT), AGEFI, Agencia Cover, Agriculture Horizon, Alternatives Internationales, Amiens Métropole - JDA, Amina, Antena 3 TV, Arte, Associaci?n de la Prensa de C?diz, Assas/IFP, Avaldoci-Union Web periodistas, Azur FM, Bel RTL (French-language Belgian radio station), BFM, Cadena SER, Cambio 16 Aldateka Hamasei, Espacio de Informacion General (EIG), Cape Breton Post, Baden-Baden Press Club, Bordeaux Press Club, Clermont-Ferrand Press Club, Lille Press Club, Montpellier Press Club, Nimes Press Club, La Semaine de N?mes, Press Club of Saint-Etienne and La Loire, UCPF, Strasbourg Press Club, Toulon Press Club, Pays Basque Press Club, Grenoble and Is?re Press Club, Corriere Canadese, Coup d'oeil/Vers l'avenir, Courrier International, Derni?res Nouvelles d'Alsace, Diariocritico.com, Echo vedettes, Edmonton Sun, El Correo Espanol/El Pueblo Vasco, El Mundo, El Pais, El Periodico de Catalunya, El Punt, El Siglo, En Marche, Enjeux internationaux, Festival International du Scoop et du Journalisme, Flair/L'Hebdo, France 2, France 3 sud Languedoc-Roussillon, France bleu pays d'Auvergne, France Culture , France Info, France Inter, France Soir, Fun Radio, Gen?ve Home Information (GHI), Grands Reportages, www.cubantrip.com, Ici, Il Manifesto (Rome)(Q), Institut Pratique de Journalisme, ISR Info, JHR McGill Newsletter, Kommunalarbetaren, L'Expansion, L'Express, L'Express.fr, L'Humanité, L'Union du Cantal, L'Union(s), La presse dans tous ses états CIBL, La Tribune, La Vanguardia, La Voz del Occidente, Le Courrier Picard, Le Devoir, Le Figaro, Le Journal du Dimanche, Le Ligueur, Le Maine libre, Le Monde, Le Mouv', Le Nouvel Observateur , Le Nouvelliste (Q), Le Peuple, Le Populaire du Centre, Le Quotidien Jurassien, Le Reflet, Le Républicain Lorrain, Le Semeur hebdo, Le Soir, Le Soir Magazine, Le Télégramme de Brest et de l'Ouest, Le Vif/L'Express, Les Clés de l'Actualité, Les Petites affiches, Lethbridge Herald, Libération, www.liberation.fr, L'Indépendant, Maires de France, Mairie d'Arlanc, Mairie de Longeau, Mairie de Nancy, Mairie de Romans/Romans Magazine, Maison de la presse de Charleroi, Maison de la presse de Mons, McGill Daily, Mémoire de trame, Métro Belgique, Midi Libre, Milhistorias, Milj?rapporten, Mirror, Mozaik Media, Nice Matin, NRJ, Okapi, Ottawa Citizen, Ottawa Sun, Ouest-France, Paca Informations économiques, Paris Normandie, P?lerin magazine, Perfiles, Periodistas-es.org, Photographie.com, Plurimedias, " Points chauds " sur Telequebec, Pressens Tidning, Prix Bayeux des correspondants de guerre, Radio Classique, Radio contact/ Contact Inter Radio C?te d'Amour, Radio Nostalgie, REE, RFI, RMC, RNE, RTBF, RTBF TV, RTL - TVI, Servimedia, S?dermanlands Nyheter, Star Phoenix, SVM MAC, Télé Bruxelles, Télépro, Télérama, TF1, The Concordian, The Link, The Telegram, Tiempo, TV3, TV3 de Catalunya, TV5 monde, TVE-Television nationale, UDF, Vers l'avenir, Vlan, VSD, www.expotimes.net, www.press-list.com, Les Journalistes-écrivains pour la Nature et l'Ecologie.
 
 