SENATE ENCOURAGES INCREASED LIHEAP FUNDING
  Sen. Dick Lugar applauded the Senate's request that Senate and House negotiators add $2.13 billion in emergency funding for Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Lugar supported this motion, which passed 66-28. The additional funds would be included in the Labor-HHS Appropriations bill that passed the Senate on October 27.  
   "As Americans brace for the winter weather, funding for LIHEAP is essential," said Lugar. "I am hopeful that Senate conferees will prevail on this issue during negotiations with their House counterparts." 
   At this point it is uncertain whether the additional funds will be part of the final appropriations package. 
   Supporters of the increased funding for LIHEAP cite the impact of Hurricane Katrina on energy prices as the rationale for emergency spending. The expected increase in heating costs this winter would pose a significant impact on the low- and fixed-income individuals who qualify for LIHEAP, and state LIHEAP programs are expecting a major increase in applications. 
   Lugar strongly supports LIHEAP and has a long history of working to increase funding for this important program. In October 2005, he voted three times to increase funding for the program to its authorized level of $5.1 billion. 
   More information on LIHEAP in Indiana is available at: http://www.state.in.us/fssa/families/housing/eas.html. 
   In addition to supporting immediate assistance, Lugar has advocated a diversified national energy policy to reduce U.S. vulnerability to interruptions in the energy markets and improve its long-term energy situation. 
   On November 10, Lugar introduced a bill that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFVs) within ten years. FFVs can use both regular gasoline and E-85 renewable fuel (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content). This capability would ensure access to an important alternative to foreign petroleum in the future as the nation's renewable fuels industry continues to expand rapidly. The bill would require 10 percent of vehicles sold in the U.S. be FFVs within 18 months of passage. The requirement would increase by 10 percent for each subsequent model year resulting in all new vehicles being FFVs within ten years." 
   Lugar is also an original cosponsor the Vehicle and Fuel Choice for American Security Act. 
   The renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed the Congress in July was based largely on the Fuels Security Act that Lugar introduced earlier this year. This provision nearly doubles production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. The energy bill also includes key portions of the National Security and Bioenergy Investment Act of 2005, which will rapidly expand research into biomass energy and biobased products and establish the production of the first one billion gallons of transportation fuel produced from cellulosic sources such as corn stover, switchgrass and wheat straw. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. In a time of relatively low fuel prices, he co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research.
 
 