SEN. LUGAR APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF DARFUR PEACE AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar applauded Senate passage of S.1462, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act. Lugar favorably discharged the legislation from the Foreign Relations Committee on October 28 and signaled his support for Senate passage to the Majority Leader's office.  
   "The United States has been leading the international response to the Darfur crisis, and Congress has been in the vanguard since the reports of the situation reached our offices in early 2004," said Lugar. "Senate passage of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act is an additional call for international participation and devotion of resources to the crisis in Darfur and to reinforcing the common goal of peace and stability." 
   "The situation in Darfur remains grave," Lugar continued. "The international community and the United States must not relinquish their responsibility to consolidate a comprehensive peace in Sudan, which is contingent upon a resolution to the Darfur crisis." 
   In 2004, Lugar introduced a similar bill, the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act, which was signed by the President on December 23, 2004 (P.L. 108-497). Lugar's legislation provided an additional $300 million in support of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur and for the consolidation of the since concluded Comprehensive Peace Agreement between North and South Sudan. The Act also imposed targeted sanctions and required reports. 
   "The Darfur crisis is complex, but it has not been sudden. It has gradually unfolded, providing ample opportunity for humanitarian action by the international community. Although many nations have responded, the resolve and unity of the international community have not been commensurate to the horrors of the crisis. Khartoum's status as an oil exporter, a major arms importer and an Islamic government has diminished the appetite for decisive action in some foreign capitals. But neither economic interests, nor religious identification should trump responsible international actions in a case where genocidal policies are being conducted," said Lugar. 
   As Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Lugar has chaired two hearings on Sudan in the last year. The hearing entitled "Current Situation in Sudan and the Prospects for Peace" in September 2004 provided then Secretary of State Colin Powell the opportunity for the first ever declaration of ongoing genocide. 
   The hearing in September 2005 again raised the alarm on the deteriorating security situation and the expectation of international coordination in response to the violence and mortality. 
   In addition to these two hearings dedicated entirely to Sudan, Lugar has raised the issue of Sudanese policies in Darfur, the international humanitarian response and the security situation at a number of other hearings and forums.
 
 