SENS. BAYH, LUGAR URGE FEMA TO APPROVE REQUEST FOR RECONSTRUCTION FUNDING FOR TORNADO-DAMAGED COUNTIES
  Sens. Evan Bayh and Dick Lugar today urged the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to approve Indiana's request for funding to help cover emergency response and clean-up efforts following the deadly tornado that hit Southwest Indiana on November 6th. Earlier this week, Gov. Daniels made the request for special grants to recoup funding used for public response, repair and construction in the wake of the tornado, the deadliest tornado to strike Indiana in 30 years.  
   "One of the things that impressed me most when I visited Evansville after the tornado was the outstanding job our first responders were doing to begin the rebuilding process," Senator Bayh said. "This funding will ensure that their efforts can continue by covering some of the growing expenses our counties are facing. The tornado left heartbreaking loss and incredible damage in its wake, but it has also reminded us of the importance of working together, and I am proud to join Senator Lugar in supporting Indiana's request for this funding." 
   "This funding is the next step to advancing a swift and strong recovery in the area and helping Hoosiers with the process of rebuilding," said Lugar. "I appreciate the quick response that Governor Daniels' received to his first request for individual assistance and hope that similar consideration is given to this request for public assistance. Federal disaster grants in the form of public assistance are essential to rebuilding the economic growth and prosperity of the region." 
   In letters to FEMA and President Bush, Bayh and Lugar call for swift approval of grants to keep reconstruction efforts on pace in Southern Indiana. Hoosier officials estimate that it will cost $8 million in public funds for clean-up and recovery efforts, including $1.5 million to reimburse Vanderburgh County and $4.9 million for Warrick County. If approved by FEMA, the grant requests would cover at least three-fourths of the public reconstruction costs. 
   The Public Assistance Program provides supplemental Federal disaster grant assistance for the repair, replacement, or restoration of disaster-damaged, publicly owned facilities and the facilities of certain Private Non-Profit (PNP) organizations. 
   Earlier this month, Bayh and Lugar wrote President Bush to support Governor Daniels' request to declare Indiana a Major Disaster Area after the tornado. President Bush made the declaration the following day, which begins the process of allowing individual Hoosiers to apply for federal funding needed to replace property that was damaged or destroyed during the storm.
 
 