FORMER BUTLER UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR RECEIVES LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 16, Sen. Dick Lugar honored Indianapolis resident Ralph Reiff for his commitment to health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge.  
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards. 
   "Ralph continues to devote his career and life to the health and well being of athletes," Mrs. Lugar said. 
   Reiff is the Director of St. Vincent Sports Medicine and Hand at St. Vincent Orthopedic Center. For 18 years, Reiff worked as a professor, head athletic trainer and director of sports medicine at Butler University. At the start of his career, he served as the Assistant Athletic Trainer for the Indiana Pacers and a health teacher at Lawrence North High School. 
   Reiff has conducted many leadership workshops designed to address prevention of athletic injuries in youth and in 2006 delivered a professional presentation for the National Athletic Trainers Association entitled "Assessment and Solutions for Running Mechanics Issues." 
   Reiff has managed athlete medical care and human performance for the 1996 Olympic Games and many other national and international sporting competitions. 
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting fitness and health. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April of 1989. Lugar presents the award each in honor of Ray's life and commitment to physical fitness and health. 
   Other recipients included: Evansville's School Community Council's "Nutrition and Physical Activities Team" for its devotion to educating youth about the positive effects of healthy choices; Paula Ryan of Indianapolis for teaching strategies for safe exercise, stress and nutrition management for people with Multiple Sclerosis; Audrey Satterblom of Indianapolis for her work as Wellness Coordinator of the Indianapolis Public School system; and Ray Tetrault of Kokomo for establishing Coyote Kids, a free summer program aimed towards getting children interested in running. 
   The 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge combined two annual traditions on the campus of Butler University: Lugar's run and walk and Indiana Sports Corporation's Corporate Challenge. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 15. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 