EVANSVILLE SCHOOL COMMUNITY COUNCIL'S TEAM RECEIVES LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 16, Sen. Dick Lugar honored the Evansville School Community Council's "Nutrition and Physical Activities Team" for its commitment to youth health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge.  
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards. 
   "We commend and award Evansville's School Community Council Nutrition and Physical Activities Team for its goal to address our children's physical fitness, health and wellness needs," Mrs. Lugar said. "Their work is critical to enhancing the lifestyles and livelihoods of our children for a lifetime." 
   The Nutrition and Physical Activities Team represents more than 70 community agencies and schools working together in Evansville to create programs at school and community sites that inform children about the positive effects of fitness, nutrition and healthy choices. In 2006, the Team organized a community-wide event called Healthier Evansville that drew more than 2,000 people and resulted in the establishment of Healthier Evansville as a permanent committee. 
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting health and fitness. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April 1989. Lugar presents the award each year in honor of Ray's life and commitment to physical fitness and health. 
   Other recipients included: Ralph Reiff of Indianapolis for his work as Director of St. Vincent Sports Medicine and Hand at St. Vincent Orthopedic Center; Paula Ryan of Indianapolis for teaching strategies for safe exercise, stress and nutrition management for people with Multiple Sclerosis; Audrey Satterblom of Indianapolis for her work as Wellness Coordinator of the Indianapolis Public School system; and Ray Tetrault of Kokomo for establishing Coyote Kids, a free summer program aimed towards getting children interested in running. 
   The 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge combined two annual traditions on the campus of Butler University: Lugar's run and walk and Indiana Sports Corporation's Corporate Challenge. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 15. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 