INDIANAPOLIS RESIDENT RECEIVES LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 16, Sen. Dick Lugar honored Indianapolis resident Paula Ryan for her commitment to health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge.  
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards. 
   "[Paula] has made it her mission to inspire others to understand the vital role good health and fitness practices provide," Mrs. Lugar said. 
   Ryan, who has Multiple Sclerosis, holds a leadership training position as a part of the Gateway to Wellness Program at the Indiana Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. She teaches strategies for safe exercise as well as stress and nutrition management to people with MS. She recently participated in a train-the-trainer session so that the program can be expanded. 
   Ryan is a runner and the girls basketball and volleyball coach at Immaculate Heart of Mary in Indianapolis. 
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting fitness and health. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April 1989. Lugar presents the award each year in honor of Ray's life and commitment to physical fitness and health. 
   Other recipients included: Evansville's School Community Council's "Nutrition and Physical Activities Team" for its devotion to educating youth about the positive effects of healthy choices; Ralph Reiff of Indianapolis for his work as Director of St. Vincent Sports Medicine and Hand at St. Vincent Orthopedic Center; Audrey Satterblom of Indianapolis for her work as Wellness Coordinator of the Indianapolis Public School system; and Ray Tetrault of Kokomo for establishing Coyote Kids, a free summer program aimed towards getting children interested in running. 
   The 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge combined two annual traditions on the campus of Butler University: Lugar's run and walk and Indiana Sports Corporation's Corporate Challenge. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 15. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 