IPS WELLNESS COORDINATOR RECEIVES LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 16, Sen. Dick Lugar honored Indianapolis resident Audrey Satterblom for her commitment to health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge.  
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards. 
   In 2005, Audrey became the first Wellness Coordinator for the Indianapolis Public School system (IPS) after nearly 30 years of work as a physical education instructor and emergency medical technician. She chaired the committee that wrote the IPS district-wide wellness policy and in January convened the first Indiana PE 4 Life Summit for professionals who mentor students in health and physical fitness education. She also helped secure a Physical Education Program grant in 2004, allowing IPS to expand wellness programs, adding two new fitness centers and a fitness trail. 
   Audrey is co-chair of FitCity Indianapolis. 
   Charles Brandenburg, Audrey's co-chair of FitCity Indianapolis and Director of Community Impact for United Way, said, "the community is blessed to have a true champion who works collaboratively and with a practical can-do spirit to create and sustain opportunities for children and their families to adopt healthier lifestyles." 
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting fitness and health. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April 1989. Lugar presents the award each year in honor of Ray's life and commitment to physical fitness and health. 
   Other recipients included: Evansville's School Community Council's "Nutrition and Physical Activities Team" for its devotion to educating youth about the positive effects of healthy choices; Ralph Reiff of Indianapolis for his work as Director of St. Vincent Sports Medicine and Hand at St. Vincent Orthopedic Center; Paula Ryan of Indianapolis for teaching strategies for safe exercise, stress and nutrition management for people with Multiple Sclerosis; and Ray Tetrault of Kokomo for establishing Coyote Kids, a free summer program aimed towards getting children interested in running. 
   The 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge combined two annual traditions on the campus of Butler University: Lugar's run and walk and Indiana Sports Corporation's Corporate Challenge. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 15. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 