KOKOMO RESIDENT RECEIVES LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD
  On Saturday, September 16, Sen. Dick Lugar honored Ray Tetrault of Kokomo for his commitment to health and fitness. The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award was presented as part of the 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge.  
   Lugar's wife, Char, announced the recipients while the Senator handed out the awards. 
   As President of the Club Kokomo Roadrunners, Tetrault established the Coyote Kids Running Program, a free summer program aimed at improving youth interest in running. Trophies are awarded based on attendance rather than competition. Currently in its third year, Coyote Kids had more than 1,000 participants this past summer. 
   Tetrault, who is the pastor of Grace Fellowship Church, serves as a placement director for prisoners after their release, introducing former inmates to the benefits of health and fitness and helping build their self-esteem. 
   In her nomination statement, Gina Sheets, CEO of the Clinton County Chamber of Commerce, said, "Ray's leadership and programs teach children to reach goals, improve physical well-being and learn that running is fun." 
   The Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award, given in memory of Ray Sears, was established in 1984 to honor Hoosiers who have made outstanding contributions in promoting fitness and health. Ray Sears, a friend of Lugar's and a 1985 award winner, died in April 1989. Lugar presents the award each year in honor of Ray's life and commitment to physical fitness and health. 
   Other recipients included: Evansville's School Community Council's "Nutrition and Physical Activities Team" for its devotion to educating youth about the positive effects of healthy choices; Ralph Reiff of Indianapolis for his work as Director of St. Vincent Sports Medicine and Hand at St. Vincent Orthopedic Center; Paula Ryan of Indianapolis for teaching strategies for safe exercise, stress and nutrition management for people with Multiple Sclerosis; and Audrey Satterblom of Indianapolis for her work as Wellness Coordinator of the Indianapolis Public School system. 
   The 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge combined two annual traditions on the campus of Butler University: Lugar's run and walk and Indiana Sports Corporation's Corporate Challenge. In conjunction with the event, Lugar hosted an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall on Friday, September 15. This year's Health Fair was sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and featured more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings.
 
 