SENS. LUGAR-BAYH NUCLEAR SAFEGUARDS BILL INTRODUCED
  Indiana's Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh have introduced legislation to create "a new international non-proliferation standard that prevents countries from using the guise of nuclear energy to develop nuclear weapons." 
   "Unless the international community, led by the United States, takes this important step, the coming surge in demand for nuclear power will lead more and more nations to seek their own enrichment facilities. We understand that making the case for this change will be difficult, but we believe it is necessary given the continued failures of the current approach," the senators wrote last October in a Chicago Tribune op-ed.  
   The Lugar-Bayh Nuclear Safeguards and Supply Act, S. 1138, makes it the policy of the United States to discourage the development of enrichment and reprocessing capabilities in additional countries, to encourage the creation of bilateral and multilateral assurances of nuclear fuel supply, and ensure that all supply mechanisms operate in strict accordance with the IAEA safeguards system and do not result in any additional unmet verification burdens for the system. 
   "The non-proliferation regime we've had in the nuclear age has been surpassed by the global availability of nuclear weapons technology, especially the technology and equipment for uranium enrichment and spent nuclear fuel reprocessing, which can produce fissile material for weapons," Lugar said. "Now the road to nuclear weapons can be traveled by determined countries with only a minimal industrial base. While the number of recognized Nuclear Weapons States has not dramatically increased over the years, the dangers of proliferation have become all too apparent as demonstrated by the A.Q. Khan network, the Iranian, North Korean, and Libyan examples." 
   "Current nuclear proliferation rules allow countries to come too close to becoming nuclear powers legally, making it easy to build weapons before anything can be done to stop them," Senator Bayh said. "With the creation of a nuclear fuel bank, countries would have no legitimate need to keep their leftover nuclear materials - providing an important litmus test to identify and prevent attempts at nuclear proliferation, while allowing peaceful countries to continue their energy efforts." 
   "The expansion of peaceful nuclear power does not require - either technically or economically - the construction of enrichment or reprocessing facilities in countries that do not currently have them. Senator Bayh and I believe the United States should adopt the basic non-proliferation principle that countries who give up their own enrichment and reprocessing programs have assurance of fuel supply from a nuclear fuel bank," Lugar said. 
   "Already today, Iran is using the pretense of a nuclear energy program to seek a nuclear weapons production capacity. Unless we take away this currently legal, but clearly abused, option from dangerous states like Iran, we will face similar cases in the future. The coming surge in demand for nuclear power means more nations will need secure supplies of nuclear fuel. Our legislation would give these nations incentive to pursue nuclear energy in a way that is safe and reduces the proliferation threat," Bayh said. 
   "If the world is at the dawn of a new nuclear power age, then there will be more facilities and materials for the IAEA to inspect and verify. The IAEA is not prepared for such a future, but there is still time to put the necessary investments in place to ensure that it continues its important role. The United States and other Member States have the ability to plan and make decisions now that will ensure a safer nuclear power option in the future. It is incumbent upon the United States to construct the best possible safeguards system to enhance international peace and security. Peaceful uses of nuclear energy are only as good as the means to verify them," Lugar said.
 
 