SEN. LUGAR'S SUMMER FEEDING PROGRAMS EXPANDED
  The Lugar Pilots program was expanded to all 50 states in the omnibus appropriations bill passed by Congress last night.  
  Initiated by U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar, the Lugar Pilots program is part of the Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) and began operating in 13 states (including Indiana) and Puerto Rico in 2001. Lugar worked in 2004 to make the program permanent (now called the Simplified Summer Food Program). Lugar's legislative efforts in 2006 increased the number of states to 26 and Puerto Rico. The bill passed last night expands the program nationwide. 
  The SFSP was created by Congress in 1969 to help fill the gap in low-income neighborhoods by providing needy children with the nutrition they need to learn, play and grow throughout the summer months when school lunches are not provided. Lugar recognized, however, that too many schools and other potential providers chose not to participate because of bureaucratic red tape in receiving reimbursements. This lack of participation led to children not having the opportunity to receive summer meals, which was especially concerning because many children in low income homes receive the bulk of their nutrition from schools that do not operate in the summer. 
  "The need to feed youth in the summer time is a nationwide problem and it is clear we have a proven method. Hunger does not stop simply because the school year ends, and expanding this program nation-wide will dramatically increase the availability of nutritious meals to underprivileged children," Lugar said.
  According to the Food Research and Action Center, the 13 original Lugar Pilot states have increased participation by 51 percent and non-participating states have experienced decreased participation by 16 percent since 2001.
  Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. His efforts in child nutrition have been recognized nationally by the National Council of La Raza with a 2004 Capitol Award highlighting his efforts through the years for nutrition programs for low-income Americans, especially children. Lugar also has been recognized by FRAC and the School Nutrition Association, among others for his work in child nutrition.
  Internationally, Lugar has been honored by the Friends of the World Food Program with the Leaders in the Fight Against Hunger award for his work to strengthen the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs, expand food stamps, support food banks, and advance international food aid operations.
 
 