SEN. LUGAR PRAISES U.S. AIR FORCE B-52 TEST FLIGHT USING ALTERNATIVE FUEL
  Sen. Dick Lugar applauded the successful test flight of a B-52 bomber at Edwards Air Force Base running all eight engines on synthetic fuel. The test flight is part of an overall effort by the U.S. Air Force to seek alternative energy sources and goal to derive half of its aviation fuel from synthetic sources by 2016.  
   "This is an important step in the development of a reliable fuel blend for the Air Force and a benchmark in its broader efforts to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil," said Lugar. "Global oil reserves are concentrated in unstable regions and countries. We need reliable fuels to power the equipment necessary to keep our military strong and soldiers safe." 
   The fuel used in the test flight was a 50-50 blend of traditional crude oil based jet fuel and synthetic liquid. In this case, the synthetic liquid was derived from natural gas using the Fischer-Tropsch process. The same process could be used to derive liquid fuel from coal, which is abundant in the United States, including Indiana. 
   The Air Force is pursuing synthetic aviation fuels under the Office of the Secretary of Defense's Assured Fuels Initiative that seeks to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign energy sources. 
   In a speech at the recent NATO conference in Riga, Latvia, Lugar warned of the potential conflict from over dependence on foreign owned energy resources: 
   "In the coming decades, the most likely source of armed conflict in the European theater and the surrounding regions will be energy scarcity and manipulation. 
   "We all hope that the economics of supply and pricing surrounding energy transactions will be rational and transparent. We hope that nations with abundant oil and natural gas will reliably supply these resources in normal market transactions to those who need them. And we hope that vast energy wealth will not be a source of corruption within nations that desperately ask their governments to develop and deliver the benefits of this wealth broadly to society. 
   "Unfortunately, our experiences provide little reason to be confident that market rationality will be the governing force behind energy policy and transactions. The majority of oil and natural gas supplies and reserves in the world are not controlled by efficient, privately owned companies. Geology and politics have created oil and natural gas superpowers that nearly monopolize the world's oil supply. According to PFC Energy, foreign governments control up to 79 percent of the world's oil reserves through their national oil companies. These governments set prices through their investment and production decisions, and they have wide latitude to shut off the taps for political reasons." 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on oil. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 