LETTER #6: IRAQ'S ELECTIONS IN PERSPECTIVE
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the sixth letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the sixth letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq. 
   Iraqis went to the polls three times in 2005. The turnout for the December 15, 2005, election was higher than any we have seen in any national election in this country in our lifetimes. To put this event in perspective, I wanted to share with you an article by Iraq historian and frequent Foreign Relations Committee witness, Dr. Phebe Marr. Her article, "Democracy in the Rough," appears in the January 2006 issue of Current History magazine. Dr. Marr provides a succinct tutorial on the political evolution that has occurred in Iraq over the last year, some initial perspectives on the election results, and insights into the backroom political haggling and public compromises that will be necessary in the coming months for Iraq to achieve stability. 
   "Whatever the outcome of the bargaining," she states, "two results are clear from the December elections. From a relatively unified country with nationalist orientation under most years of the Baathist state, Iraq has now shifted to the politics of cultural identity. Voting has been organized around ethnicity and sect, rather than platforms and mutual interests; indeed, the political process itself has been divisive. As a result, the sense of Iraqi identity has weakened, although it has not yet disappeared entirely. Second, oil will be a key component in holding the state together. Provisions made by the new legislature to develop and distribute the country's oil resources will be a main determinant of just how much 'unity' Iraq may have." 
   In analyzing a political strategy to counter the insurgency, Dr. Marr suggests that we look at the motivations of insurgents and put them in three broad categories: (1) foreign Al Qaeda supporters who "are a minority without much local support;" (2) "supporters of Hussein still loose in Iraq; they too are a tiny minority;" and (3) a "far more numerous group is the Iraqi 'rejectionists.'" She states that the "first two groups are unsuitable negotiating partners for the new government or the United States and are likely to continue their violence. But the new government must begin to deal with the third group, some of whose representatives have just been elected. In time, layers of Sunni opposition must be peeled back and rejectionists brought into the political process. With the December election, this process is well under way. But electoral participation is not enough. Easing some Sunni grievances is also essential, as is greater Sunni acceptance of the new order in Iraq." 
   The members of the Foreign Relations Committee and I have appreciated the counsel of Dr. Marr over the years on the complicated matters of Iraqi politics. She writes with pragmatism and a profound understanding of Iraq based on years of study and interaction with the Iraqi people. I commend to you her analysis and the sense of focus she urges in seeing the mission in Iraq through to success.
 
 