SEN. LUGAR CONGRATULATES HANCOCK COUNTY'S ONLY E85 FUEL PUMP
  Sen. Dick Lugar today recognized Gas America #39 in Greenfield, Indiana for operating the only E85 (fuel that is 85 percent ethanol) pump in Hancock County. A representative from Lugar's office will present a certificate of recognition to Jim Gentry, Fuel Manager for Gas America.  
   The certificate recognizes Gas America's "dedication and outstanding contribution to our nation's energy security through the promotion of alternative fuels." 
   "Ethanol and E85 are positive for Indiana's economy, and they are essential to solving an energy situation that threatens our nation's security," said Lugar. "Using E85 in your flex-fuel car is something individuals can do to make a real difference." 
   "Hoosier service stations selling E85 have gone from one in 2005 to 62 today, with new stations being added all the time. There are about 160,000 flexible fuel vehicles in the state that can use E85, and I'm urging car companies to make virtually all their new cars flex-fuel. 
   "The E85 pump at Gas American #39 is an important addition to the infrastructure necessary to make renewable fuels available to more Americans," said Lugar. 
   Gas America #39 is located at 2242 N. State Street in Greenfield. 
   Lugar has introduced the National Fuels Initiative which calls for E85 pumps to be installed in at least 25% of the nation's fuel stations within ten years. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 