SEN. LUGAR REQUESTS FLAG IN HONOR OF LOCAL ETHANOL PLANT
  Sen. Dick Lugar today requested that a U.S. flag be flown over the United States Capitol in recognition of the first day of ethanol production by Iroquois Bio-Energy Company in Rensselaer. The plant has been under construction since September 2005 and is the second ethanol plant in operation in Indiana. Today marks the start of initial production and the first time that corn will be processed into ethanol at the plant.  
   "For a quarter of a century, Indiana has had only one ethanol plant. Now there are more than a dozen under construction or in planning phases. I am excited by this expansion, and I congratulate Iroquois Bio-Energy Company on meeting today's important benchmark of producing ethanol from corn at their facility for the first time, " said Lugar. 
   "Ethanol and biodiesel plants can be a major part of a rural economic revolution in Indiana that would create thousands of jobs and strong economic growth. 
   "Not only are ethanol and other renewable fuels positive for Indiana's economy, they are essential to solving an energy situation that threatens our nation's security. The heart of America's geostrategic problem is reliance on imported oil in a market that is dominated by volatile and hostile governments. In order to move beyond a petroleum-based economy, we must reform the transportation sector and expand renewable fuel production and use." 
   Lugar has challenged the nation to expand renewable fuels production to at least 100 billion gallons a year by 2025, a goal based on research by the Departments of Agriculture and Energy and the National Renewable Energy Lab. This added production will come in part from current corn-based ethanol and biodiesel but largely from emerging technologies such as cellulosic ethanol and other advanced fuels coming from diverse sources of renewable biomass. 
   At full capacity, the plant in Rensselaer will produce 40 million gallons of ethanol per year and use 14 million bushels of locally grown corn. 
   Lugar has joined Congressman Peter Visclosky (D-IN) as strong supporters of renewable fuels production in Northwest Indiana. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 