PROGRESS MADE AGAINST ROADBLOCKS TO NUNN-LUGAR PROGRAM
  Progress has been made on two administrative issues that have challenged the Nunn-Lugar program throughout its nearly 15-year history. 
   Russian and U.S. officials signed a 7-year extension of the Nunn-Lugar umbrella agreement. This agreement is necessary so that legal, tax and other disputes do not derail the program's work of destroying nuclear, biological and chemical weapons in the former Soviet Union. Failure to reach agreement would have stopped the work of the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   On the American side, the program has been threatened with delays and shutdown by congressionally place conditions. Last year the Senate voted 78-19 to eliminated the conditions. The amendment was not accepted by the House of Representatives, which opted to allow a waiver of the conditions. Last week the Senate passed the amendment once again as part of the Defense Authorization Bill.  
   "While well intentioned, these conditions delay and complicate efforts to destroy weapons of mass destruction. If the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is the number one national security threat facing our country, we cannot permit any delays in our response," U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar said. "The certification and waiver processes consume hundreds of man-hours of work by the State Department, the Intelligence Community, the Pentagon, as well as other departments and agencies. This time could be better spent tackling the proliferation threats facing our country. Instead of interdicting WMD shipments, identifying the next A.Q. Khan, or locating hidden stocks of chemical and biological weapons, our nonproliferation experts spend their time compiling reports and assembling certification or waiver determinations. Even more frustrating is the fact that the majority of these reports are repetitive, in that the Department of State already reports on most of these issues in other formats," Lugar said. 
   "The umbrella agreement underpins all U.S. threat reduction programs in the former Soviet Union. Over the last decade the United States provided more than $5.7 billion through Nunn-Lugar and related programs to help Russia reduce unneeded strategic armaments, destroy chemical weapons as called for by international agreements, and increase the security of remaining stocks of dangerous materials. This cooperative effort has immeasurably increased the security of both our countries," said Lugar, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
   Last month, the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee passed out of committee, S. 2566, the Lugar-Obama Act. Modeled after the Nunn-Lugar program that focuses on weapons of mass destruction in the former Soviet Union, the bill was introduced by Lugar (R-IN) and Barack Obama (D-IL) to expand the cooperative threat reduction concept to conventional weapons and to expand the State Department's ability to detect and interdict weapons and materials of mass destruction. 
   In November 1991, Senator Lugar (R-IN) and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA) authored the Nunn-Lugar Act, which established the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. This program has provided U.S. funding and expertise to help the former Soviet Union safeguard and dismantle its enormous stockpiles of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, related materials, and delivery systems. In 1997, Lugar and Nunn were joined by Senator Pete Domenici (R-NM) in introducing the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act, which expanded Nunn-Lugar authorities in the former Soviet Union and provided WMD expertise to first responders in American cities. In 2003, Congress adopted the Nunn-Lugar Expansion Act, which authorized the Nunn-Lugar program to operate outside the former Soviet Union to address proliferation threats. In October 2004, Nunn-Lugar funds were used for the first time outside of the former Soviet Union to secure chemical weapons in Albania, under a Lugar-led expansion of the program. 
   The latest Nunn-Lugar Scorecard shows that the program has deactivated or destroyed: 6,828 nuclear warheads; 611 ICBMs; 485 ICBM silos; 55 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 152 bombers; 865 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 436 submarine missile launchers; 563 submarine launched missiles; 29 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. 
   Beyond the scorecard's nuclear elimination, the Nunn-Lugar program secures and destroys chemical weapons, and works to reemploy scientists and facilities related to biological weapons in peaceful research initiatives. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. They otherwise would be the world's the third, fourth and eighth largest nuclear weapons powers, respectively. 
   On the web: 
  Nunn-Lugar Program: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/
 
 