SEN. LUGAR URGES EPA TO SPEED APPROVAL OF FUNGICIDES TO FIGHT SOYBEAN RUST
  Sen. Dick Lugar today sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Steve Johnson expressing concern over pending Section 18 fungicide approvals that could be used to fight Asian Soybean Rust (ASR) in the event of an outbreak in Indiana. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), a new outbreak of ASR has been reported in Mississippi and Alabama has reported ASR in the first commercial plot of soybeans.  
   "I commend the EPA's efforts to date in helping American agriculture meet the challenges presented by soybean rust, by the approval of a number of fungicide products under the emergency exemption provision of FIFRA Section 18. However, I am aware there may still be some Section 18 approvals pending for the state of Indiana. I urge the EPA to work to complete these reviews in an expeditious manner," Lugar wrote in the letter. "I urge the EPA to complete these reviews in an appropriate and expeditious manner." 
   In the wake of hurricanes and tropical storms in the South, Lugar met with crop protection industry officials last week to continue assessing the threat of ASR to Hoosier farmers. Hurricanes can spread ASR spores quickly and send them hundreds of miles from the original plot. According to the UDSA's website, the effect of Hurricane Dennis in terms of new infection points would be seven or more days after spore deposition. 
   In last week's meeting, Lugar stressed the importance of adequate fungicide supplies, emphasized quickly moving those fungicides to ASR hotspots and discussed proactive measures to prevent any loss of trade in soybeans. 
   Last week Lugar also sent a letter to the USDA asking important questions about ASR and crop insurance. The USDA states that farmers will qualify for crop insurance coverage in the event of ASR so long as they follow recommended management practices, and Lugar's letter seeks specific guidelines farmers should follow to help ensure crop insurance coverage and indemnity payments. 
   At the end of June, Lugar spoke with U.S. Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Chuck Conner, a fellow Hoosier and former staffer for Lugar, about the dangers of ASR and stressed the importance of USDA vigilance. Lugar then launched a section of his website, http://lugar.senate.gov/soyrust/, devoted to the dangers of soybean rust and issued a public service announcement warning farmers of the dangers of soybean rust located at http://src.senate.gov/lugar/radio/. 
   Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition. As the manager of his family's 604-acre corn, soybean and walnut tree farm in Marion County, Lugar takes an active interest in ASR and repeatedly raises the issue of ASR at Agriculture Committee hearings.
 
 