SEN. LUGAR APPLAUDS INTRODUCTION OF HIV VACCINE RESOLUTION BY REP. VISCLOSKY
  Sen. Dick Lugar applauded Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN) for introducing a resolution urging the President to continue the efforts of the United States to generate global support for initiatives to develop an HIV vaccine. Lugar introduced companion legislation in the Senate on February 7, 2005.  
   "I appreciate the leadership of Pete Visclosky in introducing this critical bill in the House," said Lugar. "It is especially significant that this bill was introduced on the occasion of HIV Vaccine Awareness Day, and I am delighted to work with my friend and fellow Hoosier on this important initiative," Lugar said. 
   "The theme of this year's HIV Vaccine Awareness Day is 'Hope for the future,' and it is an appropriate choice," said Lugar and Visclosky. "An HIV vaccine would prevent new HIV and AIDS cases, which could save millions of lives and dramatically reduce the negative social and economic consequences of the disease," they continued. 
   The resolution commends President Bush's leadership at last summer's meeting of the Group of Eight, when the G-8 endorsed the establishment of a Global HIV Vaccine Enterprise. The Enterprise is an alliance of leading scientists and independent organizations around the world committed to accelerating the development of a preventive vaccine for HIV/AIDS. Modeled after the Human Genome Project, the Enterprise seeks to promote a new level of coordination and information-sharing to address the complex scientific problem. Additionally, the Enterprise is intended to accelerate progress by promoting international public-private collaboration. 
   Currently, an estimated 40,000,000 people around the world live with HIV and/or AIDS, and nearly 8,500 people die every day from AIDS. Recent projections by the World Health Organization and UNAIDS indicate that there will be 45 million new infections by 2010 and nearly 70 million deaths by 2020, if the pandemic spreads at the current rate. 
   Scientifically, developing an HIV vaccine has been especially challenging because of the complicated and changing nature of the virus. Despite the fact that an effective AIDS vaccine remains the world's best chance to reverse this pandemic, the development of an HIV vaccine has not been prominent on national or international public health agendas. 
   "Our resolution seeks to highlight the urgent need to coordinate efforts to develop an HIV vaccine and that accomplishing this goal will require the efforts of many groups, including governments, scientists, researchers, the private sector, and individuals" said Lugar and Visclosky. 
   "We are hopeful that the G-8 countries will take similar concrete steps and place this issue high on the agenda when the reconvene for this summer's meeting in the UK." 
   Rep. Pete King (R-NY), a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, co-sponsored the resolution with Visclosky.
 
 