SEN. LUGAR PRAISES ANTI-CORRUPTION PACT
  Sen. Dick Lugar, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, applauded a new anti-corruption pact among the major international financial institutions, including the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the other multilateral development banks.  
   "Ending poverty in the developing world is an important U.S. security goal which these international financial institutions support through their aid and development programs. The joint framework against fraud and corruption they have announced is an important step forward and should help ensure that aid money gets to the intended beneficiaries and is not diverted by corruption," Lugar said. 
   The African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank Group announced on Sunday, September 17, during the IMF/World Bank annual meeting in Singapore, a new joint framework for combating fraud and corruption in their activities and operations. The plan for greater cooperation on anti-fraud coordination, information sharing, development of common standards, compliance and enforcement, was produced by a joint Task Force formed last February by the leaders of the banks and the IMF. 
   "The new joint framework is a very positive response to legislation passed by Congress last year that called for more anti-corruption coordination among these institutions," Lugar said. "That bill, the product of a two-year inquiry by the Foreign Relations Committee, called on the U.S. Treasury to seek various anti-corruption reforms at the multilateral banks. In particular, the legislation asked the institutions to 'coordinate policies across multilateral development banks on issues including debarment, cross-debarment, procurement guidelines, consultant guidelines, and fiduciary standards.' 
   "The Committee's inquiry into corruption at the multilateral development banks, which has so far included six full committee hearings and many hundreds of hours of staff time, is continuing, and I look forward to seeing further progress in the fight against corruption in the banks' aid and development programs." 
   The Multilateral Development Bank Law was included in H.R.3057, the FY06 Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill, and signed by President Bush on November 14, 2005. This law includes reform measures contained in Lugar's amendment S.A. 1293 that passed the Senate by unanimous consent. This also represents a significant portion of Lugar's reform bill S.1129 that passed out of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee unanimously.
 
 