SEN. LUGAR TO RECEIVE HARRIMAN DEMOCRACY AWARD
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar will receive the National Democratic Institute's W. Averell Harriman Democracy Award on Monday, December 6, 2004.  
   Lugar (R-IN) will receive the award along with Sen. Joe Biden (D-DE), Ranking Member of the Foreign Relations Committee. Lugar and Biden are being recognized for their efforts to forge a bipartisan consensus in the U.S. Congress on the promotion of democracy worldwide. 
   The National Democratic Institute (NDI) is celebrating its 20th anniversary by "paying tribute to an era of democratic transformation through the eyes of those from different regions of the world who experienced its struggles and successes." 
   Lugar is being recognized for advocating free and fair elections and the development of democratic institutions from the 1986 Philippines election to last month's elections in Ukraine. Lugar represented the United States in Ukraine at the request of President Bush. 
   NDI's W. Averell Harriman Democracy Award is the Institute's highest honor, presented annually to individuals and organizations dedicated to democracy and human rights. Past recipients of the Award have included: Oswaldo Paya of the Varela Project in Cuba; the Organization of American States; Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations; the eight political party leaders who negotiated the Northern Ireland peace agreement; Burmese democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi; Czech Republic President Vaclav Havel; then-Vice President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa; former Argentine President Raul Alfonsin; Chile's 1988 Free Election Movement; former U.S. Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter; former U.S. Vice President Walter Mondale; Senator Edward Kennedy; former Senator George Mitchell; the late Lane Kirkland, president of the AFL-CIO; and Linda and the late Peter Biehl of the Amy Biehl Foundation in South Africa. 
   NDI is a nonprofit organization working to strengthen and expand democracy worldwide. Calling on a global network of volunteer experts, NDI provides practical assistance to civic and political leaders advancing democratic values, practices and institutions. NDI works with democrats in every region of the world to build political and civic organizations, safeguard elections, and to promote citizen participation, openness and accountability in government.
 
 