SEN. LUGAR PAYS TRIBUTE TO WORLD AIDS DAY
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today joined in acknowledging World AIDS Day. The theme of this year's World AIDS Day is "Women, Girls, HIV and AIDS."  
   "Today is a day to remember the millions of lives lost to and devastated by this global pandemic and to strengthen our commitment to fight this disease," said Lugar. As part of the events being held today in Washington, D.C., Lugar is the co-sponsor of the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation briefing. 
   "The theme of World AIDS Day this year, women, girls, and HIV and AIDS, is an appropriate one. This disease is having a particularly devastating effect on women and girls around the world. We are just beginning to understand how women, and young girls in particular, are especially vulnerable to HIV and AIDS, due to a combination of biological, cultural, economic, social and legal factors." 
   Globally, young women and girls are more susceptible to HIV than men and boys, with studies showing they can be 2.5 times more likely to be HIV-infected as their male counterparts. In South Africa young girls constitute 75 percent of new infections among individuals between 14 and 25 years of age. 
   Lugar also acknowledged that even in the United States, HIV/AIDS is having a devastating effect on women, and is the leading cause of death among African American women ages 25 to 34. 
   "Not only are women and girls more vulnerable to infection, they are also shouldering much of the burden of taking care of sick and dying relatives and friends. In addition, in the vast majority of cases, they are the caretakers of the estimated 14 million children who have been orphaned by this pandemic." 
   "The AIDS orphans crisis in sub-Saharan Africa has implications for political stability, development, and human welfare that extend far beyond the region. Turning the tide on this crisis will require a coordinated, comprehensive, and swift response. I am hopeful that, with the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, the Global Fund, and the Congress, we can make great strides in the battle against this pandemic." 
   To improve assistance for orphans and vulnerable children and to protect the inheritance rights of orphans and widows, Lugar recently introduced the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act of 2004. Lugar has also been the Senate sponsor of the Global HIV/AIDS Initiative and the Global School Lunch Program. He is the original author of the original African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA). 
   Under Lugar's chairmanship, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee continues to make HIV/AIDS a priority. In the past year, hearings have focused on the intersection of HIV/AIDS and hunger. The committee has continued to hold oversight hearings and briefings on the progress of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS. 
   Lugar was also recently presented the 2004 Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award from Africare for his service to international issues and to Africa.
 
 