SEN. LUGAR REINFORCES PRESIDENT'S CALL TO REDUCE AMERICA'S DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL
  Sen. Dick Lugar (R-IN) joined the cosponsors of S. 2025 and H.R. 4409, the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, in sending President Bush a letter to express support for reducing America's dependence on foreign oil and asking support of their legislation.  
   In Tuesday's State of the Union Address, Bush called for additional funding to research "cutting-edge methods of producing ethanol, not just from corn but from wood chips and stalks or switch grass. Our goal is to make this new kind of ethanol practical and competitive within six years." 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. Lugar's Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000 remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. To meet the goals set by the President last night requires full funding of the Biomass Research and Development Initiative (http://www.bioproducts-bioenergy.gov/). 
   The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act would provide for changes in oil conservation, new measures to improve fuel economy, tax credits for hybrid cars and advanced fuels, encourage use of renewable fuels, and set new regulations for federal fleets. Senate cosponsors signing the letter to President Bush include Sens. Evan Bayh (D-IN), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Joseph Lieberman (D-CT), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Barack Obama (D-IL), Ken Salazar (D-CO), and Jeff Sessions (R-AL). 
   "As you expressed in your State of the Union speech last night, we must continue to expand our research and development efforts into vehicle and fuel technologies that will be available in the near term. By doing this we will help safeguard our national security, improve American competitiveness and protect our environment," the letter states. 
   "In November, we introduced The Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, which is focused on two important concepts. First, we must set visionary and achievable goals for reduced oil consumption and measure progress towards these goals as a national priority. Second, the most effective means to achieve these goals is by providing incentives to encourage manufacturers, distributors and consumers to utilize domestic resources to bring to the market a full range of 21st Century vehicles and fuels based on clean, renewable, non-oil based technologies. Flexible fuel electric hybrid vehicles that take advantage of fuels such as bio-ethanols, methanol, clean bio and coal diesels, and electricity, are here today and can dramatically reduce our oil consumption in the near future. By utilizing the programs authorized in our legislation, we believe that we can achieve crude oil savings of over 2.5 million barrels per day within a decade," the letter continued. 
   Specifically, the bill would: 
   * Create a federal action plan to save increasing amounts of oil per day starting with 2.5 million barrels per day in 2016, at least seven million barrels per day in 2026 and ten million barrels per day in 2031. 
   * Set targets for manufacturers to produce Flexible Fuel Vechicles (FFVs), alternative fueled vehicles, hybrids, plug-in hybrids, fuel cell vehicles and other qualified vehicles. 
   * Provide tax credits for manufacturers and suppliers to retool their factories to produce advanced diesels and hybrids. 
   * Create a fuel economy testing program and the implementation of efficiency standards for heavy-duty vehicles (trucks, buses, etc). 
   * Create an R&D program for electric drive transportation and lightweight materials, to reduce a vehicle's weight without sacrificing safety. 
   Also in November 2005, Lugar introduced the Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act with Sens. Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Barack Obama (D-IL). This bill would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as FFVs within ten years. FFVs can use both regular gasoline and E-85 renewable fuel (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content). This capability would ensure access to an important alternative to foreign petroleum in the future as the nation's renewable fuels industry continues to expand rapidly. 
   In March 2005, Lugar led 21 bipartisan Senators in introducing the Fuels Security Act to more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. This legislation laid the groundwork for the renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed the Congress in July 2005. 
   In a recent Foreign Relations Committee on the dangers of oil dependence Lugar stated, "High oil prices have hurt American consumers at the gas pump, and record revenues flowing into oil producing nations are changing the world's geopolitical landscape. Increasingly, oil is the currency through which countries leverage their interests against oil dependent nations such as ours. When we reach the point where the world's oil-hungry economies are competing for insufficient supplies of energy, oil will become an even stronger magnet for conflict than it already is. 
   "Our weak response to our own energy vulnerability is all the more frustrating given that alternatives to oil do exist. Oil's importance is the result of industrial and consumption choices of the past. We now must choose a different path. Without eliminating oil imports or abandoning our cars, we can off-set a significant portion of demand for oil by giving American consumers a real choice of automotive fuel. We must end oil's near monopoly on the transportation sector, which accounts for 60 percent of American oil consumption. I believe that biofuels, combined with hybrid and other technologies, can move us away from our extreme dependence on oil." 
   For more information, visit http://lugar.senate.gov/energy.
 
 