FOOD DRIVE AT HEADWATERS PARK THIS WEEKEND
  Sen. Dick Lugar is partnering with Community Harvest Food Bank, Headwaters Park, the Downtown Improvement District, and WAJI Majic 95.1 to host a food drive on Saturday, February 3. In exchange for a non-perishable food contribution, guests will receive one dollar off Saturday's admission to the ice rink in Headwaters Park located in downtown Fort Wayne from 12:00 noon to 10 p.m. All food donations will go to the Community Harvest Bank. 
   "While food drives are popular during the holiday season, it is important to remember that hunger knows no season," said Lugar. "Community Harvest makes a difference in the lives of many people in Northeast Indiana all year long, and it depends on contributions from citizens to meet the needs of our community." 
   Cash donations may also be made to Community Harvest online at www.chfb.org. 
   Community Harvest Food Bank of Northeast Indiana, Inc. was founded in 1983 with the goal of providing free and immediate food assistance to those in need. In 23 years of operation, Community Harvest has collected over 60 million pounds of donated food and groceries and utilized 200,000 volunteer hours in area hunger relief. 
   Lugar is an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus. The Senate Hunger Caucus provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the rest of our world. Lugar joined the Hunger Caucus to further promote issues that he has long supported, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion. 
   In 2006, the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act, which Lugar first introduced in the 106th Congress, became law. The bill allows farmers and small business owners to receive a tax deduction for food products contributed to food banks, pantries, and homeless shelters for donations from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007. Previously, this deduction was available only to large corporations, not small businesses. 
   Lugar plans to reintroduce the Good Samaritan Act in the 110th Congress to expand and make the tax deduction permanent.
 
 