SEN. LUGAR RELEASES REPORT TO BUSH ON NUCLEAR NON-PROLIFERATION, IRAN
  A report prepared by a panel of experts for Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar in the summer of 2005 concluded that an initiative to oppose the proliferation of enrichment and reprocessing capabilities to additional countries could directly reinforce the effort to stop the Iranian nuclear program. 
   In a July 19, 2005 letter to President Bush, Lugar wrote that the existing international safeguards of the last 40 years had "failed to keep pace with the increase in the global availability of nuclear weapons technology, especially technology and equipment for uranium enrichment and spent nuclear reactor fuel reprocessing to produce the fissile material for such weapons."  
   The report also concluded there is no technical or economic reason to construct enrichment or reprocessing facilities in countries that do not currently have them. In fact an excess global capacity will exist for many years. "Therefore, I believe the United States should adopt as a basic non-proliferation principle that countries which forego their own enrichment and reprocessing programs have guaranteed access to nuclear reactor fuel at reasonable prices," Lugar said. 
   The report on expanding nuclear power in the world was prepared for Lugar by a Non-proliferation Policy Advisory Group (PAG), co-chaired by Ronald F. Lehman, the former head of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and Ashton B. Carter, a former Assistant Secretary of Defense. The report was cited in a Washington Post column today by David Ignatius, "Good Nukes, Bad Nukes." 
   Lehman, director of the Center for Global Security Research at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, will testify before the Foreign Relations Committee on Thursday, March 2at 10:30 a.m. on "A Nuclear Iran: Challenges and Responses." Other witnesses are Dr. Patrick Clawson from The Washington Institute for Near East Policy, and Dr. Ray Takeyh from the Council on Foreign Relations. 
   "The bargain that was struck in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty to gain the support of so many states, both those with nuclear weapons and those without them, was that in forgoing nuclear weapons, non-nuclear-weapon states (NNWS) would have access to the peaceful uses of atomic technology," noted Lugar. "The inherent dual-use nature of the nuclear fuel cycle and its wide availability in civilian power applications uniquely challenges the world to find ways to stop its contribution to both nuclear and radiological weapons, particularly as more nuclear power plants are built. Now it is time for a new bargain: Fuel-cycle assurances instead of fuel-cycle facilities. To enjoy nuclear power, states do not need to accumulate large amounts of nuclear materials in places where it is hard to reliably safeguard them, or in states where the existence of these facilities causes great concern." 
   The PAG reviewed several specific proposals for stemming the proliferation of enrichment and reprocessing capabilities, including the President's proposals to the National Defense University on February 11, 2004, IAEA Director General El Baradei's proposals, and those of other governments (e.g., France) and recognized experts. 
   Many of these proposals overlap in one common feature - that states foregoing their own enrichment or reprocessing facilities would be assured of various fuel services for their nuclear reactors at reasonable prices and within a strictly controlled and verified transfer system that included removing spent fuel from such states. The PAG assessed that a combination of national policies and strengthened IAEA safeguards could provide a reasonable assurance of fuel supplies to such states and strengthen the global nonproliferation regime. 
   On the web: 
  Lugar's letter to Bush: http://lugar.senate.gov/reports/PAG_report.pdf
 
 