SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES RESOLUTION SUPPORTING NATO ROLE IN ENERGY SECURITY
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today introduced a resolution that calls upon the United States to lead the discussion at NATO headquarters about the role the alliance could play in energy security. The resolution calls upon the President to submit to Congress a report that details "a strategy for NATO to develop secure, sustainable, and reliable sources of energy, including contingency plans if current energy resources are put at risk."  
   "NATO is now facing new challenges and new priorities. To be fully relevant to the security and well being of the people of its member nations, NATO must think and act globally," said Lugar. 
   "International developments are calling attention to the growing importance of energy security for NATO member countries and other non-member partners. Dependence on imports of oil and natural gas from limited numbers of countries with state-controlled reserves makes NATO member countries vulnerable to political manipulation of supply. On a global scale, increased competition for finite supplies of oil and gas could lead to conflict that would directly or indirectly involve NATO member states. This is why the resolution urges that the United States energy security message to NATO members include attention toward sustainable fuels and preparedness for supply disruption," Lugar added. 
   Earlier this year, Lugar introduced the Energy Diplomacy and Security Act (S. 2435), which "recognizes energy security to be a foremost concern for United States national security and would realign of our diplomatic priorities to meet energy security challenges." The bill calls upon the government to expand international cooperation on energy issues and seeks to enhance international preparedness for major disruptions in oil supplies. It also calls for an extension of petroleum supply distribution to developing nations, regional partnerships in the Western Hemisphere and stronger international partnerships with both major energy producing and consuming countries. 
   On the web: 
   Lugar's energy webpage: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/
   The Energy Diplomacy and Security Act of 2006: http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c109:s.2435:
 
 