INDIANA GROUPS TO RECEIVE MORE THAN $1.6 MILLION FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION
  In phone calls today to local officials, Sen. Dick Lugar informed two school corporations and two YMCAs that they will share more than $1.6 million in federal funds to promote physical education. The funds are part of the Carol M. White Physical Education for Progress Act.  
   The funding, released by the U.S. Department of Education, allows schools and other organizations to initiate, expand, and improve physical education programs for students in kindergarten through 12th grade. 
   The grants come a day after a major new report by the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies stated that more needs to be done in society and schools to fight epidemic childhood obesity. The report also touted the importance of increased physical education and better school nutrition, ideas for which Lugar has long been a champion. 
   When talking to award recipients, Lugar noted, "I have long had an interest in health and fitness. Learning the importance of staying fit is key to leading a physically healthy and long life. Young Hoosiers who wish to prevent future health problems must make smart decisions now." 
   Despite the well-publicized benefits of exercise, more than 50 percent of American adults do not get enough physical activity to provide health benefits. This trend is not limited to adults; nearly one-half of Americans ages 12 to 21 are not vigorously active on a regular basis. Physical education classes are important to ensure that young people have a minimal, regular amount of physical activity and to help establish physical activity patterns that may be carried into adulthood. 
   Carol M. White Physical Education for Progress grants were award to: 
   COMMUNITY PROGRAM/SCHOOL: Indianapolis Public Schools 
  FEDERAL SHARE: $453,552 
  CITY: Indianapolis 
   COMMUNITY PROGRAM/SCHOOL: Perry Central Community School Corporation 
  FEDERAL SHARE: $162,005 
  CITY: Leopold 
   COMMUNITY PROGRAM/SCHOOL: Owen County Family YMCA 
  FEDERAL SHARE: $440,340 
  CITY: Spencer 
   COMMUNITY PROGRAM/SCHOOL: Vincennes YMCA 
  FEDERAL SHARE: $498,560 
  CITY: Vincennes 
   Lugar has promoted health and fitness in other ways as well. Last month, he hosted the 26th Annual Dick Lugar Health Fair and Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge. He has been a longtime proponent of healthy school lunches, and has secured a pilot program for 25 Indiana schools to provide free fresh fruits and vegetables to students throughout the school day. Additionally, on September 14, 2004, Lugar introduced the Health Promotion FIRST (Funding, Integrated Research, Synthesis, and Training) Act to further efforts in the Health Promotion area.
 
 