SEN. LUGAR DISCUSSES UPCOMING ELECTION, CALLS ON UKRAINE TO SHARE BIOLOGICAL PATHOGEN STRAINS
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar talked by phone with Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma. They discussed the upcoming presidential elections in Ukraine scheduled for late October. Sen. Lugar also met with former Prime Minister Yushchenko at a meeting hosted by US Ambassador John Herbst. Lugar visited the Central Sanitary Epidemiological Station, a facility associated with the former Soviet Union's biological weapons program.  
   "Regardless of the outcome, free and fair elections will be a strong tribute to Ukraine's maturing democracy and put Ukraine on the path to join the community of European democracies. Unfortunately, some in Ukraine are indifferent, and even hostile, to free and fair elections and to Ukraine's chosen political orientation," Lugar said at meetings today. "Additionally, we need to develop more avenues of U.S.-Ukraine cooperation." 
   For one, Lugar said there needs to be a stronger cooperation by Ukraine on biological pathogen threat reduction. "It is clear that the professionals at the Central Sanitary Epidemiological Station are excited about the prospects of working closely with their American counterparts and cooperating on joint research to address infectious diseases," Lugar said. "Unfortunately, the Government of Ukraine still has not signed a bilateral Biological Threat Reduction Agreement with the United States that would allow the Nunn-Lugar Program to provide a modern, safe, and secure diagnostic health laboratory and a national network of epidemiological monitoring stations equipped to rapidly detect, diagnose, and respond to infectious diseases outbreaks, whether they are naturally occurring or a result of bio-terrorism." A similar agreement has been reached in Georgia, where Lugar visited the day before he arrived in Ukraine. 
   The agreement with Ukraine includes an essential provision for the transfer of pathogen samples to U.S. health laboratories for the purpose of developing and providing diagnostic assessments and medical countermeasures to better protect Ukraine's population for infections diseases. "I urge Ukraine to quickly sign this important agreement to facilitate the sharing of pathogen strains like many of their neighbors in the Caucasus and Central Asia have already done. It is a critical step to increasing our cooperation in the areas of counter-terrorism and infections diseases," Lugar said. 
   Lugar also met with Megan Tetrick of Noblesville, IN, who is a Peace Corps volunteer in Khmelnitsky, Ukraine. She was 1997 participate in the Lugar Symposium for Tomorrow's Leaders, a program for Indiana high school juniors. 
   Since 1991, the weapons systems deactivated or destroyed by the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program include: 6,312 nuclear warheads; 537 ICBMs; 459 ICBM silos; 11 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 128 bombers; 708 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 408 submarine missile launchers; 496 submarine launched missiles; 27 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   More information at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.html.
 
 