LETTER #4: IRAN IN IRAQ
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the fourth letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the fourth letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq. 
   I write to you again this week to share two reports related to Iraq that I hope you will find enlightening as we continue to study the nuances of the policy choices before us. These reports examine how Iran exerts influence on Iraq and how the interplay between Iran and Iraq affects both societies and political systems. The first report, "Iran's Influence in Iraq," is authored by Kenneth Katzman, Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs at the Congressional Research Service. The second report, "Iran and Iraq: the Shia Connection, Soft Power, and the Nuclear Factor," is published by the United States Institute of Peace and authored by Geoffrey Kemp, Director of Regional Strategic Programs at the Nixon Center. 
   Events in Iraq are not insulated from regional forces. Efforts to stabilize Iraq have been complicated by the geopolitical interests of neighbors, the difficulty of fully controlling Iraq's frontier, and cross border ethnic and sectarian influences. As the United States assists Iraqis in strengthening their government and economy, our efforts are more likely to succeed if we understand the interests and actions of neighboring nations. 
   Iran is particularly significant because of its close connections to the Shia majority in Iraq, its history of sponsoring terrorist activities, its pursuit of nuclear weapons, its regional ambitions, and many other factors. Attempts by Iran and other regional actors to exert influence on the Iraqi political process will be especially relevant in the coming weeks and months as the newly-elected Iraqi Council of Representatives attempts to work its way through factional politics to form a permanent government. 
   In recent weeks, we have heard extremely inflammatory statements from Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and Iran has continued to resist efforts to contain its nuclear program. Beyond Iran's impact on our efforts in Iraq, we must understand how the outcome in Iraq will affect our pursuit of national security objectives related to Iran and the Persian Gulf region. 
   I hope you will find these reports useful.
 
 