USDA ACCEPTING GRANT APPLICATIONS FOR FOREST PRODUCTS UTILIZATION
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the USDA Forest Service's Wood Education and Resource Center (WERC) is accepting applications for cost-share demonstration projects with the forest products industry to enhance opportunities for sustained forest products production in the eastern hardwood forest region.  
   Priority will be given to projects that accomplish one or more of the following items: 
   Increase the use of woody biomass as an economic feedstock for meeting our nation's energy needs. Examples include heating and cooling, cogeneration, and liquid fuel production. 
  Bring information and technology to existing and emerging businesses that focus on urban wood utilization, hazardous fuels reductions, utilization options geared to improving stewardship or use of low value woody biomass. 
   Address global issues such as: 1.) phytosanitation of wood packaging materials, and 2.) assisting communities and industries facing threats from invasive species such as the Emerald Ash Borer. 
  Bring information and technology about processing, marketing and business-related skills to existing and emerging businesses involved in the development and manufacturing of wood products. 
   "I have a particular interest in the development of biomass energy and wood utilization," said Lugar. "With high oil prices, ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from biomass become increasingly important. Hoosiers growing the feedstocks for these fuels will add to our nation's security while helping our communities prosper." 
   Grants ranging from $10,000 to $100,000 will be awarded. A copy of the instructions and the grant application can be accessed at http://www.na.fs.fed.us/werc/grants.shtm and must be submitted by Thursday, February 15, 2007. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey. Written during a time of relatively low gas prices, this essay outlined the challenges the U.S. would face in an increasingly energy dependent world if reliable, domestically produced forms of fuel were not developed. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. 
   In June 2006, the U.S. General Accountability Office (GAO) released a Wood Utilization report requested by Sens. Lugar and Thad Cochran (R-MS). That report is a result of efforts by Lugar to boost the competitiveness of the hardwood industry in Indiana and the nation, and to highlight the economic importance of hardwoods and other wood products to the Indiana and U.S. economy. 
   "Trees hold great economic importance for our State. Indiana forests contribute over $9 billion dollars to our economy annually and our 4.3 million acres of timberland support 54,000 jobs. While Indiana has been a national and world leader in forestry and forest-based manufacturing, it is imperative that we invest even more in this industry's future," said Lugar.
   Contact: Kim Preston, 202/224-4814, grants@lugar.senate.gov.
 
 