SENS. LUGAR, HARKIN ENCOURAGE FLEXIBLE FUEL VEHICLES LEGISLATION
  Sen. Dick Lugar (R-IN) and Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA) sent a Dear Colleague letter to fellow senators encouraging them to cosponsor S. 1994, the "Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act." Sens. Lugar, Harkin and Barack Obama (D-IL) introduced the bill in November 2005.  
   "Currently virtually all vehicles sold in the United States can be operated with low percentage blends of renewable fuel. Typically this is sold as a 90% gasoline, 10% ethanol blend. However, technology already exists that allows high level renewable fuel blends to be utilized and is both inexpensive and easily integrated in current manufacturing techniques. 
   "There are nearly 5 million flexible fuel vehicles operating in the U.S. today. These vehicles can use straight gasoline or an 85% ethanol blend with no modifications. Yet this is a very small percentage of the domestic fleet. 
   "Our legislation would require that all vehicles sold in the U.S. be able to utilize high levels of renewable fuel within the next 10 years. Increasing the number of these vehicles in the marketplace will continue to stimulate production of non-petroleum based fuels, as well as rapidly expanding the distribution infrastructure. 
   "The legislation also alters the calculation for the dual-fuel CAFE credit so that there is no harm done to vehicle fuel economy standards. 
   "Robust production, distribution and use of domestically produced renewable fuels can and will displace foreign oil to which great economic and security hazards are tied. Providing citizens with a choice at the fuel pump is a prudent step as our nation faces an impending energy crisis and the increased potential for world turmoil associated with it," the letter states. 
   The Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act has been endorsed by a wide array of groups including the Set America Free Coalition, Renewable Fuels Association, American Coalition for Ethanol, Union of Concerned Scientists, Alliance to Save Energy, and the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy. 
   In 2005, Lugar led 21 bipartisan Senators in introducing the Fuels Security Act to more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. This legislation laid the groundwork for the renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed the Congress in July 2005. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. The Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000 remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. In a time of relatively low fuel prices, he co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose. 
   A copy of the letter is available at: http://lugar.senate.gov/reports/FFV_Dear_Colleague.pdf
 
 