RURAL HOSPITAL CENTER NAMED FOR SEN. LUGAR
  Union Hospital in Terre Haute today renamed its Midwest Center for Rural Health for Sen. Richard G. Lugar.  
   "As I entered the room today and saw the Richard G. Lugar Center sign, I was overwhelmed," Lugar said at the dedication ceremony today. "This is truly a day of my life that I will never forget. I am tremendously honored." 
   The newly renamed Richard G. Lugar Center for Rural Health prepares and trains primary care physicians for success in rural practices and exposes individuals not yet decided on a career to the rewards of delivering health care services in a rural area. 
   "I think we are making headway in rural health and the Center has accomplished so much in such a short time. It really is at the forefront of rural medicine. This extraordinary Center is well ahead of the curve," Lugar continued. 
   The Center's innovative model is built on three key principles: (1) an accredited Rural Training Track, a specially designed hands on curriculum for future rural health providers; (2) an understanding of how to incorporate computer and communications technology to support rural practices; and (3) a commitment to a multidisciplinary team approach to providing health care, with the team consisting of physicians, nurse practitioners, physician's assistants, mental health providers, public health providers, allied health professionals and local communities. Essential to the mission is the continuous development of a multidisciplinary model that demonstrates innovative approaches to practicing in and delivering health care to rural populations. 
   As of June 2005, 122 physicians have graduated from the Union Hospital Family Medicine Residency program, which incorporates the Richard G. Lugar Center for Rural Health's rural training track curriculum. Approximately 80% of the rural training track graduates have subsequently chosen to practice in rural and other underserved areas. Additional initiatives under development at the Center include seeking accreditation for an International Training Track and expansion of its telemedicine and chronic disease management model programs. 
   Lugar also keynoted the dedication of the new Community Hospital of Bremen (CHB) on Saturday, March 18, 2005. In his address, Lugar again stressed the importance of rural healthcare. Starting in 2003, Lugar helped the CHB secure loan guarantees through the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
 
 