INDIANA HEALTHCARE NETWORK RECEIVES $16 MILLION
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar's office was notified announced that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has awarded the Indiana Health Network a $16,138,270 grant. Funding will be used to connect approximately 100 health care facilities throughout Indiana and serve an array of telehealth applications.  
  "The Indiana Health Network holds great promise for the development and practical application of advanced communications technology for rural residents in Indiana. The Indiana Healthcare Network is an important strategy to advance health care delivery utilizing the strength of telecommunications technology," wrote Lugar in a letter of support for Indiana Rural Health Association's grant application.
  The funding is part of a $417 million announcement by the FCC for the construction of 69 statewide or regional broadband telehealth networks in 42 states and three U.S. territories under the Rural Health Care Pilot Program (RHCPP). 
  According to the FCC, the RHCPP will help public and non-profit health care providers build state and region-wide broadband networks dedicated to the provision of health care services, and connect those networks to Internet2, a dedicated nationwide backbone. 
  The networks will deliver services efficiently, reduce costs and travel time for consumers, decrease medical errors, and enable health care providers to share critical information. Rapid and coordinated responses to public health emergencies, such as bioterrorism attacks, pandemics or disease-related outbreaks, will be expedited through coordination with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and other public health officials during public health emergencies. 
  Lugar has been a long-time supporter of improving access to healthcare in rural areas.
  Questions regarding the grants process in general may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator for Senator Lugar, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 