SEN. LUGAR VOTES TO SUPPORT LOW INCOME HEATING ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Dick Lugar voted today in support of an amendment to provide an additional $3.1 billion in emergency funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Unfortunately, the amendment was defeated on a budget point of order.  
   Supporters of the amendment cited the impact of Hurricane Katrina on energy prices as the rationale for emergency spending. The expected increase in heating costs this winter would pose a significant impact on the low- and fixed-income individuals who qualify for LIHEAP, and state LIHEAP programs are expecting a major increase in applications. 
   LIHEAP has distributed $199 million in Indiana from FY2002 to FY2005. The amendment would have funded LIHEAP at the $5.1 billion level authorized for FY06 in the Energy Policy Act passed by Congress and signed by the President this summer. 
   Lugar has long been a supporter of LIHEAP and recently joined 40 Senators in sending a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee requesting that emergency LIHEAP funds be added to the proposed supplemental appropriations bill to address the impact of Hurricane Katrina. 
   "Additional funding is critical to avoid a looming, but preventable, crisis for millions of additional Americans caused by the soaring cost and diminishing affordability of home heating fuel as winter approaches...The effects of Hurricane Katrina are being felt by Americans outside of the Gulf Region as gasoline, heating oil and natural gas prices rise in the wake of this disaster. Indeed, there is an imminent emergency confronting millions of low-income Americans unable to afford the cost of rising energy prices," the letter said. 
   Lugar supported an identical amendment offered earlier this month to the Department of Defense appropriations bill that was defeated on a budget point of order. 
   In addition to supporting immediate assistance, Lugar has advocated a diversified national energy policy to reduce U.S. vulnerability to interruptions in the energy markets and improve its long-term energy situation. In 1999 during a time of relatively low gasoline prices, he co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey. This essay outlined the challenges the U.S. would face in an increasingly energy dependent world if reliable, domestically produced forms of fuel were not developed. 
   As former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to offer a reliable, long-term fuel option to decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. 
   Last March, Lugar introduced the Fuels Security Act of 2005, which served as a basis for the Energy Policy Act's key ethanol provisions that President Bush signed into law this year. These provisions will more than double the amount of renewable fuel America produces by 2012, displacing billions of gallons of imported oil. 
   More information on LIHEAP in Indiana is available at: http://www.state.in.us/fssa/families/housing/eas.html.
 
 