IDENTITY THEFT WORKSHOP TO COINCIDE WITH NATIONAL CONSUMER PROTECTION WEEK
  The Richard G. Lugar Northeast Indiana Community Service Center will sponsor an Identity Theft Workshop on March 5 at Mitchell Books. The workshop will take place in the auditorium and run from 10 a.m. to 12 noon at 6360 W Jefferson Blvd., Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
  This educational event will feature representatives and information from the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, Fort Wayne Police Department (FWPD) and Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The workshop coincides with National Consumer Protection week (NCPW), March 2-8, 2008. 
  "The right to privacy is a deep-rooted guarantee revered by the Founders and protected in the U.S. Constitution. Although technology has brought many benefits and advances, it also has complicated the protection of our privacy interests," said Lugar. "I invite Hoosiers to learn how to prevent identify fraud and financial scams, how to fight them and how to restore personal credit information in a special workshop on March 5."
  Identity theft is a serious crime that occurs when personal information is stolen and used without permission to commit fraud or other crimes. Each year, millions of consumers are victims, and this workshop will educate attendees on how to decrease the chance of ID theft and offer solutions for victims of ID theft.
  U.S. Postal Inspector Andrew Gottfried and Detective Jerry Mericle of the FWPD Financial Crimes Department will give presentations about ID theft from detection to enforcement. Lugar staff will share information from the FTC.
  Registration for the workshop is not required but seating is limited. To reserve a seat, please contact the Lugar Community Service Center at 260-422-1505. Registration the morning of the event opens at 9:30 a.m. at Mitchell Books in Covington Plaza, 6360 W Jefferson Blvd., Fort Wayne, Indiana.
  Additional NCPW activities:
  The Postal Inspection Service will challenge customers to spot fake money orders at the Fort Wayne Clinton Street Post Office on March 3 from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Customers can compare fraudulent and authentic money orders. Genuine postal money orders contain several design features to maximize their security and are as secure as any other financial instrument. 
  Visit the Lugar Community Service Center website at http://lugar.senate.gov/contact/ne.cfm for more news and events. If you are interested in volunteering, please stop by or call (260) 422-1505.
 
 