SEN. LUGAR PRESENTS PEYTON MANNING WITH NATIONAL COMMUNITY SERVICE AWARD
  Sen. Dick Lugar presented Indianapolis Colts quarterback Peyton Manning with the Samuel S. Beard Award for Greatest Public Service by an Individual 35 or Under on Tuesday, June 20, 2006. Manning was one of four people to receive a 2006 National Jefferson Award.  
   Manning was recognized his work with disadvantaged youth and programs that provide leadership and growth opportunities for at-risk children. Manning established the PeyBack Foundation one year after joining the Colts in 1998. He is the President of the foundation and supports it financially. 
   The most visible event the PeyBack Foundation supports is the PeyBack Classic. The event was established in 2002 and enables all seven inner-city Indianapolis high school football teams to play in the RCA Dome with ticket proceeds benefiting the schools' struggling athletic programs. 
   Peyton is also involved in the Bright Ideas grant program, which offers up to $500 to individual teachers to assist with local educational needs and the Play it Smart organization, funded primarily by the National Football Foundation, which seeks to use the football experience as a vehicle to enhance academic, athletic, career and personal development of high school student-athletes. 
   The Jefferson Award was founded in 1972 by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, U.S. Senator Robert Taft, Jr. and Sam Beard. The intent was to create a "Nobel Prize" for community and public service. Since its inception, the Jefferson Awards recognition program has recognized citizens exhibiting the highest degree of leadership and service within their state and nation. Annually, there are two winners selected from each state, as well as four from the nation at-large. 
   Holly Dunn-Pendleton of Evansville also received a 2006 Jefferson Award for her assistance to victims of sexual violence and in a surprise presentation was named one of five people to receive the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Award for Greatest Public Service Benefiting Local Communities out of the 74 local winners from throughout the country. 
   Peggy Jo Albertson of Fort Wayne also received a 2006 Jefferson Award for her leadership in Project Linus, an organization that makes blankets for traumatized or sick infants and children.
 
 