SEN. LUGAR WELCOMES HOUSE INTRODUCTION OF VACCINE DEVELOPMENT BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar welcomed introduction of H.R.1391, "Vaccines for the Future Act of 2007," by Rep. Pete Visclosky. The legislation is the companion to Lugar's S.569 which would develop a comprehensive strategy to speed development, testing and distribution of life-saving vaccines through innovative financial incentives and would authorize funding for a pneumonia vaccine pilot program.  
   "I appreciate the leadership of Pete Visclosky in introducing this critical bill in the House," said Lugar. "Vaccines for diseases such as AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other, less well-known diseases would save millions of lives. I am delighted to work with my friend and fellow Hoosier on this important initiative." 
   "It is crucial that we take action to develop vaccines for diseases such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and others," said Congressman Visclosky. 
   The Vaccines for the Future Act of 2007 would provide market incentives for research and vaccine development by requiring the Administration to continue negotiations to establish an Advance Market Commitment (AMC), a concept approved by the Administration and the G-8 at the 2005 Summit in Gleneagles, Scotland. By committing to purchase large quantities of a successful vaccine beforehand, the AMC concept aims to bridge the gap between the vaccine makers' research costs and the future sales needed to cover the costs of their investment. 
   Additionally, the bill would authorize the appropriations to fund a pilot program for an AMC for pneumococcal disease, which causes both pneumonia and meningitis and claims the lives of an estimated 1 million children a year. This funding would join a $1.5 billion pledge announced on February 9, 2007, in Rome, by Britain, Italy, Norway, Russia, and Canada along with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to fund an AMC to encourage pharmaceutical companies to develop a vaccine for pneumococcal disease. 
   Experts are hopeful that this initiative could accelerate by a decade the widespread use of a pneumococcal vaccine specific to the developing world and could prevent the deaths of an estimated 5.4 million children by 2030.
 
 