LUGAR - SOLHEIM INITIATIVE LAUNCHED FOR RESPONSIBLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
  In a unique international alliance between a leading Republican United States Senator and a Minister of International Development from the Socialist Left Party in Norway, Sen. Richard G. Lugar and Minister Erik Solheim today launched a joint initiative to promote a responsible and sustainable development of energy resources in developing countries. 
   "In this world of east-west, north-south, ideological, ethnic and religious divisions, we have to strive to find common ground and agreement on international development programs that seek to avoid conflict and enhance the human condition," Lugar and Solheim said. "We hope this is the beginning of such an initiative."  
   The goals of the Lugar-Solheim Initiative are: 
   * Reducing the threat of conflict over demand for energy resources in developing countries; 
   * Promoting alternative and renewable energy in developing countries; 
   * The development of energy resources in environmentally sustainable ways that reduce and sequester carbon emissions; 
   * Policies that promote civic society, governmental transparency and anti-corruption measures in countries developing their energy resources; and 
   * Fighting corruption through an effective global implementation and follow-up of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. 
   Senator Lugar, who has represented the state of Indiana since 1977, was recently re-elected to an unprecedented sixth term with 87 percent of the vote even while the Democratic Party of Indiana defeated three Republican incumbents to the U.S. House of Representatives. Lugar has served as Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, and is now its Ranking Republican Leader. Senator Lugar is best known for his partnership with former Democratic Senator Sam Nunn of George in the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program which has been destroying nuclear, chemical and biological weapons since the end of the Soviet Union 15 years ago. 
   Minister Solheim was a member of the Storting (the Norwegian Parliament) from 1991 to 2001. He was as leader of the Socialist Left Party 1987-1997. After leaving the Storting he served as a senior adviser in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until he was appointed Minister of International Development in Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's three party coalition government in 2005. In addition to his commitment to the promotion of peace and the resolution of conflicts - Sri Lanka being the most well known case - Minister Solheim also has a special interest in environmental issues, gender equality, petroleum, and energy issues. 
   "Ending conflict in the world, and reducing the threats that cause conflict have been our missions in our public service," Lugar and Solheim said. "The demand for energy resources has become a cause of conflict in many developing countries. The production and use of fossil fuels continue to cause wide-spread environmental damage, and is changing climate patterns through the release of greenhouse gases. This poses the risk of even more conflict in the world as changing weather patterns will cause droughts and floods, disease and population dislocations." 
   "In addition," Lugar and Solheim said, "the vast riches derived from the development of energy resources are destabilizing many developing countries. Corruption and the lack of transparency undermine civic society in developing corruption and fuels poverty and the threat and tragedy of failed states." 
   "I've long admired the way Norway has developed and husbanded its energy resources," Senator Lugar said. "It is a great honor to the Norwegian people that they have also used the financial proceeds from these energy resources to promote the capacity for good governance elsewhere, and to resolve conflict." 
   "I've closely watched the work of Senator Lugar on a variety of issues of importance for world development," Minister Solheim responded. "His initiatives to promote renewable fuels that reduce greenhouse gas emissions are of great importance. So is his dedication to global democracy building and anti-corruption measures." 
   Minister Solheim also pointed at the importance of the anti-corruption perspective: "Developing countries are often deprived of vast economic resources through illegal exploitation of natural resources, corruption, misuse of public funds and tax fraud. It should no longer be possible to hide proceeds from such illegal activities. Nor should it be possible to invest or launder money that have been unlawfully siphoned off from developing countries in the international market, or hide revealing transactions. The effects of such actions are devastating to developing countries, and significantly bring down their ability to eliminate poverty." 
   Senator Lugar and Minister Solheim will promote existing and emerging initiatives related to energy, accountability and transparency. These will include the advancement of the objectives of the Norwegian Oil for Development program, the strengthening of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) as a global norm for revenue transparency, and the full implementation and funding of the United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC).
 
 