SEN. LUGAR LAUDS ANNOUNCEMENT OF WORLD BANK ANTI-CORRUPTION STRATEGY
  Sen. Dick Lugar today lauded the World Bank's commitment toward a new anti-corruption strategy. "The World Bank's unanimous board vote yesterday shows that an international consensus has developed to fight corruption in development financing" said Lugar, Republican leader of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  
   "Implementation of the World Bank's new strategy will be critically important to developing countries. When these countries lose development bank loans through corruption, the taxpayers in those poor countries are still obligated to repay. So, not only are the impoverished cheated out of development benefits, they are left to repay the resulting debts. The World Bank's new strategy should help ensure that development funds are directed to their intended poverty-alleviation projects," said Lugar. 
   The World Bank's new anti-corruption and governance strategy is consistent with multilateral development bank reform legislation Lugar proposed and that became law in 2005. Lugar's legislation included measures to support the integrity of the development banks; to improve the quality and oversight of development bank loans; to strengthen whistleblower policies; to seek financial disclosure by development bank employees similar to that required for U.S. government officials and members of Congress; and to support the independence and efficacy of the audit functions. 
   "These measures are an important step toward leveling the playing field so that honest companies and innocent individuals are not disadvantaged by the corrupt. When projects intended to boost economic development are derailed by corruption, the poorest suffer and are cheated of projected benefits in quality health care, clean water and education," said Lugar. 
   "We all gain when developing countries rise out of poverty, and we are all hurt when MDB funds are lost, or projects fail, because of corruption." 
   In a joint press conference today, Lugar also announced an initiative with Norwegian Minister Erik Solheim to promote a responsible and sustainable development of energy resources in developing countries. Central goals of the program include policies that promote civic society, governmental transparency and anti-corruption measures in countries developing their energy resources and fighting corruption through an effective global implementation and follow-up of the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
 
 