SEN. LUGAR SECURES FUNDING FOR UNIVERSITY PARKWAY PROJECT
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the University of Southern Indiana (USI) Parkway in Vanderburgh County will receive $1.6 million as part of the Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development Conference Report passed by the Senate on Friday, November 18.  
   This funding will assist in constructing a modern four lane divided roadway where none currently exists and provide safer access for students and employees of USI, as well as the residents of the area. The entire University Parkway project is a five mile project that connects State Road 62 to State Road 66. The first phase of the project, a two mile segment between the interchange at State Road 62 and Upper Mount Vernon Road, is currently under construction with completion scheduled for 2006. 
   The project is phase two of the University Parkway Project, which consists of right of way acquisition and construction of approximately three miles of a new four lane road that extends from Upper Mount Vernon Road to State Road 66 in western Vanderburgh County. When the entire five mile project is finished, it will provide a continuous four lane roadway. 
   All roads in the area are currently two lane roads that do not meet current design standards or provide lane widths, shoulder widths, ditch slopes, etc. The new road will meet all of these design criteria. In addition, access rights are being purchased that will limit the number of access points on the new road, potentially reducing the accidents by minimizing the number of potential conflict points, such as driveways and intersections. 
   "I am pleased to work with Congressman John Hostettler on this project," Lugar said. "These additional funds will allow a critical link to be constructed that benefits the citizens of both Vanderburgh and Posey Counties and create a better and safer route for its citizens." 
   Evansville also received $1.45 million for I-69, $750,000 to complete the Lloyd Expressway, $200,000 to conduct a downtown traffic study, and $100,000 for the Center City Industrial Park. 
   Lugar long has advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 