SEN. LUGAR ENCOURAGES AUTOMAKERS TO INCREASE FLEX FUEL VEHICLE PRODUCTION
  Sen. Dick Lugar today wrote to the executives of General Motors Company, Ford Motor Company and Chrysler Group encouraging them to increase the number of flexible fuel vehicles (FFV) they produce. FFVs can operate on gasoline or E85, which is motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol.  
   "Although we welcome each new E85 pump, ethanol plant, and flex fuel vehicle, we must not be satisfied with incremental measures that fail to transform our national energy equation. As I wrote to the President on September 29, 2006, 'If our economy is crippled by an oil embargo, if terrorists succeed in disrupting our oil lifeline, or if we slide into a war because oil wealth has strengthened anti-American regimes, it will not matter that we were producing marginally more ethanol than before or that consumers are more willing to consider buying hybrids and other alternative vehicles. We need a national program that makes some hard choices to spur alternatives, establishes accountability for results, and reports those results frequently to the American people.' 
   "I advocate an aggressive goal of adding 100 billion gallons of renewable fuels to our energy mix by 2025. To get there we will need a comprehensive plan that includes production of flex fuels vehicles, E85 pumps, and cellulosic ethanol and other renewable fuels. Likewise, innovation in the auto sector to increase production of hybrids, plug-in hybrids, advanced diesels, hydrogen fuel cells, and greater fuel efficiency is needed. I introduced this plan at the Lugar-Purdue Summit on Energy Security on August 29, 2006?" Lugar wrote. 
   "Growth in world demand for oil will make us more dependent on reserves concentrated, in large part, in tumultuous regions and several nations hostile to the United States. The global trend of foreign governments asserting greater control over oil and gas reserves allows unfriendly regimes to use their oil and gas exports as leverage against the United States and our allies." 
   On the web: 
  Lugar's letter to automobile executives: 
  http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/industry/pdf/Auto_execs_FFVs_Nov21.pdf 
   The Lugar Energy Initiative: 
  http://lugar.senate.gov/energy 
   The Lugar-Purdue Summit on Energy Security: 
  http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/purdue
 
 