SEN. LUGAR ENCOURAGES PRESIDENT TO INCREASE FUNDING FOR BIOFUELS
  Sen. Dick Lugar led a bipartisan group of twelve senators in urging President George W. Bush to "include robust funding" for biofuels such as ethanol, biodiesel and other renewable fuels in the FY 2007 budget request to Congress.  
   "As has been often noted, the United States' dependence on imported petroleum poses a risk to our national security and economic well-being. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita also reminded us of the vulnerability of our own refinery infrastructure. By developing alternative fuels, we have an opportunity not only to reduce these risks, but also to create jobs and enhance economic growth here in the United States. 
   "Our nation should lead the world in developing advanced technologies for converting crops and plant wastes to energy. Feedstocks for biofuels are widely available across the country, and biorefineries can be constructed almost anywhere. Federal investment now will greatly benefit all Americans in the near future as these technologies allow more energy to be produced at home," the letter states. 
   Sens. Evan Bayh (D-IN), Christopher Bond (R-MO), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Larry Craig (R-ID), Mike DeWine (R-OH), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Barack Obama (D-IL), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Ken Salazar (D-CO) joined Lugar in sending the letter. 
   On November 16, Lugar chaired a hearing of the Foreign Relations Committee examining "High Costs of Crude: The New Currency of Foreign Policy." In his opening statement, Lugar said, "... biofuels, combined with hybrid and other technologies, can move us away from our extreme dependence on oil. Corn-based ethanol is already providing many Midwesterners with a lower-cost fuel option. Cellulosic ethanol, which is made of more abundant and less expensive biomass, is poised for a commercial take-off. We made progress in the 2005 energy bill, which includes incentives to produce 7.5 billion gallons of renewable biofuel annually. I introduced legislation last week that would require manufacturers to install flexible-fuel technology in new cars. This is an easy and cheap modification, which allows vehicles to run on a mixture of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. We will get even greater payoffs for our investment in oil alternatives if American technological advances can be marketed to the rest of the world." 
   On November 10, Lugar introduced a bill that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFVs) within ten years. FFVs can use both regular gasoline and E-85 renewable fuel (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content). This capability would ensure access to an important alternative to foreign petroleum in the future as the nation's renewable fuels industry continues to expand rapidly. The bill would require 10 percent of vehicles sold in the U.S. be FFVs within 18 months of passage. The requirement would increase by 10 percent for each subsequent model year resulting in all new vehicles being FFVs within ten years." 
   Lugar is also an original cosponsor the Vehicle and Fuel Choice for American Security Act. 
   The renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed the Congress in July was based largely on the Fuels Security Act that Lugar introduced earlier this year. This provision nearly doubles production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. The energy bill also includes key portions of the National Security and Bioenergy Investment Act of 2005, which will rapidly expand research into biomass energy and biobased products and establish the production of the first one billion gallons of transportation fuel produced from cellulosic sources such as corn stover, switchgrass and wheat straw. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. In a time of relatively low fuel prices, he co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairswith former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research.
 
 