SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES DREAM ACT
  Sen. Dick Lugar cosponsored the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act, which was introduced on Friday, November 18, with Sens. Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Dick Durbin (D-IL). The bill would help young, undocumented immigrants who grew up in the United States to earn legal status by obtaining an education and completing national or public service.  
   The measure would grant conditional legal status to youth who successfully complete high school or equivalent. They then would have six years to graduate from college or a trade school or join the military. If successful in one of those areas, the conditional legal status would become permanent and they could then move towards U.S. citizenship. 
   "Currently, undocumented young people are entitled to free public education, and approximately 50,000 graduate from high schools each year; however, without legal status, they cannot secure a job or afford to attend college," Lugar said. "This measure will provide these young people with an incentive to move towards permanent residency while pursuing an education or other worthwhile service. 
   "The immigrant population in Indiana is growing, with some portion undocumented," added Lugar. "Undocumented young people usually arrive with their families and have no understanding of their immigration status. They should be encouraged to complete an education and move toward permanent residency." 
   To be eligible, a child must have been under the age of 16 when they entered the country and be physically present in the United States for at least five years immediately preceding the date of this measure becoming law; have earned a high school diploma or GED; be a person of good moral character; and not be inadmissible or deportable under criminal or security grounds of the Immigration and Nationality Act. 
   Presently, the law penalizes states that grant a post-secondary benefit, such as in-state tuition, to undocumented students unless the state also provides that same benefit to out-of-state students. This legislation will allow states to grant in-state tuition rates to undocumented immigrants. 
   "If enacted, I would urge Indiana to take advantage of this change in federal law," Lugar added. 
   Beginning in 2000, Lugar worked with the government of Mexico to establish a diplomatic office in Indianapolis to serve its growing Mexican community, and in 2002 Consul Sergio Aguilera was assigned to Indianapolis. Additionally, Lugar was the first public official to publicly support the State of Indiana accepting Mexican Matricula Cards as valid identification. 
   Lugar was an original cosponsor of the DREAM Act in the 108th Congress.
 
 