SEN. LUGAR SECURES FUNDING TO EXPAND HOOSIER HEARTLAND INDUSTRIAL CORRIDOR
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Hoosier Heartland Highway project will receive $2.8 million as part of the Transportation, Treasury, Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development Conference Report passed by the Senate on Friday, November 18.  
   Cass and Carroll Counties will receive $1.3 million, while an additional $1.5 million in funds will be provided to use for the entire project. This money will be used to continue the infrastructure improvements of the Hoosier Heartland Highway, upgrading the final segments from Logansport to Delphi and finally to Lafayette. 
   The Hoosier Heartland Highway, also known as U.S. 24, hosts major traffic along the Heartland Industrial Corridor from Lafayette, Indiana to Toledo, Ohio. The 200-mile corridor supports a large volume of international trade and serves as an artery for manufacturers in the Midwest. The Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 and the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century listed the corridor as one of the 21 high-priority corridors on the National Highway System. Improvements are designed to increase safety and mobility, bringing more commerce to the region. Currently, the road is only two lanes in Cass and Carroll Counties, but will increase to four lanes through this project. 
   Both the agricultural and manufacturing communities in Northern Indiana depend on this corridor to move their goods and supplies throughout the State, as well as across state borders. In addition, this highway project will improve one of the most dangerous segments of the road in the state, providing a safer, more efficient transportation system for the region. 
   "The Hoosier Heartland Highway is essential to commerce in Indiana. These funds assist economic development in Cass and Carroll Counties, contributing to economic growth statewide. I appreciate having the opportunity to work with Congressman Chocola on this project," Lugar said. 
   The funding will be used to complete the full corridor in Tippecanoe, Carroll and Cass Counties and cover the costs of design work, preliminary land acquisition, and construction. The final project was approved by Indiana Department of Transportation in 2004, with a record of decision from Federal Highway Administration in January 2005. Construction is expected to begin in 2009. 
   "Sen. Lugar's new funding for the Hoosier Heartland Highway means Hoosier communities will have improved logistics in this competitive 21st century. Hoosiers understand that being the Crossroads of America requires good highways for good jobs. This highway will help create better job opportunities in Lafayette, Delphi, Peru, Logansport, Wabash, and Huntington as it moves forward. We appreciate Sen. Lugar's long term commitment to Hoosier Heartland," said Mike Davis, spokesman for the Hoosier Heartland Industrial Corridor, Inc. 
   The project has received $2,000,000 in 2005 from Federal Highway Administration funds. The project received $1,000,000 in the 2004.
 
 