SEN. LUGAR'S LETTER TO HOOSIERS ENCOURAGES DONATES TO LOCAL FOOD BANKS
  As you plan your Thanksgiving schedule, please find enclosed a letter to Hoosiers from Sen. Dick Lugar (R-IN) encouraging contributions to local food banks during the holiday season and providing information on how to apply for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program.  
   Lugar's Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act was included in the Tax Reconciliation bill, which passed the Senate on Thursday, November 17. The Good Samaritan Act would make it easier for farmers and small business owners to contribute products to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters by allowing the deduction of the full market value of food donated from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007. Currently, this reduction is available only to large corporations, not small businesses. The bill now waits action by the House of Representatives. 
   On Friday, December 9, 2005, from 6:30a.m. to 1:30p.m. Lugar's office is collecting non-perishable and personal care items for Gleaner's Food Bank of Indiana, Inc., at Indianapolis' Monument Circle, West Quadrants. Gleaner's is a not-for-profit organization established in April 1980 that collects and distributes food to non-profit agencies primarily in central Indiana to feed the hungry and needy across the state. 
   A fact sheet on the food drive is available at http://lugar.senate.gov/reports/2005_Food_Drive_Flyer_color.pdf. 
   Dear Hoosiers: 
   During this season of giving and thankfulness in our land of plenty, I encourage you to help those most in need by contributing to local food pantries. The devastation of the hurricanes as well as the tornado which hit southwestern Indiana on November 6th have made this a difficult year for many people and stressed the resources of our local food banks. 
   Each citizen can make an important contribution in the fight against hunger at a local level. Over the years, I have visited numerous Hoosier food banks and have been especially impressed by the remarkable work of these organizations. In many cases, they are partnered with churches and faith-based organizations and are making a tremendous difference in our communities. 
   We should support this private sector activity, which not only feeds people, but also strengthens community bonds and demonstrates the power of faith, charity and civic involvement. 
   To participate in this important advocacy for food banks and emergency feeding programs by donating to your local food pantry, please contact your local food bank. 
   With the approaching winter season, many Hoosiers are also bracing for the cold weather and the financial hardships caused by the expected increase in heating costs. The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) has distributed $199 million in Indiana to eligible low-income households from FY2002 to FY2005. 
   I strongly support LIHEAP, and I encourage Hoosiers who are concerned about their ability to pay for home heating during the cold winter months to contact the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration for more information at http://www.state.in.us/fssa/families/housing/eas.html or 1-800-622-4973. 
   I thank you, in advance, for your personal thoughtfulness and generosity this holiday season so that the bounty of our country can be shared with all Hoosiers. I wish you and your family a wonderful Thanksgiving. 
   Sincerely, 
   Richard G. Lugar
  United States Senator.
 
 