SEN. LUGAR, GLEANERS HOST INDIANAPOLIS FOOD DRIVE
  Sen. Dick Lugar and Gleaners Food Bank of Indiana are hosting a food drive challenge for Indianapolis area corporations and community organizations. Participants are asked to collect food and donations at their respective offices from Monday, November 27 through Thursday, December 7, and then deliver donations to Gleaners on Friday, December 8 between 6:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Arrangements can be made for pick-up. The top three organizations that collect the most food will be announced at Gleaners with Senator Lugar on Monday, December 11 at 10:00 a.m. 
   To register your office for the food drive, call Senator Lugar's Indianapolis office at 317-226-5555 or visit www.lugar.senate.gov/fooddrive.  
   Volunteers will also collect donations on Monument Circle from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. between November 27 and December 7. 
   The items needed most include: canned meats (tuna & chicken), soups, ravioli, canned fruits, canned vegetables, peanut butter, jelly, 100% fruit juices, pasta, cereal, applesauce, toothbrushes, and soap. 
   A November 20, 2006, article in USA Today reported decreases in donations of surplus food from the U.S. Department of Agriculture as well as private cash donations to food banks. At the same, food banks are faced with increased demand as Americans have grappled with high fuel prices and rising energy costs throughout the year. In Central Indiana alone, more than 212,000 Hoosiers need food assistance on a weekly basis. 
   "By providing food to local charities that feed the hungry, Gleaners Food Bank makes a significant difference in the lives of so many people in Central Indiana. Yet Gleaners also depends on contributions from citizens to meet the needs of our community, and its resources are stretched as more Hoosiers rely on food banks to supplement their families' nutritional needs," said Lugar. 
   "Each citizen can make an important contribution in the fight against hunger, and I ask Hoosiers to respond generously to our food drive challenge. Your contributions are a constructive force for humanity in our state." 
   Gleaners Food Bank is a not-for-profit organization established in April 1980 that serves 29 counties in Central Indiana. Since 1980, Gleaners has distributed more than 173 million pounds of food and grocery products to charities feeding the hungry. In 2005, 394 charities including food pantries, soup kitchens, meal agencies, programs, shelters and residential care centers, benefited from Gleaners' food collections. Ninety-eight percent of Gleaners' resources go to feeding people. 
   Lugar is an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus. The Senate Hunger Caucus provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the rest of our world. Lugar joined the Hunger Caucus to further promote issues that he has long supported, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion. 
   Earlier this year, the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act, which Lugar first introduced in the 106th Congress, became law. The bill allows farmers and small business owners to receive a tax deduction for food products contributed to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters for donations from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007. Previously, this deduction was available only to large corporations, not small businesses. 
   Gleaners is located at 1102 E. 16th Street in Indianapolis.
 
 