NUNN-LUGAR TO DESTROY ALBANIA CHEMICAL WEAPONS STASH; FIRST TIME NUNN-LUGAR USED OUTSIDE FORMER SOVIET UNION
  For the first time the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program will be used outside the former Soviet Union. It will be used to destroy chemical weapons in Albania. 
   Last year Congress approved the Nunn-Lugar Expansion Act, authored by U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar, which lets the President use up to $50 million in Nunn-Lugar funds for activities outside the former Soviet Union. President Bush has signed the authorization for Nunn-Lugar work in Albania. 
   "The Nunn-Lugar Program has established a deep reservoir of experience and talent that could be applied to non-proliferation objectives around the world. The original Nunn-Lugar bill was concerned with the former Soviet Union, because that is where the vast majority of weapons and materials of mass destruction were. Today, we must be prepared with money and expertise to extend the Nunn-Lugar concept wherever it can be usefully applied. I applaud Albania's leadership in seeking United States assistance in destroying these dangerous weapons," said Lugar, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
   "I am pleased that President Bush has embraced the Nunn-Lugar concept and has endorsed efforts to apply it worldwide. Russia will continue to be a major focus but emerging risks must also be addressed in the Middle East, Asia, and elsewhere. Nunn-Lugar has developed a unique capability to meet a variety of proliferation threats and I am excited that it will address this unique threat present in Albania." 
   Albania is situated in Southeastern Europe and borders the former Yugoslav regions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. Both regions have witnessed tremendous violence and Muslim extremism over the last decade. 
   Senator Lugar traveled to Albania on August 27 and 28 of this year to meet with Albanian leaders and visit the chemical weapons storage facility that has already received US assistance to enhance the security surrounding the stockpile. In meetings with Prime Minister Fatos Nano, Foreign Minister Islami, and Defense Minister Majko, Senator Lugar discussed the need for Nunn-Lugar to assist Albania in destroying its chemical weapons stockpile. The project is expected to take approximately two years to complete at a cost of approximately $20 million to eliminate 16 tons of chemical agent. 
   The utilization of the Nunn-Lugar program in Albania was facilitated by the May 2003 Agreement Between the Republic of Albania and the Government of the United States of America Concerning Cooperation in the Area of the Prevention of Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction and the Promotion of Defense and Military Relations. This agreement will provide the foundation for the Nunn-Lugar Program work. The United States is delivering a draft implementing agreement to the Albanian Government that defines the scope of the destruction process. 
   Additional details of the project will be available in the future, but in the meantime the contents and location of the cache will not be released to ensure operational security or prevent revealing to potential proliferators or terrorists information that could endanger the stockpile. 
   "To combat the WMD threat in the former Soviet Union, our country has implemented the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. Since enactment in late 1991, Nunn-Lugar has devoted American technical expertise and money for joint efforts to safeguard and destroy materials and weapons of mass destruction," Lugar said. 
   As of October 13, 2004, the weapons systems deactivated or destroyed by the United States under these programs include: 6,462 nuclear warheads; 550 ICBMs; 469 ICBM silos; 13 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 135 bombers; 733 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 408 submarine missile launchers; 530 submarine launched missiles; 27 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program.
 
 