SEN. LUGAR TO HOST YOUTH ACADEMY DAY
  Sen. Dick Lugar's Indianapolis office will host the 5th Annual Dick Lugar Academy Day on Saturday, Sept. 30, from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., at the offices of Barnes & Thornburg LLP, 11 South Meridian Street, Indianapolis.  
   The event is designed to educate high school sophomores and juniors about the various military academies (high school seniors have already begun the process for admission next year). Representatives from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Merchant Marine and Coast Guard academies will attend. Students also can receive information about ROTC programs and Indiana National Guard opportunities. To attend the Academy Day, RSVP by September 28 at http://lugar.senate.gov/academy/2006.html. 
   A U.S. Senator, Congressman or the Vice President of the United States can nominate students interested in attending a military academy. Each year since his election to the Senate in 1976, Lugar has used the services of a nonpartisan Merit Selection Committee to review the applications he receives. Lugar, who will greet the attendees by video statement, then uses those recommendations as the basis for his academy nominations. 
   "More and more, young people are interested in the opportunity to study at a military academy," said Lugar, who volunteered for the Navy after completing his Rhodes scholarship studies at Oxford University in England. Lugar served from 1957-60 as an intelligence briefer for then-Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Arleigh Burke. "I am hopeful that this Academy Day will serve as an educational opportunity for both students and parents. The United States military academies offer students a highly regarded education and the opportunity to serve to their country, a combination that many young Hoosiers seek." 
   Dan FitzGibbon will be the guest speaker at this year's Academy Day. A 1964 graduate of West Point, FitzGibbon served for three years in West Berlin, Germany, before volunteering for Vietnam, where he served for 19 months as an Army Special Forces captain from 1968-1969. Since graduating from Harvard Law School, he has been an attorney at Barnes & Thornburg, where he spent the last eight years working on international rule of law projects in the former Soviet Union, the Balkans, North Africa, and the Middle East.
 
 