SEN. LUGAR PRAISES SECURING OF NUCLEAR BOMB MAKING MATERIAL
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar praised the secure transfer of highly enriched uranium from the Czech Republic to a secure facility in Russia. The secret mission, completed this morning, was announced by U.S. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham.  
   "I commend Secretary Abraham and his team at the Department of Energy and the National Nuclear Security Administration. Throughout his tenure as Secretary of Energy, Spence has shown tremendous leadership and made great contributions to U.S. national security through his constant and unwavering determination and leadership on nuclear non-proliferation. I applaud the cooperation demonstrated by the Czech Republic and Russian Federation in executing this activity under the Global Threat Reduction Initiative. This is another significant milestone on the road to victory in the global struggle against the spread of weapons and materials of mass destruction," Lugar said. 
   Six kilograms of highly enriched uranium (HEU) that could be used for nuclear weapons were safely returned to the Russian Federation from the Czech Republic. The mission was a joint effort between the United States, the Czech Republic, Russia, and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and is another accomplishment of the Bush Administration's Global Threat Reduction Initiative (GTRI). 
   "The recovery, return and eventual elimination of this highly enriched uranium is an important milestone in our efforts to reduce this dangerous nuclear material worldwide," Secretary Abraham said. "We applaud the strong leadership of the Czech Republic for taking measures to secure this material and working cooperatively with the United States, Russia and the IAEA to successfully return it to Russia." 
   According to Secretary Abraham, the highly enriched uranium was airlifted under guard from an airport near Prague, Czech Republic to a secure facility in Dimitrovgrad, Russia. There, the highly enriched uranium will be down-blended to low enriched uranium. 
   The nuclear fuel was originally supplied to the Czech Republic by the Soviet Union for use in the Soviet-designed 10 megawatt LVR-15 multi-purpose research reactor, located in Rez near the Czech capital, Prague. In 2000, the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) and the Czech Nuclear Research Institute completed a joint project to upgrade security of the nuclear material at Rez until it could be returned to Russia. Earlier this year, Secretary Abraham and Russian Federal Atomic Energy Agency Director Alexander Rumyantsev signed a bilateral agreement between the U.S. and Russian Federation governments to facilitate the repatriation of Russian-origin HEU research reactor fuel to Russia. 
   During the one-day mission, approximately six kilograms of HEU were loaded into four specialized transportation containers. IAEA safeguards inspectors and NNSA technical experts were present in Rez to monitor the process of loading the fuel into canisters. The facility in Russia that received the material has worked closely with the NNSA to implement security upgrades. 
   The mission of the GTRI is to identify, secure, recover and/or facilitate the final disposition of high-risk vulnerable nuclear and radiological materials around the world that pose a threat to the United States and the international community. The initiative will comprehensively address vulnerable material and radiological materials throughout the world and secure and/or remove these materials of concern as expeditiously as possible. 
   This is the sixth successful shipment of HEU being returned to Russia. In the past two years, NNSA has repatriated a total of 51 kg of HEU to Russia from Romania, Bulgaria, Libya, and Uzbekistan. And in August 2002, 48 kg of Russian-origin HEU were repatriated from a research reactor near Belgrade, Serbia. 
   Department of Energy initiatives have been a part of the integrated programs authored by Sens. Lugar and Domenici (R-NM), and retired Sen. Sam Nunn (D-GA). 
   "To combat the WMD threat in the former Soviet Union, our country has implemented the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. Since enactment in late 1991, Nunn-Lugar has devoted American technical expertise and money for joint efforts to safeguard and destroy materials and weapons of mass destruction," Lugar said. 
   As of October 13, 2004, the weapons systems deactivated or destroyed by the United States under these programs include: 6,462 nuclear warheads; 550 ICBMs; 469 ICBM silos; 13 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 135 bombers; 733 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 408 submarine missile launchers; 530 submarine launched missiles; 27 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   In November, Lugar introduced legislation to expand the Nunn-Lugar program. More details are available at: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=227989 
   Additional information is available at: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.html
 
 