SEN. LUGAR MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS BILL PASSES SENATE
  The U.S. Senate formally approved last night S.1315, International Cooperation to Meet the Millennium Development Goals. Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar introduced the bill June 27, 2005, and it passed the Foreign Relations Committee on November 7. It calls on the administration to assess the progress of poverty reduction efforts around the world since September 2000.  
   In September 2000, the Millennium Declaration was unanimously adopted by more than 180 nations, including the United States. The agreement includes commitments to: build a global partnership for development; eradicate extreme poverty by halving the number of people living on less than one dollar a day and the number who suffer hunger; achieve universal primary education for boys and girls alike; reduce by two-thirds the under-5 child mortality rate; halt and reverse the spread of AIDS, malaria and other major disease; promote gender equality, reduce maternal mortality by two-thirds; and ensure environmental sustainability. 
   "The commitment of the United States to the moral and humanitarian goal of reducing the inequities seen across the developing world is a key factor in achieving greater security at home and abroad. Since September 11, 2001, our nation has been engaged in a debate over how to apply national power and resources most effectively to realize the maximum degree of security. Throughout this process, I have been making the point that we are not placing sufficient weight on the diplomatic and economic tools of national power," said Lugar. 
   Lugar's bill asks that the Secretary of State, working closely with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), produce a report on the commitments made by the United States and the international community to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. This report will include the decisions made at this year's key summits including the G8, the UN Ministerial and the Hong Kong WTO Round. It asks that the report assess the prospects of achieving these goals by 2015 and review policies that maintain continued U.S. leadership in reducing poverty worldwide. 
   The purpose of the report is to encourage a continuing discussion of the goals themselves and the practical challenges with which each goal must contend within and among donor and developing governments. Part of that discussion is the commitment the U.S. has made through wide ranging initiatives such as the Emergency Plan for AIDS relief, the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act, and the Millennium Development Account, as well as the ongoing and essential development and humanitarian programming of USAID. 
   The legislation is supported by a variety of groups including Oxfam, a coalition of religious organizations, the UN Millennium Foundation, and United Nations Refugees Goodwill Ambassador Angelina Jolie.
 
 