SENATE APPROVES ENERGY BILL: INCLUDES SEVERAL LUGAR INITIATIVES
  Sen. Dick Lugar praised the Senate 65-27 passage of an energy bill that focuses on new sources of energy and conservation to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. The bill includes major provisions initiated by Lugar, including incentives for flexible fuel cars, requirements for greater use of ethanol mixed with petroleum fuels and numerous provisions to promote energy efficiency. 
   "This bill goes along way toward kicking our addiction to oil," Lugar said. "Our nation cannot sustain the security threat that comes from a dependence on foreign sources of oil. I encourage House passage and Presidential support for this bill as well as more energy initiatives in the future. We must continue to press for action in the energy area."
   The legislation would increase auto fuel efficiency standards for the first time in more than 20 years. It includes a provision mandating automakers to produce flexible-fuel vehicles, which are able to run on E85 ethanol or regular gasoline. The bill includes a renewable fuel standard (RFS) similar to the Biofuels Security Act, sponsored by Lugar and Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA). The greatly expanded RFS would guarantee a market for investment in new biofuels production, with special preference to biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol derived from diverse feedstocks like corn stover and switchgrass.
   Lugar's Energy Diplomacy and Security legislation is also included in the bill. It urges the Secretary of State: (1) to establish strategic energy partnerships with the governments of major energy producers and major energy consumers, and with governments of other countries; (2) expand energy emergency preparedness mechanisms; and (3) create a regional-based ministerial Hemisphere Energy Cooperation Forum; and (4) integrate energy security priorities into core State Department activities and create a new coordinator for international energy affairs. The Secretary of State has already been implementing provisions of the legislation.
   Most provisions of the Energy Efficiency Promotion section of the bill (Title II) come from legislation that Lugar co-sponsored with Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Pete Domenici (R-NM). This title would reduce our nation's use of fossil fuels by improving the efficiency of vehicles, buildings, home appliances, and industrial equipment.
   Other Lugar provisions include expanding loan guarantees for renewable fuel facilities, studies to improve flex fuel vehicles and ship biofuels by pipeline, and an assessment of carbon dioxide storage capacity.
   Detailed information on Lugar's energy legislation can be found at: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/legislation/index.html.
 
 