DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY SEEKS APPLICATIONS TO REDUCE HOME ENERGY USE
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Energy will make available up to $40 million to fund research applications to change the way American homes consume energy. Awards would support research, development and deployment of technologies that will on average reduce new home energy use 30-90 percent. 
   Applications should seek to: provide new energy efficient products to the market; incorporate innovations into home design; cut construction time; limit waste; and improve builder productivity. Energy Efficiency Housing Partnership applicants are expected to engage architects, engineers, building scientists, builders, equipment manufacturers, material suppliers, community planners, mortgage lenders, realtors, and contractor trades.
   The available funding is part of DOE's Building America project which develops energy solutions for new and existing homes. By 2020, the Building America project seeks to enable the production of cost-effective net Zero Energy Homes, which will annually produce as much energy as they use. The program's primary goal is to enable industry to adopt systems engineering approaches to the design and construction of a large portion of all new housing. For more information on the available funding and the Building America program, visit: http://www.buildingamerica.gov.
   The energy bill passed last night by the U.S. Senate includes major provisions initiated by Lugar, including incentives for flexible fuel cars, requirements for greater use of ethanol mixed with petroleum fuels and numerous provisions to promote energy efficiency. Most provisions of the Energy Efficiency Promotion section of the bill (Title II) come from legislation that Lugar co-sponsored with Sens. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Pete Domenici (R-NM). This title would reduce our nation's use of fossil fuels by improving the efficiency of vehicles, buildings, home appliances, and industrial equipment.
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
   Questions regarding the application process may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 