SEN. LUGAR NAMES PRESIDENT OF THE INDIANAPOLIS MOTOR SPEEDWAY TONY GEORGE AS ENERGY PATRIOT
  Sen. Dick Lugar named Tony George, President of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, as the May 2007 Lugar Energy Patriot for his leadership in the IndyCar Series' (ICS) decision to power its open-wheel cars on 100 percent ethanol. The award is part of an ongoing effort by Lugar to recognize members of the business community, professionals, scholars, or students who demonstrate leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign energy sources. 
   "Tony George's decision to power IndyCar Series cars on ethanol at venues such as the Indianapolis Motor Speedway signals to the American public that ethanol is a premier, high performance fuel. It has tremendous environmental benefits and is a key component to energy independence for our country," said Lugar. 
   On Sunday, May 20, Lugar presented Tony George with a certificate of recognition while at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway for Armed Services Day.  
   The 2007 racing season will showcase ethanol as a high-performance renewable fuel at 17 tracks in the U.S. and around the world. Such visibility has been an important tool in further educating the public about the merits of ethanol and the growing urgency to lessen our dependence on foreign oil. 
   Ethanol is an alternative fuel produced by fermenting and distilling such crops that have been converted into simple sugars, such as corn, barley and wheat. 
   An editorial profile of Tony George's leadership is below and may be published in its entirety. 
   Lugar has introduced the National Fuels Initiative, which would help bring ethanol to more Americans. S.162 would increase the number of E85 pumps nationwide and bring more flexible fuel vehicles to the roads. It would also institute a variable renewable fuel credit that acts like a price floor on oil, expand the Renewable Fuels Standard to require the use of 60 billion gallons of biofuels by 2030 and increase automotive fuel economy standards. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on oil. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil and provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   Past Lugar Energy Patriots include: Nancy Ho, Ph.D, Molecular Biologist, Purdue University's Laboratory of Renewable Resources Engineering; Mike Hudson, CEO I-Power; Bill Keith, President, SunRise Solar Inc.; Charlie Smith, CEO Countrymark Co-op; Kellie Walsh, Executive Director, Central Indiana Clean Cities Alliance; and Marty Sennett, General Manager of CityBus. 
   Profile of a Patriot
   Each month, Senator Lugar profiles a student, professional, scholar, or member of the business community who has demonstrated leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. In addition to the profile posted here, individuals will receive a certificate designating them as a Lugar Energy Patriot and a letter of congratulations. 
   Tony George
   President and CEO, Hulman & Co. 
   President, Indianapolis Motor Speedway
   CEO and Founder, Indy Racing League 
   On May 27, when the familiar call of "Gentleman start your engines" marks the start of the 91st running of the Indianapolis 500, there will be something different fueling the roar of race cars around the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Beginning this year, every IndyCar Series' (ICS) open-wheel race car will be powered on 100 percent ethanol. 
   The switch is thanks to Tony George, Indianapolis Motor Speedway President and Indy Racing League CEO and Founder, whose leadership consistently puts ICS on the cutting edge of automobile technology and now America's efforts to become energy independent. 
   "The Indianapolis Motor Speedway has a long history of innovation," Tony said. "Ethanol powered race cars are the latest example. We are pleased that the Indianapolis 500 and the IndyCar Series are contributing to energy independence." 
   "Tony George's decision to power IndyCar Series cars on ethanol at venues such as the Indianapolis Motor Speedway signals to the American public that ethanol is a premier, high performance fuel. It has tremendous environmental benefits and is a key component to energy independence for our country," said Senator Lugar. 
   Tony George comes from a long line of race enthusiasts. His grandfather, Tony Hulman Jr., purchased the Indianapolis Motor Speedway in 1945 and his late father, Elmer George, drove in the Indianapolis 500 three times from 1957 to 1963. 
   Tony became president and CEO of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Corp. in 1989. In 1994, he was named president of his family enterprise, Hulman & Co., and also founded the Indy Racing League, the sanctioning body for the IndyCar Series. 
   Tony's leadership has overseen new projects at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway for more than a decade, including reconstruction of pit lane and a new control tower. In 2005, he led the announcement by ICS that all league cars would shift from gas-based methanol to 100 percent corn-based ethanol beginning in 2007. 
   Ethanol is an alternative fuel produced by fermenting and distilling starch crops that have been converted into simple sugars. Feedstocks for this fuel include corn, barley and wheat. Ethanol also can be produced from "cellulosic biomass" such as trees, grasses and farm waste products. 
   In 2005, the United States produced more than 4 billion gallons of ethanol. Today, 110 ethanol production facilities exist in the United States and 73 more are currently under construction. 
   Outside of the Speedway, ethanol is blended with gasoline to create a mix of 15 percent gasoline and 85 percent ethanol known as E85 motor fuel. Vehicles that have been designed to run on E85 are called flexible fuel vehicles (FFVs). In Indiana, there are approximately 80 filling stations offering E85 pumps. 
   With each lap around a race track at speeds exceeding 200 miles per hour, ICS drivers are demonstrating that if 100 percent ethanol is good enough for race cars, E85 is more than suitable to the performance standards Americans expect. Such visibility has been an important tool in further educating the public about the merits of ethanol and the growing urgency to lessen our dependence on foreign oil. 
   In March, Tony stood next to an ICS demonstration race car with the U.S. Capitol Building in the background to kick off the start of ICS's 2007 season that will showcase ethanol at 17 tracks in the U.S. and around the world. 
   Tony knew ethanol would not alter the high-performance of ICS cars, and he recognized the opportunity to make a positive contribution to the automotive industry and be part of the future of alternative fuels in our country. 
   Tony George's initiative and leadership in the shift to ethanol is yet another reason why the Indianapolis 500 is the "Greatest Spectacle in Racing." 
   Senator Lugar agrees. That is why we congratulate Tony George on being our May 2007 Lugar Energy Patriot.
 
 