SEN. LUGAR NOTIFIED OF $1.4 MILLION FOR EDUCATION INITIATIVE IN INDIANA
  Sen. Dick Lugar's office was notified that Success For All, a research-based reading program designed to improve student performance, has received $1,400,000 for Indiana schools as part of the recently approved Omnibus Appropriations bill. Sen. Lugar worked with Congressional appropriators to include the funding in the bill.  
   The funding will allow the Success for All Foundation to partner with the Indiana Department of Education, Indianapolis Public Schools, and other high poverty school systems yet to be identified and develop targeted interventions to turn around low-performing elementary and middle schools in Indiana identified under the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001. 
   Lugar, who began his public career as an Indianapolis Board of School Commission member, has been a long-time advocate of education initiatives, including Success for All, Title I funding for the disadvantaged, the school lunch program and the federal Comprehensive School Reform (CSR) program. In March, Lugar visited Fredrick Douglass Middle School in Indianapolis, which is using CSR funds, as well as Title I, to offer Success for All. The program is run school wide. 
   Lugar has noted that, "In Indiana, as many as a third of students fall behind by the third grade. Indiana's performance is not unusual - the entire country is failing to meet the challenge of educating all our children. By teaching children to read in the early grades, our schools can avoid holding them back, promoting them with insufficient ability or transferring them out of the normal curriculum to special education courses. 
   "Research-based comprehensive reform is inherently appealing because rather than implementing reform in a piecemeal basis, this approach provides a holistic and coordinated plan of action to improve student achievement and outcomes." 
   Lugar has been a strong proponent of the program since 1999, when he first learned about its achievements. Success for All provides a proven and complete curriculum that includes teaching materials as well as professional development and parental outreach. Teachers who participate in Success for All say it ties the school community together in their learning. Teachers know exactly what is being taught to their students and to students in other classes and other grades. Students learn to work together in small groups and are excited to do so. 
   The Success for All Foundation (SFAF) is a nonprofit (501c3) organization that develops and disseminates scientifically research-based programs for high-poverty schools from prekindergarten to middle school. SFAF seeks to address the current achievement gaps in Indiana by taking their standard research based curriculum a step further and fully aligning it to state standards. Success For All would provide predictive benchmark assessments throughout the school year to allow ongoing tracking of student achievement against the state high-stakes test. It would then provide the curriculum to target specific problem areas.
 
 