SEN. LUGAR FOOD BANKS PROVISION INCLUDED IN KATRINA TAX RELIEF PACKAGE
  Provisions of Sen. Dick Lugar's Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Act were included in the Grassley-Baucus tax relief package for individuals affected by Hurricane Katrina that passed the Senate unanimously last night. The bill now heads to the President for his signature.  
   "I believe the enactment of this legislation would be a great incentive to redirect food from being discarded to being distributed to hungry families," Lugar said. 
   Small businesses will be able to claim an enhanced deduction equal to the lesser of: (1) basis plus one-half of the item's appreciated value (i.e., basis plus one half of fair market value in excess of basis) or (2) two times basis. Under present law, a taxpayer's deduction for charitable contributions of inventory generally is limited to the taxpayer's basis (typically cost) in the inventory. Currently, large corporations may receive a full market value tax deduction for contributed products, but not small businesses. The provision would last only for this tax year, to increase assistance for Hurricane Katrina victims. 
   "Over the years, I have had the opportunity to visit numerous Hoosier food banks, and have been especially impressed by the remarkable work of these organizations. In many cases, they are partnered with churches and faith-based organizations and are making a tremendous difference in our communities. We should support this private sector activity, which not only feeds people, but also strengthens community bonds and demonstrates the power of faith, charity, and civic involvement. 
   "In addition to donations by small businesses, each citizen can make an important contribution to the fight against hunger at a local level. I encourage individuals to continue donating as much as possible to their local food banks to ensure that victims of Katrina and local residents have sufficient supplies," Lugar said. 
   During the previous Congress, The Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Act was incorporated into the Charity, Aid, Recovery, and Empowerment Act of 2003 (CARE Act) and passed the Senate by a vote of 95-5 on April 9, 2003. The House passed similar legislation, but the bill did not make it out of the conference committee. The original Good Samaritan Act provisions will facilitate farmers and small business owners contributing products to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters by allowing the deduction of the full market value of food donated. 
   Lugar is also an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus, which has more than 30 members. The Senate Hunger Caucus provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the rest of our world. Lugar joined the Hunger Caucus to further promote issues that he has long supported, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion. 
   To locate your local food bank, visit Second Harvest's website: http://www.secondharvest.org/.
 
 