SEN. LUGAR DOUBLES FUNDING FOR SCHOOL NUTRITION PROGRAM
  Sen. Dick Lugar joined with Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) in introducing an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations Bill. The amendment, which passed yesterday 66-29, will double funding for the Team Nutrition program. The funding will increase from $10.025 million to $20.025 million.  
   Twenty-one states, including Indiana, have grants and funding through the Team Nutrition (TN) program that helps combat childhood obesity, improve child nutrition and promote physical activity in schools. 
   According to the TN website, Indiana's TN has used the grant to offer two types of mini-grant opportunities, in the past. One of the mini-grant projects was to collaborate with the Action for Healthy Kids and work with approximately 250 after school programs in Indiana to promote good nutrition and physical activity. Training and instructional materials were provided to the participating schools. The second mini-grant project was for Family and Consumer Science teachers. TN planned to help teachers educate students on the 2005 Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the new USDA Food Guidance System (MyPyramid). The middle and high schools students conducted promotions on these two topics to other students so that the majority of the school was reached with this project. 
   The other states with TN grants are: Alaska, Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. 
   The additional funding will expand the grants in those states and expand the program to additional states such as North Carolina and New Mexico. 
   The goal of TN is to improve children's lifelong eating and physical activity habits through nutrition education based on the principles of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the Food Guide Pyramid. 
   The U.S. Department of Agriculture's TN program is an integrated, behavior based, comprehensive plan for promoting the nutritional health of the nation's children. This plan involves schools, parents and the community in efforts to continuously improve school meals and promote the health and education of 50 million school children in more than 96,000 schools nationwide. 
   Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. His efforts in child nutrition were recognized nationally by the National Council of La Raza in 2004 with a Capitol Award highlighting his efforts to promote nutrition programs for low-income Americans, especially children. Lugar also has been recognized by FRAC and the School Nutrition Association, among others for his work in child nutrition. 
   Internationally, Lugar has been honored by the Friends of the U.N. World Food Program with the Leaders in the Fight Against Hunger award for his work to strengthen the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs, to expand food stamps, to support food banks, and to advance international food aid operations.
 
 