SENATE PASSES SUDAN SANCTIONS BILL
  The U.S. Senate last night passed a bill that includes targeted sanctions against parties responsible for continuing the atrocities and war crimes in the Darfur region of Sudan. The final bill was a compromise of H.R. 3127, passed in the House earlier this year, and S.3884, introduced by Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar on September 11, 2006. The compromise bill awaits House action. 
   "We worked closely with members in both parties and both Houses to come to an agreement and build a consensus. I especially appreciate the close cooperation with Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Congressman Henry Hyde (R-IL) and their staffs," said Lugar. "The bill passed last night shows consensus within Congress that the genocidal policies of the Bashir regime in Sudan must be condemned and opposed."  
   The compromise bill dropped a controversial sentence at the end of H.R. 3127, known as Section 11, which was blocking movement due to congressional and executive objections. Section 11 reads: "Nothing in this Act (or any amendment made by this Act) or any other provision of the law shall be construed to preempt any State law that prohibits investment of State funds, including State pension funds, in or relating to the Republic of the Sudan." At issue was whether the state law interferes with the President's authority to conduct foreign policy, as well as whether federal sanctions laws on Sudan preempt states from acting in this area. 
   The compromise bill authorizes targeted sanctions on individuals whom the President determines are "complicit in, or responsible for, acts of genocide, war crimes, or crimes against humanity in Darfur." These sanctions include blocking assets and refusing to grant individuals entry to the United States. The legislation encourages the President to prevent entry at U.S. ports to certain ships in order to deny the Government of Sudan oil revenues and access to deliveries of military equipment. The only exception to such entry should be for those vessels providing assistance in carrying out the elements of the Sudan peace agreements or humanitarian assistance. 
   The legislation also seeks to help consolidate the difficult road to recovery in Southern Sudan in accordance with the Comprehensive Peace Agreement for Sudan and includes additional authorities for U.S. officials to provide assistance to Southern Sudan, as well as Darfur. Such economic and military assistance is necessary and requires close consultation with Congress to ensure assistance is not manipulated or misdirected. The bill sustains existing sanctions on Sudan in direct response to its violation of agreements it has made. The President will have the authority to waive these restrictions if he determines such action is in U.S. national interest. 
   "Regrettably, the Darfur Peace Agreement appears to be faltering with the ill-advised rejection of the UN Resolution establishing a UN peacekeeping force to transition from the overburdened African Union Mission in Sudan. The situation has become insecure for humanitarian operations and as threatening to the people of the region as ever it has been. The United Nations Security Council Resolution authorizing a peacekeeping force for Darfur is a unanimous signal that the international community is committed to seeing no further violence take place in Darfur. Sudan, as a member of the United Nations, must abide by this decision of the international community. Their national and international responsibility is to serve and protect their people, and the suffering and killing in Darfur must end. The gargantuan humanitarian effort to provide basic necessities for more than two million displaced persons requires unrestricted access by national and international aid organizations, as well as the UN-mandated peacekeeping force to ensure their security," said Lugar. 
   Earlier this week President Bush named Andrew S. Natsios the President's Special Envoy for Sudan, a recommendation included in Lugar's S.3884. 
   At a September 9, 2004, hearing, then-Secretary of State Colin Powell declared for the first time that genocide had been committed in Darfur. At the same hearing, Lugar announced introduction of the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act, which was signed by the President on December 23, 2004 (P.L. 108-497). Lugar's legislation provided an additional $300 million in support of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur and for the consolidation of the since concluded Comprehensive Peace Agreement between North and South Sudan. The Act also imposed targeted sanctions and required reports.
 
 