HOOSIER COMMUNITIES AWARDED NEARLY $300,000 IN JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANTS
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar's office was notified that four communities throughout Indiana have been awarded Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program funds from the U.S. Department of Justice. 
  Howard County and the City of Kokomo will use a portion of the $41,640 grant to purchase equipment for the sheriff's and police departments. New equipment for video recording, speed monitoring, portable breath testing, surveillance, crime scene investigation, and property and evidence processing will be purchased to combat drug crime and reduce violent crime. Remaining funds will be used to acquire an explosives detection canine and to upgrade patrol vehicles to enhance crime combat capabilities.
  St. Joseph County and the Cities of South Bend and Mishawaka will use the $181,671 grant to purchase equipment for the police departments. New equipment will include in-car video systems, flashlights, expandable batons, tasers, air soft guns, a media system, case report shelving units, fingerprint kits, digital cameras, and mobile data terminals.
  Johnson County and the Cities of Greenwood and Franklin will use the $40,745 grant to purchase equipment for the police departments and courthouse. New equipment will include an x-ray device for the Johnson County Courthouse, tasers, and movie radios for police cruisers to assist in interoperability on the statewide "Hoosier Safe-T" radio system.
  Wayne County and the City of Richmond will use the $28,059 grant to purchase equipment for the police department and sheriff's office. New equipment will include tasers and in-car video systems.
  The JAG Program allows states, tribes and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own local needs and conditions. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information services for criminal justice for any one or more of the following purpose areas: 1) law enforcement programs; 2) prosecution and court programs; 3) prevention and education programs; 4) corrections and community corrections programs; 5) drug treatment programs; and 6) planning, evaluation and technology improvement programs.
 
 