SEN. LUGAR ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT ENERGY AGENDA IN STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Dick Lugar made the following statement regarding President Bush's 2007 State of the Union Address: 
   "Last year in his State of the Union Address, President Bush caught the attention of the world with five words: 'America is addicted to oil.' The President's focus has helped to spur new thinking, new policy suggestions and a new realism.
   "There are a huge number of possibilities in our country that are now under development that I believe federal policies can encourage.
   "The importance of the President's leadership is underscored by hostile policies of nations that are utilizing energy as a political weapon, while the global demand for energy is increasing rapidly.
   "Americans must gain a greater understanding of how to produce new forms of energy within our country while using our own resources. This conversion will create new American jobs and markets. We must be more explicit in talking about the development of not only corn-based ethanol and biodiesel, but also cellulosic ethanol developed from diverse sources of renewable biomass, in addition to hybrid technology and innovation in the automotive sector and the infrastructure necessary to make E85 pumps more available as well as a host of conservation projects.
   "I am encouraged by the President's proposals to reduce petroleum based gasoline usage by 20 percent in the next ten years. Furthermore, the President has proposed a 35 billion gallon increase supply of alternative fuels by 2017.
   "I support the President's plans for boosting domestic oil production, taking necessary action to ensure an adequate Strategic Petroleum Reserve and utilizing new CAFE standards to obtain a reduction of gasoline usage by the year 2017 and preventing the growth of carbon dioxide emissions within that same period of time.
   "I look forward to working with the President and with Senators on both sides of the aisle in the drafting and passage of important energy policy legislation.
   "It is essential both strategically and environmentally that the United States seek a greater degree of energy independence."
 
 