SEN. LUGAR LEGISLATION PART OF SENATE ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar's renewable fuels legislation is part of the Senate's comprehensive energy bill that is poised to pass tonight. There also are provisions that encourage the implementation of clean coal technology. The energy bill will head to a conference committee with the House of Representatives.  
   "This comprehensive energy bill contains a monumental advancement in renewable fuels production that will move America toward energy independence," Lugar said. "The increase in production of renewable fuels will spur investment in valuable infrastructure, which will create new jobs and significantly improve our state's economy." 
   Lugar was joined by a bi-partisan group of 21 Senators upon introducing the Fuels Security Act in March 2005. The act would more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose, in a time of relatively low fuel prices. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. Lugar also has co-authored and supported legislation to dramatically increase the use of renewable fuels in all U.S. vehicles. 
   Specifically, this bill requires the use of 4 billion gallons of renewable fuels per year in 2006 increasing to 8 billion gallons per year by 2012. Thereafter the requirements may be increased based on the nation's production and use of these fuels, as well as consideration of our economy and environment. It also encourages Federal agencies to use ethanol and biodiesel in their fleet vehicles. In 2004 more than 185 billion gallons of transportation fuel was consumed in the U.S. 
   "With high oil prices, ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from biomass becoming increasingly important and Hoosiers growing the feedstocks for these fuels will add to our nation's security while helping our communities prosper," Lugar added. 
   The energy bill also includes $1.8 billion for clean coal technologies, a provision that will benefit Indiana due to the state's heavy dependence on coal-fired power plants. With clean coal advancements, Indiana could use more of its own coal and import less from out-of-state. Power plants will also burn cleaner and pollute less.
 
 