SEN. LUGAR APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF CAPE TOWN CONVENTION
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar applauded Senate passage last night of a treaty that will create new job opportunities and exports in the American aircraft manufacturing industry. The Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment and the Protocol on Matters Specific to Aircraft Equipment, better known as the "Cape Town Convention and Protocol," were approved unanimously by the Senate.  
   The Cape Town Convention will facilitate purchasing and leasing of large commercial aircraft and aircraft engines by foreign businesses and governments that otherwise might be unable to arrange sufficient financing. Aircraft customers in foreign countries that implement the Convention will be eligible for lower cost loans from the U.S. Export-Import Bank when they seek to buy or lease U.S. commercial aircraft. These incentives to foreign customers will help open new markets to U.S. aircraft manufacturers. Simultaneously, the Convention creates internationally recognized finance rights and enforceable remedies that will improve the security of aircraft financing. 
   As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Lugar chaired a hearing on the Cape Town Convention on April 1, 2004. He secured unanimous Committee passage of the Treaty on June 22, 2004. 
   "The bottom line is that this treaty and protocol will create new customers for American manufactured aircraft," Lugar said. "Economic treaties are important tools in generating new commercial opportunities for U.S. businesses and in advancing U.S. foreign policy." 
   Earlier this year Lugar also oversaw passage of the historic U.S.-Japan Tax Treaty and protocols that update bilateral investment treaties with eight eastern European nations. The Japan Tax Treaty is significant due to the expansive trade and investment relationship between the U.S. and Japan. The United States and Japan are the two largest economies in the world and account for approximately 40 percent of the world's gross domestic product. Japan is the fourth largest source of imports to the United States and the third largest export market for U.S. goods. The treaty will improve the ability of U.S. businesses to expand and prosper in Japan.
 
 