ANDERSON RECEIVES FEMA FUNDS FOR DISASTER RELIEF
  Sen. Dick Lugar's office was notified by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that more than $1 million in federal funds has been set aside to help cover the cost of power distribution repairs for the City of Anderson as a result of the severe winter storm in January 2005.  
   "This is good news for the City of Anderson which is seeking full recovery from this devastating disaster," said Lugar. 
   The funds are being provided to Anderson for repair costs, which include replacement of power poles, lines and ancillary equipment. FEMA provides 75 percent of the project's total cost of $1,393,256 with the remaining 25 percent non-federal share coming from local resources. The funds are made available under FEMA's Public Assistance program, which is administered by the State of Indiana. 
   The January 2005 storm brought damaging ice in the central part of Indiana, as well as flooding in the south. Forty-two counties were designated for federal funding to reimburse state and county governments, as well as qualifying non-profits, for 75 percent of eligible response and recovery costs. 
   FEMA prepares the nation for all hazards and manages federal response and recovery efforts following any national incident. FEMA also initiates mitigation activities, trains first responders, and manages the National Flood Insurance Program and the U.S. Fire Administration. FEMA became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security on March 1, 2003. 
   Lugar met with members of the Anderson Chamber of Commerce in Washington, D.C. on Friday, May 20. 
   The Hoosiers were in the nation's capital to discuss local economic development efforts for the city, specifically the Flagship Enterprise Center. Lugar also spoke about the current activities in the U.S. Senate. 
   A photograph of Senator Lugar and the Anderson Chamber of Commerce at their breakfast meeting is available at http://lugar.senate.gov/photos/hoosiers.html#79.
 
 