SEN. LUGAR PUSHES FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT FUNDING
  Earlier this year, Sen. Dick Lugar asked Senate appropriators to fund a Residential Substance Abuse Treatment (RSAT) Program as a part of federal spending bills. Recently, those appropriators included $25 million for the program in the Senate version of the bill. 
   RSAT provides funds so individuals can receive drug treatment outside of medical facilities. Last year, these funds were eliminated from the federal budget. Lugar joined with President Bush in seeking their restoration for fiscal year 2005.
   Under the RSAT Program, it is difficult for local and county jails to secure funds for drug treatment programs. The RSAT Program also establishes a separate Jail-Based Substance Abuse Treatment (JSAT) Program, which authorizes states to devote at least 10% of the funds they receive under RSAT to qualifying jail-based treatment programs.
   "Substance abuse and problems arising from it are putting a severe strain on the resources of local jurisdictions throughout the nation. This is not a minor problem," said Lugar. "The time during which drug-using offenders are in custody presents a unique opportunity to fight drug use and crime through effective drug treatment and testing programs. Jail-based treatment programs are a cost effective way to reduce criminal activity and recidivism."
   To qualify for JSAT funds, a jail-based treatment program must be at least 3 months in length, have been in existence for at least 2 years and include regular drug testing in its treatment. Grant recipients are also encouraged to provide a wide range of aftercare services, including job training, education and self-help programs.
   Jail-based treatment programs have proven to cut drug use in half, reduce criminal activity like shoplifting, assault and drug sales by up to 80%, and decrease repeat arrests for all crimes by up to 64%.
   The House of Representatives has already approved a measure providing $35 million for the program. The Senate Appropriations Committee approved the bill with $25 million. Once it clears the full Senate, a conference committee will set the final funding amount.
 
 