EPA ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR CLEAN SCHOOL BUS GRANTS TO MIDWEST SCHOOL DISTRICTS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 5's Midwest Clean Diesel Initiative will award approximately $700,000 in grants for school bus diesel-emission reduction projects in Midwestern states including Indiana. Project proposals will be accepted until June 22 and final awards are expected to be announced at the beginning of November.  
   "This grant provides an opportunity for school corporations to improve the technology, increase the efficiency and reduce the pollution of their bus fleets. These efforts play an important role in improving our over-all energy security and our environment," said Lugar. 
   Proposals may include, but are not limited to, diesel exhaust retrofits, vehicle replacement, engine replacement, idle reduction technologies or strategies, and use of cleaner burning fuels such as biodiesel. 
   Grant funds come from EPA's Clean School Bus USA program. Program goals are to reduce school bus idling, retrofit existing buses with emission-control devices, use cleaner fuels and replace the oldest buses with new, cleaner buses. 
   Since 2003 when the program started, EPA has provided almost $2.8 million for 23 school bus emission-reduction projects in EPA Region 5. In addition, more than $800,000 in matching funds was contributed by applicants for education and installation of emission-reduction technologies. 
   The Midwest Clean Diesel Initiative is a collaboration of federal, state and local agencies, along with communities, non-profit organizations and private companies working together to reduce emissions from diesel engines in the Midwest. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   A copy of the request for proposals is at www.grants.gov and www.epa.gov/midwestcleandiesel. The title of the announcement is "Region 5 Clean School Bus USA." For more information, contact Julie Henning by e-mail at henning.julie@epa.gov. 
   Questions regarding the application process may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov.
 
 