SEN. LUGAR WELCOMES INNOVATIVE ENERGY PROJECT IN CLINTON COUNTY
  Sen. Dick Lugar today welcomed the announcement of the collaboration of Purdue University, Clinton County, the city of Frankfort, Archer Daniels Midland Company (ADM), and Indiana Clean Energy LLC (ICE) to produce methane for conversion to electricity. The project calls for the development of two facilities by spring 2008: one to convert food and plant waste into methane for electricity and a second to convert hog manure into methane.  
   "Indiana and our nation can attain a greater degree of energy independence using domestic and renewable resources. Our national security demands that we make the shift quickly. Reaching this goal takes the leadership and innovation being demonstrated by Purdue, Clinton County, the city of Frankfort, ADM, and Indiana Clean Energy LLC in launching this new energy project. What used to be waste is now an opportunity for economic development and more income for Indiana farmers and businesses," said Lugar. 
   Lugar staff met with Clinton County leaders in November 2006 to review the proposed project. 
   The release announcing the joint project is available at: http://news.uns.purdue.edu/x/2007a/070124TurcoPower.html. 
   ADM is one of the world's largest soybean, corn, wheat, and cocoa processors, and its Clinton County plant processes soybeans. ICE was officially established in 2005 to research and develop efficient, clean burning and environmentally friendly renewable fuel from soybean oil. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 