SEN. LUGAR SUPPORTED CHILD NUTRITION LEGISLATION CLEARS SENATE
  The United States Senate has unanimously approved legislation providing for national child nutrition programs, including provisions authored by Sen. Dick Lugar, former Chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee.  
   The measure, the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004, establishes or reauthorizes the various nutrition programs that feed hungry American children. The bill includes a reauthorization of the school lunch program, which feeds 600,000 children in Indiana and more than 28 million nationwide. 
   The bill also includes an expansion of the summer feeding program. This program feeds nearly 2 million youth during the summer months, when the school lunch program is not available. In 2000, a Lugar Pilot program began with the goal of increasing youth participation by lessening the enormous bureaucratic obstacles providers face, thus encouraging facilities to offer this service. Within the 13 states where the Lugar Pilot was implemented, participation in the summer feeding program rose 12 percent compared to nonparticipating states. Under this legislation, the Lugar Pilots expand to six more states. Also, non-profit organizations in Lugar Pilot states may apply to administer summer feeding programs, which should greatly increase the number of sites serving children. 
   "This bill is fundamentally important to the health and welfare of our nation's neediest youth," said Lugar. "The programs provided in this legislation ensure that all young Americans have equal access to quality, nutritious food. These programs are something I work hard to support and I am pleased that my Senate collogues have unanimously supported the measure." 
   The bill includes the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides food to needy mothers and children. The Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot is also reauthorized in this legislation. This program both improves youth nutrition by providing free fruits and vegetables at schools and serves to teach children about the habits of healthy eating. Indiana currently has 25 schools that participate in this program and the reauthorization will allow the state to continue to participate and will add four more states to the program. 
   Additionally, a provision previously introduced by Lugar was added to the bill to address the growing need for improving nutritional education and obesity prevention activities in schools. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has stated that obesity in America has risen at an epidemic rate during the past 20 years. The Surgeon General estimated in 2001 that obesity costs U.S. society as much as $117 billion a year. While this health risk may affect all Americans, there is a special opportunity to assist children in making healthy eating choices through child nutrition programs.
 
 