SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON INDIA-PAKISTAN TALKS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar made the following comments regarding India and Pakistan having reached substantive agreements on nuclear-related issues last weekend during meetings between expert-level negotiators, the first to occur in over five years. The Indian and Pakistani Foreign Secretaries (each country's top foreign policy civil servants) will meet in New Delhi on Sunday to discuss peace and security and Kashmir.  
   I congratulate India and Pakistan for their efforts to bring peace and stability to this important region of the world. The results of the dialogue on nuclear confidence building that concluded on Sunday demonstrate forward progress. The reaffirmation by both countries to adhere to a nuclear testing moratorium and steps to formalize missile test notification procedures as well as the agreement to establish a hotline between the two foreign secretaries are welcome developments. 
   The meeting between the countries' foreign ministers on Monday in connection with the Asian Cooperation Dialogue - the first such high level meeting since India's new government took power last month - also highlights the determination of each side to establish a new relationship. I welcome the foreign ministers' decision to reopen diplomatic consulates that have been closed for the last decade in the major port cities of Mumbai and Karachi. My best wishes and encouragement go to each side as their Foreign Secretaries prepare to meet next week in New Delhi to discuss peace and security and the volatile issue of Kashmir, where violent attacks continue. 
   Comprehensive engagement is critical to ensuring that future military crises are avoided in South Asia. I am also hopeful that sustained and meaningful dialogue will help reduce the greatest danger of the 21st century: the proliferation of weapons and materials of mass destruction and the possibility of these weapons falling into the hands of terrorists. A serious process of engagement will isolate those who seek to exploit tensions in the region and help ensure each country reaches its greatest potential for the development and prosperity of its people.
 
 