FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. LUGAR RESOLUTIONS
  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee today approved resolutions sponsored by Sen. Dick Lugar which now head to the full Senate for consideration.  
   The Committee passed: 
   S. Res. 211, a resolution expressing the profound concerns of the Senate regarding the transgression against freedom of thought and expression that is being carried out in Venezuela. On May 27, the Government of Venezuela plans to deny a broadcast license renewal to its national television station, Radio Caracas Televison (RCTV) despite assertions by RCTV owners that their license does not expire until 2017. This is widely viewed by U.S. officials, the Secretary General of the Organization of American States (OAS), independent press, and political observers as a threat to freedom of expression and democracy. 
   The resolution introduced by Lugar and Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) strongly encourages the OAS to respond appropriately. 
   Cosponsors of the bill include Sens. Joe Biden (D-DE), Hilary Clinton (D-NY), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Barack Obama (D-DL), and John Sununu (R-NH). 
   The full text of the resolution is available at: http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c110:s.res.211: 
   S. Res. 110, to commemorate the 30th Anniversary of the ASEAN - U.S. Dialogue and affirm appreciation for the relationship. Lugar's resolution calls for full implementation of the ASEAN - United States Enhanced Partnership. It also urges appointment of the U.S. Ambassador for ASEAN Affairs, a proposal first introduced by Lugar. 
   ASEAN is comprised of Brunei, Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. ASEAN was originally established in 1967 with five members - Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. The ASEAN - U.S. dialogue and relationship began in 1977; today ASEAN is the 3rd largest export destination for American products. 
   Lugar also supported passage of S. Con. Res. 25, a concurrent resolution condemning the recent violent actions of the Government of Zimbabwe against peaceful opposition party activists and members of civil society.
 
 