SUDAN RELIEF BILL PASSED
  The U.S. Senate unanimously approved the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act, S.2781, that would provide an additional $300 million in aid to relieve the Sudan humanitarian crisis.  
   Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar announced the bill at a committee hearing in which Secretary of State Colin Powell said the State Department has "concluded that genocide has been committed in Darfur" and that additional funds would be needed. Congress declared in a resolution on July 22 that the Government of Sudan was committing genocide in the Darfur region. 
   Lugar's $300 million aid bill adds to the nearly $600 million targeted for Sudan in FY 2005 and makes $200 million immediately available to various humanitarian organizations working in the Darfur region of Sudan and eastern Chad. 
   An additional $100 million is to be made available upon the conclusion of a North-South peace agreement that has been in the offing for months. None of this funding would be made available to the Government of Sudan unless the President certifies that Sudan has met stringent requirements. 
   "This bill recognizes the immediacy of the Darfur emergency, as the lives of hundreds of thousands of people will be at risk during the coming months," Lugar said. 
   "Time and again, groups of Sudanese have suffered a similar violent refrain: government planes bomb villages in advance of attacks by proxy militia, who destroy homes, burn crops and steal livestock, before driving innocent villagers into the wilderness and beyond assistance. This has happened in villages across Sudan during the long civil war, and is now occurring in Darfur. Today, the 1.4 million Darfurians on the run or huddling in barren camps are vulnerable to murder, rape, starvation, and disease. This is the result of a calculated strategy by the Government in Khartoum and their Janjaweed proxies to decimate the civilian supporters of their political opponents," Lugar said. "The United States is committed to helping resolve the civil war in Sudan that has already claimed the lives of 2 million people. 
   "Khartoum's status as an oil exporter, a major arms importer, and an Islamic government has diminished the appetite for decisive action in some foreign capitals. But neither economic interests, nor religious identification should trump responsible international actions in a case where genocidal policies are being conducted," Lugar said. 
   At the September 9, 2004, hearing, Powell released a new State Department Report, Documenting Atrocities in Darfur, available at http://www.state.gov/g/drl/rls/36028.htm. His testimony to the Foreign Relations Committee can be found at http://www.state.gov/secretary/rm/36042.htm.
 
 