SENS. LUGAR, BAYH SECURE FUNDING FOR INDIANAPOLIS INFRASTRUCTURE
  U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh voted today to authorize funding for the City of Indianapolis White River Flood Control project and for environmental infrastructure assistance. This funding is part of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) Conference Report. The bill now heads to the President for his signature. 
   "Projects for flood damage reduction and mitigation are critically important to Hoosiers living near bodies of water and in flood plains. This funding will assist with an important infrastructure improvement for the residents of Indianapolis," said Lugar.
   "With the recent bridge collapse in Minneapolis, we've been tragically reminded that we must take proactive steps to secure our critical infrastructure," Bayh said. "Unfortunately, problems with structures like levees and bridges haven't always become apparent until it's too late. This funding helps us ensure that the necessary steps are being taken to protect Hoosiers from potentially devastating floods in the future."
  This legislation authorizes $28.5 million for the U.S. Corps of Engineers to carry out ecosystem restoration, recreation and flood damage reduction components described in the Central Indianapolis Waterfront Concept Plan. This work represents the next phase of Corps' work on the White River in Indianapolis. Since 1992, the U.S. Corps of Engineers and City of Indianapolis invested more than $113 million in public and private funding. This funding has been used to improve the downtown Indianapolis area along the White River. Total expenditures would be cost-shared with the City.
  In addition to the authorization for White River Flood Control Project, Lugar and Bayh voted to secure $6.4 million for the City of Indianapolis environmental infrastructure improvements. Funding would be used for the design, installation, enhancement, or repair of sewer systems.
  U.S. Rep. Julia Carson worked in the House of Representatives to secure these projects in the final WRDA Conference Report.
 
 