SEN. LUGAR TO VISIT WITH HOOSIER TROOPS IN BOSNIA
  This weekend, Sen. Dick Lugar will be in Bosnia to personally thank the men and women of the Indiana National Guard for their service overseas. The 800 Hoosier troops, part of the 38th Infantry Division, have been in Bosnia serving as international peacekeepers since the spring.  
   "Indiana National Guard soldiers in Bosnia have served with distinction," said Lugar. "Brig. Gen. Timothy Wright and the members of the 38th Infantry Division are part of a multi-national force enforcing the Dayton Peace Accords. Since 1995, this vital mission has proved successful and Hoosiers have helped all along the way." 
   As part of the trip to visit the Hoosier troops, Lugar invited his Washington, D.C. and Indiana staffs to contribute small items, such as cards, games and books, to the soldiers. Those items will be carried to Bosnia and distributed to the troops. 
   Currently, there are approximately 7,000 troops in the region as part of the multinational peacekeeping force. Those troops are spread out among the headquarters and four distinct units. The Hoosier troops are part of Multinational Task Force North (MNTF-N). This unit is headquartered at Tuzla, it has approximately 1,800 personnel and the major contributing nations are: Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Sweden, Turkey, and the United States. Wright is the commanding general of Multinational Task Force North. 
   According to the Stabilization Force (SFOR) Public Information Office, on December 14, 1995 the General Framework Agreement for Peace was signed in Paris, after it had been negotiated in Dayton, Ohio. On December 16, the Alliance's North Atlantic Council launched the largest military operation ever undertaken by the Alliance, Operation Joint Endeavour. This Implementation Force (IFOR) was given a one-year mandate. 
   After successful completion of the original mission, NATO determined that a Stabilization Force was needed to continue the efforts to repair the fractured region and preserve the peace that had been put into place. 
   Under UN Security Council Resolution 1088 of December 12, 1996, SFOR was authorized to implement the military aspects of the Peace Agreement as the legal successor to IFOR. Like IFOR, SFOR operates under Chapter VII of the UN Charter (peace enforcement). SFOR has the same robust rules of engagement for the use of force, should it be necessary to accomplish its mission and to protect itself. The primary mission of SFOR is to contribute to the safe and secure environment necessary for the consolidation of peace.
 
 