DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ACCEPTING GRANT APPLICATIONS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Energy is accepting grant applications from the scientific community for the establishment of Genomes-to-Life (GTL) Bioenergy Research Centers that develop novel biological solutions for the production of such fuels as cellulosic ethanol or hydrogen or for other groundbreaking bioenergy research with the potential to revolutionize biology-based energy production. 
   Applications for these grants must be completed by Thursday, February 1, 2007. Interested applicants should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?mode=VIEW&oppId=10474 for full details.  
   This grant will fund the establishment of up to two multidisciplinary research and technology development Centers that will conduct comprehensive, integrated research and training programs in energy-related systems and synthetic biology. The Centers will involve diverse disciplines that could include genomics, microbial and plant biology genetics, proteomics, physiology, biochemistry, structural and computational biology, bioinformatics, and engineering. Each Center will be funded for up to $125 million over five years. Funds may not be used for the construction of new buildings. 
   "Energy issues pose a multitude of challenges for United States national security, foreign policy, economy, and environment," said Lugar. "Meeting these challenges requires a rigorous and farsighted policy to move us toward a sustainable energy future, and I believe that alternative fuels, combined with hybrid and other technologies, can begin to move us away from our extreme dependence on oil in the next decade." 
   On the first day of the 110th Congress, Lugar joined Senator Obama in reintroducing the American Fuels Act, legislation that would use alternative fuel technologies to reduce America's dependence on oil in a four-step approach. One step would spur investment in alternative fuels by increasing the production of cellulosic biomass ethanol to 250 million gallons by 2012. Lugar also introduced the National Fuels Initiative, multifaceted legislation that seeks to diversify the energy mix by encouraging sustained production and use of non-petroleum based fuels. 
   The Fuels Security Act of 2005, introduced by Lugar, served as the basis for key ethanol provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT), which Lugar supported and President Bush signed into law on August 8, 2005. These provisions will double the amount of renewable fuel America consumes, displacing an estimated two billion gallons of imported oil through 2012 in a way that is environmentally sensitive. EPACT will help to modernize America's energy production and distribution systems, encourage conservation and improve our environment and our national security by encouraging the development of clean domestic energy resources. 
   "While the challenges are great, there is reason for optimism," said Lugar. "Our current energy balance is the result of industrial and consumption choices of the past. Despite our import dependence today, the U.S. is in a strong position to choose a different path, a path toward real energy security. Success would free future generations of Americans from the energy dilemma that threatens to compromise our security and prosperity. It could also lead to opportunities in many new industries that could reinvigorate our economy." 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   Questions regarding the application process may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov.
 
 