SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES POLAND PARLIAMENTARY YOUTH EXCHANGE PROGRAM
  Sen. Dick Lugar (R-IN) today reintroduced legislation to establish a United States-Poland Parliamentary Youth Exchange Program. The bill, S.377, would establish a program to demonstrate the benefits of friendly cooperation between the U.S. and Poland to American and Polish youth.  
   "As a Rhodes Scholar, I had the opportunity to discover international education at Pembroke College - my first trip outside of the United States. The parameters of my imagination expanded enormously during this time, as I gained a sense of how large the world was, how many talented people there were, and how many opportunities one could embrace. Student exchange programs do more than benefit individual scholars and advance human knowledge. Such programs expand ties between nations, improve international commerce, encourage cooperative solutions to global problems, prevent war, and give participants a chance to develop a sense of global service and responsibility," said Lugar. 
   "Funding a great foreign exchange program is a sign of both national pride and national humility. Implicit in such a program is the view that people from other nations view one's country and educational system as a beacon of knowledge - as a place where international scholars would want to study and live. But it is also an admission that a nation does not have all the answers - that our national understanding of the world is incomplete. It is an admission that we are just a part of a much larger world that has intellectual, scientific and moral wisdom that we need to learn. 
   "The United States and Poland have enjoyed close bilateral relations since the end of the Cold War. Most recently, Poland has been a strong supporter of efforts led by the United States to combat global terrorism, and has contributed troops to and led coalitions in both Afghanistan and Iraq. Poland also cooperates closely with the United States on such issues as democratization, human rights, regional cooperation in Eastern Europe, and reform of the United Nations. As a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union (EU), Poland has demonstrated its commitment to democratic values and is a role model in its region. 
   "I believe that it is important to invest in the youth of the United States and Poland in order to strengthen long-lasting ties between both societies. After receiving for many years international and U.S. financial assistance, Poland is now determined to invest its own resources toward funding a U.S.-Poland exchange program. To this end the Polish Foreign Minister unambiguously stated that Poland welcomed the opportunity to be an equal partner in funding important efforts." 
   The youth exchange bill was first introduced in the 109th Congress and passed by the Senate in September 2006 by unanimous consent. Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN) was the lead sponsor in the House of Representatives and plans to introduce the bill again in the 110th Congress. 
   Lugar also authored the legislation that established the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange, which provides 250 full scholarships annually for American high school students to live with a host family and attend school in Germany for a year.
 
 