SEN. LUGAR EMBRACES THE PRESIDENT'S CALL FOR ALTERNATIVE ENERGY, URGES MORE ACTION
  Sen. Dick Lugar welcomed the energy agenda included yesterday in the President's State of the Union Address and today urged for more action as part of his ongoing efforts to develop energy policy legislation that seeks a greater degree of energy independence for America. Lugar participated in a press conference this morning with Sens. Tom Harkin (D-IA), Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Barack Obama (D-IL) to discuss the energy issues outlined by the President and to promote the Biofuels Security Act, S.23, which they introduced together. 
   "In his State of the Union address, President Bush proposed to reduce petroleum based gasoline usage by 20 percent in the next ten years. These proposals can help propel bipartisan cooperation on an energy agenda that will bring meaningful reductions in U.S. oil dependence. Congress has already begun debate on proposals, and I have introduced legislation with my colleagues from both parties that offers possibilities for joint efforts with the White House in meeting our shared vision to move beyond a petroleum based economy. I look forward to working with the President and with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the drafting and passage of important energy policy legislation," said Lugar.  
   In particular, Lugar has introduced legislation or supported the following aspects of the President's proposals: 
   Increasing use of renewable and alternative fuels The President proposed an increased mandate of 35 billion gallons for renewable and alternative fuels. Lugar led the first effort to create the existing Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS), which has served as a powerful incentive to increasing research and investment into biofuels by creating a guaranteed market of 7.5 billion gallons. Extending the RFS would help bridge to new biofuels technologies, such as cellulosic ethanol, and make meaningful contributions to reducing our oil needs. 
   Lugar joined with Senator Harkin to introduce the Biofuels Security Act, S.23, which extends the RFS to 60 billion gallons by 2030 - in line with the President's goal. To make this goal a reality, America needs to make the shift to cellulosic ethanol and other next generation biofuels. 
   Specifically, the President and Congress should: 
   1. Implement a new variable tax incentive for production of alternative fuels. Alternatives fuels do not compete on a level playing field with oil. A variable tax incentive would help protect alternative energy investments from being undermined by price manipulation of oil-rich foreign governments hostile to the United States. Lugar introduced legislation containing such a credit in the 2007 National Fuels Initiative, S. 162. 
   2. Fully fund the Biomass Research and Development Act. In 2000, Lugar authored the Biomass Research and Development Act, the pioneer program that coordinated research into cellulosic ethanol. 
   3. Speed infrastructure development. As contained in S.23, virtually every new car should be flex fuel, capable of using E85 ethanol or regular gasoline. Additionally, at least 25% of fueling stations in America should have an E85 pump. These modifications to our current transportation infrastructure will be a powerful incentive to further biofuels investment and will give Americans a choice in their fuel. 
   4. Implement the loan guarantees contained in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to assist construction of the first commercial scale cellulosic ethanol production facilities. Companies are ready to put the shovel in the ground today to get cellulosic ethanol flowing, yet the Government has been far too slow in implementing this program. 
   Reforming Fuel Economy The President requested the authority to implement a new attribute-based Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) system for cars and supported a four percent increase in fuel economy per year across the fleet. Lugar's National Fuels Initiative, S. 162, outlines a reform to CAFE that would establish greater vehicle fuel economy by creating a 4 % per year target for increases in fuel economy. This target would be subject to revision if the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration could prove the targets technologically unachievable or unable to guarantee fleet safety. The bill would also provide tax incentives to manufacturers to retool their production and assembly plants, and extend the current tax credit to consumers who buy hybrid vehicles beyond the first 60,000 buyers per manufacturer. 
   Lugar has also been supportive of increasing environmentally sensitive domestic oil exploration as part of a strategy to decreased dependence on foreign oil. 
   He has also advocated the extension of emergency preparedness mechanisms for oil disruption. Earlier this month, Russia once again demonstrated its willingness to shut-off its energy exports for political gains, and Venezuela and Iran have made similar threats. United States domestic actions to improve its energy security will attain maximum benefit with vigorous international partnership with major energy producing and consuming nations. One aspect of this partnership is extending strategic petroleum reserve coordination with China and India as they develop their own reserves, and helping poorer nations prepare for supply lost. Lugar's Energy Diplomacy and Security Act, S. 193, offers a framework for a new strategic focus for U.S. energy diplomacy. 
   Lugar welcomed President Bush's plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light trucks as a useful step toward mitigating the threats of global climate change. Lugar has voted in favor of previous cap and trade legislation in the Senate and recently reintroduced the Biden-Lugar climate change resolution that calls for the U.S. to engage in international climate change negotiations.
 
 