SEN. LUGAR, REP. VISCLOSKY ENDORSE RENEWABLE ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar (R-IN) and Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-1st CD) have endorsed an Indiana House bill to facilitate the use of more renewable energy resources to generate electricity in Indiana. House Bill 1379 was introduced by Rep. Don Lehe (R-Brookston).  
   "We strongly believe that Indiana's economic future is based on the aggressive pursuit and development of new and clean energy resources, and especially those resources that can be grown and generated in our state," Lugar and Visclosky wrote in a letter to Lehe. 
   "The development of these Hoosier energy resources is also a national security priority. America's dependence on foreign oil threatens our living standards, increases the risk of war in the most unstable parts of the world, and accelerates environmental degradation. 
   "In Congress, we have been working to enhance U.S. economic and national security by promoting new energy resources, especially the production and distribution of cellulosic ethanol. Indiana's historic prowess in engineering and manufacturing can lead the way in creating the next generation in transportation and power generation technologies," Lugar and Visclosky wrote. 
   "Indiana has tremendous economic opportunities based on the growing, refining, distribution and use of biofuels, and the development of hybrid technologies. We can also become the leader in the development of renewable electrical energy resources, like biomass and wind. Creating more effective and affordable clean coal technologies that are carbon neutral should also be a goal for Indiana's future. 
   "We strongly support your vision as embraced in House Bill 1379, and we look forward to working with you, the General Assembly and the Governor's office in energizing Indiana with clean, renewable and domestic fuels and resources," Lugar and Vislosky said in congratulating Lehe on his "forward-looking initiative." 
   Indiana is uniquely positioned to capitalize on home-grown fuels. Over the last several years, Congressman Visclosky and Senator Lugar have teamed up to secure $9.5 million to build an ethanol plant in Rensselaer, which will provide Northwest Indiana farmers with a new market, create new jobs and bring research, science, agriculture and technology together to create home-grown energy options like biofuels and biochemicals. 
   They have also advocated more funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). 
   Lugar introduced a bill in the U.S. Senate that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFVs) within ten years. FFVs can use both regular gasoline and E-85 renewable fuel (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content). Lugar is also an original cosponsor the Vehicle and Fuel Choice for American Security Act. 
   The renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed the Congress in July 2005 was based largely on the Fuels Security Act that Lugar introduced. This provision will double production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. The energy bill also included key portions of the National Security and Bioenergy Investment Act of 2005, which will rapidly expand research into biomass energy and biobased products and establish the production of the first one billion gallons of transportation fuel produced from cellulosic sources such as corn stover, switchgrass and wheat straw. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. In a time of relatively low fuel prices, he co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research.
 
 