SEN. LUGAR'S PRESS CONFERENCE ON BIOFUELS SECURITY ACT
  Sen. Dick Lugar today participated in a press conference on the Biofuels Security Act, S. 23. Lugar joined U.S. Sens. Tom Harkin (D-IA), Barack Obama (D-IL) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) to discuss the importance of increasing the number of Flexible Fuel vehicles (FFVs), which operate using regular gasoline or E85 and the number of filling stations that offer E85, fuel that is 85 percent ethanol.  
   Listen to Lugar's comments at the press conference at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/legislation/index.html#23 
   Lugar discussed the dangerous energy situation facing America that results from foreign governments controlling nearly 80 percent of the world's oil reserves. He stressed, "This is a national security emergency, quite apart from an environmental emergency." 
   The bill would increase the use of renewable fuels through a higher renewable fuels standard (RFS), greater availability of ethanol pumps and increased production of cars equipped to run on alternative fuel sources. Specifically, the legislation proposes a new RFS that calls for 60 billion gallons of ethanol and biodiesel to be included in the United States motor vehicle fuel supply annually by the year 2030, increasing the number of gasoline stations that carry blends of E85, which would result in approximately 50% of all major brand gasoline stations nationwide offering E85 within 10 years, and directing automakers to gradually increase FFV production until nearly all vehicles sold in the United States are FFV's within 10 years. 
   While corn for ethanol will contribute to these goals, it will not be sufficient to reach 60 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2030. To make this goal a reality, America needs to shift to cellulosic ethanol and other next generation biofuels. 
   Lugar also discussed a proposal from the National Fuels Initiative that would establish a variable tax credit for alternative fuels, payable if/ when oil prices dropped below $45 per barrel. The tax credit would prevent oil producers from artificially dropping their prices in order to drive alternative fuel producers out of business. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 