SEN. LUGAR SECURES $500,000 FOR CONNERSVILLE INTERMODAL STUDY
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar has secured $500,000 for a feasibility study of an Intermodal Port in Connersville. The funding was approved as a part of the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill. 
   "The prospects for this study are exciting because of the positive economic impact an intermodal port would have on Connersville and East Central Indiana. I am hopeful that the creation of this facility will help develop the logistics industry in Connersville and capitalize on the proximity to several population centers in the U.S.," Lugar said.
   Funding would be used to complete a feasibility study to create an intermodal facility with rail, air and road capabilities on a city-owned 74 acre site to increase economic development opportunities in the Town of Connersville and East Central Indiana. This project is included in the Senate Transportation Appropriations bill. A non-federal match of 20 percent is required.
   The proposed site is roughly equidistant to Indianapolis, Cincinnati and Dayton, and near US 40 and Interstate 70. It is on 74 acres of land owned by Connersville and contiguous to the Connersville and New Castle Railroad, Connersville Municipal Airport and State Route 1 highway. The Connersville Municipal Airport has a 6,500 foot runway and is in the process of expanding the runway to 8,500 feet. Community leaders have indicated that once the extension of the airport taxiway is complete, the airport could handle additional large cargo jets and the intermodal facility could build on the existing air cargo business.
   In March 2007, Mayor Max Ellison, Economic Development Director Doug Howard, Union Leader John Pavy and other Fayette County leaders visited Senator Lugar in Washington, D.C. to discuss economic development opportunities for Connersville and Fayette County.
   Approval by the Senate Appropriations Committee is the first step in the legislative process. The legislation now heads to the Senate Floor, though a vote has not been scheduled. Once passed by the Senate, the legislation heads to a conference with the House. Upon passing the conference and both Houses of Congress again, the bill becomes law upon the President's signature.
 
 