SENATE CLEARS ENERGY COOPERATION BILL
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar's energy cooperation bill with India (S.1950) passed the Senate by voice vote on Monday, July 24, 2006. Companion legislation awaits action by the House Committee on International Relations. (Please note: this is NOT the civilian nuclear agreement with India).  
   Lugar's bill would contribute to stabilizing global energy markets by joining the U.S. and India in a cooperative effort to address common energy challenges and diversify energy resources. It would promote greater cooperation in clean coal and energy efficient technologies, which would help provide a market for U.S. energy technology. The bill's broader goal of promoting increased understanding between our governments on energy policy would contribute to the future energy security of the United States. 
   In his speech at the Brookings Institution on March 13, 2006, Lugar underscored the need for international energy partnerships: "As we pursue energy security at home, we must seek energy partnerships abroad? Partnerships with foreign governments can help speed our conversion to real energy security, rebalance power in geopolitics, and open new markets for fuel technologies? Strategic energy partnerships with other major consuming countries are crucial for our national security. Energy security is a priority we hold in common with other import dependent countries, which constitute 85 percent of the world's population. Strategic partnership for energy security with the world's largest consumers will increase leverage in relation to petro-states." 
   To expand on the cooperative efforts of S.1950, Lugar introduced S. 2435, the Energy Diplomacy and Security Act. S.2435 "recognizes energy security to be a foremost concern for United States national security and would realign of our diplomatic priorities to meet energy security challenges." The bill calls upon the government to expand international cooperation on energy issues and seeks to enhance international preparedness for major disruptions in oil supplies. It also calls for an extension of petroleum supply distribution to developing nations, regional partnerships in the Western Hemisphere and stronger international partnerships with both major energy producing and consuming countries. 
   On the web: 
   The Lugar Energy Initiative: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy
   Lugar's speech at the Brookings Institution: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/press/speech/brookings.html 
   The Energy Diplomacy and Security Act: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=252838
 
 