SEN. LUGAR ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF ORPHANS VULNERABLE CHILDREN BILL
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar announced Senate passage last night of H.R. 1409, the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act of 2005, which was the companion bill to S. 350 introduced in February of this year by Lugar and Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-CA).  
   "Every 14 seconds another child is orphaned by AIDS," Lugar (R-IN) said. "This crisis has profound implications for political stability, development and human welfare that extend far beyond the region. Turning the tide requires a coordinated, comprehensive and swift response." 
   "This bill improves our ability to provide assistance to orphans and vulnerable children in developing countries, who otherwise stand to lose generations of educated and trained professionals who can contribute meaningfully to their countries' development," Lugar added. 
   An estimated 110 million orphans live in Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Caribbean, and the HIV/AIDS pandemic is rapidly expanding that population. Currently, an estimated 14 million children have been orphaned by AIDS, most of whom live in sub-Saharan Africa. This number is projected to soar to more than 25 million by 2010. 
   The Assistance for Orphans Act requires the U.S. to develop a comprehensive strategy for providing assistance to orphans and vulnerable children and authorizes the President to support community-based organizations that provide for their basic care. It supports school lunch programs, improved school enrollment by eliminating school fees and inheritance rights of orphans and widows with children. 
   Lugar also co-authored bipartisan legislation which was introduced in the Senate to accelerate the development of vaccines for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other infectious diseases. Lugar's bill would require the United States to develop a comprehensive strategy to accelerate research and development in vaccines that increases public-private sector partnerships. The bill would require the United States government to commit to purchasing vaccines for these diseases once they are developed through "advance market commitments" and create a tax credit for companies that invest in research and development for vaccines for these diseases. 
   Lugar has a long history of prioritizing the challenges faced by Africa and the consequences of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. He led the effort to secure passage of the Anti-Apartheid Act in 1986 and was the Senate originator of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA). Under his chairmanship, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has examined many subjects related to HIV/AIDS, including the intersection of AIDS and hunger, the AIDS orphan crisis, the impact of the disease on women and girls in the developing world, and the implementation of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS relief (PEPFAR). YouthAIDS and Africare have recognized Lugar for his leadership in responding to the international HIV/AIDS pandemic by.
 
 