SEN. LUGAR FARM BILL AMENDMENT CHALLENGES PRIORITIES
  During the Agriculture Committee farm bill debate on October 24, 2007, U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar introduced an amendment that would have reduced direct farm payments 6.5 percent to pay for improvements in the Food Stamp and Emergency Food Assistance Programs. 
   Though most committee members spoke in favor of the nutrition increases, they were not willing to reduce the direct payments that go to a select few farmers of cotton, rice, wheat, corn and soybeans. The Committee defeated the amendment 17-4. Sens. Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Robert Casey (D-PA) joined Lugar in voting for it.  
  In closing comments, before the committee approved the farm bill by voice vote, several members said they wanted to work to fund the Lugar amendment. 
  Lugar will offer the alternative reform farm bill, the FRESH Act, in the full Senate debate. It saves $20 billion from farm programs to fund other priorities in the bill, including increases in nutrition, conservation, specialty crops and renewable energy. 
  Below is Lugar's statement on the nutrition amendment. Video of the debate and more information on the FRESH Act is available at www.lugar.senate.gov/farmbill. 
  The amendment that I am offering would provide important funding for improvements to the Food Stamp Program and the Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP).
  First, this amendment would increase the Food Stamp asset limit from $2,000 to $3,000 for most households and would increase the asset limit from $3,000 to $4,000 for households with elderly or disabled persons. These asset limits would then be adjusted annually for inflation. The asset limit has not been adjusted for inflation since 1986, but if it had, in 2008, the asset limit would be $3,700 for most households, and $5,500 for elderly and disabled households.
  Food Stamp beneficiaries need to have encouragement to save and be more financially self-sufficient. The asset limit should, therefore, be reformed to create a stronger safety net for beneficiaries as they transition from welfare to work, and eventually off of the Food Stamp program. 
  Second, this amendment would increase the minimum Food Stamp benefit from $10 to a level that is 10% of the maximum Thrifty Food Plan benefit for a single person household. In 2008, this would mean that the minimum Food Stamp benefit would be $16, a 60% increase. Because the Thrifty Food Plan is adjusted annually for inflation, so would the minimum benefit value, meaning that Food Stamp beneficiaries would not lose purchasing power over time. The $10 minimum benefit has not changed in 30 years and this provision will bring increased benefits to approximately 758,000 Americans.
  Lastly, my amendment would increase funding for the TEFAP program to $250 million annually over 5 years, and then adjust for inflation. Increasing funding for TEFAP is important to the food banks in all of our states, and especially to those in Indiana, as they have increasing demand to provide nutritious meals for low-income, hungry Americans. I recently received letters from Pamela Altmeyer, President of Gleaners Food Bank in Indianapolis, and Jane Avery, Executive Director of Community Harvest Food Bank in Fort Wayne, whose sentiments I am sure resonate with Food Bank operators in your states as well. They informed me that because of declining bonus commodities over the last few years, they have had to reduce their receiving, storage, and transportation services, hours of operation, and amount of food they can provide to hungry families.
  This amendment is offset by a $1.7 billion decrease, over five years, in the $26 billion Direct Payment Program. This selective subsidy program, which only goes to certain farmers who grow certain crops, was never meant to be a permanent.
 
 