SOUTH BEND SCHOOLS RECEIVE $3.1 MILLION GRANT
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar was notified that the South Bend Community School Corporation (SBCSC) has been awarded a $3,162,528 grant from the U.S. Department of Education to pilot magnet schools in South Bend as part of the Magnet Schools Assistance Program (MSAP).  
   "As a former school board member, I support South Bend's efforts to increase academic achievement and I recognize the importance of fine arts and after-school programs," Lugar said. 
   SBCSC will use funding to implement three different magnet school programs: a Montessori magnet program at the primary level and two fine arts magnet programs: one at the primary level and one at the intermediate level. The grant will be used to hire and train teachers, purchase classroom equipment and provide staff with extensive professional development to support the programs. 
   The Montessori program will be phased-in, beginning the first year with children ages three to five. The fine arts program for the primary level will involve instrumental music for students in grades one through four, and provide additional after-school opportunities. The intermediate level fine arts program will offer electives such as dance, drama, art, instrumental music, and vocal music to students in grades five through eight. 
   According to the U.S. Department of Education's website, MSAP provides grants to eligible local educational agencies to establish and operate magnet schools that are operated under a court-ordered or federally approved voluntary desegregation plan. 
   The statute defines a magnet school as a public elementary school, public secondary school, public elementary education center, or public secondary education center that offers a special curriculum capable of attracting substantial numbers of students of different racial backgrounds. 
   Please contact the Department of Commerce at 202-482-3663 for more information regarding this grant. Questions regarding the grants process in general may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator for Senator Lugar, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 