SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF JUDGE JOHN TINDER
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar made the following statement at the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearing on Judge John Tinder's nomination to the U.S. Circuit Court for the Seventh Circuit:
  Mr. Chairman, it is a pleasure to be here today to introduce an outstanding Circuit Court nominee for the Seventh Circuit, John Daniel Tinder. 
  I would first like to thank Senate Judiciary Chairman Pat Leahy and Ranking Member Arlen Specter for holding this hearing today and for moving so quickly on this important nomination. 
  I am pleased that Judge Tinder is joined here today by his wife Jan Carroll who is an accomplished attorney in her own right as a partner with Barnes and Thornburg in Indianapolis. In addition, John is joined by two of his sisters, Mary Ann Wagner and Susan White.
  Late last year, Circuit Judge Dan Manion informed me of his decision to assume senior status after a distinguished career of public service. Given this upcoming vacancy and the need for continued strong leadership, I was pleased to join with my colleague Evan Bayh in commending John Tinder to President Bush. This selection was a product of a bipartisan process and reflective of the importance of finding highly qualified federal judges to carry forward the tradition of fair, principled, and collegial leadership.
  As the Founders observed when our Constitution was drafted, few persons "will have sufficient skill in the laws to qualify them for the stations of judges," and "the number must be still smaller of those who unite the requisite integrity with the requisite knowledge." Judge Tinder embodies the rare combination that the Framers envisioned.
  I have known John for many years and I have always been impressed with his high energy, resolute integrity, and remarkable dedication to public service. 
  John graduated with honors from Indiana University while earning his Bachelor's degree and then later graduated from Indiana University School of Law in Bloomington.
  John served in a variety of critical legal roles early in his career which helped to shape his strong litigation background and experience. Among many legal positions, he has served as an assistant United States Attorney, a public defender, chief trial deputy in the county prosecutor's office and as a partner in private practice.
  Given his broad experience and great abilities, John was a natural selection to serve as United States Attorney for the Southern District. After three years of active and distinguished service, John was then tapped again by President Reagan to serve as United States District Court Judge for Southern Indiana where he has served since 1987. In twenty years on the bench, he has presided over more than 200 jury trials in this district. His decisions are well known to be clear, well-reasoned, and thorough while applying appropriate precedents to the facts in each case. He is fully aware of the importance of appellate court decisions and their impact on the trial courts.
  Throughout John's career, his reputation for personal courtesy, fairness, decency and integrity was equally well-earned and widespread among colleagues and opposing counsel alike and on both sides of the political aisle. The Senate has already unanimously confirmed him twice, and it is not surprising that news of his Circuit Court nomination has been well received by stakeholders in the legal community and the public. 
  I am also pleased that John's experience and professionalism were recognized by the American Bar Association which bestowed their highest rating of "well qualified" for his nomination. 
  I would again like to thank the Chairman for this opportunity for Evan and me to present John Tinder to the Committee. I believe that he will demonstrate remarkable leadership and will appropriately uphold and defend our laws under the Constitution.
 
 