SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING IMPORTANCE OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION TO U.S. JOBS, ECONOMY
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today introduced a resolution recognizing the importance of protecting intellectual property in acknowledgement of World Intellectual Property Day.  
 This year's theme of WIP Day is "Think, Imagine, Create." 
   "We want to encourage artists and inventors to think, imagine and create," said Lugar (R-IN). "Only by preserving and protecting patented and copyrighted ideas will we be able to encourage and preserve innovation. 
   "As the sharing of goods and ideas transcends national boundaries, it is vital that these protections be able to accompany the ideas that they protect globally," Lugar said. "Global intellectual property piracy remains a problem which we should address." 
   The International Intellectual Property Association (IIPA) estimates that the U.S. copyright industries suffer over $4 billion in losses to U.S. companies in Russia and China alone. China is a fellow member of the WTO and therefore has agreed to abide by rules which prevent piracy of protected intellectual property. Russia enjoys trade benefits under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) with the U.S. and has agreed to protect intellectual property. 
   Last year, the Foreign Relations Committee held a hearing to examine the status of efforts being made to enforce intellectual property protections globally. During the hearing, Committee members heard from industry representatives and learned that increasingly, theft of intellectual property results in competitive disadvantages and significant job loss for American workers. 
   "Losses to U.S. companies result in job loss to U.S. workers and adversity to the domestic economy." said Lugar. "By insuring that our trading partners agree to abide by their commitments to enforce protections, we are also insuring that our companies stay competitive internationally and prosper domestically." 
   Sen. Max Baucus (D-MT) introduced the resolution with Lugar.
 
 