SEN. LUGAR COSPONSERS BILL TO SPUR AMERICA'S COMPETITIVENESS IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Dick Lugar is an original cosponsor of the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which was introduced today in the Senate by Sens. Pete Dominici (R-NM), Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD). The PACE Act is a package of three bills in response to a October 2005 report issued by the National Academies of Science and Engineering and the Institute of Medicine entitled "Rising Above the Gathering Storm."  
   "China and India alone graduate 6.4 million from college each year and over 950,000 engineers. The United States turns out 1.3 million college graduates and 70,000 engineers. We live in a global society, and by encouraging math and science education and research opportunities, we are also insuring U.S. innovation and international competitiveness," said Lugar. 
   "This legislation is very important to the future of our country. It is critical in framing the issue, whether for business leaders, students, parents, or teachers that we are engaged in a competition for our prosperity, our jobs, and our future. 
   "One of the questions we must ask is how do you offer incentives so that young American's choose to study math and the sciences? Likewise, who will teach these fields? These are individual choices of careers, but they are decisions essential to the basic issue of America's competitiveness in the world," added Lugar. 
   The PACE Act seeks to increase U.S. competitiveness through (1) investing in energy research and in educating future American scientists, (2) investing in current and future math and science teachers and K-12 students, attracting bright international students, and investing in non-energy related basic research, and (3) doubling the research and development tax credit and allowing a credit for employee education. 
   Lugar is also an original cosponsor of the National Innovation Act (NIA) which was introduced in December 2005. The NIA responds to recommendations made in the National Innovation Report published by the Council on Competitiveness earlier this year and seeks to improve America's long-term scientific and manufacturing competitiveness through research investment, increasing science and technology talent and developing an innovation infrastructure.
 
 