FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE TO HOLD HEARING ON LUGAR-BAYH BILL
  The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee will hold a hearing on the Lugar-Bayh Nuclear Fuel Bank bill on Tuesday, July 31, 2007, at 9:30 a.m. in room 419 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. Ranking Member Dick Lugar will attend the hearing, and U.S. Sen. Evan Bayh will testify before the committee.  
  Dr. Andrew Semmel, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Nuclear Nonproliferation Policy and Negotiations will also testify in addition to Henry Sokolski, Executive Director, Nonproliferation Policy Education Center; Dr. Fred McGoldrick, Former Director of Nonproliferation and Export Policy, U.S. Department of State; and Dr. Lawrence Scheinman, Distinguished Professor, James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Affairs. 
  Introduced by Indiana Senators Lugar and Bayh, S.1138, the Nuclear Safeguards and Supply Act, would make it U.S. policy to discourage the development of enrichment and reprocessing capabilities in additional countries; encourage the creation of bilateral and multilateral assurances of nuclear supply; and ensure that all supply mechanisms operate in strict accordance with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
  "The non-proliferation regime we've had in the nuclear age has been surpassed by the global availability of nuclear weapons technology, especially the technology and equipment for uranium enrichment and spent nuclear fuel reprocessing, which can produce fissile material for weapons," Lugar said. "Now the road to nuclear weapons can be traveled by determined countries with only a minimal industrial base. While the number of recognized Nuclear Weapons States has not dramatically increased over the years, the dangers of proliferation have become all too apparent as demonstrated by the A.Q. Khan network, the Iranian, North Korean, and Libyan examples."
  "Senator Bayh and I believe the United States should adopt the basic non-proliferation principle that countries who give up their own enrichment and reprocessing programs have assurance of fuel supply from a nuclear fuel bank," Lugar said.
  "We are in a new era and our legislation pushes us toward a new reality," Bayh said. "We must ensure that the coming surge in demand for nuclear energy does not lead to a surge in nuclear proliferation. In this new reality, more nations will need to secure supplies of nuclear fuel. Our legislation would give these nations incentive to pursue nuclear energy in a way that is safe and reduces the proliferation threat.
  "Current nuclear proliferation rules allow countries to come too close to becoming nuclear powers legally, making it easy to build weapons before anything can be done to stop them. Iran is using the pretense of a nuclear energy program to seek a nuclear weapons production capacity. This fuel bank would eliminate any plausible rationale that dangerous states like Iran have for enriching uranium for supposedly peaceful civilian purposes. The creation of the fuel bank would draw a clear line in the sand: Countries that refuse fuel bank services will come under immediate suspicion about their weapons intentions," Bayh added.
 
 