SENS. BINGAMAN, LUGAR INTRODUCE BILL TO ENCOURAGE MULTINATIONAL INVESTMENT IN U.S.
  Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Richard Lugar have introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at encouraging major multinational corporations to create jobs in the United States.  
   The U.S. Direct Investment Act of 2006 would create an office at the Department of Commerce led by a new undersecretary who would be responsible for attracting more investment to our country. 
   "Many countries have committed significant resources and energy to recruiting jobs. In many cases, they have offices in the United States where they meet with U.S. companies to encourage them to consider their country for their next expansion. Right now our country does not have any comparable operation. We leave these efforts to our states, region and cities through economic development agencies and offices," Bingaman said. "If we're going to stay competitive in the global marketplace, we need to focus attention and resources of the federal government to the task of bringing the best jobs to our country." 
   "At a time when commerce routinely crosses national borders, the U.S. should be positioned to compete in all arenas. That means not only strengthening the ability of American business to invest and sell their products in foreign markets, but equally important, attracting foreign companies to the American market," said Lugar, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "Other nations actively recruit and provide incentives for global companies to set up operations and create new jobs within their borders. We must do the same." 
   The proposed office at the Commerce Department, which would be called the United States Direct Investment Administration, would work closely with a newly-formed U.S. Direct Investment Promotion Committee. That committee would consist of the secretaries of Commerce, Treasury, Agriculture, and the U.S. trade representative, among others. Their mission would be to coordinate efforts to attract investment to the United States. 
   Under the bill, the United States Direct Investment Administration would collect and analyze data related to flows of investment, and develop policies for Congress to consider aimed at better positioning the country for attracting investment. 
   This United States Direct Investment Administration also would manage an investment zone program for communities that have been negatively affected by trade but want to attract international companies to locate in their area. Finally, this new administration will be empowered to create ten new "renewal communities" as currently defined under the Internal Revenue Code. 
   The bill was referred to the Senate Finance Committee. Bingaman is a member of that panel.
 
 