LETTER #12: REFERENCE GUIDE TO NEW IRAQI GOVERNMENT
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the twelfth letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the twelfth letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq/.  
   Attached is an excellent resource that I wanted to share with you. It is the Reference Guide to the New Iraqi Government prepared by the Public Affairs Section of the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. 
   The Guide includes a complete list of the Council of Ministers (who formally took office on May 20), profiles of senior elected officials, and an English translation of the speech Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki gave at the inauguration of the Council of Ministers. Also included is the text of the Iraqi Constitution that was approved by referendum last October. 
   The list of cabinet ministers, approved by the 275-member Council of Representatives, indicates the breadth of the coalition that will govern Iraq for the next four years. This diversity improves the prospects that the political and sectarian divisions that have cut violently into Iraqi society can be overcome to institutionalize a functional government. 
   As we increasingly look to the Iraqi government to lead their own affairs, it is important that we come to know its new leaders and begin to identify Iraq with them. The Prime Minister's inaugural address lays out an ambitious 33-point plan that would be difficult for an established government to achieve, but represents a monumental challenge for one emerging from decades of conflict and autocracy. Iraqis will need a great deal of help, not only from the United States, but increasingly from regional and international actors who have not been full partners in the coalition to date. I was pleased to learn, for example, that the World Bank has expanded its office in Baghdad with up to six international staff who will be working on programs funded by pledges made at the 2003 Madrid conference. To date, approximately $454 million from 17 donor states has been received by the World Bank trust fund. 
   The Guide can be found on my website, http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq/. I hope you find the information it contains useful.
 
 