VINCENNES UNIVERSITY RECEIVES $203,063 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE GRANT
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar was notified that Vincennes University has been awarded a $203,063 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice as part of the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program.  
   "Indiana law enforcement agencies rely on tactical training programs, education opportunities and degree programs which Vincennes University offers. Initiatives such as methamphetamine enforcement, homeland security, anti-gang programs, law enforcement technology, and statewide campus safety are vital to the protection of Hoosiers," Lugar said. 
   Funds will be used to support personnel, travel and supply costs associated with the implementation of the Indiana Drug, Gang and Violence Law Enforcement Enhancement Initiative. The program plans to expand the ability of law enforcement agencies to provide comprehensive training in combating drug, gang and violent crime issues though a train-the-trainer curriculum. Initiatives will be coordinated with multiple state and local agencies to include local campus police, city and township agencies, state police and the Indiana Department of Homeland Security. 
   The JAG program allows states, tribes and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime based on their own local needs and conditions. Grant funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice for any one or more of the following purpose areas: 1) law enforcement programs; 2) prosecution and court programs; 3) prevention and education programs; 4) corrections and community corrections programs; 5) drug treatment programs; and 6) planning, evaluation and technology improvement programs. 
   Please contact the Department of Justice at 202-307-0703 for more information regarding this grant. Questions regarding the grants process in general may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator for Senator Lugar, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 