SEN. LUGAR DISCUSSES MUTUAL SECURITY, THREAT REDUCTION WITH ALBANIAN LEADERS
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar met with Prime Minister Fatos Nano, Foreign Minister Islami, and Defense Minister Majko to discuss issues of mutual security, threat reduction and joint efforts in the war on terrorism.  
   On May 12, 2003, the United States and Albania concluded the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Albania Concerning Cooperation in the Area of the Prevention of Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, and the Promotion of Defense and Military Relations. This conclusion of the agreement was an important step forward to ensuring that the United States and Albania have the legal framework in place to expand their cooperation in reducing the threat posed by weapons of mass destruction and expanding joint operations in the war on terrorism. 
   "I enjoyed meeting with Albania's leaders and look forward to significantly expanding our cooperation in the future. I look forward to returning to Albania to continue our successful discussions and our important work," Lugar said. 
   On Saturday and Sunday, August 28-29, Lugar will visit the Indiana National Guard stationed at Eagle Base, Bosnia. On Monday, August 30, he will open new Nunn-Lugar projects in Tbilisi, Georgia and meet with Georgian officials. On Tuesday and Wednesday, August 31 and September 1, he will review Nunn-Lugar projects in Ukraine and meet with officials. On Thursday, September 2, he will meet with the Chairmen of the Foreign Affairs Committees of the Baltic and Nordic Parliaments. 
   "To combat the WMD threat in the former Soviet Union, our country has implemented the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. Since enactment in late 1991, Nunn-Lugar has devoted American technical expertise and money for joint efforts to safeguard and destroy materials and weapons of mass destruction," Lugar said. 
   To date, the weapons systems deactivated or destroyed by the United States under these programs include: 6,312 nuclear warheads; 537 ICBMs; 459 ICBM silos; 11 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 128 bombers; 708 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 408 submarine missile launchers; 496 submarine launched missiles; 27 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program.
 
 