SEN. LUGAR NAMES I-POWER CEO ENERGY PATRIOT
  Sen. Dick Lugar recently named Mike Hudson, Chairman and CEO of I-Power, as a Lugar Energy Patriot for his innovation in the energy sector. The award is part of an ongoing effort by Sen. Lugar to recognize members of the business community, professionals, scholars or students who demonstrate leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign energy sources. 
   "I had the opportunity to visit Mike Hudson and I-Power in October as part of an energy tour to celebrate the ways in which Indiana is helping our nation become energy independent," said Lugar. "I greatly admire Mike Hudson's leadership in bringing public awareness to the many possibilities that distributed generation technologies offer our country and particularly his focus on highly efficient, low-pollution generator systems. I am excited by this creativity occurring in Anderson, and I look forward to future developments and innovation by I-Power." 
   In 2005, Hudson took over Detroit Edison's distributed generation business, parlaying his experience in aircraft engine design into engine design for generators. The resulting venture, I-Power Energy Systems based in Anderson, sells distributed generation equipment that enhances energy security. Distributed generation is defined as small-scale electricity produced at or near customers' businesses or homes. It has the potential to improve the reliability and reduce the costs of the nation's electricity supply, lower emissions of air pollutants and diversify electricity sources. 
   Energy security proponents advocate distributed generation for many reasons. First, the co-location of the generators and energy users means that less energy is lost in transmission and storage with distributed generators than through the delivery by traditional electric utilities - up to 70% less in the combined heat and power configuration. As a result, generators use fewer fossil fuels to produce the same amount of energy, reducing overall consumption. The small size of distributed generators also means that they can be located anywhere, enabling them to take advantage of local alternative fuel sources including local feedstocks. 
   For more than a decade, Senator Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on oil. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E-85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Senator Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   Recent Lugar Energy Patriots include: Charlie Smith, CEO Countrymark Co-op; Kellie Walsh, Executive Director, Central Indiana Clean Cities Alliance; and Nancy Ho, Ph.D, Molecular Biologist, Purdue University's Laboratory of Renewable Resources Engineering.
 
 