SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES BILL TO MAKE FOOD BANK TAX CREDIT PERMANENT
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar today introduced the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Extension Act to extend and expand provisions that allow farmers and small business owners to receive a tax deduction for donating food products to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters. Similar provisions were included in the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-280), but only for donations made in calendar years 2006 and 2007. 
   Current law permits businesses a deduction from their taxes for a donation equal to either 1) twice cost basis; or 2) the difference of cost basis plus one half the difference between cost basis and fair market value. Food donations from all sizes of businesses can qualify for this type of donation. Lugar's bill introduced today increases the valuation to full market value of the donation and makes this provision a permanent part of the Internal Revenue Code. 
   "Demand on food banks has been rising, and these tax deductions would be an important step in increasing private donations to the non-profit hunger relief charities playing a critical role in meeting America's nutrition needs," Lugar said. 
   A study by the U.S. Conference of Mayors confirmed demand for food at food banks has risen 100 percent. Forty-eight percent of people requesting emergency food assistance are either children or their parents. The number of elderly persons requesting food assistance has increased by 92 percent. As unemployment rates have risen and the price of gas and heating oil has fluctuated, the demand placed on the food banks and soup kitchens has also increased. 
   "Private food banks provide a key safety net against hunger. According to a report by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 31 million Americans live on the edge of hunger. USDA statistics show that up to 96 billion pounds of food go to waste each year in the United States. If a small percentage of this wasted food could be redirected to food banks, we could make important strides in our fight against hunger," Lugar said. 
   Lugar first introduced the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act in the 106th Congress. Although both the Senate and House passed the provisions in earlier Congresses, it failed to reach the President's desk until the 109th Congress, when it was incorporated into the Pension Protection Act. Previously, this type of deduction was available only to large corporations, not small businesses. 
   Lugar has long supported Indiana food banks and hosts food drives throughout the state. Lugar discussed the legislation today with Jane Avery, Executive Director of the Community Harvest Food Bank of Northeast Indiana, Inc., and Nick Dalton, the Executive Director of Indiana's state food bank association, FIsH (Feeding Indiana's Hungry), in his Washington, D.C. office. Avery and Dalton were in Washington to participate in the Anti-Hunger Policy Conference. 
   Lugar is an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus which provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and hunger issues facing the United States and around the world. Lugar joined the Hunger Caucus to further promote issues, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion.
 
 