SEN. LUGAR MEETS WITH BOYS, GIRLS NATION DELEGATES
  Sen. Dick Lugar met today with four high school students representing the State of Indiana at the Boys and Girls Nation programs held in Washington, D.C., from July 22-29. Ahnya Alstott of Brazil, Darrell Conner of Indianapolis, Karen Kovaka of Corydon, and Nicholas Leonard of Muncie shared their experiences with Lugar over lunch in the Senate Dining Room in the U.S. Capitol Building.  
   The Boys and Girls Nation programs focus on government and citizenship education for students who are selected from their respective state programs. Students are referred to as senators throughout the program.
   The Hoosier students participated in the Boys and Girls State programs at Indiana State University held from June 10-17 and June 18-24, respectively. At ISU, students participated in a model U.S. government with the Nationalists and Federalists serving as the two primary parties. Mock elections were held for public office at the city, county and state government levels. Those elected served their respective positions throughout the duration of the program. 
   Ahnya Alstott of Brazil served as the Senate Minority Floor Leader and City Election Board Watcher at Girls State. Ahnya attends Northview High School where she is a member of National Honor Society and co-captain of the varsity girls' soccer team. She plans to pursue a career in secondary education and parish ministry. 
   Darrell Conner of Indianapolis served as Governor and Precinct Committeeman at Boys State. Darrell's activities include Class President and Vice President of the Multicultural Scholars Union. Darrell hopes to attend the University of Pennsylvania to study law and politics. 
   Karen Kovaka of Corydon served as Senator and keynote speaker at Girls State. She is a home-schooled student involved with the Student Service Club and the Truth Advocates Speech and Debate Club. Karen plans to pursue a career as a philosopher, apologist, and theologian. 
   Nicholas Leonard of Muncie served as Precinct Committeeman, County Chairman and State Vice-Chairman at Boys State. Nicholas is President of his class and of the Mayor's Youth Council. Nicholas hopes to attend Massachusetts Institute of Technology to study genetics.
 
 