SEN. LUGAR'S LEGISLATION PART OF SENATE ENERGY BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced the inclusion of three key amendments into the comprehensive Senate energy bill that is poised to pass on Tuesday. The energy bill will then head to a conference committee with the House of Representatives.  
   CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY 
   The energy bill includes amendments that encourage the deployment of clean coal technologies and establish a program to develop gasoline substitutes from Illinois Basin Coal (the coal primarily found in Illinois, Indiana and Kentucky). 
   The legislation includes $1.8 billion in incentives for clean coal technologies - provisions that will benefit Indiana due to the state's heavy reliance on coal-fired power plants. The proliferation of these technologies will allow Indiana's power plants to pollute less and burn more cleanly. Moreover, the leading clean coal technology, Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC), will allow Indiana to use more native "bituminous" coal rather than relying on "sub-bituminous" coal imported from Western states. 
   The energy bill also includes legislation drafted by Senator Lugar and Senator Barack Obama (D-IL) that would provide $85 million to the Energy Center at Purdue University, the Southern Illinois University Coal Research Center and the University of Kentucky Center for Applied Energy Research for the development of transportation fuels from Illinois Basin coal. This research and development program is designed reduce America's dependence on imported oil by turning an abundant domestic energy resource into a clean-burning substitute for petroleum-based transportation fuels. 
   One of the technologies encouraged by this program, the "Fischer-Tropsch" process, yields a diesel fuel that is compatible with existing vehicle technology and infrastructure and superior to oil-derived fuel when it comes to performance and emissions. Fischer-Tropsch diesel is expected to be economically competitive with conventional gasoline whenever the price of oil is above $35 per barrel. 
   RENEWABLE FUELS PRODUCTION 
   Lugar's renewable fuels legislation more than doubles production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. 
   "This comprehensive energy bill contains a monumental advancement in renewable fuels production that will move America toward energy independence," Lugar said. "The increase in production of renewable fuels will spur investment in valuable infrastructure, which will in turn create new jobs and significantly improve our state's economy." 
   Specifically, this bill requires the use of 4 billion gallons of renewable fuels per year in 2006 increasing to 8 billion gallons per year by 2012. Thereafter, the requirements may be increased based on the nation's production and use of these fuels, as well as consideration of our economy and environment. It also encourages Federal agencies to use ethanol and biodiesel in their fleet vehicles. In 2004 more than 185 billion gallons of transportation fuel was consumed in the U.S. 
   BIOENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
   The energy bill also includes the National Security and Bioenergy Investment Act of 2005. This legislation would rapidly expand research into biomass energy and biobased products. It would establish the production of the first one billion gallons of transportation fuel produced from cellulosic sources such as corn stover, switchgrass and wheat straw. 
   "Increased development of renewable fuels will help ensure national and economic security and gas price stability. With high oil prices, ethanol, biodiesel and other renewable fuels become increasingly important. While it is imperative that we continue to increase production of fuels from grains, as a nation we must rapidly develop the ability to produce large amounts of cheap fuel from a multitude of products - many considered by-products of food production. Hoosiers and farmers nationwide growing the feedstock for these fuels will add to our nation's security while helping our communities prosper," Lugar said. 
   This bill would update the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, originally authored by Lugar, by developing: an abundant production of biobased fuels at prices competitive with fossil fuels; a broad range of biobased products as substitutes for petroleum-based products; and a diverse and sustainable domestic supply of biomass feedstocks. 
   The bill also establishes an innovative incentive program to deliver the first one billion gallons of annual cellulosic biofuels production by rewarding private investment to encourage more efficient production of renewable fuels, translating into cheaper fuels over time. 
   In addition, it creates a UDSA program to assist small biobased businesses with marketing, certification and performance testing of biobased products such as hydraulic oil made from soybeans and plastics made from corn. The bill also expands a provision Lugar worked to pass in the 2002 Farm Bill that requires the federal government to greatly increase usage of renewable products during procurement of materials. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose, in a time of relatively low fuel prices. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research.
 
 