LETTER #11: SURVEY OF IRAQI PUBLIC OPINION
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the eleventh letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the eleventh letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq.  
   In appointing a new Prime Minister, Iraq's Council of Representatives, on behalf of the Iraqi people, have reached a watershed moment in the modern history of Iraq. The poll, conducted by the International Republican Institute (IRI) puts into perspective some of the pressing issues that Prime Minister Nuri Kamil al-Maliki and his soon-to-be appointed cabinet will have to address. The poll was constructed from more than 2,800 face-to-face interviews during the last week of March. 
   The first few slides indicate that more than half of Iraqis polled think their country is heading in the wrong direction and that a growing number of Iraqis expect conditions in their country to be "worse" or "much worse" six months, one year, and five years into the future. With these sobering numbers as a basis, subsequent questions in the poll provide insight as to what priorities Mr. Al-Maliki might consider, how Iraqis themselves view those problems, and how U.S. efforts might be most constructive. 
   The poll found that 76 percent of Iraqis regarded security conditions as poor, and 48 percent believed it should be the number one priority of the new government. The poll provided some encouragement that the reputation of Iraqi national security forces is improving. According to the poll, Iraqis see their national security forces as the best hope for security. When asked who they trusted to protect their "personal safety," 78 percent said either the Iraqi police or the Iraq army. Only 4 percent said they trusted the armed militias with their security, while 6 percent said they trusted the insurgents. When given the more narrow choice of having their safety "ensured by a national Iraqi military force" or a "specific militia," 87 percent chose the former, and 80 percent responded that armed militias "make Iraq more dangerous, and should thus be abolished." 
   Economic challenges are also on the mind of Iraqis, with 76 percent saying that wages have gotten worse or much worse in the last three months. They expressed opposition to removing gas subsidies - a key to reducing corruption, smuggling, and black market activities. Most were against this action because of their own economic situation. 
   Politically, 45 percent of Iraqis favored the formation of a unity government, with only 25 percent indicating that the winning coalition "should occupy all top government posts." They also overwhelmingly rejected violence to solve problems, as 96 percent stated that the Samarra mosque bombing was an unacceptable form of expression. As the Iraqis work toward national reconciliation, they listed federalism and sectarianism as potential obstacles. 
   The poll is available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq and on the IRI website (http://www.iri.org). I found this polling data useful, and hope that you will as well.
 
 