SEN. LUGAR CONGRATULATES FUNDING ANNOUNCEMENT FOR CELLULOSIC ETHANOL PLANTS
  Sen. Dick Lugar today congratulated the Department of Energy's (DOE) announcement to invest $385 million in six commercial scale cellulosic ethanol plants over the next four years. The announcement marks the first time that federal funding has been awarded specifically for cellulosic ethanol development. When fully operational, the biorefineries are expected to produce more than 130 million gallons of cellulosic ethanol per year.  
   "The long term advancement of ethanol as a national transportation fuel requires a focused effort to perfect and commercialize cellulosic technology, which will enable us to make ethanol from switch grass, agricultural waste and other inexpensive biomass. The addition of cellulosic ethanol has the potential to substantially reduce the overall production cost of ethanol, while greatly expanding the volume produced," said Lugar. 
   "The projects announced by the Department of Energy will in practical, concrete ways advance the development of cellulosic ethanol." 
   Lugar supported the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which authorized DOE to solicit and fund proposals for commercial development of cellulosic ethanol plants. He has encouraged the President and Administration officials for speedy implementation of the cellulosic ethanol provisions. 
   More than a decade ago, Lugar called for the development of cellulosic ethanol as Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, when witnesses at hearings he chaired from 1996-1999 said it would be the most efficient method to produce ethanol. In 1999, Lugar and former CIA Director James Woolsey co-authored a seminal article that linked foreign policy and high cost of securing foreign oil flowing to the United States with the development of homegrown ethanol derived from any form of cellulose ("The New Petroleum," Foreign Affairs). 
   Lugar then authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. 
   Lugar's continued legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   Specific information on the projects that received funding is available at: http://www.energy.gov/news/4827.htm
 
 