SEN. LUGAR: MEASURING STABILITY, SECURITY IN IRAQ
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the ninth letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the ninth letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq/.  
   I write to share with you a quarterly report prepared by the Department of Defense entitled: "Measuring Stability and Security in Iraq." A similar report was originally mandated by Public Law 109-13. This one is submitted under the requirements of Section 9010 of the 2006 DoD Appropriations Act (PL 109-148). 
   You may find this report helpful as you discuss and evaluate ongoing efforts to stabilize Iraq. It also is relevant to Congress' consideration of the President's budget submission for 2007 and the supplemental appropriations bill for 2006. As you may know, the supplemental includes another $3.7 billion to continue moving the Iraqi security forces toward a successful stand-alone operational capacity. 
   The explosions last Wednesday at the shrine of the Imams Ali al-Hadi and Hasan al-Askari in Samarra - one of the most revered Shiite sites in Iraq - has highlighted again the importance of the preparedness of the Iraqi security forces. Accurately measuring their readiness, leadership, and support mechanisms is a key to understanding the prospects for stabilizing the country and thereby achieving our political and economic objectives. 
   The relief and reconstruction information in the attached report mirrors that included in the 2207 Report, which I sent to you on January 30th. Beginning on page 22, the security environment is addressed in depth with subsections on the enemy, militias, attack trends, sectarian conflict, and Iraqi perceptions of security. A section on the training and performance of security forces begins on page 34. 
   I found the five-page section entitled "Attack Trends" of great interest, as well as the description of "a growing split between the mainstream Sunni Arab population and the terrorist and foreign fighters." The report also provides helpful commentary on the militia question and data on many subjects, including the number of Iraqi battalions in combat and recruitment projections. In addition, the report describes the challenges faced by advisors from the Departments of Defense, State, and Justice and the Multi-National Security Transition Command in building the institutions necessary to ensure that Iraqi forces can stand independently. 
   The report is linked on my website at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq/. A classified annex to this report is available at relevant Committees. I hope that you find this information useful.
 
 