SEN. LUGAR WELCOMES RECOMMENDATIONS TO INCREASE USE OF RENEWABLE FUELS
  Sen. Dick Lugar today welcomed the release of recommendations of the 25x'25 Coalition aimed to provide 25 percent of energy in the U.S. from renewable sources by 2025. The recommendations are part of the 25x'25 Action Plan: Charting America's Energy Future which is supported by more than 400 organizations.  
   "I commend the 25x'25 National Steering Committee on putting forth a wide range of policy suggestions to address our nation's critical energy needs. For our nation to move in a new direction in providing and utilizing energy we must identify the problems associated with our current energy situation and offer real solutions. The 25x'25 Implementation Plan provides constructive ideas that Congress should consider, and I am proud to support its objectives," said Lugar. 
   "I am especially excited by the bold goal of producing 65-85 billion gallons of biofuels and the recognition that speeding cellulosic ethanol development is essential to the long-term integration of renewable fuels into the U.S. marketplace." 
   The 35 specific recommendations in the Action Plan focus on increasing the production of renewable energy, delivering that energy to consumers, expanding consumer demand, and enhancing resource conservation and energy efficiency. 
   Specifically, the Action Plan reflects energy legislation introduced by Lugar during both the 109th and 110th Congress including the creation of a variable support system for renewable fuels. 
   The Action Plan also shares Lugar's priority for high capacity biofuels infrastructures and proposes a dramatic increase in the availability of Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFVs) and E85 pumps in addition to promoting ethanol distribution such as pipelines. 
   Many of these recommendations are contained in the National Fuels Initiative, S.162, introduced by Lugar that seeks to diversify the fuel mix in our transportation system by encouraging sustained production and use of non-petroleum based fuels. Most notably, the bill proposes to create long-term assurances that alternative fuels could remain economically competitive if oil prices were to drop below $45 per barrel. In return, the bill would reduce taxpayer-funded subsidies when high oil prices result in highly competitive and profitable alternative fuels. The bill would also reserve a larger share of domestic fuel markets for alternative fuels, promote the installation of E-85 fuel pumps and the supporting infrastructure, encourage the manufacture of FFVs, and increase fuel economy standards. 
   Lugar is an original cosponsor of the 25x'25 resolution introduced in the Senate in both the 109th and 110th Congress. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   The 25x'25 Action Plan is available at: http://www.25x25.org/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=58&Itemid=148.
 
 