SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT IN MEMORY OF LEONARD ROBINSON
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar placed the following statement in the Congressional Record in memory of Leonard H. Robinson:  
   Mr. President, I rise today to honor the memory of a good friend, Leonard H. Robinson, Jr., President and CEO of the Africa Society of the National Summit on Africa, who died suddenly on Tuesday here in Washington. 
   Leonard's remarkable achievements have been recognized across America and the world. Throughout his nearly 40-year career, Leonard distinguished himself in many roles. He brought knowledge, commitment, and experience to his work at the State Department, the African Development Foundation, and the United States Agency for International Development. For many years, he devoted his abundant energy to promoting understanding and opportunities in Africa. It all started, however, as a Peace Corps volunteer in India from 1964-1967. He surprised one of my staff members recently by conversing in fluent Hindi, one of many languages Leonard had taken the time to master. 
   Leonard Robinson was also a visiting professor and lecturer at several universities including Boston University and the University of Virginia, where he was the university's first Diplomat-in-Residence. Through his membership on a variety of commissions and councils, including the Council on Foreign Relations, he gave clear voice to important issues, and others responded in kind. He had the ability to bring together broad coalitions of partners, including businesses, NGOs, academics, and civil society groups, who otherwise might not have recognized their mutual interests. He influenced numerous individuals in America and around the world to see the potential of Africa. 
   Leonard Robinson's work on African affairs was always based on the conviction that it was important to correct the frequently negative perceptions about Africa that inhibited genuine interaction with that continent. His tireless efforts to educate all Americans on the rich history and diversity of Africa and its people culminated in the establishment of the Africa Society, of which he was a founder, President, and CEO. 
   There will be a memorial service in honor of Leonard Robinson, at 10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, August 15, 2006, at the Washington National Cathedral where his friends and colleagues will recognize his accomplishments and celebrate his legacy. I will continue to support his most recent effort in dialogue on Capitol Hill, where Congressman Donald Payne and I have co-chaired the Conversation and Dinner with African Ambassadors Series. 
   My sympathy is with Leonard's family and many friends, especially his two daughters Rani and Kemberley, his mother Winnie, and his brother Michael. This exemplary statesman was a great representative of his country and a standard bearer for the advancement of Africa, and he added something very noble to Washington discourse. We will miss his wisdom and grace.
 
 