PURDUE AWARDED RENEWABLE ENERGY FUNDS; USDA SEEKING RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS GRANT APPLICATIONS
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar applauded the announcement that Purdue University will receive up to $5 million in funding from the Department of Energy for a project to develop highly efficient fermentative organisms to convert cellulosic biomass material to ethanol.  
   "Purdue University's diverse resources are uniquely situated to perform this important research. The long term advancement of ethanol as a national transportation fuel requires a focused effort to perfect and commercialize cellulosic technology, which will enable us to make ethanol from switch grass, agricultural waste and other inexpensive biomass," said Lugar. "The addition of cellulosic ethanol has the potential to substantially reduce the overall production cost of ethanol, while greatly expanding the volume produced, and this funding will advance the development of cellulosic ethanol." 
   Additionally, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is accepting grant applications to purchase renewable energy systems and make energy efficiency improvements for agriculture producers and rural small businesses in eligible rural areas. For renewable energy systems, the minimum grant request is $2,500 and the maximum is $500,000. For energy efficiency improvements, the minimum grant request is $1,500 and the maximum is $250,000. 
   "Current U.S. energy consumption is unsustainable and poses numerous threats to our national security and economic prosperity," said Lugar. "We can help protect our security, increase our foreign policy leverage, safeguard our environment, and grow our rural economy through advances in alternative energy technology." 
   Funding for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements will be available in the form of grants, guaranteed loans, and combined guaranteed loans and grant applications. Applications for these grants must be completed by Friday, May 18, 2007. Interested applicants should visit http://www.grants.gov/search/search.do?oppId=13211&mode=VIEW or call Jerry Hay in Indiana's USDA Rural Development office at 812-873-1100 for full details. 
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, modernizing America's energy production and distribution systems, encouraging conservation, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
   Questions regarding the application process may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov.
 
 