COMMITTEE APPROVES SEN. LUGAR'S BILL ON POST-CONFLICT RESPONSE CORPS
  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee today approved S.613, the Reconstruction and Stabilization Civilian Management Act of 2007, introduced by U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar. The bill authorizes the creation of a federal response capability to address post-conflict situations with active and standby components as well as a civilian reserve, a concept first introduced by Lugar and Sens. Joe Biden (D-DE) and Chuck Hagel (R-NE) in 2004 and endorsed by President Bush in his 2007 State of the Union Address.  
   "International crises are inevitable, and in most cases, U.S. national security interests will be threatened by sustained instability. The war on terrorism necessitates that we not leave nations crumbling and ungoverned. We have already seen how terrorists can exploit nations afflicted by lawlessness and desperate circumstances. They seek out such places to establish training camps, recruit new members and tap into a global black market in weapons," said Lugar. 
   "In this international atmosphere, the United States must have the right structures, personnel and resources in place when an emergency occurs. A delay in our response of a few weeks, or even days, can mean the difference between success and failure." 
   Lugar's bill would give statutory status to the State Department's Office of the Coordinator of Reconstruction and Stabilization. The bill would authorize funding for the new office and the recruitment, training, equipment and travel of a 250-person active duty corps. His bill also calls for a 2,000 person standby component drawn from State, USAID and other federal agencies. And it authorizes the creation of a civilian reserve that would draw highly skilled personnel from the American general workforce. The bill requires that at least 500 volunteers be recruited, trained and available to serve within a year of the bill's passage. 
   Expertise in the active, standby and civilian reserve would include civil engineering, law enforcement, agricultural, health, education and political organization. This corps would be trained and available for rapid deployment with the military for initial assessments and programming purposes and likely be the first civilian team on the ground in post-conflict situations, before establishing an embassy. 
   The Executive Branch has already implemented elements of Lugar's bill by creating a new Office of Stabilization and Reconstruction headed by a Coordinator that reports directly to the Secretary of State. 
   Lugar has also offered an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental legislation currently being considered by the full Senate to include $50 million to jump start the civilian reserve. A second amendment offered by Lugar would expand a current Department of Defense program that provides special immigrant visas to Iraqi and Afghani translators and interpreters after twelve months of service if they have been nominated by U.S. troops and signed off by their commanding general. Lugar's amendment would expand the program from 50 to 200 available visas per year. 
   Lugar is also a co-sponsor of S.76, which was approved by the Committee in today's business meeting. The legislation calls on the U.S. Government and the international community to promptly develop, fund and implement a comprehensive regional strategy in Africa to protect civilians, facilitate humanitarian operations, contain and reduce violence, and contribute to conditions for sustainable peace in eastern Chad, the Central African Republic and Darfur, Sudan.
 
 