SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE APPROVES ENERGY DIPLOMACY BILL
  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee has approved S.193, the Energy Diplomacy and Security Act. Introduced by U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar, the bill calls on the Administration to invigorate existing bilateral energy partnerships and seek new ones with key producing and consuming countries, placing a special emphasis on increasing the use of sustainable energy sources.  
   "America's quest for energy security must include a vigorous global component. The geopolitics of energy today require bold international partnerships to blunt the ability of producer states to use energy as a weapon, to increase our own security of supply and to reduce the vulnerability of our economy to high oil prices," said Lugar, Republican leader of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
   Specifically, the bill bolsters the State Department's capability to integrate energy security needs into our diplomatic activities. It creates a Coordinator for International Energy Affairs within the Office of the Secretary of State that would be charged with ensuring energy security is integrated into State Department activities and to liaise with other federal agencies. 
   Lugar's bill also directs the Administration to expand international energy crisis response mechanisms, including through formal agreements with India and China. Such a move would give oil consuming nations more leverage and flexibility during international oil supply disruptions and help stabilize world oil markets. Finally, the bill calls on the Administration to weave a more reliable energy security fabric within the Western hemisphere, working more closely with Canada and Latin America on emergency preparedness, conservation, sustainable energy, and energy access for the poor. 
   At Lugar's urging, Secretary of State Rice has already begun implementing provisions of the bill. 
   The Foreign Relations Committee also passed S.Res.30, the Biden-Lugar climate change resolution which calls for the United States to return to international negotiations on climate change. 
   "It is critical that the international dialogue on climate change and American participation in those discussions move beyond the disputes over the Kyoto Protocols," Lugar said. "We need to include India, China and other developing nations in a dynamic dialogue, and recognize that a one-size-fits-all approach is not workable." 
   The bill expresses the sense of the Senate that the United States should act to reduce risks posed by global climate change and to foster economic growth by: (1) participating in negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and leading efforts in other international fora with the objective of securing U.S. participation in agreements that advance and protect U.S. interests, that establish mitigation commitments by all countries that are major emitters of greenhouse gases, that establish flexible international mechanisms to minimize the cost of efforts by participating countries, and that achieve a significant long-term reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions; and (2) establishing a bipartisan Senate observer group to monitor international negotiations on climate change and to ensure that the advice and consent function of the Senate is exercised to facilitate timely consideration of any applicable treaty.
 
 