INDIANA UNIVERSITY'S PARLIAMENTARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT RECEIVES $500,000 FOR UKRAINIAN DEMOCRATIZATION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar announced that the Parliamentary Development Project for Ukraine (PDP) at the School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University received a $500,000 cooperative agreement. This agreement, from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), will help facilitate legislative reform in Ukraine over its next two parliamentary sessions and supplements a $4.98 million, 5-year agreement issued to the PDP in 2003.  
   "I have strong affection for the people of Ukraine and the bravery and determination they have shown since the fall of the Soviet Union. A secure and democratic Ukraine is in the national security interests of the United States, NATO, the European Union, and Russia," Lugar said. "Additionally, this agreement will enhance an already exciting relationship between Indiana University and Ukraine. This partnership provides a wonderful opportunity for one of Indiana's top educational institutions to share its research and expertise with a burgeoning democratic nation." 
   The PDP agreement will target the following priorities of Ukrainian President Victor Yushchenko: 
   1. Legislation to combat corruption; 
   2. Administrative reform; 
   3. Local government reform; and 
   4. Legislation facilitating integration into international protocols (e.g. World Trade Organization, Palermo Convention, European Union). 
   The PDP is a non-partisan organization that works with members of the Ukrainian Parliament to draft new and reform current legislation that will allow the country to fully democratize. PPD assists parliamentarians in these areas by engaging in policy analysis, legislative drafting support, regional public hearing support, committee hearing support, roundtables with U.S. Congressional representatives, and plenary consideration support. 
   The PDP has worked since 1994 to strengthen the parliament as a transparent, effective, democratic institution through improved legislative-executive relations, and increased citizen involvement. 
   Lugar traveled to Ukraine at the request of President George W. Bush for the November 21, 2004 presidential run-off election. Lugar focused on stressing free and fair election procedures that would strengthen worldwide respect for the legitimacy of the winning candidate. 
   On November 22, the day following the run-off election, Lugar made a statement based on many reports from OSCE/ODIHR and other election observers who witnessed an extensive list of serious procedural violations. At the time, he said, "It is now apparent that a concerted and forceful program of election day fraud and abuse was enacted with either the leadership or cooperation of governmental authorities." Subsequently, the Ukrainian Supreme Court ruled the election results invalid and called for new elections. 
   Lugar also is committed to establishing normal trade relations between the U.S. and Ukraine through the repeal of the Jackson-Vanik sanctions. 
   "Extraordinary events have occurred in Ukraine over this past year. A free press has revolted against government intimidation and reasserted itself. An emerging middle class has found its political footing. A new generation has embraced democracy and openness. A society has rebelled against the illegal activities of its government. It is in our interest to recognize and protect these advances in Ukraine," said Lugar.
 
 