SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON UKRAINIAN PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee ranking member Dick Lugar submitted the following statement for the Senate record regarding Sunday's elections in Ukraine: 
  Mr. President, on September 30, the people of Ukraine will return to the ballot box to vote in critical parliamentary elections. I rise today to express my hope that Ukraine preserves and extends the tremendous accomplishments they have achieved in establishing a stable and representative government. 
  I was privileged to represent our country as President Bush's personal representative for the November 21, 2004, presidential runoff election in Ukraine. I was not an advocate of either candidate in the election. My focus was to stress free and fair election procedures that would strengthen worldwide respect for the legitimacy of the winning candidate.
  The 2004 campaign for president in Ukraine had been marked by widespread political intimidation and failure to give equal coverage to candidates in the media. Physical intimidation of voters and illegal use of governmental administrative and legal authorities had been evident and persistent. 
  Unfortunately the situation worsened on the day of the runoff election. The government of then-President Kuchma allowed, or aided and abetted, wholesale fraud and abuse that changed the results of the election. It was clear that Prime Minister Yanukovich, a position that he again holds today, did not win the 2004 election despite erroneous election announcements and calls of congratulations from Moscow. 
  I joined thousands of election observers who were sent by the U.S. and European states through organizations such as the National Endowment for Democracy, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and the European Network of Election Monitoring Organizations. Most importantly, more than 10,000 Ukrainian citizens were organized by the Committee of Voters of Ukraine to carefully observe individual polling stations. These observers outlined an extensive list of serious procedural violations.
  Even in the face of these attempts to end any hope of a free and fair election, I was inspired by the courage of so many citizens of Ukraine demonstrating their passion for free expression and for a truly democratic Ukraine. As corrupt authorities tried to disrupt, frighten and intimidate citizens, brave Ukrainians pushed back by continuing to do their best to keep the election on track and to prevent chaos. 
   The day after the runoff election, I told the international and local press and the people of Ukraine through a live television broadcast in Kyiv that President Kuchma had the responsibility and the opportunity to produce an outcome that was fair and responsible. I pointed out that he would enhance his legacy by prompt and decisive action that maximized worldwide confidence in the presidency of Ukraine and the extraordinary potential of that country.
  That day, the people of Ukraine demanded change and the Orange Revolution was born. Tens of thousands of Ukrainians rallied and marched in Kyiv and other cities around the country. There commitment to democracy was heard loud and clear. The Central Election Commission that oversaw the flawed runoff election was fired. A new commission was appointed and a new election law was agreed to by all parties in an effort to eliminate fraud. 
  While the Orange Revolution had a few more twists and turns to navigate, on December 26, 2004, Ukraine's maturing democracy held free and fair elections. For the first time, Ukraine enjoyed the fruits of a true democratic process and elected a representative government. The people of Ukraine built upon their 2004 achievement by holding free and fair parliamentary elections in 2006. What made this accomplishment even more notable was that the 2006 results favored the party that had been voted out of office in 2004, a testament to the fairness of the process. Now it is time for the Government of Ukraine to preserve and extend the impressive gains and to provide a stable and representative government by holding another free and fair parliamentary election.
  The people of Ukraine deserve a representative government that will work together to improve the quality of life in that country. In the years since the Orange Revolution, Ukraine has enjoyed a strong commitment to human rights and the rule of law, a growing free press, and a rapidly improving independent judiciary. Free and fair elections on September 30 will mark another important step in the right direction.
  Mr. President, I encourage the Ukrainian people to continue their march to true freedom and democracy. A democratic Ukraine is in the national security interests of all parties.
  The candidates and leaders of Ukraine must replicate their efforts of 2004 and 2006 and conduct these elections consistent with the standards established by the OSCE. A fraudulent and illegal election would be a major defeat for democracy and leave Ukraine crippled. The new parliament would lack legitimacy with the Ukrainian people and the international community.
  Free and fair elections are the first step, but they are not the last. The elected leaders of Ukraine must overcome their past differences and govern together. In recent years, opportunities have been lost because of the failure of governmental leaders to unite and constructively work across party and ideological lines. A government that is committed to working together to improve the lives of the people, despite ideological differences will assist the people of Ukraine in reaching their full potential.
 
 