SEN. LUGAR EFFORT TO PRESERVE SCHOOL FUNDS TAKES IMPORTANT STEP FORWARD
  Efforts by Sen. Dick Lugar to ensure funding for an important educational program have paid off. The United States Senate Appropriations Committee has budgeted $234 million in funding for the Comprehensive School Reform (CSR) program.  
   On March 17, 2004, Lugar visited Fredrick Douglass Middle School in Indianapolis and released a letter he was sending to Congressional appropriators regarding funding of the CSR program. President Bush had zeroed the program out in his proposed budget for fiscal year 2005. 
   "The CSR program has proved to be a tremendous resource for many struggling schools with high proportions of disadvantaged students, and it offers great potential for the numerous schools that desire to implement comprehensive reform in their buildings," said Lugar. "Research-based comprehensive reform is inherently appealing because rather than implementing reform in a piecemeal basis, this approach provides a holistic and coordinated plan of action to improve student achievement and outcomes." 
   Earlier this year, Dr. Suellen Reed, Superintendent of Public Instruction, announced that Indiana would receive $1.8 million in already-appropriated CRS funding. 
   Fredrick Douglass is currently using CSR funds, as well as Title I, to offer Success For All, a research -based reading program designed to improve student performance. The program is run school wide. 
   The Success for All reading program is an exemplary research-based reform program that could be expanded because of CSR funding. Lugar has visited several Success for All schools in Indiana and has found the results are so promising that he has encouraged all school to take a look at the program. 
   Success for All provides a proven and complete curriculum that includes teaching materials as well as professional development and parental outreach. Teachers who participate in Success for All say it ties the school community together in their learning. Teachers know exactly what is being taught to their students and to students in other classes and other grades. Students learn to work together in small groups and are excited to do so. 
   Funds recommended by the Appropriations Committee are a part of the annual budget bill for the federal agencies. The bill is expected to be considered by the full Senate this year. The bill may be folded into an omnibus measure. Funding levels can change prior to the bill becoming law.
 
 