SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES EDUCATION LEGISLATION
  U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar (R-IN) and Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) today introduced two bills that would provide incentives to schools seeking to implement early reading programs backed by research, as part of the Reading First program. 
  "Helping schools meet the national standards is the best way to ensure that allstudents have high expectations of where an education can take them and the tools to realize their own goals. This bill directs schools to programs that we already know are working," Lugar said. 
  "I strongly believe that learning to read at grade level by the third grade is a strong indicator of a student's future success. By teaching children to read in the early grades, our schools can avoid holding them back, promoting them with insufficient ability or transferring them out of the normal curriculum to special education courses."
  Established by the No Child Left Behind Act, Reading First provides assistance to states and districts to establish scientifically based reading programs for students enrolled in kindergarten through third grade. Funds support increased professional development to ensure that all teachers have the skills they need to teach these programs effectively. Reading First also supports the use of screening and diagnostic tools and classroom-based instructional reading assessments to measure how well students are reading and to monitor their reading progress.
  The Proven Programs for the Future of Education Act, introduced today by Lugar, would grant schools that use a "research-proven" programs in their Reading First grant proposal a competitive preference of 10 percent of the total points. 
  The bill defines a "research-proven" program as being evaluated in at least two studies which met the following criteria: use of a traditional or alternative control group, studied for a minimum of two weeks, the program and control group were equivalent in pretest reading levels, all post tests are standardized and not created by program authors, sample size of each study was not less than five classes or 125 students, and the difference between program and control group students across other studies is not less than 30 percent.
  The Proven Programs for the Future of Education Act offers research-proven programs as a choice, not as a mandate. The bill also allows the Secretary of Education, where appropriate, to apply this preference to all competitive grants, not just those for Reading First. Schools would not be required to use any particular program, but would have an incentive to consider programs proven in rigorous research. 
  The Education Research and Development to Improve Achievement Act, also introduced today by Lugar, would authorize up to $100 million for the development and evaluation of programs for schools who miss progress goals under the No Child Left Behind Act.
  The Senate Appropriations committee has recommended $20 million in funding for research and development in the fiscal year of 2008.
  The education page on Lugar's Senate website (http://lugar.senate.gov/educateindiana/) highlights education issues and provides an open forum for constructive discussion on improving education.
 
 