NUNN-LUGAR IS NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION ?MARSHALL PLAN,' REPORT SAYS
  The Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program is "the Marshall Plan of nuclear nonproliferation," and should be expanded to counter additional global threats, a new study by the Defense Department's National Defense University (NDU) concludes. 
   "The Nunn-Lugar program directly addresses the gravest danger the nation faces: nuclear-armed terrorists," says the report, "Cooperative Threat Reduction for a New Era," by the NDU's Center for Technology and National Security Policy.  
   Nunn-Lugar, which is defined by the study as involving programs at the Defense, State and Energy departments, was initiated by former U.S. Senator Sam Nunn and U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Richard G. Lugar in late 1991 weeks before the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
   "The Nunn-Lugar CTR program was the first post-Cold War adaptation of the traditional arms control approach and, as such, is the second stage of the antiproliferation programs and policies regime," the NDU report explains. The "first stage" of nonproliferation is represented by The Treaty on The Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) which is verified by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) through safeguards. 
   The NDU report calls for the expansion of Nunn-Lugar to a "third stage...by supporting a variety of multilateral initiatives, aimed at preventing the spread of nuclear weapons, materials, and expertise to rogue states and terror organizations." Senator Lugar has called this next stage of Nunn-Lugar "counter-proliferation." (http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.html) 
   While Senators Nunn, Lugar and others have proposed most of the initiatives endorsed by the NDU study, it is significant because NDU is an important educational facility and think-thank training America's military officers and leaders. Since its inception, Nunn-Lugar has encountered numerous funding obstacles. Total Nunn-Lugar funding is currently $1 billion, compared to almost half a trillion dollar military budget. 
   "North Korea and probably Iran are in the process of building overt nuclear arsenals, complete with ballistic missile delivery systems," the report says. "This could trigger an avalanche of national decisions to acquire nuclear weapons in Asia, the Middle East and elsewhere. In this case, the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty could become a dead letter." 
   The NDU report endorses expanding Nunn-Lugar beyond securing strategic weapons in the former Soviet Union. Nunn-Lugar "concepts and techniques should be applied to India, Pakistan, Libya, North Korea, and Iran if circumstances permit." 
   "The world's existing stockpiles of HEU contain enough material to fabricate tens of thousands of additional nuclear weapons beyond the approximately 32,000 nuclear warheads that currently exist," says the NDU report. 
   "If terrorist organizations were to acquire HEU in sufficient quantity, and had the technical expertise, it would not be difficult for them to build a primitive, but deadly nuclear device. The first priority of the United States and its upstream homeland security efforts must be to prevent that from happening." 
   In the past ten years there have been 540 reported incidents of illicit nuclear trafficking, the report points out. "As of 31 January 2004, there were 440 nuclear power plants in operation and 31 nuclear power plants under construction around the world...According to the IAEA, there are currently 274 research reactors in operation, plus another 7 under construction, with 9 planned in the future, 214 shut down, and 168 decommissioned ... Many of these reactors are old, obsolete, inoperative, or in need of repair," the report explains. "In some cases, stocks of spent fuel are stored in an insecure manner." 
   "Mere compliance with existing IAEA recommendations is not sufficient" to control this threat, the report says, because "it is well known that facilities can comply with these recommendations while remaining dangerously insecure." 
   In addition to expanding Nunn-Lugar to countries outside the borders of the former Soviet Union and securing HEU, the NDU report endorses new Nunn-Lugar initiatives to secure and destroy "tactical" nuclear weapons in Russia. 
   Nunn-Lugar has succeeded in removing all nuclear weapons from Belarus, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, and in deactivating more than 6,000 warheads and thousands of "strategic" missiles and launchers designed to attack the United States. Tactical nuclear weapons were developed by the former Soviet Union to attack Europe, Japan and other American allies during the Cold War. 
   "Russian tactical nuclear weapons are among the most dangerous from a terrorist perspective because they are small and, therefore, may be more easily portable," the report says, "because they are designed for use with widely available conventional delivery systems; and because they lack sophisticated security devices that would reliably prevent unauthorized use." 
   The NDU report calls for renewed American-Russian presidential focus to resolve a number of Nunn-Lugar obstacles, which the report says are "administrative and political in nature. High priority needs to be given to assuring the sustainability of Nunn-Lugar programs in Russia, both within the U.S. Congress and in the Russian government." 
   A full copy of the NDU report can be found at http://www.ndu.edu/ctnsp/CTR.htm . More information on Nunn-Lugar can also be found at http://lugar.senate.gov, www.nti.org, and www.dtra.mil.
 
 