SEN. LUGAR SPEAKS ABOUT PLANTING A TREE FROM HIS HOOSIER FARM ON CAPITOL GROUNDS
  Sen. Dick Lugar will plant a black walnut tree on the U.S. Capitol grounds today at 1:30 p.m. near the intersection of Constitution Avenue and New Jersey streets, NW. Lugar, a member and former Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, manages his 604-acre farm in Marion County, Indiana where he grows corn, soybeans and walnut trees.  
   Below is a copy of the remarks he will make this afternoon at the tree planting: 
   Good Afternoon. Thank you for coming to Washington to participate in this signal day for Indiana forestry. It is wonderful to see so many friends and tree enthusiasts from Indiana and Washington gathered here today for an Arbor Day Celebration. When Indiana was settled nearly 200 years ago it was estimated that over 85% of our land was forested. However, many of these forests were cleared as Indiana became a leading agricultural state. In 1922, Indiana's Forester, Charles Deam, predicted that Indiana would be treeless in 15 years. However, through efforts by leaders committed to forestry, Indiana is now nearly 20% forested. 
   Arbor Day celebrates this spirit of reforestation and the hope for the future that trees embody. Arbor Day began in 1872 as a result of concerns on behalf of some Nebraska citizens about the rate of deforestation in the United States. Our third Secretary of Agriculture, Julius Sterling Morton, helped expand this Nebraskan effort to other states in our nation and the first Arbor Day in Indiana was celebrated on April 11, 1884. In 1970, President Nixon officially declared the last Friday in April our National Arbor Day. 
   The tree standing to my left is a Black Walnut from the Lugar family farm in Marion County, Indiana. My Son, Bob, and I have been pruning each of our Black Walnuts for over 20 years and have converted land that was devoted to corn and soybeans on the Lugar farm to these trees which may have considerable economic value in three to four generations. This tree, representing the thousands of Black Walnut and other fine hardwood trees on the Lugar farm, is symbolic also of a public servant's mission in Washington: the need to plan and to prepare now for our nation's future. It is my hope that this tree not only serves as a reminder of the importance of forestry in Indiana, but also that our work in Congress today is on an agenda essential for the future security and prosperity of our children and grandchildren. 
   Hoosiers have a strong tradition of public service in Washington. In fact, two have planted trees on these grounds. In 1918, Woodrow Wilson's Vice President, Thomas Riley Marshall, planted a Hickory Tree. Vice President Marshall, born in North Manchester, also served as our Governor in Indiana from 1909 - 1913. Charles Halleck, a Demotte born Congressman, and former House Minority Leader, planted a tulip tree here in 1964. 
   Indiana also has a tie to the genesis of the United States Forest Service. Congressman William Steele Holman, born near Aurora, authored the precursor to, and later helped pass, the monumental legislation forming the Forest Service in 1905. The Forest Service celebrates its 100th anniversary this year and is a vital piece of our nation's public and private forest system. 
   Beautiful trees not only lift our spirits, they hold great economic importance for our State. Indiana forests contribute over $9 billion dollars to our economy annually and our 4.3 million acres of timberland support 54,000 jobs. While Indiana has been a national and world leader in forestry and forest-based manufacturing, it is imperative that we invest even more in this industry's future. It is for this reason that I have strongly supported research efforts such as those occurring at the United States Forest Service Hardwood Tree Regeneration Center located at Purdue University. This revolutionary facility will allow us to more quickly generate superior quality wood that is vital to our manufacturing base. For these reasons I have asked the Government Accountability Office to provide an in depth analysis of our nation's wood manufacturing research efforts. I hope to use this information to improve further the scope of forestry research conducted by the U.S. Forest Service and our nation's colleges and universities. 
   Trees are also a valuable component of our environment and ecosystem. Trees filter our water and air, provide protection and habitat for wildlife, prevent soil erosion, and help regulate earth's temperature by absorbing carbon and providing shade. This is why it is important to encourage the planting of trees on many of our nation's marginal lands, and also in important foreign locations such as the Central American Rainforests. Almost 20 years ago former Secretary of Agriculture Jack Block and I announced the first Conservation Reserve Program at ceremonies on the Lugar farm. The CRP has resulted in millions of acres planted with trees and the prospect of more acres becoming forested in the future. Additionally, our government should work to improve upon the health of privately held lands through government cost share programs and incentives to preserve non-developed forestry land. Outside of our country, we should also continue to support debt forgiveness programs to help protect and reforest tropical rain forests and build friendships with international forestry leaders. 
   Thank you, again, for making a personal effort to join me and my wife, Charlene, on this occasion. You know of my deep enjoyment of black walnut trees, and I am delighted to make this contribution from our Lugar farm to the Capitol grounds. It is my hope that Hoosiers visiting Washington over the next century will have the good fortune to observe this remembrance of our state, our forestry heritage, and our growing forestry future.
   Contact: speech or press release?
 
 