SEN. LUGAR OFFERS REPEAL OF JACKSON-VANIK FOR AZERBAIJAN
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar has introduced legislation to repeal Jackson-Vanik restrictions on trade with Azerbaijan and establish permanent normal trade relations with the country. A copy of the bill is available at http://lugar.senate.gov/sfrc/pdf/jacksonvanik_azer.pdf. Following is Lugar's Congressional Record statement:
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation designed to extend permanent normal trade relations to Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan is still subject to the provisions of the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974, which sanctions nations for failure to comply with freedom of emigration requirements. This bill would repeal permanently the application of Jackson-Vanik to Azerbaijan. 
   In the post Cold War era, Azerbaijan allows its citizens the right and opportunity to emigrate and has demonstrated a commitment to meet these requirements. In addition, Azerbaijan has expressed a strong desire to abide by free market principles and good governance. Since 1992, Azerbaijan has been certified annually as meeting the Jackson-Vanik requirements. This legislation would make this trade relationship permanent and, in doing so, stimulate further market reforms and encourage its continued commitment to safeguarding individual liberties.
   The United States has a long record of cooperation with Azerbaijan through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program. Through the Nunn-Lugar program the United States has assisted Azerbaijan in safely securing dangerous stockpiles of deadly pathogens and infectious diseases and improve its ability interdict weapons and materials of mass destruction. In 2005 the Nunn-Lugar program in close coordination with the Government of Azerbaijan transported 124 samples of 62 unique strains of plague, anthrax, cholera, and other dangerous diseases from Baku to the U.S. Armed Forces Institute of Pathology in Washington, .DC. These strains were collected over many years from environmental, human and animal sources in Azerbaijan. The strains will be studied in joint research programs with the U.S. Department of Defense and Azerbaijani medical researchers.
   Earlier this month I traveled to Azerbaijan and met with President Aliyev and the first lady of Azerbaijan. We had an interesting discussion on the important role Azerbaijan is playing in energy recovery and transportation. It is a tribute to Azerbaijan that they are using their energy resources to the benefit of global security. Building pipelines and opening energy production to foreign markets requires difficult foreign policy decision-making. Azerbaijan is located in a tough neighborhood where countries are under tremendous pressure to keep their distance from the United States. I thanked President Aliyev for taking concrete steps to affirm his country's strategic partnership with the United States.
   I discussed at length with the President and members of his government the possibility of connecting Azerbaijan's energy infrastructure with Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. I encouraged continued progress on rapprochement between governments in Baku and Ashgabat. I heard encouraging statements toward improved relations and cooperation on energy in both Ashgabat and Baku. It is clear that there is willingness for progress.
   Integrating some oil and gas production in Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan would diversify export routes for those countries and import sources for European nations. Successful integration of such trans-Caspian transport routes is a vital contribution to international peace and security. In some countries oil and gas revenues are a curse, leading to corruption and conflict. Two years ago President Aliyev pledged to me that Azerbaijan would follow the Norway model in managing its oil and gas revenues. As reflected by the State Oil Fund of Azerbaijan's receipt in 2007 of the United Nations Public Service Award, it is now on a path of transparency and is investing for development today and for future generations. I am hopeful that progress in Azerbaijan will continue and other emerging countries learn from Azerbaijan's example.
   One of the areas where we can deepen U.S.-Azerbaijan relations is bilateral trade. In light of its adherence to freedom of emigration requirements, compliance with threat reduction and unwavering cooperation in the production and delivery of energy supplies, the products of Azerbaijan should not be subject to the sanctions of Jackson-Vanik. The U.S. must remain committed to and engaged in assisting Azerbaijan's pursuit of democratic and human rights reforms. The government in Baku still has important work to do in these critical areas, including in the area of media freedom and freedom of assembly. I discussed the ongoing democratic reforms with President Aliyev during my visit and was assured that they are proceeding. Azerbaijan faces an important presidential election this October. The support and encouragement of the U.S. and the international community will be key to encouraging the Government of Azerbaijan holding free and fair elections. The permanent waiver of Jackson Vanik and establishment of permanent normal trade relations will be the foundation on which further progress in a burgeoning economic and energy partnership can be made.
   I am hopeful that my colleagues will join me in supporting this important legislation. It is essential that we act promptly to bolster this important relationship and promote stability in this region.
 
 