JOB GRANTS FOR ENERGY INDUSTRY
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the U.S. Department of Labor's Employment and Training Administration is offering approximately $10 million in grant funding for high-impact regional approaches to meet the workforce challenges of the energy industry and/or address the shortage of construction and skilled trade workers needed to maintain and expand the energy industry infrastructure. 
  Eligible applicants include public or private for profit organizations and private non-profit organizations, including faith-based and community organizations. The closing date for applications is March 25, 2008. Average individual grants are anticipated to be between $500,000 and $1 million. 
  From the funding announcement:
  Grant funds awarded under this Solicitation for Grant Applications should be used to implement and replicate high-impact, industry-driven training solutions that address identified workforce challenges in the energy industry or in the construction and skilled trade occupations that support the energy industry. Each solution must take place in the context of a regional talent development strategy designed to contribute to a strong regional economy. The solutions must be developed and implemented by a strategic regional partnership, which includes leaders from the workforce investment system, business and industry, and the education and training community, as well as other public and private sector partners that bring critical assets to the joint venture. Proposed solutions should take full advantage of existing workforce development models, promising practices, and tools. Solutions must implement an existing promising solution, model, or approach and take it to scale in the region, or adapt a solution that has been demonstrated to have positive impact on the identified workforce development challenges in another region.
  A webinar for prospective applicants will be held on February 1, 2008, at 2 p.m. EST. Access information for the webinar is available at http://www.workforce3one.org/public/webinars/details.cfm?id=279. 
  For more information regarding this funding announcement, interested applicants should visit http://a257.g.akamaitech.net/7/257/2422/01jan20081800/edocket.access.gpo.gov/2008/pdf/E8-1061.pdf or contact Ariam Ferro at the U.S. Department of Labor by phone at (202) 693-3968 or by e-mail at Ferro.Ariam@dol.gov 
  For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
  Questions regarding the application process may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator, at 202-224-4814 or at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 