SEN. LUGAR OFFERS REPEAL OF JACKSON-VANIK FOR KAZAKHSTAN
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar has introduced legislation to repeal Jackson-Vanik restrictions on trade with Kazakhstan and establish permanent normal trade relations with the country. A copy of the bill is available at http://lugar.senate.gov/sfrc/pdf/jacksonvanik_kazak.pdf. Following is Lugar's Congressional Record statement:
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation designed to extend permanent normal trade relations to Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan is still subject to the provisions of the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974, which sanctions nations for failure to comply with freedom of emigration requirements. This bill would repeal permanently the application of Jackson-Vanik to Kazakhstan. 
   In the post Cold War era, Kazakhstan has demonstrated a commitment to meet these requirements, and in addition, has expressed a strong desire to abide by free market principles and good governance. Since 1992, Kazakhstan has been certified annually as meeting the Jackson-Vanik requirements. This legislation would make this trade relationship permanent and, in so doing, stimulate further market reforms and encourage a commitment to safeguarding individual liberties.
   The United States has a long record of cooperation with Kazakhstan through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program. Kazakhstan inherited the fourth largest nuclear arsenal in the world with the fall of the Soviet Union. Through the Nunn-Lugar program the United States has assisted Kazakhstan in eliminating this deadly arsenal and joining the Nonproliferation Treaty as a non-nuclear state.
   Earlier this month, a team of American scientists working under the Nunn-Lugar program quietly entered Kazakhstan in sub-zero temperatures to begin the careful packaging of bubonic and pneumonic plague samples in accordance with international safety standards for the transport of dangerous biological materials. I am pleased to inform my Senate colleagues that the samples were safely transported on a U.S. Air Force C-17 cargo plane to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Fort Collins, Colorado. It marked the successful completion of a five-year negotiation to secure, transport and develop a research program for the pathogens.
   Cooperative research by American and Kazakhstani scientists will develop prevention and cure possibilities for this deadly plague. It provides new hope for places where the disease is naturally occurring and helps deter the plague's use as a bio-terror weapon. As many may know, plague is a highly lethal disease spread from rodents to humans by fleas. It caused the Black Death which swept across Europe in the 14th century. It is estimated that 20-30 million Europeans died - perhaps as much as half of the continent's population at the time. An estimated 75 million people worldwide died from the Black Plague.
   Kazakhstani and American plague experts will conduct joint research on the samples at federal labs in Fort Collins, Colorado. They will develop advanced diagnostics and treatments for plague. This cooperative public health research funded through the U.S. Department Health and Human Services Biotechnology Engagement Program will yield valuable scientific insights into a potentially devastating disease, which is endemic throughout Central Asia. The aim of such cooperation is to improve the protection of Kazakhstani and global populations against a naturally occurring disease that could also be exploited by terrorists.
   U.S. strategic and economic interests intersect in Central Asia. With Russia to the north and Iran and Afghanistan to the south, energy-rich Central Asia is at the frontline of American national security priorities. We have tremendous opportunities in the region, but it will take time and consistent high-level effort to build constructive relationships. This region needs to be a much higher priority on America's foreign policy agenda. In Kazakhstan, we have a record of 15 years of collaboration on weapons destruction through the Nunn-Lugar program. This is a solid foundation on which to continue building our relationship.
   Mr. President, I recently traveled to Kazakhstan and met with senior government officials and discussed opportunities for expanding cooperation with the United States, including energy security. In my conversations with Kazakhstani leaders I encouraged the government to pursue trans-Caspian transportation options for oil and gas. At the current time, Kazakhstan relies almost exclusively upon Russia to transport oil and gas to world markets. In turn, Russia has occasionally demonstrated willingness to use its control over these supplies for political gain at the expense of our European allies. Opening trans-Caspian export routes will dilute Russia's control over energy supplies. Likewise, having multiple export options will reinforce the political independence of Kazakhstan. I was pleased that Kazakhstani officials indicated a willingness to work with the United States and their neighbors on these issues.
   There are areas in which Kazakhstan needs to continue to improve. These include market access, democratic and human rights reforms. The U.S. must remain committed to assisting Kazakhstan in pursuing these reforms. The government in Astana still has important work to do in these critical areas. The permanent waiver of Jackson-Vanik and establishment of permanent normal trade relations will be the foundation on which further progress in a burgeoning partnership can be made.
   I am hopeful that my colleagues will join me in supporting this important legislation. It is essential that we act promptly to bolster this burgeoning democracy and promote stability and in this region.
 
 