SEN. LUGAR SECURES MORE THAN $6 MILLION FOR DEARBORN COUNTY
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Dearborn County will receive more than $6 million as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature. 
   Lugar secured $5.12 million for the reconstruction of State Road 56 in Aurora, $1.24 million for the design and construction of the Tanner Creek Bridge on US 50 and $300,000 to conduct a feasibility study on US 50 for corridor improvements. 
   "I appreciate the leadership of Mike Sodrel in shepherding these important projects for Dearborn County through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. "These funds will help increase economic development and invigorate the commercial base in Dearborn County. In addition, the study will provide solutions to the congestion on US 50." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for both projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 