SEN. LUGAR RESTORES FUNDING, ANDERSON RECEIVES $6 MILLION
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Anderson will receive $6 million as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature. 
   Lugar secured $4,000,000 for the Anderson Economic Thoroughfare/Enterprise Drive and $2,000,000 for the Anderson University Campus Streets Improvement Project. 
   "I appreciate the leadership of Mike Pence in shepherding these important projects for Anderson through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. "These funds will help increase economic development and invigorate the commercial base in Anderson. In addition, the Anderson University project will improve safety for residents and students." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for both projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   Enterprise Drive will parallel Interstate-69 and remove approximately 50,000 cars per day from the interstate by connecting with exits 19, 22 and 26. Enterprise Drive will be approximately 9 miles long. 
   The Anderson University Campus Streets Improvement Project will decrease the widths of 5th Street and College Avenue from 48 feet to 24 feet and add lighting to these streets and Nursery Road. In addition, six to seven foot green strips will be built between the sidewalk and curb on 5th Street and College Avenue, and textured concrete will be added to the two roads to slow traffic at major pedestrian crossings. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 