SEN. LUGAR SECURES MORE THAN $2 MILLION FOR LAPORTE, LAPORTE COUNTY
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the city of LaPorte and LaPorte County will receive more than $2 million as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   Lugar secured $750,000 to reconstruct Boston Street from State Road 2 to Bach Street and Larson-Whirlpool Street, $750,000 to reconstruct McClung Road from State Road 39 to Park Street and $500,000 to reconstruct bridges at County Roads 200 East and 300 East in La Porte County. 
   "I appreciate the leadership of Congressman Chocola in shepherding these important projects for LaPorte and LaPorte County through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. "These funds will help increase economic development and invigorate the commercial base in LaPorte. In addition, the reconstruction of the aged bridges will improve public safety." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for both projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   The Boston Street Project and the McClung Road Project are included in the Highway and Thoroughfare Improvement and Development Plan for the City of LaPorte. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 