SEN. LUGAR RESTORES FULL FUNDING FOR MAPLECREST ROAD EXTENSION
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Allen County will receive $11 million for construction of Maplecrest Road as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   This funding will allow a new four-lane roadway to connect State Road 930 with Lake Avenue between the Fort Wayne and New Haven in Allen County. 
   "I am appreciate the leadership of Congressman Mark Souder in shepherding this project through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. "These additional funds will allow a critical link to be constructed in Allen County that will save significant time and money, as well as reduce air pollution in the area." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for the Maplecrest Road project was cut by 20 percent from the initial level approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the project and effectively restored the funding to its original level. 
   Inadequate access across the Maumee River, where approximately 50 freight trains pass per day at several of the railroad crossings, presents safety concerns. The approximate one and a half miles of new roadway to be constructed will improve accessibility, mobility and safety in the area. Development of the new roadway will improve access to the local industrial and commercial developments and encourage economic development. Construction is slated to begin on this project in 2007. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 