SEN. LUGAR SECURES $3 MILLION FOR MARGARET AVENUE IN TERRE HAUTE
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Terre Haute will receive $7 million as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature. Lugar personally secured $3 million of the funds to expand Margaret Avenue to a four-lane roadway extending from State Road 63 to State Road 46.  
   "Efficient transportation is critical for the economic success of a city. This project will eliminate congestion between major intersections and provide an attractive atmosphere for prospective investors in the area while ensuring the safety of people traveling in the city," Lugar said. "I appreciate the leadership of John Hostettler in shepherding this important project for Terre Haute through the House of Representatives." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, the funding level of the project was cut by 20 percent from the initial level approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the project and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   The construction of Margaret Avenue as a four-lane road with an underpass at 19th Street interchange is part of the transportation plan for the city of Terre Haute and Vigo County. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 