SEN. LUGAR SECURES $5 MILLION FOR ELKHART IN HIGHWAY BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar and Mayor David Miller announced that the City of Elkhart will receive $5 million in federal funds to improve rail crossings throughout the city. The funds are part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   Lugar informed Mayor Miller of the funds during a phone call Thursday morning. 
   "This is very exciting news for Elkhart, and I am grateful for Mayor Miller's leadership in overseeing these important transportation projects," Lugar said. "The improvement of rail crossings is essential to reducing congestion, reducing pollution, improving safety and providing opportunities for economic development." 
   "As one of the nation's most rail-intensive states, Indiana also experiences a high number of accidents and fatalities as a result of vehicle-train crashes at highway-rail grade crossings. As the U.S. continues to develop modern rail transportation systems, I believe we also need to continue addressing the current issue of increased safety at highway-rail grade crossings," Lugar added. 
   While no allocations were made to Elkhart in the House Transportation bill passed on March 10, 2005, Lugar had the opportunity to allocate monies to Elkhart during the House-Senate conference. 
   "I want to commend Senator Lugar for his tremendous effort in assisting the City of Elkhart to solve a serious transportation issue that faces our community," said Miller. "With Senator Lugar's crucial support, Elkhart has taken a major step towards another rail grade separation project like Indiana Avenue. The Senator and I share the same goal - to relieve the congestion of the trains and improve public safety for all of our citizens. On behalf of the people of Elkhart: Thank you Senator Lugar!" 
   Lugar and Miller talked about the rail improvement project during their visit on Wednesday, May 4 in Elkhart at the Elkhart Chamber of Commerce Leadership Academy Class of 2005 graduation luncheon, where Lugar gave the keynote speech and assisted in the presentation of the graduation certificates. 
   The funds will be used to complete projects part of a comprehensive rail-highway corridor plan to improve the safety of several rail-highway crossings along the Norfolk-Southern railroad lines within the city limits. According to the city's 2002 study, trains block the intersections along Main Street nearly seven hours each day, costing the city $7 million annually in lost productivity, increased pollution and wasted gasoline.
 
 