SEN. LUGAR SECURES $1.5 MILLION FOR KOKOMO, HOWARD COUNTY
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the city of Kokomo will receive $1.5 million as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   Lugar secured $1,000,000 for the construction of the US 31 Kokomo Corridor Project and $500,000 for the construction of Dixon Road from Markland Avenue to Judson Road. 
   "I appreciate the leadership of Congressman Chocola and Congressman Burton in shepherding these important projects for Kokomo and Howard County through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. "These funds will help increase economic development and invigorate the commercial base in Kokomo." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for both projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   Improvements to Dixon Road will help reduce congestion on US 31 by providing an alternate north-south roadway in Kokomo. Dixon Road services parkland, industry, commercial, educational, and residential facilities. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 