SEN. LUGAR RESTORES FUNDING, GRANT COUNTY RECEIVES $4 MILLION
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Grant County will receive $4 million as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature. Lugar personally secured $2 million of the funds which will be used for downtown road improvements.  
   "I appreciate the leadership of Congressman Dan Burton in shepherding these important projects for Grant County through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. "These funds will help increase economic development and will continue to attract new business while easing congestion." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, the funding level of the project was cut by 20 percent from the initial level approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   Funds will be used to develop approximately five miles of local county roads roughly defined by the area west of Interstate 69 between SR 18 and SR 22/US 35. A large portion of the project will focus on areas of CR 600 E and CR 500 E where development has started and is likely to occur as a result of direct access to Interstate 69. 
   Project upgrades include the following physical improvements: widening of roadways, improvement of lines of sight, removal of vertical irregularities, improvement of pavement materials, and possible rehabilitation or replacement of multiple bridges. 
   The project is centrally located along I-69, which is identified by the county's Thoroughfare Plan as a key component to the county's transportation network. The project will allow the county to capitalize on recent economic development successes and assist in the development of future job creation, especially as Gas City and Marion work to link their industrial parks and attract advanced manufacturing and other jobs to the County. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 