SEN. LUGAR SECURES FUNDING FOR I-69, UNIVERSITY PARKWAY PROJECT
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the I-69 project from Evansville to Indianapolis will receive $14,000,000 and the University of Southern Indiana (USI) Parkway in Vanderburgh County will receive $3,000,000 as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   "I appreciate the leadership of John Hostettler in shepherding these important projects for Southwest Indiana through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. "These funds will help increase economic development and provide for the construction of a critical link that will create a safer environment for Hoosiers in Vanderburgh and Posey counties." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for both projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   The $14 million for I-69 will help construct approximately five miles of new roadway to provide a continuous and direct four-lane road from Upper Mount Vernon Road to State Road 66. 
   The $3 million for the USI Parkway will help construct a modern and safe four-lane divided roadway to improve access for students and employees of the University of Southern Indiana, as well as local residents. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 