SEN. LUGAR RESTORES FUNDING, HIGHWAY FUNDS INCREASE MORE THAN 34%
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Indiana will receive an average increase in annual federal highway spending by more than 34 percent over the next five years. Indiana will average more than $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. These increases are part of the Safe Accountable Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFTEA-LU) that passed 412-8 in the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. Most especially, I am excited that Indiana will receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies in this highway bill. This $228 million average yearly increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   "In addition, I am grateful that I had the opportunity to restore the funding levels of these valuable projects across the state. Transportation funds help improve our state's infrastructure, which leads to economic growth and job opportunities," Lugar added. 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for all projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. In addition, Lugar allocated $5 million each to projects in Elkhart and Vincennes and allocated $20 million to the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) for road projects. 
   "I appreciate the leadership of Indiana's Congressional Delegation in shepherding these important projects through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 