SEN. LUGAR SECURES $4 MILLION FOR HOOSIER HEARTLAND HIGHWAY
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Hoosier Heartland Highway will receive $4 million as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   "This funding is essential for economic development and increased safety and mobility in Wabash, Huntington, Miami, Cass, and Carroll Counties, and it will contribute to economic growth statewide," said Lugar. "I appreciate the leadership of Chris Chocola and Dan Burton in shepherding these important projects through the House of Representatives. We all understand the value of the Hoosier Heartland Highway to commerce in Indiana." 
   Wabash, Huntington and Miami Counties will receive $1 million and Cass and Carroll Counties will receive $3 million. 
   The Hoosier Heartland Highway, also known as US 24, carries major traffic along the Heartland Industrial Corridor from Lafayette, Indiana to Toledo, Ohio. The 200-mile corridor supports a large volume of commerce and serves as an artery for manufacturers in the Midwest. The Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 and the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century listed the corridor as one of the 21 high priority corridors on the National Highway System. The improvements funded in this highway bill are designed to increase safety and mobility, bringing additional commerce to the region. 
   The highway bill allocates funds for transportation projects and agencies for six years and has had 10 extensions since February 2004. The Senate supported authorizing $292 billion, while the House supported authorizing $284.3 billion. The House and Senate reached agreement and authorized $286.4 billion over five years for surface transportation in the United States. At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for both projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over 889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than 228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 