SEN. LUGAR SECURES $2.5 MILLION FOR TOWN OF FISHERS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Town of Fishers will receive $2,500,000 as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   Lugar secured the funds for the 126th Street Project, Cyntheanne Road Interchange and construction of multi-use paths for pedestrians and bicyclists. 
   "These three projects will bring much needed road improvements as well as a network of paths for non-motorized travel throughout one of the nation's 25 best towns," said Lugar. "In addition to relieving traffic with the road improvements, the paths will promote health and fitness and provide recreational activity for the entire community. I appreciate the leadership of Congressman Dan Burton in shepherding these important projects for Fishers through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for both projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   The 126th Street Project will expand a two-lane section of road into a four-lane section spanning 3.9 miles. The Cyntheanne Road Interchange and Corridor Improvements Project addresses the need for I-69 access due to the addition of residential and commercial communities in Fishers. The interchange will reduce traffic at the S.R. 238 and 116th Street interchanges as well as on Olio Road. Reducing traffic and adding access to this area will promote further economic development. 
   The multi-use path will serve as a way for pedestrians and bicyclists to travel among parks, neighborhoods, schools, government centers, community centers, and businesses in the town of Fishers. The system will serve as a resource for creating, enhancing and sustaining the health of the community. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 