SEN. LUGAR LEGISLATION PART OF COMPREHENSIVE ENERGY BILL
  The comprehensive energy bill that passed today 74-26 includes several key provisions authored by Sen. Dick Lugar. The energy bill now heads to President Bush for his signature. 
   "This energy bill has been a long time coming, and I am pleased that Congress will pass a comprehensive bill that will modernize America's energy production and distribution systems, encourage conservation and harness domestic energy resources through increased ethanol production, research into cellulosic biomass ethanol and coal. This bill also will maintain environmental safeguards and create incentives for the development of new, clean technologies," Lugar said.  
   RENEWABLE FUELS PRODUCTION 
   The renewable fuels section of the energy bill largely is based on legislation Lugar introduced earlier this year, S. 650, the Fuels Security Act. This provision nearly doubles production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. (Cellulosic transportation fuel is similar to ethanol but produced from renewable sources such as corn stover, switchgrass and wheat straw.) 
   "This comprehensive energy bill contains a monumental advancement in renewable fuels production that will move America toward energy independence," Lugar said. "The increase in production of renewable fuels will spur investment in valuable infrastructure, which will in turn create new jobs and significantly improve our state's economy." 
   Specifically, this bill requires the use of 4 billion gallons of renewable fuels per year in 2006 increasing to 7.5 billion gallons per year by 2012. Thereafter, the requirements may be increased based on the nation's production and use of these fuels, as well as consideration of our economy and environment. It also requires that 250 million gallons of cellulosic ethanol be used starting 2013 and encourages Federal agencies to use ethanol and biodiesel in their fleet vehicles. 
   In 2004 more than 185 billion gallons of transportation fuel was consumed in the U.S. 
   BIOENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
   The energy bill also includes key portions of the National Security and Bioenergy Investment Act of 2005. This legislation will rapidly expand research into biomass energy and biobased products and will establish the production of the first one billion gallons of transportation fuel produced from cellulosic sources such as corn stover, switchgrass and wheat straw. 
   "Increased development of renewable fuels will help ensure national and economic security and gas price stability. With high oil prices, ethanol, biodiesel and other renewable fuels become increasingly important. While it is imperative that we continue to increase production of fuels from grains, as a nation we must rapidly develop the ability to produce large amounts of cheap fuel from a multitude of products - many considered by-products of food production. Hoosiers and farmers nationwide growing the feedstock for these fuels will add to our nation's security while helping our communities prosper," said Lugar, member and former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. 
   This bill would update the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, originally authored by Lugar, by developing: an abundant production of biobased fuels at prices competitive with fossil fuels; a broad range of biobased products as substitutes for petroleum-based products; and a diverse and sustainable domestic supply of biomass feedstocks. 
   The bill also establishes an innovative incentive program to deliver the first one billion gallons of annual cellulosic biofuels production by rewarding private investment to encourage more efficient production of renewable fuels, translating into cheaper fuels over time. 
   In addition, it creates a UDSA program to assist small biobased businesses with marketing, certification and performance testing of biobased products such as hydraulic oil made from soybeans and plastics made from corn. The bill also expands a provision Lugar worked to pass in the 2002 Farm Bill that requires the federal government to greatly increase usage of renewable products during procurement of materials. 
   Lugar, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose, in a time of relatively low fuel prices. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. 
   RENEWABLE FUEL TAX CREDITS AND GRANTS 
   Another provision Lugar has supported will provide a tax credit to gas stations encouraging them to install and/or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content). With more than five million E-85 capable vehicles in the U.S. and about one million additional vehicles expected annually, the United States could realize an immediate reduction in gasoline consumption by approximately 4.5 billion gallons per year and an annual reduction in fleet greenhouse gas emissions of 26.5 million tons using E-85 fuel. 
   On July 8, Lugar visited the Jiffy Mini-Mart in Terre Haute, the first filling station in Indiana to offer E-85 fuel. The Jiffy Mini-Mart is an independent, locally owned filling station that pumps an average of 550 gallons of E-85 fuel per day. 
   In addition, the current tax credit for biodiesel production has been extended to 2008. 
   Lugar also supported tax credits for individuals who buy new gas-electric hybrid and "lean-burn" diesel-powered cars. The amount of the credit will be based on the fuel economy of the car compared with a 2002 model year standard and the estimated lifetime fuel savings of the vehicle. Under current law, individuals buying hybrids can claim a $2,000 deduction. The new credit will apply to cars placed on the road through 2010 and will apply differently to fuel cell and other alternative fuel vehicles. 
   Another provision Lugar worked to have included is establishes a grant program at the Environmental Protection Agency whereby schools may retrofit or upgrade their bus fleet to improve environmental standards and possibly use clean-burning fuels, such as biodiesel. The grant program also provides funds for municipalities to comply with renewable fuels guidelines using biodiesel fuel. 
   CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY 
   The energy bill includes provisions that encourage the deployment of clean coal technologies, establish a program to develop gasoline substitutes from Illinois Basin Coal (the coal primarily found in Illinois, Indiana and Kentucky) and provide a variety of loan guarantees to encourage clean coal technologies. 
   The legislation includes $1.61 billion in incentives for clean coal technologies - provisions that will benefit Indiana due to the state's heavy reliance on coal-fired power plants. The proliferation of these technologies will allow Indiana's power plants to pollute less and burn more cleanly. Moreover, the leading clean coal technology, Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC), will allow Indiana to use more native "bituminous" coal rather than relying on "sub-bituminous" coal imported from Western states. 
   The energy bill also includes legislation drafted by Senator Lugar and Senator Barak Obama (D-IL) that would provide $85 million to the Energy Center at Purdue University, the Southern Illinois University Coal Research Center and the University of Kentucky Center for Applied Energy Research for the development of transportation fuels from Illinois Basin coal. This research and development program is designed reduce America's dependence on imported oil by turning an abundant domestic energy resource into a clean-burning substitute for petroleum-based transportation fuels. 
   "This is exciting news for our state and Purdue University," Lugar said. "The Energy Center will expand Purdue's important research into clean coal technologies by using plentiful Indiana coal to decrease America's dependence on foreign oil."
   "Senator Lugar's initiative will help ensure Purdue plays a key role in the development of viable strategies to lessen our nation's dependence on foreign oil," said Purdue University President Martin C. Jischke. "In addition, Senator Lugar's effort will have a major economic impact for our state and the region as Purdue seeks to develop the tremendous energy potential of the Illinois Coal Basin. I applaud Senator Lugar for his hard work and for his commitment to making Purdue and the state of Indiana national leaders in renewable energy and alternative fuel sources." 
   One of the technologies encouraged by this program, the "Fischer-Tropsch" process, yields a diesel fuel that is compatible with existing vehicle technology and infrastructure and superior to oil-derived fuel when it comes to performance and emissions. Fischer-Tropsch diesel is expected to be economically competitive with conventional gasoline whenever the price of oil is above $35 per barrel.
 
 