SEN. LUGAR SECURES $5 MILLION FOR VINCENNES IN HIGHWAY BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar and Mayor Terry Mooney announced that the City of Vincennes that will receive $5 million in federal funds for a feasibility study and eventual relocation of railroad crossings throughout the city. The funds are part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   Lugar informed Mayor Mooney of the funds during a phone call Thursday morning. 
   "This is very exciting news for Vincennes, and I am grateful for Mayor Mooney's leadership in initiating these important transportation projects. This is the first money for the overall plan in Vincennes that Mayor Mooney mentioned to me when I visited with him in his office on July 8," said Lugar. 
   While no initial allocations were made to Vincennes in the House Transportation bill passed on March 10, 2005, Lugar had the opportunity to allocate monies to Vincennes during the House-Senate conference. The funds come three weeks after Lugar met with Mayor Mooney in Vincennes and first learned of the request. 
   "This is a win-win situation for all citizens of Vincennes, Knox County and the State of Indiana," said Mayor Mooney. "I thank Senator Lugar for his faith and trust in believing in the vision of our project as well as appreciating our concerns in Vincennes. Because of his support, this is one of the largest amounts of money received by the City of Vincennes for any type of project." 
   The original drawings of the plan to bypass rail traffic in Vincennes were drawn on a napkin six years ago. These initial plans call for the bypass to be constructed for the North/South rail line, which will route the heaviest train traffic around the city and eliminate a large number of roadway-rail grade crossings. The remaining crossings for the East/West rail line will be improved to increase efficiency and safety. 
   The project, entitled "Vincennes Railroad Relocation," will be refined through additional study and design work. To date, 47 crossings have been identified as problematic in central Vincennes. The funds will be used for construction projects identified by the study and planned to begin in September 2007. 
   The Mayor's office noted that reality quickly set in for Mayor Mooney after receiving the good news from Senator Lugar. Although the City of Vincennes will receive $5 million, Kathy Mooney reminded her husband that it was now time to mow the lawn.
 
 