SEN. LUGAR SECURES FUNDING FOR DELAWARE COUNTY, MUNCIE
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that Delaware County and the City of Muncie will receive a total of $7 million for eight transportation projects as part of the highway bill filed by a House-Senate conference committee and passed 412-8 by the House of Representatives today. Following Senate passage slated for today or tomorrow, the bill will head to the President for his signature.  
   The funds will allow for widening highways and bridges, extending roads, upgrading traffic control systems, improving pedestrian safety, and studies for future projects. 
   "I appreciate the leadership of Mike Pence in shepherding these important projects through the House of Representatives," Lugar said. "It is essential that our transportation infrastructure take into account the safety of drivers and pedestrians. Sidewalks for pedestrians and bicycle riders must be coupled with safe roads and bridges to accommodate increased traffic." 
   At the last minute in conference negotiations, funding levels for the projects were cut by 20 percent from the initial levels approved by the House in March. After learning of the cuts, Lugar allocated funds to the projects and effectively restored the funding to their original levels. 
   The funding will be used to increase pedestrian safety, especially in areas of high density around Wheeling and Riverside Avenues. Street improvements include elementary school crossings and improved traffic signals to relieve congestion and increase safety. 
   Overall roadwork will improve the signaling, approaches and narrow bridges at the intersection of Jackson Street and Morrison Road. Data from Delaware County reports that 104 accidents have occurred at the intersection since 1999. Intersection improvement and signaling will occur at State Road 332 and Nebo Road. Everbrook Drive will be extended from State Road 332 to Bethel Avenue that will restrict unsafe traffic and provide access to 8,000 Ball State University students. Wheeling Avenue, a major street that carries over 18,000 vehicles per day, will be widened from its current three lanes to five lanes to accommodate the traffic. 
   The legislation funds two preliminary studies for future construction including better access to the Muncie bypass from Centennial Avenue to McGalliard Road and the elimination of 11 railway-road crossings in Northeast Muncie and Delaware County that create congestion and safety problems. 
   The highway bill also will increase federal highway spending in Indiana by over 34.6 percent for the next five years. Indiana will average over $889 million annually, an average annual increase of more than $228 million. 
   "This is an important bill for Hoosiers, which will bring much needed transportation funds to Indiana. In particular, I am pleased that the Senate has passed this highway bill with the agreement that will allow Indiana to receive a higher rate of return on its federal highway monies. This $228 million average annual increase will help state and local officials complete many important safety and capacity projects throughout the state," Lugar said. 
   Over the life of the bill, Indiana's rate of return will increase, topping out at 92 cents per dollar in 2009. Lugar supported the increase in the percentage of federal funds received by the state, which are based on contributions to the Highway Trust Fund and generated largely by the federal fuel tax. Lugar has long advocated improving Indiana's funding status and eliminating the disparity between the amount Indiana contributes to the Highway Trust Fund and the amount it receives in return.
 
 