TROPICAL FOREST CONSERVATION ACT REAUTHORIZED
  The United States Senate late last night reauthorized the Tropical Rain Forest Conservation Act of 1998 (TFCA) for another three years.  
   The "debt for nature swap" legislation, first introduced by U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar (R-IN) and Sen. Joe Biden (D-DE), Committee's ranking minority member, previously passed the House of Representatives. President Bush has expressed support for the reauthorization of TFCA, and is expected to sign it into law. 
   "The United States has a significant national interest in protecting tropical forests in developing countries," said Lugar. "Tropical forests regulate the hydrological cycle on which world agriculture depends. The genetic diversity contained in tropical forests is important for plant breeding. Twenty five percent of prescription drugs come from tropical forests." 
   "The Tropical Forest Conservation Act addresses the economic pressures on developing countries through 'debt for nature' mechanisms that reduce foreign debt while leveraging scarce funds for international conservation," said Lugar. 
   With TFCA, the State Department has reached agreements protecting more than 40 million acres of tropical forests around the world, generating $70.4 million in long-term commitments for tropical forest conservation. In addition, private donors, including the Nature Conservancy, the World Wildlife Fund, the Wildlife Conservation Society and Conservation International, have contributed more than $5 million to TFCA swaps, leveraging U.S. Government funds. 
   Seven TFCA agreements have been concluded to date in Bangladesh, El Salvador, Belize, Peru, the Philippines, Panama and Colombia. With the reauthorization of TFCA, the State Department will be able to complete negotiations with Jamaica and Sri Lanka, and pursue agreement with Guatemala, Ecuador, Paraguay, St. Vincent, Botswana, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, India, Indonesia, Brazil and Kenya. 
   This legislation authorizes appropriations for debt reduction for eligible countries through FY 2007 at $20,000,000 in FY 2005 (as the President requested); $25,000,000 in FY 2006; and $30,000,000 in FY 2007.
 
 