SEN. LUGAR PARTNERS WITH FOOD FINDERS FOOD BANK IN FOOD DRIVE
  Sen. Dick Lugar is partnering with Food Finders Food Bank to collect non-perishable food the week of December 12 - 17. Donations may be brought to various locations on Purdue's campus, Home Hospital, St. Elizabeth Medical Center, Arnett Clinic, and Interior Objects. For more information, contact Food Finders at (765) 471-0062.  
   The food drive is one of several in December where Lugar has partnered with Hoosier food banks to replenish supplies this holiday season. Other events include: 
   This Saturday, December 3, Lugar is partnering with Tri-State food bank and the University of Evansville to collect non-perishable food at the Aces game versus Purdue this Saturday at Roberts Stadium. For more information, contact Lugar's Evansville office at (812) 465-6313. 
   The week of December 5 - 12, Lugar is partnering with the Food Bank of Northern Indiana to collect non-perishable food. Donations may be brought to most 1st Source Bank locations in St. Joseph, Elkhart, LaPorte, Starke, Pulaski, Kosciusko, Fulton, and Marshall Counties. For more information, contact Lugar's Valparaiso office at (219) 548-8035. 
   Friday, December 9, Lugar is joining with Gleaners Food Bank and Emmis Communications to collect non-perishable food. Donations may be brought to Monument Circle in Indianapolis from 6:30 am - 1:30 pm. Businesses, organizations and individuals on the Circle and in the downtown community already are responding enthusiastically to boost the food drive. Chase employees have collected more than 2,500 pounds of food so far and are sending employee volunteers to help collect food. For more information, contact Lugar's Indianapolis office at (317) 226-5555. 
   Saturday, December 10, Lugar is joining with the University of Indianapolis to collect food for Gleaners at the 29th Richard G. Lugar Symposium for Tomorrow's Leaders, held on U of I's campus. Since his first year in the Senate, Lugar has conducted a symposium for outstanding high school juniors from all over Indiana to discuss current events and issues. 
   Friday, December 9, Lugar is partnering with the Scott County Clearing House Food Bank to collect non-perishable food. Volunteers and staff from Senator Lugar's office will collect donations at the Square in Scottsburg or the Austin Supermarket Parking lot from 7:00 am - 1:30 pm. For more information, contact Lugar's Jeffersonville office at (812) 288-3377. 
   Saturday, December 10, Lugar is partnering with the Community Harvest Food Bank of Northeast Indiana to collect non-perishable food. Volunteers and staff from Senator Lugar's office will collect donations from 10 am - 2 pm at Kittles Furniture on Coliseum Boulevard just east of Coldwater Road or any Fort Wayne area Big Lots location. For more information, contact Community Harvest Food Bank of Northeast Indiana at (260) 447-3696 or Lugar's Fort Wayne office at (260) 422-1505. 
   Lugar is an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus, which provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the world. Lugar joined the Hunger Caucus to further promote issues that he has long supported, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion. 
   Lugar's Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act was included in the Tax Reconciliation bill that passed the Senate on November 18, 2005. The Good Samaritan Act would facilitate contributions by farmers and small business owners to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters by allowing the deduction of the full market value of food donated from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007. Currently, this reduction is available only to large corporations, not small businesses. The bill awaits action by the House of Representatives. 
   In the 108th Congress, the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Act was incorporated into the Charity Aid, Recovery, and Empowerment Act of 2003 (CARE Act) and passed the Senate by a vote of 95-5 on April 9, 2003. The House passed similar legislation, but the bill did not make it out of the conference committee.
 
 