SEN. LUGAR TO VISIT GLEANERS FOOD BANK TO PROMOTE DONATIONS
  Sen. Dick Lugar will visit Gleaners Food Bank of Indiana, Inc. on Saturday, December 4, 2004 at 10:00 a.m. to promote food donations during the holiday season. Gleaners Food Bank is located at 1102 East 16th Street in Indianapolis.  
   Gleaners Food Bank, Indiana's largest food bank, is a not-for-profit organization established in April of 1980. Its purpose is to collect and distribute food to nonprofit agencies which feed the hungry and needy in the state of Indiana. Gleaners is a member of the America's Second Harvest National Food Bank Network. 
   More than 300 nonprofit hunger relief programs (food pantries, soup kitchens, meal agencies, programs, shelters, residential care centers, and day care centers) benefit from Gleaners' food collections. Since 1980, Gleaners Food Bank has distributed over 137 million pounds of food to charities feeding the hungry. 
   Lugar has long championed efforts of food banks. He is the author of the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act, which would make it easier for restaurants, food processors, and farmers to contribute products to food banks, pantries, and homeless shelters by allowing the deduction of the full market value of food donated. Under current tax law, the deduction allowed does not cover expenses incurred by the business. 
   The United States Department of Agriculture has estimated that up to 96 billion pounds of food go to waste each year in the United States. If a small percentage of this wasted food can be redirected to food banks, important strides could be made in the fight against hunger. 
   The Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Act, which was incorporated into the Charity Aid, Recovery, and Empowerment Act of 2003 (CARE Act) and passed the Senate, by a vote of 95-5. The House passed similar legislation but the bill did not make it out of the conference committee. As a result, Lugar is in the process of gathering cosponsors in order to reintroduce this vital legislation once the 109th Congress convenes in January. Last Congress, the Good Samaritan Tax Act had twenty-one cosponsors. 
   Lugar is also an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus, which has 33 members. The Senate Hunger Caucus provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the rest of our world. Lugar plans to use the Hunger Caucus to promote issues that he has long supported, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion.
 
 