SEN. LUGAR TO CHAIR HEARING ON LUGAR-OBAMA LEGISLATION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar will chair a hearing on "New Initiatives in Cooperative Threat Reduction" on Thursday, February 9, 2006 at 9:30 a.m. in room 419 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. The Honorable Robert Joseph, Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security will testify at the hearing that will discuss the Lugar-Obama bill. 
   Introduced on November 1, 2005, by Sens. Lugar and Barack Obama (D-IL), Lugar-Obama is comprehensive legislation that would expand the cooperative threat reduction concept to conventional weapons. It is patterned after the Nunn-Lugar program that focuses on weapons of mass to destruction in the former Soviet Union and would expand the detection and interdiction of weapons and materials of mass destruction.
   "The United States can and should do more to eliminate conventional weapons stockpiles and assist other nations in detecting and interdicting weapons of mass destruction. These functions are underfunded, fragmented and in need of high-level support," Lugar said.
   Lugar and Obama traveled together to Russia, Ukraine and Azerbaijan in August 2005 to oversee a number of Nunn-Lugar projects. In Ukraine they saw a convention weapons storage and destruction facility that is typical of the focus of the new legislation.
   "The U.S. government's current response to threats from vulnerable conventional weapons stockpiles is dispersed between several programs at the Department of State. We believe that the planning, coordination, and implementation of this function should be consolidated into one office at the State Department with a budget that is commensurate with the threat posed by these weapons.
   "We are particularly concerned that our government has the capacity to deal quickly with vulnerable stockpiles of shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles, known as MANPADS. In recent years, concerns have grown that such weapons could be used by terrorists to attack commercial airliners, military installations, and government facilities here at home and abroad. Al Qaeda reportedly has attempted to acquire MANPADS on a number of occasions," continued Lugar.
   Lugar-Obama would recognize that the proliferation of conventional weapons is a major obstacle to peace, reconstruction and economic development in regions that suffer from conflict and instability. The bill would call on the State Department to implement a global effort to seek out and destroy surplus and unguarded stocks of conventional armaments and to cooperate with allies and international organizations when possible. A second part of Lugar-Obama would create a single office to assist allies in detecting and interdicting weapons of mass destruction.
   On the web:
   Lugar-Obama: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=248096
   Nunn-Lugar Program: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/
 
 