SEN. LUGAR ENCOURAGES OIL EXECUTIVES TO PURSUE RENEWABLE FUELS
  Sens. Dick Lugar (R-IN) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) today wrote to the executives of ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips, British Petroleum America, Shell Oil Company, Citgo Petroleum Corporation, and Chevron Corporation that "it is clear that fuel diversity, affordability and availability are key to achieving a secure energy supply and robust economy for our nation." 
   "It is obvious we also need many more service station pumps supplying E-85, since there are now only 600 of them in the entire Unites States. We would like to work with you to increase the availability of E-85 pumps substantially in order to supply the increasing demand for this fuel. Some information indicates that retail marketers of your branded products can encounter various obstacles if they seek to offer their customers E-85 or other ethanol-blended fuels. We have been informed, for example, that some company policies and practices prohibit dealers from selling E-85 or require that it be offered to consumers at separate fuel pump islands away from the branded fuel offerings.
   "We invite each of you to give us your perspective on what is needed to improve the availability of E-85 to consumers. Is our information correct as to existing industry marketing policies and practices regarding E-85 and ethanol blends? If such obstacles do exist, we would hope to have the opportunity to work with you so that E-85 and ethanol blends, which meet industry standards and vehicle specifications, are conveniently offered to consumers at your branded stations across the country," Lugar and Harkin wrote in the letter.
   A decade ago, Lugar began pushing for a national biomass ethanol research program. Witnesses at Agriculture Committee hearings he chaired from 1996 to 1999 said this would be the most efficient method to produce ethanol. In 1999, Lugar and former CIA Director James Woolsey co-authored a seminal article that linked foreign policy and high cost of securing foreign oil flowing to the United States with the development of homegrown ethanol derived from any form of cellulose "(The New Petroleum," Foreign Affairs). Lugar then authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research.
   In 2005, Lugar led 21 bipartisan Senators in introducing the Fuels Security Act to more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. This legislation laid the groundwork for the renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed Congress in July 2005. Lugar also joined with Sens. Barack Obama (D-IL) and Harkin in introducing the Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFVs) within ten years. FFVs can use both regular gasoline and E-85 renewable fuel (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content).
   On the web:
  A copy of the letter:  "http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/pdf/Oilexecs_renewablefuels_e-85.pdf"http://lugar.senate.gov/energy/pdf/Oilexecs_renewablefuels_e-85.pdf
   Senator Lugar's energy web page: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy
 
 