AFRICAN AMERICAN WARTIME STORIES HONORED AS PART OF LIBRARY OF CONGRESS VETERANS HISTORY PROJECT
  In honor of Black History Month, the Library of Congress is highlighting collections of materials submitted by African American war veterans-including interviews from four Hoosier veterans submitted by Sen. Dick Lugar-on the Veterans History Project website. 
   "I am pleased to see Hoosiers included in this special collection for Black History Month. These histories are a valuable resource to those seeking to learn from the sacrifices of African American veterans," said Lugar.
   "It is important that African American veterans can tell their personal stories and have them preserved for family members and the entire nation to appreciate for the rest of time," said Daryl Mickens, President of the Greater Indianapolis Chapter of the NAACP, one of Lugar's more than 200 statewide Veterans History Project partners.
   On November 11, 2005, Veteran's Day, Lugar partnered with the Indianapolis NAACP to collect veteran interviews.
   The collection of fully-digitized stories is titled "African Americans at War: Fighting Two Battles" and will be added to the "Experiencing War" stories from the Veterans History Project at www.loc.gov/warstories. This is the tenth set of individual stories comprising interviews, letters, photographs and written memoirs to be featured on the site.
   "African Americans at War" presentation honors the service of veterans by sharing their stories with the public. The stories of the following African American veterans submitted by Lugar are on the website:
   * Frank Hosendove of Evansville- Frank served in the U.S. Navy from 1944-1946 and saw duty in the Pacific Theater. He attained the rank of Carpenters Mate 2nd Class and was awarded the Asiatic Pacific Theater Medal, American Campaign and WWII Victory Medal.
   * Harry Leavell of Richmond- Harry served with the Army from 1943-1946 and saw duty in the Pacific Theater. He attained the rank of First Sergeant and was awarded the Asiatic Pacific Theater Medal and Good Conduct Medal.
   * Oneida Miller Stuart of Indianapolis-Oneida served with the Army Nurse Corps from 1945-1946 at Nichols General Hospital in Louisville, Kentucky. Her story was submitted by the Indiana Historical Society in 2002 from a collection they collected from 1980-2000.
   * Quentin Smith of Gary-Quentin served with the Army Air Force from 1942-1945 in Tuskegee, Alabama. He attained the rank of First Lieutenant.
   The Veterans History Project site now has 2,248 stories online. Many of the stories include audio and video interviews, diaries, photographs, letters and other materials. The goal is to collect, conserve and share the stories of all American war veterans with future generations. More than 40,000 individuals have submitted stories to the collection.
   Lugar joined with the Library of Congress in the Veterans History Project in February 2002 and has submitted more interviews to the collection on behalf of Indiana than any other state.
   The more than 6,100 Lugar submissions account for almost 20 percent of the Library's entire Veterans History Project collection. The histories will be permanently archived by the Library of Congress and over time will be available for research and study.
 
 