SEN. LUGAR APPLAUDS ANNOUNCEMENT OF FIRST PUBLIC E-85 PUMP IN NATION'S CAPITAL
  Sen. Dick Lugar praised the announcement of the first E-85 ethanol pump in Washington, D.C.  
  "In order for biofuels to reach their potential to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, it is vital that E-85 becomes available to Americans nationwide," Lugar said. "Bringing E-85 to our nation's capital is good for the people of Washington, D.C., and it is symbolizes that ethanol is America's fuel."
  "I congratulate VeraSun Energy and GM for partnering together to bring ethanol to D.C."
  The E-85 pump was announced on Thursday, June 28 at Georgetown Chevron on Wisconsin Avenue, NW. 
  Lugar recognizes each new E-85 pump in Indiana with a congratulatory certificate. There are currently 91 pumps in Indiana. Lugar attended the opening of Indiana's first E-85 pump in Terre Haute two years ago.
  On June 21, 2007, the Senate passed an energy bill that focuses on new sources of energy and conservation to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. The bill includes major provisions initiated by Lugar, including incentives for flexible fuel cars, requirements for greater use of ethanol mixed with petroleum fuels, provisions to promote energy efficiency, and increased energy diplomacy.
  Lugar has introduced the National Fuels Initiative which calls for E85 pumps to be installed in at least 25 percent of the nation's fuel stations within ten years, require all vehicles marketed in the U.S. to be flexible fuel capable and increase fuel economy (CAFE) standards.
  For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 