SEN. LUGAR PROJECTS PART OF INTERIOR APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Interior Appropriations bill that passed last night includes projects benefiting Indiana through bridging small clumps of forestland and funding a log scanning project at Purdue.  
   INCREASING FORESTED LAND 
   Lugar secured $500,000 for land acquisition under the Land and Water Conservation Fund in the Hoosier National Forest. The land will be purchased from willing sellers. 
   The Hoosier National Forest is the largest public land base in Indiana and supports numerous sensitive, rare and threatened plant and animal species. In addition, it protects important watersheds for human consumption and recreation. 
   Lugar also secured $550,000 for the Land Bridge Project headed by the Nature Conservancy. 
   The Land Bridge Project works through the Forest Legacy Program to purchase conservation easements from willing sellers to join together small forest areas to create one large block of protected forestland. This project targets forestland in Brown and Monroe County. 
   Creating one large block of forestland will help protect the trees and the natural wildlife. Approximately 2 percent of land in Indiana is set aside for forests, one of the lowest percentages in the country. 
   LOG SCANNING AND LUMBER EFFICIENCY 
   As a long-time champion of the Hardwood Tree Improvement and Regeneration Center (HTIRC) at Purdue University Lugar obtained $1 million to establish the Hardwood Scanning Center at the HTIRC at Purdue. The Hardwood Scanning Center, which would include a state-of-the-art log scanning machine, would increase efficiency by allowing hardwood growers and manufacturers to identify defects and maximize the amount of lumber from each log. 
   "This is an exciting step in supporting Indiana's hardwood lumber industry," Lugar said. "Establishing a Hardwood Scanning Center at Purdue would help Indiana and America better compete in the hardwood industry." 
   According to a report prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and Purdue University, forest-based manufacturing in Indiana generates over $8 billion in Indiana business and over 54,000 Hoosiers are employed in forest-based manufacturing - generating annual payrolls of $1.4 billion. 
   Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition. He has championed programs such as the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) and farm Best Management Practices, which have resulted in the increased potential of trees and crops to sequester CO2 and other gases. The CRP is the largest tree-planting program in history. Millions of acres have been planted to trees since 1985 and millions more have been left as grasses and not tilled. 
   In 2002, Lugar received the Black Walnut Achievement Award from the International Walnut Council and Indiana's 2002 Tree Farmer of the Year at the 105th Annual Convention of the Indiana Hardwood Lumbermen's Association. Throughout his career in the U.S. Senate, Lugar has strongly supported the Hardwood Tree Improvement and Regeneration Center at Purdue University. Lugar also manages his family's 604-acre corn, soybean and walnut tree farm in Marion County.
 
 