SEN. LUGAR RESTORES FUNDING FOR HARDWOOD RESEARCH AT PURDUE
  Sen. Dick Lugar today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee allocated $797,000 to the Hardwood Scanning Center at Purdue University and $1.2 million to continue funding the Hardwood Tree Improvement and Regeneration Center (HTIRC) at Purdue University. The legislation now heads to the Senate floor. 
   The Fiscal Year 2007 budget presented by President Bush eliminated funding for the HTIRC before Lugar restored it to $1.2 million, exceeding their operational budget from FY06 by approximately $300,000.  
   The Hardwood Scanning Center received $297,000 in the Senate Agriculture Appropriations bill and $500,000 in the Senate Interior Appropriations bill. 
   Purdue University and the USDA Forest Service established the HTIRC in 1998 in West Lafayette, Indiana. The center improves the genetic quality of forest trees and ensures greater success in their regeneration, thereby promoting increased forest productivity, biological diversity and resource sustainability. 
   "I am pleased my Senate colleagues have supported these important initiatives. This continued support is exciting for Indiana's hardwood lumber industry," Lugar said. "The Hardwood Scanning Center and Hardwood Tree Improvement and Regeneration Center at Purdue University have helped Indiana and America better compete in the hardwood industry, and the $1.2 million will only further their progress. With continued support, the Hardwood Scanning Center will help increase the global competitiveness of the United States hardwood industry and conserve hardwood resources through increased conversion efficiency. The Hardwood Scanning Center has kept Indiana on the cutting edge of technology in hardwood lumber research." 
   The next technology needed to improve lumber-grade yield is log scanning, which would help sawyers "see" the defects inside a log and convert logs into lumber. Primarily, the Center would develop and commercialize such technology. 
   The 180 sawmills comprising Indiana's hardwood lumber industry employ 2,000 workers and support 530 logging firms with an additional 2,000 employees. Indiana's hardwood veneer industry is the second largest in the U.S. and is comprised of 28 companies. 
   According to a report prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and Purdue University, forest-based manufacturing in Indiana generates over $8 billion in Indiana business and over 54,000 Hoosiers are employed in forest-based manufacturing, generating annual payrolls of $1.4 billion. 
   Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition. He has championed programs such as the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) and farm Best Management Practices, which have resulted in the increased potential of trees and crops to sequester CO2 and other gases. The CRP is the largest tree-planting program in history. Millions of acres have been planted to trees since 1985 and millions more have been left as grasses and not tilled. 
   In 2002, Lugar received the Black Walnut Achievement Award from the International Walnut Council and Indiana's 2002 Tree Farmer of the Year at the 105th Annual Convention of the Indiana Hardwood Lumbermen's Association. Throughout his career in the U.S. Senate, Lugar has strongly supported the Hardwood Tree Improvement and Regeneration Center at Purdue University. Lugar also manages his family's 604-acre corn, soybean and walnut tree farm in Marion County. 
   In addition, the Consortium for Plant Biotechnology Research (CPBR) received $750,000 to be allocated among 40 member universities, including Indiana University and Purdue University. CPBR researches environmentally oriented projects and receives $2.30 from the private sector for every dollar invested by the federal government. Its research has contributed to the development of herbicide resistant plants, crops naturally resistant to insect pests and improved methods for carbon sequestration.
 
 