SEN. LUGAR ENCOURAGES INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE TO AFRICA'S CHALLENGES AHEAD OF G-8 SUMMIT
  Sen. Dick Lugar commended President George W. Bush's proposal this morning to increase spending to fight malaria in Africa. Lugar also encouraged further focus of international efforts to coordinate a plan to reduce poverty, depredation and disease in Africa at the G-8 Summit July 6-8 at Gleneagles, Scotland.  
   Prime Minister Tony Blair has already stated his intent to make Africa policy a priority of the G-8 during the United Kingdom's Presidency in 2005 and to elevate Africa issues to the top of the agenda at the Gleneagles Summit. 
   "As the President prepares for his trip to the G-8 Summit next week, I appreciate his willingness to partner with African nations and the international community in building capacity in Africa," said Lugar. 
   During Blair's recent visit to Washington, President Bush joined the Prime Minister in helping to secure G-8 Finance Ministers' agreement to cancel 100 percent of the debt obligations owed to the International Financial Institutions by eligible countries. The President also increased funding for humanitarian emergencies in Africa. 
   On May 17, 2005, Lugar chaired a Foreign Relations Committee hearing to review the report issued by the Commission for Africa in preparation for the July G-8 Summit. Following the hearing, Lugar introduced S.1315 to highlight the Commission findings and recommendations and to ask for a review of progress toward Millennium Development Goals. 
   "I have been encouraged recently by the growing interest in Africa in the United States," Lugar said. "Our nation sees more clearly in the post-September 11 world how our own well-being is connected to progress on the African continent. Americans are coming to understand that a stable and prosperous Africa can better cooperate on a range of shared concerns, from poverty and disease to the environment, terrorism and proliferation." 
   "The legislation Congress has enacted and the proposals underway have the potential to form the type of sustainable, comprehensive program that we have previously lacked. But enactment of a legislative framework for Africa is not an end in itself. Initiatives must be carefully managed to ensure that they work well and enjoy strong support. They also must be coordinated with broader international efforts like the forthcoming discussions of the G-8," Lugar added. 
   As Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Lugar continues to make the challenges faced by Africa a priority. Earlier this month Lugar introduced S.1129, the Development Bank Reform and Authorization Act of 2005. The legislation ties authorization of funds to reform measures intended to combat corruption and ensure appropriated funds reach their intended beneficiaries in developing countries. 
   In June 2004, Congress passed a bill introduced by Lugar to extend the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act. AGOA has exempted 1,800 African products from U.S. tariffs, and the African textile industry now employs tens of thousands of workers. In addition, non-oil trade between the U.S. and Africa is expanding significantly. 
   Lugar has introduced additional legislation to address Africa's AIDS-orphan crisis and a resolution backing global cooperation on an HIV vaccine. In December 2004 he was presented the Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award from Africare for his service to international issues and to Africa.
 
 