LETTER #13: STATUS OF IRAQ'S OIL INDUSTRY
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the thirteenth letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the thirteenth letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq/. 
   I write to share with you two reports exploring one of the most critical elements in Iraq's transition - the status of its oil industry.
   The first report is the most recent update of the Energy Information Agency's profile on Iraq , which was released yesterday. It provides excellent data on oil and oil byproduct production and consumption, and it explores broader energy issues, including electricity production. The report also provides historical context that frames the potential of future Iraqi oil exports and energy production.
   The second item is a translated report entitled, "Smuggling Crude Oil and Oil Products, Second Transparency Report," from the Inspector General of the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. Officials from the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraqi Reconstruction and senior managers in our Baghdad Embassy view the report as a credible depiction of corruption in the oil sector. Many regard the issuance of this report by Ali Al Alak, the Iraqi IG, to be a bold step. The concept of an Inspector General is new to Iraq, and the IG does not yet have a great deal of legal standing.
   The IG report details numerous episodes of oil smuggling and graft. It also points out the factors leading to smuggling, including the differential between oil prices in Iraq and those in neighboring countries. The report goes on to recommend measures that should be taken by the Oil Ministry and the Iraqi Government to contain oil smuggling and corruption. These include enacting legislation that increases penalties for smuggling activities, improving monitoring and testing equipment, and establishing a department whose core mission is combating oil smuggling and other forms of corruption related to natural resources.
   These reports can be found on my website: http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq/. I hope you find this information useful.
 
 