SEN. LUGAR TO PARTICIPATE IN WORLD AIDS DAY EVENTS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar will participate in the following events tomorrow, December 1, 2005, to recognize World AIDS Day. This year's theme is "Stop AIDS: Keep the Promise," which seeks to remind the international community of pledges to fight the HIV/AIDS pandemic and commitments made five years ago at the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on AIDS.  
   At 9:55 a.m. Lugar will attend President Bush's speech on World AIDS Day at the White House. Following the President's remarks, Lugar will attend the President's signing of H.R. 4145 to instruct the Joint Committee on the Library to obtain a statue of Rosa Parks for placement in National Statuary Hall in the U.S. Capitol Building. 
   At 6:00 p.m. Lugar will make brief remarks at a World AIDS Day reception hosted by Save the Children, the Global Health Council and the ONE Campaign in HC-5 of the U.S. Capitol Building. The reception will feature a Save the Children photo exhibit by Ethiopian teens affected by HIV/AIDS and the launching of the Global Health Council's 2006 International AIDS Candlelight Memorial Campaign. The reception is in recognition of the nearly 15 million children who have lost a parent to AIDS worldwide. 
   On November 8, President Bush signed the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act of 2005 into law. The bill was the companion to Lugar's S. 350 introduced in February. The Assistance for Orphans Act requires the U.S. to develop a comprehensive strategy for providing assistance to orphans and vulnerable children and authorizes the president to support community-based organizations that provide for their basic care. It supports school lunch programs, improved school enrollment by eliminating school fees and inheritance rights of orphans and widows with children. 
   Despite increased access to antiretroviral treatment and prevention programs, new HIV infections and AIDS deaths continue to rise. According to the annual report from UNAIDS released last week, there were 40.3 million people living with HIV in 2005. More than 25 million people have died from AIDS since 1981, and in 2005 alone there were 4.9 million new HIV infections 3.1 million AIDS deaths. 
   In September, Lugar introduced bipartisan legislation to accelerate the development of vaccines for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other infectious diseases. Lugar's bill would require the United States to develop a comprehensive strategy to accelerate research and development in vaccines that increases public-private sector partnerships. The bill would require the U.S. government to commit to purchasing vaccines for these diseases once they are developed through "advance market commitments" and create a tax credit for companies that invest in research and development for vaccines for these diseases. 
   For his efforts to bring attention to the HIV/AIDS crisis, Lugar has been recognized by Africare, YouthAIDS and the Africa Society of the National Summit on Africa. Under Lugar's chairmanship, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has examined many subjects related to HIV/AIDS, including the intersection of AIDS and hunger, the AIDS orphan crisis, the impact of the disease on women and girls in the developing world, and the implementation of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS relief (PEPFAR).
 
 