SEN. LUGAR WELCOMES INCENTIVES FOR INDIANA CLEAN COAL DEVELOPMENT
Sen. Dick Lugar welcomed the announcement today that Duke Energy will receive $133.5 million in federal energy tax credits for a proposed Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) plant in Edwardsport, Ind. 
 "Indiana has great future possibilities with coal. Our nation has a quarter of the world's recoverable coal reserves - 17 billion tons of which are in Indiana. At current rates of usage, those numbers project to over 250 years of reserves. IGCC offers the prospect of coal-fired power generation with very low emissions, while enhancing America's energy security," said Lugar, who is in London meeting with British energy security and environment officials.  
 Earlier in the week, Lugar met with International Atomic Energy Agency officials in Vienna regarding civilian nuclear power. On November 27, Lugar addressed the NATO conference in Riga, Latvia, on energy security. (See below) 
 Lugar supported the inclusion in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 of $1.61 billion in tax incentives for clean coal technologies, including a capped 20 percent investment tax credit for coal gasification units like the one being planned by Duke for Edwardsport, Indiana. 
 At the NATO conference, Lugar warned of the potential conflict from over dependence on foreign owned energy resources: 
 "In the coming decades, the most likely source of armed conflict in the European theater and the surrounding regions will be energy scarcity and manipulation. It would be irresponsible for NATO to decline involvement in energy security, when it is abundantly apparent that the jobs, health, and security of our modern economies and societies depend on the sufficiency and timely availability of diverse energy resources. 
 "We all hope that the economics of supply and pricing surrounding energy transactions will be rational and transparent. We hope that nations with abundant oil and natural gas will reliably supply these resources in normal market transactions to those who need them. We hope that pipelines, sea lanes, and other means of transmission will be safe. We hope that energy cartels will not be formed to limit available supplies and manipulate markets. We hope that energy rich nations will not exclude or confiscate productive foreign energy investments in the name of nationalism. And we hope that vast energy wealth will not be a source of corruption within nations that desperately ask their governments to develop and deliver the benefits of this wealth broadly to society. 
 "Unfortunately, our experiences provide little reason to be confident that market rationality will be the governing force behind energy policy and transactions. The majority of oil and natural gas supplies and reserves in the world are not controlled by efficient, privately owned companies. Geology and politics have created oil and natural gas superpowers that nearly monopolize the world's oil supply. According to PFC Energy, foreign governments control up to 79 percent of the world's oil reserves through their national oil companies. These governments set prices through their investment and production decisions, and they have wide latitude to shut off the taps for political reasons. 
 "The vast majority of these oil assets are afflicted by at least one of three problems: lack of investment, political manipulation, or the threat of instability and terrorism. As recently as four years ago, spare production capacity exceeded world oil consumption by about ten percent. As world demand for oil has rapidly increased in the last few years, spare capacity has declined to two percent or less. Thus, even minor disruptions of oil supply can drive up prices. Earlier this year, a routine inspection found corrosion in a section of BP's Prudhoe Bay oil pipeline that shut down 8 percent of U.S. oil output, causing a $2 spike in oil prices. That the oil market is this vulnerable to something as mundane as corrosion in a pipeline is evidence of the precarious conditions in which we live. 
 "Within the last year and a half, the international flow of oil has been disrupted by hurricanes, unrest in Nigeria, and continued sabotage in Iraq. Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations have openly declared their intent to attack oil facilities to inflict pain on Western economies. We should also recognize that NATO members are transferring hundreds of billions of dollars each year to some of the least accountable, autocratic regimes in the world. The revenues flowing to authoritarian regimes often increase corruption in those countries and allow them to insulate themselves from international pressure and the democratic aspirations of their own peoples. As large industrializing nations such as China and India seek new energy supplies, oil and natural gas may not be abundant and accessible enough to support continued economic growth in both the industrialized West and in large rapidly growing economies. In these conditions, energy supplies will become an even stronger magnet for conflict. 
 "Under the worst case scenarios, oil and natural gas will be the currency through which energy-rich countries leverage their interests against import dependent nations. The use of energy as an overt weapon is not a theoretical threat of the future; it is happening now. Iran has repeatedly threatened to cut off oil exports to selected nations if economic sanctions are imposed against it for its nuclear enrichment program. Russia's shut off of energy deliveries to Ukraine demonstrated how tempting it is to use energy to achieve political aims and underscored the vulnerability of consumer nations to their energy suppliers. Russia retreated from the standoff after a strong Western reaction, but how would NATO have responded if Russia had maintained the embargo? The Ukrainian economy and military could have been crippled without a shot being fired, and the dangers and losses to several NATO member nations would have mounted significantly. 
 "We are used to thinking in terms of conventional warfare between nations, but energy could become the weapon of choice for those who possess it. It may seem to be a less lethal weapon than military force, but a natural gas shutdown to a European country in the middle of winter could cause death and economic loss on the scale of a military attack. Moreover, in such circumstances, nations would become desperate, increasing the chances of armed conflict and terrorism. The potential use of energy as a weapon requires NATO to review what Alliance obligations would be in such cases."
 
 