SENS. BAYH, LUGAR URGE PRESIDENT TO OFFER FEDERAL RELIEF TO RECENT STORM VICTIMS
  Sens. Evan Bayh and Dick Lugar urged President Bush to grant Gov. Daniels' request to make twelve additional counties eligible for federal relief for severe storm damage. Following the deadly tornado of November 6 that devastated parts of Southwestern Indiana, President Bush declared Indiana a Major Disaster Area, allowing affected Hoosiers to seek federal aid for their losses and later adding public assistance. Now, Gov. Daniels is seeking to amend that Declaration to include additional counties that were damaged by tornados and severe weather on November 15. The National Weather Service has indicated that the same weather pattern was responsible for both events.  
   "November has been a devastating month for many Hoosier families," Senator Bayh said. "The tornados on November 15th may not have gotten the national news coverage that the tragic tornado on November 6th received, but there are suffering families and businesses who deserve federal aid. As these communities begin to rebuild, they should be able to apply for federal assistance to ensure a swift and strong recovery in the affected areas." 
   "We encourage the President to support Governor Daniels' request as Hoosiers in the affected counties seek full recovery from this devastation," said Lugar. "We appreciate the continued response that Governor Daniels has received for assistance from the November tornadoes and hope that similar consideration is given to this request." 
   In a letter to President Bush, Senators Bayh and Lugar stated their support for Governor Daniels' request to amend the existing Major Disaster Area Declaration to allow the individuals affected by the severe weather on November 15th apply for federal relief. If accepted, the amendment to the Declaration would make the same full range of federal disaster assistance available to victims of the November 15 tornados as is currently available to the victims of the November 6 tornado. 
   Earlier this month, Bayh and Lugar wrote President Bush to support Governor Daniels' request to declare Indiana a Major Disaster Area after the tornado. They also urged the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to approve Indiana's request for funding to help cover emergency response and clean-up efforts following the November 6 tornado.
 
 