SIX INDIANA COMMUNITIES TO RECEIVE EDUCATION ASSISTANCE GRANTS FROM EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified recently that six Indiana communities will receive education assistance grants totaling more than $1.2 million from the Department of Education.  
 The awards were among grants made to organizations and schools with mentoring and Smaller Learning Communities programs. 
   Mentoring program grants are awarded to programs serving children with the greatest need in rural areas, high-crime areas and troubled-home environments. These programs assist children in receiving support and guidance from a mentor; improving academic performance; improving interpersonal relationships with peers and adults; reducing the dropout rate; and reducing juvenile delinquency and involvement in gangs. 
   The purpose of the Smaller Learning Communities Program is to implement small, safe and successful learning environments in large public high schools. These programs aim to ensure that all students graduate with the knowledge and skills necessary to make successful transitions to college and careers. 
   Communities receiving grants are: 
   Community Program/School: Bartholomew Consolidated School Corporation
  Program Area: Smaller Learning Communities 
  Federal Share: $295,851
  City: Columbus
   Community Program/School: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Central Indiana
  Program Area: Mentoring Program
  Federal Share: $172,047
  City: Indianapolis
   Community Program/School: Goshen Community Schools
  Program Area: Smaller Learning Communities
  Federal Share: $396,386
  City: Goshen
   Community Program/School: Michigan City Area Schools
  Program Area: Mentoring Program
  Federal Share: $203,580
  City: Michigan City
   Community Program/School: Monroe County Schools
  Program Area: Smaller Learning Communities
  Federal Share: $48,500
  City: Bloomington
   Community Program/School: Otis R. Bowen Center for Human Services, Inc.
  Program Area: Mentoring Program
  Federal Share: $131,668
  City: Warsaw.
 
 