SEN. LUGAR HEALTH AND FITNESS AWARD NOMINEES SOUGHT
  Nominations are being accepted for the Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Awards in conjunction with the 28th Annual Dick Lugar Community Run, Walk and Corporate Challenge presented by Indiana Sports Corporation at Butler University on Saturday, September 16, 2006.  
   The awards are presented to Indiana professionals or volunteers who have made significant contributions to their community in health or fitness awareness and education. Lugar will honor the winners at an awards ceremony on September 16 at Hinkle Fieldhouse and the recipients' names will be added to a permanent plaque in Lugar's Indianapolis office. 
   Nominations are sought statewide and should include the nominee's name, address, phone, and a description of his/her contributions to the community in health/fitness awareness and education. Visit http://lugar.senate.gov/fitness.html to complete the online nomination form or for a printable form. Please contact Mark Doud at 317-226-5555 with any questions about the nomination process. Entries must be received by Friday, September 8, 2006, and printed forms may be mailed to: 
   The Honorable Richard G. Lugar
  Attention: Mark Doud
  10 West Market Street, Suite 1180
  Indianapolis, Indiana 46204
   Lugar also will host an annual Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Center Mall on Friday, September 15 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. This year's Health Fair is sponsored by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield in Indiana and features more than 50 vendors offering health information and screenings. 
   Lugar has hosted a health and fitness festival for Indiana residents for 27 years. Over the years, thousands of Hoosiers have participated in health screenings, learned about healthy lifestyles and exercised with their fellow citizens in 5K and 10K runs and a 5k walk as part of the Dick Lugar Run and Walk. 
   For 23 years, the Indianapolis business community has joined together each fall to promote competition and physical fitness as part of the Corporate Challenge. This is the third year these two community events have joined together.
   Contact: Chris Brelage, 317/237-5000.
 
 