SEN. LUGAR BREAKS GROUND FOR NEW NUNN-LUGAR FACILITY
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar broke ground for the new Central Pathogen Storage Facility here. The facility will secure dangerous pathogens that were used in former Soviet Union bio-weapons programs, and now, under the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, are part of joint international scientific research.  
   "Georgia's Center for Disease Control scientists, in partnership with U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID), including personnel from Walter Reed Hospital, and other international scientists, are making significant contributions to public health and disease surveillance. This is a shining example of international cooperation advancing science and improving the quality of life," Lugar said. 
   Georgia has several endemic diseases that will be the focus of the research and prevention work, including tularemia, anthrax, visceral leishmaniasis, tick-borne encephalitis and West Nile. Work has also been done on reducing food-borne illnesses. 
   Security, health, safety and environmental conditions were remarkably non-existent at these former Soviet-era locations that had both legitimate and illegal weapons activities. 
   At one facility, Biokombinat, the Soviet Union manufactured vaccines for a wide range of infectious animal diseases such as sheep pox, swine plague and sheep brucellosis. But its nefarious duel-use was the large-scale production of biological weapons. 
   The Nunn-Lugar program is dismantling the dual-use equipment and analyzing options for expanding the vaccine production, which currently includes those for foot-and-mouth disease and rabies. An animal feed and micronutrient pre-mix plant is one option. 
   Lugar visited the Institute of Radiobiology, where the United States has secured radioactive materials that could have been used to make "dirty bombs." Georgia also had enriched uranium that was removed by the 1998 Nunn-Lugar Operation Auburn Endeavor. The Nunn-Lugar secure storage facility is now being constructed on the same site. 
   Lugar also met with security and legislative leaders involved in the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   "To combat the WMD threat in the former Soviet Union, our country has implemented the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. Since enactment in late 1991, Nunn-Lugar has devoted American technical expertise and money for joint efforts to safeguard and destroy materials and weapons of mass destruction," Lugar said. 
   To date, the weapons systems deactivated or destroyed by the United States under these programs include: 6,312 nuclear warheads; 537 ICBMs; 459 ICBM silos; 11 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 128 bombers; 708 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 408 submarine missile launchers; 496 submarine launched missiles; 27 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program.
 
 