SEN. LUGAR CO-SPONSORS RESOLUTION TO HONOR DEPAUW GRADUATE PERCY JULIAN
  Sen. Dick Lugar today joined Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) in introducing a resolution to honor the life of Dr. Percy Julian, the first African-American chemist to be inducted into the National Academy of Sciences. Dr. Julian graduated from DePauw University in 1920 as class Valedictorian. He later returned to DePauw as a teacher in organic chemistry where he discovered the process to synthesize the drug used in the treatment of glaucoma.  
   The resolution resolves, "That the Senate honors the life of Percy Lavon Julian, a pioneer in the field of organic chemistry and the first and only African-American chemist to be inducted in the National Academy of Sciences." 
   Julian Percy was born on April 11, 1899 in Montgomery, Alabama, the son of a railway clerk and the grandson of a slave. He was the first member of his family to attend college. While a student at DePauw University from 1916-1920, Dr. Julian waited on tables and kept a room in the attic of an all white fraternity house. Following graduation, he continued his education at Harvard University, where he received his Masters degree in 1923. He then went on to the University of Vienna to earn a Doctorate in Chemistry in 1931. 
   Following his discovery at DePauw University, Dr. Julian moved to Chicago where he became Director of Research at the Glidden Company, a leading chemical manufacturer. He then pioneered a process for the chemical synthesis of cortisone, which made it a widespread and affordable treatment of arthritis. 
   In 1954, Julian left the Glidden Company to establish Julian Laboratories which specialized in producing his synthetic cortisone. The company was sold in 1961 to pharmaceutical company Smith, Kline and French. 
   He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1973 in recognition of his achievements. He has received 19 honorary doctorates and is credited with over 100 patents. 
   Dr. Julian died of cancer in 1975. 
   A two-hour NOVA special on Dr. Julian's career is scheduled to air on PBS stations on February 6, 2007. 
   A similar resolution was recently passed in the House of Representatives.
 
 