SEN. LUGAR CALLS FOR NATO MEMBERSHIP ACTION PLANS FOR GEORGIA AND UKRAINE
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar has asked the U.S. Senate to go on record in favor of extending a NATO Membership Action Plan (MAP) to Georgia and Ukraine. Lugar visited the leadership in both countries earlier this month. Lugar, the Senior Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was joined by Chairman Joe Biden in introducing the resolution.
   Following is Lugar's statement in the Congressional Record. The full resolution can be found at: http://lugar.senate.gov/sfrc/pdf/NATOMAP.pdf. 
   MR. PRESIDENT, I rise today to introduce the "NATO Membership Action Plan Endorsement Act of 2008." This resolution is intended to express strong Senate support for Administration leadership in ensuring that NATO extends Membership Action Plan (MAP) status to Georgia and Ukraine as soon as possible.
   NATO has a long track record of support for continued enlargement of NATO to democracies that are able and willing to meet the responsibilities of membership. The leaders of Georgia and Ukraine have clearly stated their desire to join NATO and both have made remarkable progress towards meeting NATO standards.
   The Membership Action Plan was launched in April 1999 to assist countries in preparations for possible NATO membership by providing advice, assistance, and practical support on all aspects of membership requirements. NATO has identified four main categories of cooperation and assistance through MAP. First, NATO assists in the development of a national program that covers political, economic, defense, resource security, and legal requirements for membership. Second, NATO experts provide focused and candid feedback and political and technical advice to the governments. Third, NATO provides an organizational structure to assist in the coordination of defense and security assistance received from NATO member states and other allies. Fourth, NATO provides assistance in the construction of an individual approach to defense planning to include force, personnel, and capability reforms.
   MAP implementation is no longer simply an activity that focuses on military and security issues. Inter-ministerial meetings engage other governmental departments in a coordinated and systematic approach with the goal of governmental wide reform and progress. These goals include settling international, ethnic or external territorial disputes by peaceful means; demonstrating a commitment to the rule of law and human rights; and promoting stability and prosperity through economic reform, social equality, and environmental responsibility. Each participant is free to choose the elements of MAP best suited to their own national priorities and circumstances. In other words, if approved at the NATO summit at Bucharest, Romania in April, Tbilisi and Kyiv will set their own objectives, targets, and work schedules.
   Since the end of the Cold War, NATO has been evolving to meet the new security needs of the 21st century. In this era, the threats to NATO members are transnational and far from its geographic borders. NATO's viability as an effective defense and security alliance depends on flexible, creative leadership, as well as the willingness of members to improve capabilities and address common threats.
   If NATO is to continue to be the preeminent security Alliance and serve the defense interests of its membership, it must continue to evolve and that evolution must include enlargement. Potential NATO membership motivates emerging democracies to make important advances in areas such as the rule of law and civil society. A closer relationship with NATO will promote these values and contribute to our mutual security.
   Three years ago, the United States Senate unanimously voted to invite seven countries to join NATO. Today, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, and Slovenia are making significant contributions to NATO and are among our closest allies in the global war on terrorism. It is time again for the United States to take the lead in urging its allies to recognize the important efforts underway in Georgia and Ukraine, and to offer MAP to both countries this spring.
   Both countries have significant amounts of work to accomplish before they can be offered NATO membership. Let me be clear, MAP participation does not guarantee future membership, nor does it consist of simply a checklist for aspiring NATO members to fulfill. It is a guide, not an endorsement to NATO membership.
   I am confident that Presidents Saakashvilli and Yushchenko understand that NATO membership will not be possible without the support of their respective electorates. In Georgia the issue was put to a referendum earlier this month and 76.22% of voters supported NATO membership. Ukrainian leaders have identified the need for a national referendum on this important issue in the future. Alliance membership requires commitment and sacrifice that must have the support of the local population if they are to be successfully implemented.
   Last week, former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine, Steven Pifer, outlined in the International Herald Tribune several compelling arguments for extending MAP to Ukraine. He said, in part: "Granting Ukraine a MAP at the Bucharest summit \x85 would enhance European security and stability \x85 [N]one of the arguments against the measure stand up to scrutiny ... Ukraine has made as much progress on democratic, economic, and military reform as Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, and Albania when they received MAPs in 1999 \x85 Kyiv has demonstrated that it has serious military capabilities and the political will to use them. In recent years, the Ukrainian military has provided the alliance with strategic airlifts; participated, often side-by-side with NATO troops, in peacekeeping operations in the Balkans and elsewhere; and made a significant contribution to coalition ground forces in Iraq during 2004-05. Ukraine would be a net contributor to Euro-Atlantic security."
   Mr. President, I ask that my colleagues support this important resolution. It sends a strong message to the Administration, our NATO allies, as well as to the people of Georgia and Ukraine that we are prepared to work closely with each to contribute to the strengthening of peace and security in Europe and Eurasia.
   Thank you.
 
 