IRAQ LETTER #15: UPDATED REPORT ON RELIEF, RECONSTRUCTION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the fifteenth letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the fifteenth letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq.  
   I write to bring your attention to a Congressionally-mandated quarterly report on Iraq that the State Department released this week. The 2207 Report, named after the section of Public Law 108-106 that mandates it, details the programs funded by the Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund (IRRF). Congress appropriated $18.4 billion for this fund in FY 2004. 
   According to the report, more than 90 percent of these funds have been obligated and many of the IRRF projects will be completed in the coming quarter. The report provides comprehensive information on what these monies have yielded and what remains to be done. 
   In addition to statistics about reconstruction in the oil and electrical sectors, the report examines the Community Action Program, (p. I-42). It describes how appropriated dollars are seeking to help rehabilitate Iraq through local reconstruction projects that not only build infrastructure, but strengthen civil society by requiring citizen participation. The CAP program, operated since 2003 by several NGO's under the auspices of USAID, is being expanded and adapted into the Provincial Reconstruction Team agenda to promote transparency and accountability and encourage local buy-in. USAID's website has further data on this $75 million per year program. 
   I would also call your attention to the section on Market-Based Reforms (p. I-109). It includes information about the establishment of a Center for Development and Economic Dialog and about how micro-finance programs are being implemented to spur small business development. 
   The 2207 Report can be found on the Department of State website and on my own website: (http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq). I hope you find this information useful.
 
 