SEN. LUGAR ADDRESSES EXPRESS LANE ELIGIBILITY IN SCHIP
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar sent the following letter to his Senate Republican colleagues today to address misconceptions regarding the Express Lane eligibility option in the SCHIP bill:
  "I am writing to correct some misconceptions regarding the Express Lane eligibility option in the SCHIP bill.  
  "More than 70% of low income, uninsured children are in families that are already enrolled in the Food Stamp program, the Women with Infants and Children (WIC) program, or the National School Lunch Program (NSLP). The idea of Express Lane is to give states the flexibility to find a child income eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP based on the fact that they have already been found eligible for nutrition assistance or other comparable programs that operate under similar financial guidelines. Express Lane was included in then Majority Leader Frist's child health bill during the previous Congress, which the Administration supported.
  "Express Lane is targeted at the very poorest uninsured and eligible children who have been the hardest to reach through other methods. For example, in my own state of Indiana there are approximately 70,000 children currently enrolled in Indiana's SCHIP program, yet approximately 39,000 children are eligible but not enrolled. 
  "The Administration has voiced concern that Express Lane eligibility would allow illegal immigrants into the program. Express Lane eligibility does not change eligibility standards for Medicaid or SCHIP and thus undocumented immigrants would remain barred from coverage. Express Lane simply allows states to use relevant eligibility data from other programs. If states were using data from a program that did not have a citizenship determination, the state would need to find independent documentation of citizenship or satisfactory immigration status, using normal Medicaid/SCHIP procedures. The Express Lane language is explicit in requiring citizenship documentation. 
  "Furthermore, it is important to note that the compromise agreement for the first time requires explicit determination of citizenship status for SCHIP rather than self declaration. Therefore, the citizenship provisions of the bill are now more stringent than current law. 
  "There is also a concern that the Express Lane language would allow families of higher income levels into the SCHIP program. It is important to note that the income thresholds of almost all other need based programs are substantially lower than SCHIP eligibility levels, so it is highly unlikely that any otherwise ineligible children would receive health coverage. For example, programs like WIC and School Lunch go up to 185% FPL, calculated based on gross income. In most states, SCHIP extends to 200% FPL, subtracting from gross income such things as child support payments, certain work expenses, etc.
  "However, the Administration has implied that because other programs such as School Lunch have differing standards of income eligibility, they are vulnerable to fraud and abuse, and therefore SCHIP would be in jeopardy of signing up ineligible children. Individuals participating in the School Lunch program are subject to income verification and/or audits. Those who intentionally attempt to defraud the program become ineligible and punitive actions could be considered. If the Administration is suggesting that there are problems administering their own programs, we would be happy to work with them on this.
  "In the meantime, it is important to note that the Express Lane provision requires CMS and states to audit children who receive Express Lane eligibility and to report the results. If 3% or more of Express Lane children are ineligible for health coverage, corrective action plans are required, and federal sanctions apply to funding for children in the sample.
  "Also worth noting, when Express Lane eligibility has been used for the School Lunch program and for WIC, program integrity improved and administrative costs fell, according to research by USDA and the GAO. 
  "In my view, the Express Lane provision in the SCHIP bill meets the important Republican priorities of a) targeting SCHIP coverage to eligible but un enrolled children under 200% of poverty, and b) increasing efficiency and reducing red tape. "
 
 