SEN. LUGAR NAMES SOUTH SHORE CLEAN CITIES COORDINATORS ENERGY PATRIOTS
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar recently named Carl and Lorrie Lisek of St. John, Indiana, as the October 2007 Lugar Energy Patriots. The husband and wife team own an environmental consulting company and serve as the co-coordinators of South Shore Clean Cities Inc. 
  "Each month I recognize an outstanding Hoosier who has demonstrated leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. I am pleased to recognize Carl and Lorrie Lisek for their advocacy in Northern Indiana to promote alternative fuels and idle reduction practices," said Lugar. 
  Clean Cities is a nationwide network sponsored by the Department of Energy of approximately 90 volunteer coalitions that develop public/private partnerships to promote alternative fuels and advanced vehicles, fuel blends, fuel economy, hybrid vehicles, and idle reduction. 
  As the co-coordinators of South Shore Clean Cities, the Lisek's have seen membership in the nonprofit organization triple and forged new partnerships to promote solutions to energy and environmental problems. Their mission in Northern Indiana is to lessen U.S. dependence on foreign oil by promoting alternative transportation fuels and improve air quality by promoting idle reduction. 
  "The future of America is dependent on how we use natural resources. Investing in alternative and renewable energy is good for the economy, and good for our national security. We truly believe that the world is on loan from our children, we must create an environmental legacy for future generations," said the Lisek's. 
  Lugar last met with the Lisek's in March 2007 when they attended the Clean Cities Energy Independence Days in Washington, D.C. 
  The Energy Patriot award is part of an ongoing effort by Lugar to recognize professionals, scholars, students or businesses that demonstrate leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign energy sources. 
  An editorial profile of Carl and Lorrie Lisek is below and may be published in its entirety. Additional information and photographs are available at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/energy/links/patriot/.
  For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on oil. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil and provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources. 
  Profile of a Patriot
  Each month, Senator Lugar profiles a student, professional, scholar, or business that has demonstrated leadership and initiative in taking concrete action to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil. 
  Like most parents of teenagers, Carl and Lorrie Lisek remind their sons to turn off appliances and lights, bike or walk on short trips, and use public transportation when possible. But their message extends far beyond their home in St. John, as the husband and wife team promote actions to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil and improve air quality in Northern Indiana.
  With Carl's background in Superfund cleanup and Lorrie's sales and accounting experience, they decided four years ago to start an environmental consulting company. Today, they are recognized as the leading voice in 17 Northern Indiana counties for the promotion of alternative fuels, and their company, Legacy Environmental Services, is coordinator for the local chapter of Clean Cities. 
  "We wanted to create a legacy for future generations through working with municipal governments, schools and environmental management systems," said Carl. "With all the great things going on throughout the country, we felt we had an opportunity to really make a difference by promoting alternative fuels."
  "We believed in the mission of Clean Cities and felt it was the perfect opportunity for us. We feel that with all the different fuels available we can fix this," he continued. 
  Clean Cities is a nationwide network sponsored by the Department of Energy of approximately 90 volunteer coalitions that develop public/private partnerships to promote alternative fuels and advanced vehicles, fuel blends, fuel economy, hybrid vehicles, and idle reduction.
  As the co-coordinators of South Shore Clean Cities Inc. (SSCC), Carl and Lorrie have seen membership in the nonprofit organization triple and forged new partnerships to promote solutions to energy and environmental problems. Their mission in Northern Indiana is to lessen U.S. dependence on foreign oil by promoting alternative transportation fuels and improve air quality by promoting idle reduction. 
  "Trying to get businesses and communities involved is crucial. We are trying to educate Northern Indiana," said Lorrie. 
  "There are a lot of little things as consumers and businesses that we can do. We're trying to highlight the little things - we want to be an educational tool to give people better information to make conscious decisions on how to improve the environment and lessen our dependence on foreign oil," echoed Carl. 
  Working with SSCC members, local communities, school corporations, and health organizations, Carl and Lorrie educate Northern Indiana about cost savings through energy efficiency, alternative fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel and the health consequences of emissions from diesel engines. 
  "My dream was always to work on preventative type activities," said Carl. 
  One of the Liesek's favorite questions to ask is "How many miles per gallon do you get when you're idling your vehicle?" No matter what the price of gasoline, the answer is always the same: zero. Carl and Lorrie's solution is the "10 second rule," and they remind Indiana residents to save fuel when stopped for a train or at a drive-thru by shutting off their vehicle. 
  Working in the transportation corridor of Northern Indiana, Carl and Lorrie also share the importance of idle reduction practices with truck drivers and diesel vehicle operators. The trucking industry employs nearly 10 million people, with each person driving over 500 miles a day. This means that annually more than 1 billion gallons of diesel fuel is consumed while idling, at a cost of over $3 billion dollars. To reach more Indiana residents and drivers, Carl and Lorrie launched an anti-idling print and radio campaign. They also created a website, www.smartidle.com, that shares technologies and strategies to reduce the idling times of heavy-duty trucks and thereby cut petroleum consumption, fuel costs, engine wear and maintenance costs, diesel emissions, and noise. 
  Carl and Lorrie are also preparing Indiana's future drivers and sharing information with children to save energy at home and school. They realize that for meaningful progress, they must educate future generations to decrease energy consumption. SSCC's website, www.southshorecleancities.org, offers a special section devoted to children that includes simple tips like turning off the lights when you leave a room, powering off video games and keeping windows and doors closed when the air conditioner is running. Activities include Dr. E's Energy Lab, a family home energy quiz and curriculum suggestions for teachers. 
  "We feel that the world is on loan to our children. We are investing in Indiana, in the future," said Carl. 
  One of Carl and Lorrie's most rewarding accomplishments is working with local school districts to retrofit school buses with better emission-control technologies and utilize alternative fuels. To date they have retrofitted 35 school buses and seven other locally owned vehicles. 
  Carl and Lorrie also highlight the success stories in Northern Indiana and the progress towards energy independence of SSCC members. They are quick to point out that on October 13, 2005, when they hosted their first Clean Cities meeting, there were no E85 pumps in Indiana. Today, there are 96 pumps in the State, and Carl and Lorrie continue to promote ethanol and biodiesel at retail stations throughout Northern Indiana. 
  The couple's commitment has not gone unnoticed. South Shore Clean Cities was recently recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for its efforts in idle reduction, and Legacy Environmental was named an Energy Star Partner by the EPA. 
  Carl and Lorrie continue to look to the future and for new ways to share their message. Their theme for 2008 is "Fueling the Future," and they are working on a new radio program with WIMS AM 1420 to further educate the general public on how to become green. 
  "It is an honor and privilege to work with Clean Cities. It has been a very rewarding opportunity, learning something new everyday," said Carl. "We want Indiana to be a leader in the energy world. We're excited about where we've come, and we're excited about our future in Indiana."
  Senator Lugar agrees. That is why we congratulate Carl and Lorrie Lisek on being our October 2007 Lugar Energy Patriots.
 
 