SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO CONTINUE, EXPAND U.S. LEADERSHIP ON HIV/AIDS
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar yesterday introduced S.1966, the HIV/AIDS Assistance Reauthorization Act of 2007, which would reauthorize the highly successful U.S. initiative on global HIV/AIDS that is set to expire in 2008.
   Lugar's bill would double the initial U.S. commitment by authorizing $30 billion for fiscal years 2009 through 2013. 
   "Since the initial legislation was passed in 2003, the United States has reached more than 42 million people with prevention programs and is supporting treatment for approximately 561,000 men, women and children in 15 of the most afflicted countries in Africa, Asia and the Caribbean. The U.S. is also providing services to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV and assistance to some of the millions of orphans this disease has created," said Lugar, Republican leader of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
   "Effective prevention, treatment and care all depend to a large extent on people knowing their HIV status, so they can take the necessary steps to stay healthy.
   "The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues, yet there is a change led by the American people that is providing hope and touching millions of lives through comprehensive programs of prevention, treatment and care in partnership with host nations."
   As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 2003, Lugar led bipartisan Senate efforts to enact the legislation, also referred to as the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), that authorized a five year funding level of $15 billion to address the global HIV/AIDS pandemic.
   At the time the legislation was introduced, only 50,000 people in all of sub-Saharan Africa were receiving lifesaving antiretroviral treatment. Through March 2007, the American people have supported treatment for more than one million men, women and children in Africa.
   Reauthorizing the legislation in 2007 is essential to assure partner organizations which implement these programs the guarantee of future funding to increase the number of people receiving treatment. Once HIV-positive persons are provided treatment or orphans enrolled in care programs, their treatment and care become ongoing commitments for program partners. Without the financial assurance of a long-term reauthorization bill, these organizations may not be able to treat additional people to achieve the goals of the legislation.
   Lugar plans to seek bipartisan cosponsorship of S.1966 and a hearing in the Foreign Relations Committee. He welcomes the support of the NGO and faith based communities in the reauthorization effort as well as the constructive engagement of the Administration and his colleagues in the House and Senate.
   Lugar is also the co-author of the Vaccines for the Future Act of 2007, which would accelerate the development of vaccines for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other infectious diseases that disproportionately affect populations in developing countries. Lugar's bill would require the United States to develop a comprehensive strategy to speed the development, testing and distribution of life-saving vaccines through innovative financial incentives.
   For his efforts to bring attention and raise awareness of the HIV/AIDS crisis, Lugar has been recognized by Africare, YouthAIDS, the Africa Society of the National Summit on Africa, and the Mercy Foundation. Under his chairmanship, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee examined many subjects related to HIV/AIDS, including the intersection of AIDS and hunger, the AIDS orphan crisis, the impact of the disease on women and girls in the developing world, and the implementation of PEPFAR.
 
 