SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES SANCTIONS POLICY REFORM ACT
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar introduced the Sanctions Policy Reform Act, which would reform the U.S. sanctions decision-making process involving unilateral economic sanctions directed against other countries. This bill would establish procedural guidelines and informational requirements that must be met prior to imposing unilateral economic sanctions.  
   "Unilateral sanctions often appear to be cost-free, but they have many unintended victims - the poor in the target countries, American companies, American labor, American consumers and, quite frankly, American foreign policy," said Lugar. "Sanctions can weaken our international competitiveness, lower our global market share, abandon our established market to others and jeopardize billions in export earnings - the key to our economic growth." 
   "By improving upon our procedures and the quality and timeliness of our information when considering new sanctions, I believe U.S. foreign policy will be more effective," he continued. 
   Lugar acknowledged that sanctions have a place in foreign policy situations in which the actions of other countries are so egregious or threatening to the U.S. that some response short of military force is needed and justified. "In these situations sanctions can be helpful in getting the attention of another country, in showing U.S. determination to change behaviors we find objectionable, or in stimulating a search for creative solutions to difficult foreign policy problems," he said. 
   This sanctions policy reform bill would require Congress to consider findings by executive branch officials that evaluate the impact of the proposed sanctions on American agriculture, energy requirements and capital markets before imposing unilateral sanctions. It encourages more active consultation between the Congress and the President and provides for Presidential waiver authority if the President determines it is in national security interests. It also establishes an executive branch Sanctions Review Committee that would evaluate the effect of any proposed sanctions and provide appropriate recommendations to the President prior to imposing such sanctions. 
   "We must avoid putting U.S. national security in a straight-jacket, and we must have a clear idea of the consequences of sanctions on our own security and prosperity before we enact them," said Lugar. "This bill mandates that we be better informed about the prospects that our sanctions will succeed, about the economic costs to the United States, and about the sanctions' impact on other American objectives." 
   Lugar's bill would have no effect on existing sanctions. It would apply only to new sanctions that are unilateral and that are intended to achieve foreign policy goals. As such, it excludes trade remedies or trade sanctions imposed because of market access restrictions, unfair trade practices or violations of U.S. commercial or trade laws. 
   USA*ENGAGE, a coalition of hundreds of small and large businesses, agriculture groups and trade associations praised the introduction of the sanctions reform legislation by Lugar.
 
 