SEN. LUGAR STATEMENT ON INTERIM OIL-FOR-FOOD REPORT
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar made the following statement today on Chairman Paul Volcker's interim report on the U.N. Oil-for-Food program investigation:  
   "Chairman Paul Volcker's interim report into the Oil-for-Food scandal demonstrates his thoroughness in investigating the issues surrounding the matter. The report indicates that the United Nations was simply not up to the task of managing such a vast operation in a transparent manner. As this investigation moves forward, I expect that any individuals and companies identified as having participated in illegal activities will be brought to justice to the maximum extent possible, with the complete cooperation of their home governments. 
   "It is unquestionable that part of the blame for the current imbroglio lies with the UN itself for failing to dedicate sufficient resources and oversight mechanisms to prevent and correct the abuses that enabled Saddam Hussein to re-direct into his own pockets billions of dollars that were intended to help feed the Iraqi people. How far up the UN's chain of command the blame should be placed for this inattention is at the heart of Chairman Volcker's work. 
   "At the same time, as I pointed out months ago, we must recognize that those nations who sat on the Security Council at one time or another during the life of the program - and this includes the United States - must also answer questions as to why they, too, did not pay greater scrutiny to this program given the vast sums of money involved and the sordid nature of Saddam and his past history of using the Iraqi people as pawns in his quest to perpetuate his power. 
   "The question we must now ask is what lessons have the UN learned? In the tragic aftermath of the death and destruction wrought by the tsunami in South Asia, the UN has an opportunity to demonstrate again that at which it is best suited - alleviating human suffering. The generosity of the world, and of the hundreds of millions of dollars donated by the American people in particular to the various UN organizations, again require the highest degree of accountability and transparency regarding the use of those funds. I trust that Chairman Volcker's efforts and conclusions will not be lost on those entrusted with accounting for these funds and that they will make every opportunity to show the world they are worthy of the trust we have placed in them."
 
 