NEW SEN. LUGAR DISARMAMENT INITIATIVE APPROVED
  The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee unanimously approved the Lugar Disarmament Initiative today, introduced by Chairman Dick Lugar. 
   The amendment was the major new initiative added to the Foreign Affairs Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2006 and 2007. The committee approved the over all $34 billion bill for operations of the State Department and Foreign Assistance by a vote of 18-0.  
   The Lugar Disarmament Initiative is modeled on the original Nunn-Lugar Act of 1991*. "The purpose is to provide the Department of State with a focused response to the threat posed by vulnerable stockpiles of conventional weapons around the world that could be used by terrorists to attack us at home and abroad. In addition to the direct threats these weapons pose, it is clear that proliferation of these systems prove to be major obstacles to peace, reconstruction and economic development in regions suffering from conflict and instability," Lugar said. 
   "In August, I visited Albania, Ukraine and Georgia. Each of these countries has large stockpiles of tactical missile systems, MANPADS and other conventional arms and has requested U.S. assistance in destroying them. Large, insecure stockpiles also exist throughout South America, Africa and Asia. 
   "This legislation is intended to develop a response that is commensurate with the threat. Today neither the policy nor the implementation exists at the appropriate level," Lugar continued. "It is time the United States got busy removing these threats. The legislation I offer today is the first step in the right direction and identifies $20 million in the Nonproliferation, Antiterrorism, and Disarmament Account for these purposes. I intend to offer a free standing legislative version in the days ahead," Lugar (R-IN) said. 
   Senators Domenici, Hagel, Biden, Boxer and Obama cosponsored the initiative. 
   Since Lugar and former Sen. Sam Nunn (D-GA) authored the program in 1991, Nunn-Lugar has deactivated 6,564 nuclear warheads in the former Soviet Union. It has employed more than 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan are nuclear free as a result of the program. Lugar also passed legislation to use the program outside the former Soviet Union. Last October Albania became the first such cooperative effort, to secure and destroy chemical weapons there. 
   The Foreign Affairs Authorization bill approved by the Committee today reflects the president's budget request of $34 billion for the State Department and Foreign Assistance Accounts. This is a 13 percent increase from the current year's appropriation. It includes the president's full request of $3 billion for the Millennium Challenge Account. The funding and policies in this two-year bill will cover State Department operations, embassy construction and security, education and cultural exchange programs, as well as numerous other programs and activities. 
   The bill also authorizes the Office of Reconstruction and Stabilization in the State Department, a concept that was created in the Foreign Relations Committee last year. 
   "In our hearings and through our daily contacts with the State Department, our Committee has witnessed the commitment and skill of Department personnel as they work to improve national security and prosperity in increasingly difficult and dangerous circumstances. In marking up this bill today, we will be affecting policy that is central to the war on terrorism and to America's standing in the world," Lugar said. 
   "Since the end of the Cold War, the Foreign Affairs Account frequently has suffered from inadequate funding. The American public generally understands that the United States reduced military spending in the 1990s following the fall of the Soviet Union. Few are aware, however, that this peace dividend spending reduction theme was applied even more unsparingly to our foreign affairs programs. In constant dollars, the foreign affairs budget was cut in six consecutive years from 1992 to 1998. This slide occurred even as the United States sustained the heavy added costs of establishing new missions in the fifteen emergent states of the former Soviet Union. In constant dollars, the cumulative effect was a 26 percent decrease in our foreign affairs programs. As a percentage of GDP, this six-year slide represented a 38 percent cut in foreign affairs programs," Lugar continued. 
   "By the beginning of the new millennium, these cuts had taken their toll. The General Accounting Office reported that staffing shortfalls, lack of adequate language skills and security vulnerabilities plagued many of our diplomatic posts. In 2001 the share of the U.S. budget devoted to the international affairs account stood at a paltry 1.18 percent B barely above its post-World War II low and only about half of its share in the mid-1980s. 
   "Under President Bush and Secretary Powell, funding for the Foreign Affairs Account has increased substantially. The President has requested increases in each of the last four budgets. In this year's budget, the President has requested a 13 percent increase over last year's appropriated amount for the Foreign Affairs Account - the largest percentage increase of any major account in the budget. This is a tangible demonstration of the President's commitment to diplomatic strength. Congress must now do its part by providing the resources the President needs to carry out an effective foreign policy. 
   "Those of us who have advocated in favor of funding increases for the foreign affairs and diplomacy should take "Yes" for an answer," Lugar said. 
   "The bill funds the Millennium Challenge Corporation at the President's requested level of $3 billion. Some have argued that that the President should have requested $5 billion - the amount he originally had conceived for the corporation's third year of funding. Others have argued that $3 billion is too much for a new venture that is just getting off the ground, and that some of this money should be shifted to other priorities. My own view is that $3 billion is a reasonable amount, given the scope of the program and its potential for spurring democratic reforms overseas. The credibility of the program, which foreign nations are observing closely, would be strengthened if this Committee endorsed the President's funding request. For these reasons, I would oppose amendments that seek to use MCC funds as an offset for other priorities." 
   The bill also includes a 10 percent increase in danger pay for State Department employees who serve in dangerous posts overseas, funding for refugee assistance and provisions designed to improve protections for women, children, and other vulnerable populations in the context of war or disaster.
   *Nunn-Lugar Act of 1991 can be viewed at http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.html.
 
 