SEN. LUGAR SEEKS EXPANSION OF SUMMER FEEDING PROGRAM IN INDIANA
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar is asking for sponsors of the Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) in the 41 Indiana Counties where it does not currently operate. The SFSP feeds low-income children in the summer months when school is not in session. 
   "Hunger does not stop simply because the school year ends. The need to feed youth in the summer is a nationwide problem and it is clear we have a proven method. Additional sponsors are needed to increase the availability of nutritious meals to underprivileged children in Indiana this summer," Lugar said. "I encourage potential sponsors to attend the Indiana Department of Education training workshops which begin this week."
   With the help of its sponsors last year, the SFSP served approximately 2 million free meals and snacks to low-income children 18 and under in Indiana. Yet this met only 40 percent of the need of Hoosier children, and the program remains underutilized.
   The Indiana Department of Education will host training workshops for sponsors in Indianapolis on the following dates:
   Private Non Profits 9am-3pm
  Monday, March 3, 2008
   Schools and Public Entities 9am-1pm
  Friday, March 7, 2008
   Camps/Upward Bound 9am-3pm
  Thursday, March 6, 2008
   Private Non Profits 9am-3pm
  Wednesday March 12, 2008
   Schools and Public Entities 9am-1pm
  Friday, March 14, 2008
   For more information on the program or if you are unable to attend the workshop, please contact Bruce Brown at the Indiana Department of Education at 317-232-0857 or bbrown@doe.in.gov The last day to register as a summer 2008 sponsor is Monday, April 28, 2008.
   In 1999, Lugar authored the SFSP pilot program ("Lugar Pilots") to simplify the reimbursement process for community centers wanting to supply children with government funded lunches. Indiana was one of the original 13 eligible states for this program. During consideration of the Child Nutrition Reauthorization Bill that passed in November 2003, Lugar worked to expand this program to an additional six states. The Fiscal Year 2006 appropriations bill added 7 more states to the program. The recently passed Fiscal Year 2008 omnibus appropriations bill included Lugar's legislation to expand this program nationwide. Beginning this summer, sponsors in all states will be reimbursed for meals served under the Summer Food Service Program using the simplified reimbursement process.
   The SFSP is a federally-funded program operated through the U.S State Department of Agriculture and administered by the states, which reimburse organizations for providing nutritious meals to eligible children during the summer. Sponsors include schools, summer camps, community centers, and other organizations that focus on the well-being of children and families.
 
 