SEN. LUGAR APPLAUDS INDY RACING LEAGUE'S DECISION TO USE ETHANOL
  Sen. Dick Lugar today applauded the Indy Racing League's announcement that all league cars will be powered by ethanol beginning in 2007. Ethanol is primarily produced from corn, but can also be made from other grains, grasses and trees.  
   "The Indy Racing League's decision to use ethanol to power race cars at premier venues such as the Indianapolis Motor Speedway is exciting and signals to the American public that ethanol is not just a farm-based fuel," Lugar said. "Ethanol is a premier, high performance fuel. It has tremendous environmental benefits and is a key component to energy independence for our country." 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to help decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. He co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose, in a time of relatively low fuel prices. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. Lugar also has co-authored and supported legislation to dramatically increase the use of renewable fuels in all U.S. vehicles. 
   "The need to fully harness the power of ethanol in our technologically advanced society is paramount," Lugar added. "By furthering the use of ethanol, farmers are presented with the opportunity to produce a cash crop by collecting their agricultural wastes. Local crops that enrich the soil, prevent erosion and improve local environmental conditions can be planted and then harvested for fuel." 
   "The development of renewable fuels would help ensure national and economic security and gas price stability. With ethanol and biomass becoming competitive and Hoosiers growing renewable crops of biomass each year, these alternative can add to the critical volume of the gasoline market. In addition, the tax credit for biodiesel that passed in the 108th Congress will encourage petroleum blenders to use more biodiesel in fuel and ease the overburdened refining industry," Lugar added. 
   Lugar also has joined the Board of Advisors for Ethanol Across America. Ethanol Across America is a partnership between industry and government that is committed to advancing the production and use of ethanol by implementing a comprehensive education and outreach program. The result of this partnership will be increased consumer and public support for the policies and programs that sustain ethanol production and use, thereby paving the way for the growth of this home grown fuel that can help America's economy, environment and reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil. 
   "America's insatiable appetite for oil places our nation in a precarious situation of reliability on regions that have become increasingly hostile to us," Lugar said. "Bio-fuels such as ethanol increase energy independence and security and would significantly improve rural economies in America and around the world." 
   Production of ethanol in the United States has been steadily increasing with yearly production approaching 4 billion gallons per year. Despite this impressive and growing level, the U.S. still relies on petroleum for nearly 97% of our transportation fuels. 
   "The New Petroleum" by Senator Dick Lugar former CIA Director James Woolsey may be found at: http://lugar.senate.gov/new_petroleum.html.
 
 