CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING AWARDS INDIANA PUBLIC TELEVISION $194,686
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified today that the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) will award $194,686 to public television in Indiana to expand early childhood literacy activities. The grants are part of Ready to Lead in Literacy, a CPB initiative designed to support locally based literacy activities.  
   According to the CPB, the grants will be used as follows: 
   Merrillville WYIN's $35,000 grant will support their Ready to Lead in Literacy programs, which focuses on language arts and early mathematics. The program will target those elementary schools with the greatest need for research-based train-the-trainer activities for educators and child care providers. 
   Fort Wayne WFWA's $34,686 grant will support their Ready to Lead in Literacy service, which provides recourses and knowledge for parents to create a home learning environment that encourages and sustains their child's literacy development through mini-training workshops, newsletters and the web. 
   Elkhart WNIT's $35,000 grant will support their work to increase the literacy level of the most at-risk children in their community by educating parents in using free public educational non-commercial television. The station will work to strengthen existing partnerships in teaching parents how best to use media in all it's forms. 
   Indianapolis WFYI's $35,000 grant will support their Reaching Together for Literacy multi-year initiative, which will embed literacy into the station. To positively influence the literacy outcomes for children ages 2-8, WFYI will expand it's list of partners, use consistent broadcast messages, target hands-on services, and use broad resource distribution. 
   Bloomington WTIU's $35,000 grant will support their Ready to Lead in Literacy program "Ready to Read," which works with Head Start centers, community agencies and public school systems to provide free workshops to adults. These workshops give participants books and teaching materials, focusing on teaching, reading and learning activities for children on how to balance educational television with entertainment. 
   Evansville WNIN's $20,000 grant will support their Ready to Lead in Literacy initiative, which delivers a minimum of 75 workshops and parent education programs to all Evansville Title One Schools. The station will also conduct workshops specifically for all kindergarten, first and second grade teachers using the Between the Lions outreach materials, and promoting WNIN ED-TV, which makes programs available in all classrooms. 
   Earlier this month Lugar was honored by WFYI for his sustained support of public broadcasting and his exemplary service to the Central Indiana community as the recipient of the inaugural Senator Richard G. Lugar WFYI Public Service Award. The award will be presented annually to an individual who has provided leadership and sustained support of WFYI, advocacy and promotion to strengthen public broadcasting as an indispensable resource for the state of Indiana. 
   As the Mayor of Indianapolis in 1970, Lugar was influential in encouraging civic leaders to bring public broadcasting to the citizens of Central Indiana. During his five terms as a United States Senator, Lugar has continued to serve as a tireless advocate for the preservation of public broadcasting by upholding its national significance as a trusted catalyst for lifelong learning opportunities, distinctive programs and community outreach services.
 
 