SEN. LUGAR APPLAUDS FORD PLEDGE TO INCREASE PRODUCTION OF HYBRID, E-85 CARS
  On Thursday, September 29, U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar sent Ford Motor Company's Chairman of the Board and CEO, William Clay Ford, Jr., a letter supporting the company's decision to increase the production of hybrid and E-85 vehicles. E-85 is motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content and 15 percent gasoline.  
   "As a Member of Congress who has long worked to improve the competitiveness of America's auto industry, I want automakers and their suppliers, the oil and energy industries, and fuel distribution companies to come together with state and national government decision-makers to provide Americans with new, cleaner domestic energy sources that are less dependent on petroleum and less carbon intensive. 
   "Today, after the terrorist attacks of 9/11, the subsequent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the economic challenge of high oil prices, securing American independence from foreign oil is even more imperative," wrote Lugar. 
   As former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to offer a reliable, long-term fuel option to decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. In 1999 during a time of relatively low gasoline prices, he co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey. This essay outlined the challenges the U.S. would face in an increasingly energy dependent world if reliable, domestically produced forms of fuel were not developed. 
   Lugar authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. Last March, he introduced the Fuels Security Act of 2005, which served as a basis for the Energy Policy Act's key ethanol provisions that President Bush signed into law this year. These provisions will more than double the amount of renewable fuel America produces by 2012, displacing billions of gallons of imported oil. 
   Another provision Lugar has supported will provide a tax credit to gas stations encouraging them to install and/or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol. With more than five million E-85 capable vehicles in the U.S. and about one million additional vehicles expected annually, the United States could realize an immediate reduction in gasoline consumption by approximately 4.5 billion gallons per year and an annual reduction in fleet greenhouse gas emissions of 26.5 million tons using E-85 fuel. 
   On July 8, Lugar visited the Jiffy Mini-Mart in Terre Haute, the first filling station in Indiana to offer E-85 fuel. The Jiffy Mini-Mart is an independent, locally owned filling station that pumps an average of 550 gallons of E-85 fuel per day. 
   The National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition maintains a list of E-85 stations in Indiana at http://www.e85fuel.com/database/locations.php?state=inIndiana and E-85 compatible cars at http://www.e85fuel.com/e85101/flexfuelvehicles.php.
 
 