SEN. LUGAR COMMUNITY CENTER COLLECTING DONATIONS FOR COMMUNITY HARVEST FOOD BANK
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar announced the Lugar Community Center in Fort Wayne is collecting donations for Community Harvest Food Bank. The Lugar Community Center is located at 6384 A West Jefferson Boulevard. 
  "Community Harvest makes a difference in the lives of many people in Northeast Indiana all year long, and it depends on contributions from citizens to meet the needs of our community," said Lugar. 
  In a recent report by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service, more than 35.5 million went hungry in 2006 in the U.S. It is estimated that food banks provide meals to more than 23 million Americans and that 13 million U.S. children are hungry or at risk of hunger. 
  Staff from Community Harvest Food Bank decorated the windows of the Lugar Community Center located at theCovington Plaza Shopping Center for the holiday season. The Community Center is home to a food barrel throughout the holiday season to collect non-perishable items including: cereal, macaroni and other noodles, spaghetti sauce, crackers, boxed meals, soup, canned goods, toilet paper, diapers, soap and deodorant, shampoo and conditioner, and clothing detergent. A list of needed items is available at: http://www.communityharvest.org/food_drives1.htm.
  Visitors to the Lugar Community Center may also buy holiday ornaments for a $15 donation (per ornament) to help Community Harvest Food Bank provide food to hungry neighbors throughout Adams, Allen, DeKalb, Huntington, LaGrange, Noble, Steuben, Wells, and Whitley counties. The front of the ornament features a banner reading "End Hunger 2007" and a holiday wreath with a grocery bag of food on someone's doorstep. The reverse side reads "A donation has been given in your name to Community Harvest Food Bank of Northeast Indiana, Inc. by (fill in a name). 
  Community Harvest Food Bank of Northeast Indiana, Inc. was founded in 1983 with the goal of providing free and immediate food assistance to those in need. In 24 years of operation, Community Harvest has collected more than 60 million pounds of donated food and groceries and utilized 200,000 volunteer hours in area hunger relief. 
  Lugar has long supported hunger issues, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion. Federal funding for food banks, food stamps and nutrition programs would increase under the comprehensive farm bill reform introduced by Lugar. The Farm, Ranch, Equity, Stewardship and Health (FRESH) Act would end depression era federal crops subsidies that benefit only a few farmers and direct savings to assist more hungry Americans, expand access to healthy foods for children and consumers and assist conservation practices, renewable energy and rural development. More information is available at www.lugar.senate.gov/farmbill
  In 2006, the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act authored by Lugar became law. The bill allows farmers and small business owners to receive a tax deduction for food products contributed to food banks, pantries, and homeless shelters for donations from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007. Previously, this deduction was available only to large corporations, not small businesses. In the current Congress, Lugar has introduced a bill to make this deduction a permanent part of the Internal Revenue Code.
  Lugar is also an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus, which provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the rest of our world.
 
 