SEN. LUGAR: STRENGTHEN U.S. NONPROLIFERATION, COUNTERPROLIFERATION EFFORTS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Republican leader Dick Lugar gave the following testimony before the Defense Threat Reduction Agency review panel on weapons of mass destruction issues. Lugar co-founded the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program with former Sen. Sam Nunn (D-GA) in 1991. To date, Nunn-Lugar has deactivated 7,206 nuclear warheads. For additional statistics and more information, visit http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/.
   It is a pleasure to be here today with so many good friends. As I look around the room, I am reminded of the work I have enjoyed with each of you and the accomplishments we have achieved together. 
   I have never considered Nunn-Lugar to be merely a program, or a source of funding, or a set of agreements. Rather, it is a concept through which we attempt to address a persistent global threat. It is an engine of non-proliferation cooperation and expertise that can be applied to many situations around the world. For a cooperative endeavor like Nunn-Lugar to work, new opportunities for partnership must be pursued creatively and relentlessly. The United States should be sending the clear message that we are willing to go anywhere in pursuit of preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
   Stay in Russia
   Both the United States and Russia must accept the fact that we need each other. We must be as energetic in searching for common ground as we have been lately in voicing our frustration. Kremlin rhetoric will swing from one end of the strategic spectrum to the other. Commitments will be made and then put on hold. Projects will be on and then off. Our frustration level will be high. But we must not lose patience or miss the possibilities of cooperative threat reduction.
   Critics argue that Russia's energy income windfall should cause the United States to withdraw dismantlement and nonproliferation assistance. Others attempt to resuscitate the fungibility argument, which asserts that each dollar we spend in Russia frees up dollars that Moscow can put elsewhere. But we should recall that the Nunn-Lugar program was created to safeguard U.S. national security interests, and these interests exist regardless of the current state of Russia's financial fortunes.
   Russia may well assume greater dismantlement and nonproliferation responsibilities in the years ahead, or it may refuse assistance even when it is needed. Washington cannot impose the Nunn-Lugar Program on Russia. Moscow must make its own decisions and threat calculations. What we can do is effectively complete the work to which we are already committed and remain prepared to move quickly should new requests for cooperation occur.
   The United States must seek new ways to remain active in Russia. The Moscow Treaty did not contain any verification procedures, and the START Treaty's verification regime could expire. The discarding of the START Treaty's verification regime would be a mistake and would carry with it the seeds of greater distrust between the two sides. Under such a scenario we have only one mechanism for verification and transparency - Nunn-Lugar. National technical means cannot replace first-hand verification.
   New and Broader Authority Must Be Sought
   In 2003, Congress authorized $50 million in Nunn-Lugar funding to be used outside the former Soviet Union. This authority has already been put to good use in Albania to destroy chemical weapons. This experience has taught us some important lessons. The Nunn-Lugar program must have the flexibility to adjust to unforeseen contingencies. The $50 million limit on work outside the former Soviet Union should be removed. The Secretary of Defense must have the authority to operate in difficult political and strategic environments without the risk that critical operations could be suspended because of the unintended consequences of executive or legislative action.
   Today, the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund at the Department of State is the only U.S. nonproliferation program that operates with so-called "Notwithstanding Authority." This authority allows the Administration to do nonproliferation work in any nation or environment irrespective of U.S. legal obstacles - such as sanctions - that might otherwise block action. While useful, the NDF is not a substitute for a Nunn-Lugar program with Notwithstanding Authority. The NDF 's budget is only about $30 million, as opposed to a Nunn-Lugar budget of almost half a billion. The NDF operates with resource, management, and expertise limitations, some of which have been cited by the State Department Inspector General and the General Accounting Office. It concerns me that if we experience a breakthrough in talks with North Korea that allowed us to begin helping that nation secure and dismantle its nuclear program, NDF is the only option available to the Administration under current law to carry out such operations.
   Granting Nunn-Lugar Notwithstanding Authority would not mean that Congress could not adjust or restrict the program. But it would mean that Nunn-Lugar would have the ability to respond rapidly to new nonproliferation opportunities that could be essential to our national security. We should not allow bureaucratic inertia to impede potentially historic transformations in North Korea or elsewhere.
   Conventional Weapons
   Two years ago, I introduced legislation with Senator Obama to jump-start the U.S. government's response to threats from conventional weapons stockpiles. We were concerned that leadership was lacking and that the budgetary commitment was not equal to the threat. Our bill called for a global effort to seek out and destroy surplus and unguarded stocks of conventional armaments.
   The State Department has significantly increased funding for these efforts, but it is clear that the State Department budget does not have the capacity to focus the necessary funding and attention needed to address this threat. In my opinion, this means that the Pentagon and DTRA must make a greater investment in conventional weapons elimination. I would suggest linking conventional weapons dismantlement with traditional Nunn-Lugar program activities.
   Streamlining the CTR Process
   Over the last several years, I have worked to reduce the red tape associated with implementing a Nunn-Lugar project. The thirteen-step, nearly year-long certification for each Nunn-Lugar recipient process, must be eliminated. In some years, Nunn-Lugar funds for dismantlement projects have not been available for more than half of the fiscal year due to the cumbersome bureaucratic process. Hundreds of man-hours by the State Department, the Intelligence Community, the Pentagon, and other departments and agencies are routinely wasted complying with these requirements. Instead of interdicting WMD shipments, identifying the next AQ Khan, or locating hidden stocks of chemical and biological weapons, our nonproliferation experts spend their time compiling reports and assembling certification or waiver determinations.
   I am pleased to report that, this year, Congress will eliminate the certification requirements. This is good news, but it is just the tip of the iceberg of what must be done to streamline the process. I will keep looking for other opportunities to reduce bureaucratic burdens, and I urge you to look carefully at the DTRA project implementation process in hopes of speeding dismantlement contracting and implementation.
   Counterproliferation and Consequence Management Assistance
   While Nunn-Lugar is our country's first line of defense against weapons and materials of mass destruction, we need to bolster the second line of defense: our ability to stop weapons of mass destruction that have been taken from the source, but have not yet reached the United States.
   To strengthen the second line of defense, we must improve the capabilities of other nations. We need the cooperation of like-minded nations to detect and interdict WMD threats. The United States has constructed the Proliferation Security Initiative, which enlisted the participation of other nations in the interdiction of WMD. PSI is an excellent step forward, but what is lacking is a coordinated effort to improve the capabilities of our foreign partners so that they can play a larger detection and interdiction role.
   Nunn-Lugar has made important progress in this area. I have seen firsthand the effectiveness of the patrol ships, equipment, and training we have provided to Azerbaijan. In Ukraine, I witnessed WMD detection technology at border crossings and ground and sea surveillance in open areas. A number of countries including Afghanistan and Indonesia have asked to discuss possible Nunn-Lugar programs with their governments.
   I recommend that Nunn-Lugar and DTRA make the provision of counter-proliferation assistance a priority in the years ahead. In my view, this will make President Bush's PSI more effective in stopping, interdicting or deterring the proliferation of WMD.
   DTRA should also lead the way in providing expertise, equipment, and training to international partners in responding to potential WMD attacks. In other words, we must extend our cooperation to domestic preparedness. I recommend establishing bilateral and multilateral cooperation programs to assist in the development of decontamination and remediation capabilities. The response, mitigation, and restoration of public services following a WMD attack will be critical.
   Conclusion
   I urge this Panel to make maximum use of the Nunn-Lugar Program. The experts at the Defense Threat Reduction Agency are committed to protecting this country. They are an incalculable strategic asset for U.S. national security. We must find ways to help them do their job better and reduce the burdens we impose upon them.
   Over the years, I have described our work with foreign governments to address threats posed by weapons of mass destruction as a "window of opportunity." We never know how long that window will remain open. We must not restrict or encumber our ability to act. Nor should we ignore opportunities to reduce the number of nuclear warheads or enhance the verification regime attendant to those drawdowns. Our government has the experience and capabilities to strengthen our role as the world leader in nonproliferation and counterproliferation. I recommend that you study the best way to implement programs devoted to these ends.
 
 