SEN. LUGAR LEAVING TONIGHT FOR GEORGIA
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar has been asked by President Bush to represent the United States at the funeral of Prime Minister Zurab Zhvania, Republic of Georgia. Zhvania died February 3, apparently killed by carbon monoxide from a faulty heater. Zhvania was a major force in the Rose Revolution a year ago and a continued stabilizing force in the new government. Georgia, strategically located between Turkey and Russia on the Black Sea, was under Russian domination until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.  
   The funeral is Sunday, February 6. Lugar leaves at midnight tonight and returns Monday. 
   Also representing the United States will be the Millennium Challenge Corporation CEO Paul Applegarth. Georgia is one of the first countries to receive aid from this new initiative by President Bush that provides assistance based on democracy and reform advancements. International Republican Institute President and former State Department official Lorne Craner will also be part of the delegation. 
   Lugar last saw Zhvania on December 6, 2004 in Washington, DC when they both received the National Democratic Institute's W. Averell Harriman Democracy Award, for their dedication to democracy and human rights. Lugar had met with him on several other occasions in the United States and Georgia, going back to Lugar's visit to Georgia in August 1998. 
   Lugar was also in Georgia last August when he broke ground for the new Central Pathogen Storage Facility in Tbilisi. The facility will secure dangerous pathogens that were used in former Soviet Union bio-weapons programs, and now, under the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, are part of joint international scientific research. 
   "Georgia's Center for Disease Control scientists, in partnership with U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID), including personnel from Walter Reed Hospital, and other international scientists, are making significant contributions to public health and disease surveillance. This is a shining example of international cooperation advancing science and improving the quality of life," Lugar said then. 
   Georgia has several endemic diseases that will be the focus of the research and prevention work, including tularemia, anthrax, visceral leishmaniasis, tick-borne encephalitis and West Nile. Work has also been done on reducing food-borne illnesses. 
   In August, Lugar also visited the Institute of Radiobiology, where the United States has secured radioactive materials that could have been used to make "dirty bombs." Georgia also had enriched uranium that was removed by the 1998 Nunn-Lugar Operation Auburn Endeavor. The Nunn-Lugar secure storage facility is now being constructed on the same site. 
   Lugar also met with security and legislative leaders involved in the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   "To combat the WMD threat in the former Soviet Union, our country has implemented the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. Since enactment in late 1991, Nunn-Lugar has devoted American technical expertise and money for joint efforts to safeguard and destroy materials and weapons of mass destruction," Lugar said. 
   To date, the weapons systems deactivated or destroyed by the United States under these programs include: 6,312 nuclear warheads; 537 ICBMs; 459 ICBM silos; 11 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 128 bombers; 708 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 408 submarine missile launchers; 496 submarine launched missiles; 27 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   More information at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.html.
 
 