SENATE PASSES TSUNAMI RESOLUTION
  The U.S. Senate has unanimously approved Senate Resolution 4, "expressing the sympathy and pledging the support of the United States Senate and the people of the United States for the victims of the powerful earthquake and devastating Tsunami" that struck the Indian Ocean and West Pacific on December 26, 2004.  
   The resolution was drafted by U.S. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (D-TN), Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV), Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar, and Foreign Relations Committee Ranking Member Joe Biden (D-DE). 
   Lugar made the following statement: 
   "The tidal waves (tsunamis) that traversed the Indian Ocean and the Western Pacific on December 26th have caused death and destruction in at least 12 countries, particularly India, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Thailand. The tsunami disaster constitutes a humanitarian tragedy of incredible proportions. Currently, experts estimate that more than 150,000 people have perished and countless people are injured. Millions are homeless and at risk from disease. These tragic numbers are expected to rise as we obtain additional information. 
   "The United States is a compassionate country that will respond generously to this human catastrophe. Under the leadership of President Bush, the agencies and resources of the United States government have been mobilized to assist in the initial humanitarian effort. In addition, innumerable individual Americans and U.S. businesses have donated millions of dollars directly to international relief efforts. As the world leader in international disaster assistance, the United States must work closely with the international community to implement the most effective response possible in the coming weeks and months. 
   "Beyond the compelling humanitarian reasons for swift action, a stable and prosperous Asia is essential to the global effort on a range of shared problems, including weapons proliferation, terrorism, narcotics, and contagious diseases. The worldwide economic and political consequences of this natural disaster could be even more severe unless we commit ourselves to advancing a strong recovery in the region. 
   "This resolution explains the gravity of the situation, offers condolences to the victims and their loved ones, and sets the stage for Congress to make additional appropriations that will aid in the recovery. Congress must work with the President for a generous supplemental appropriation that goes well beyond the amounts of money already committed. 
   "A summit pledging conference is scheduled to occur in Jakarta, Indonesia on Thursday. The United States should be there in a leadership position. This will be an important opportunity to work with the world community in responding to this tragedy. American humanitarian, diplomatic, and national security interests will be deeply affected by the outcome of this conference. 
   "My heart goes out to the victims of this tragedy. While financial and in-kind assistance cannot replace the huge loss of life that countries in the region have suffered, the United States' contribution will, at least, help the survivors rebuild their lives."
 
 