SEN. LUGAR RECEIVES PAUL SIMON AWARD
  Sen. Dick Lugar was recognized recently for his work promoting foreign languages and international education with the Paul Simon Award for the Promotion of Language and International Studies by the Awards Committee of the Central States Conference on the Teaching of Foreign Languages. The award was presented to Lugar yesterday by Dr. Christopher Luke, Assistant Professor of Foreign Language Education at Ball State University and member of the Indiana Foreign Language Teachers Association.  
   The Paul Simon Award was established in 1982 and first awarded in 1983. The award is presented annually to an individual or group outside the language teaching profession who demonstrates leadership, dedication and enthusiasm for language learning and international studies thereby contributing to the cause of world peace. 
   "As a Rhodes Scholar, I had the opportunity to discover international education at Pembroke College - my first trip outside of the United States. The parameters of my imagination expanded enormously during that time, as I gained a sense of how large the world was, how many talented people there were, and how many opportunities one could embrace. 
   "Student exchange programs do more than benefit individual scholars and advance human knowledge. Such programs expand ties between nations, improve international commerce, encourage cooperative solutions to global problems, prevent war, and give participants a chance to develop a sense of global service and responsibility," said Lugar. 
   Lugar has advocated international education as a sign of national pride and humility, a building block of foreign policy and a source of national power. In the current Congress, he is the lead sponsor S.377, to establish a United States-Poland Parliamentary Youth Exchange Program. Lugar's bill was approved by the Senate in March and awaits action by the House of Representatives. 
   After September 11, 2001, Lugar and Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA) introduced legislation to establish the Cultural Bridges program and provide scholarships for high school students from countries with significant Muslim populations. The State Department established the YES program in October 2002 as a result. 
   Lugar also authored the legislation that established the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange, which provides 250 full scholarships annually for American high school students to live with a host family and attend school in Germany for a year. Since 1983, almost 15,000 young people have participated in this fully funded scholarship program.
 
 