SEN. LUGAR MEETS WITH EXCHANGE STUDENT BATTLING CANCER
  Sen. Dick Lugar today met with Islambek "Bek" Tolegontegin, a 2006/2007 Future Leaders Exchange (FLEX) program student from Kyrgyzstan. Bek arrived in Muncie, Indiana in August 2006 to live with his host family, James and Sherry Stout.  
   Just one month after arriving, Bek was diagnosed with a severe form of lymphoma. He was taken to Riley Children's Hospital in Indianapolis, where he underwent extreme surgery and started chemotherapy. His doctors described his condition as "critical" and did not offer much hope for survival. 
   The Stout family responded with their full support for Bek and the U.S. State Department arranged for Bek's parents to travel from Kyrgyzstan to Indiana to be with their son. In November 2006, Bek made a remarkable turnaround and started to show improvement. In January, he was identified as "cancer free" and was allowed to go back to his host family's home and return to school. 
   Unfortunately, Bek's cancer recently returned. He underwent two rounds of chemotherapy, one in March and April, and is scheduled for an additional treatment this month. Following these three treatments, Bek is scheduled for a procedure similar to a bone marrow transplant except using stem cells taken from his own blood. The Stout family has continued their extraordinary support throughout the diagnosis and treatment and the State Department arranged again for Bek's mother to travel to Indiana. 
   In addition to the endless support provided by the Stout family, Carol Saval from the Aspect Foundation has conducted fundraisers and spent countless hours at the hospital with Bek. As the local Aspect representative, Carol is responsible for several exchange students in the area. According to its website, the Aspect Foundation is a non-profit organization providing affordable study-abroad opportunities to students from more than 50 countries. 
   Lugar has advocated for study abroad programs for more than twenty years. Yesterday, Lugar received the Paul Simon Award for the Promotion of Language and International Studies by the Awards Committee of the Central States Conference on the Teaching of Foreign Languages. The award was presented by Dr. Christopher Luke, Assistant Professor of Foreign Language Education at Ball State University and member of the Indiana Foreign Language Teachers Association.
 
 