SEN. LUGAR ANNOUNCES MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG SESSIONS
  Sen. Dick Lugar's office is joining with AARP Indiana to educate Hoosiers about prescription drug coverage plans through Medicare. 
   Beginning in 2006, all 880,545 Medicare beneficiaries living in Indiana will be eligible for prescription drug coverage through a Medicare-approved plan. In exchange for an average monthly premium of about $32, individuals who are now paying the full retail price for prescription drugs will be able to cut their drug costs roughly in half. Low-income individuals will receive additional protections.
   The prescription plan is voluntary. Many Medicare beneficiaries already have prescription coverage equal to or better than the coverage offered under the new prescription drug program. These individuals will be allowed to retain their current policies without change. However, Medicare beneficiaries with limited or no prescription coverage currently will have the opportunity to choose from a variety of plans to determine what best meets their needs.
   Medicare beneficiaries in Indiana who choose a stand-alone plan can get coverage for as little as $12.30 a month. Many plans in Indiana will also offer coverage with reduced or no deductible. Other plans will offer coverage that goes beyond Medicare's coverage limits.
   Those wishing to enroll in a Medicare program must sign-up between November 15, 2005 and May 15, 2006 to avoid paying a penalty.
   Personalized information is available at the Medicare website: http://www.Medicare.gov or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). The Indiana Senior Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP) is also available to provide guidance at 1-800-452-4800.
   Information sessions on the new Medicare prescription drug program will be hosted by Lugar's office and AARP Indiana. Registration is not required to attend these sessions. For questions please contact Bill Gibson in Senator Lugar's Indianapolis office at 317-226-5555.
   Table omitted (The document may be viewed at: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=248315)
 
 