GRANTS MADE TO INDIANA FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified today that three Indiana communities will receive firefighter assistance grants totaling $199,656 from the Department of Homeland Security for training programs and modifications to stations and equipment.  
   The awards are among grants made to fire departments throughout the U.S. announced this week in the twentieth round of the 2004 Assistance to Firefighter Grant program. 
   "Local fire departments are the backbone of many of our Indiana communities," said Lugar. "Additionally, they also fill an invaluable first responder role. It is incumbent that we offer adequate support, equipment and training to these brave men and women." 
   For the 2004 program, $750 million was appropriated to provide direct assistance to firefighters to improve the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. 
   Applicants had to demonstrate financial need and articulate the benefits to be derived from the grant funds in their applications. The application period was closed in April of this year. The Department of Homeland Security's Office for Domestic Preparedness received over 20,000 applications for assistance. 
   The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration (USFA), part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. 
   Communities receiving grants are: 
   Fire Department Name: North Judson Fire Dept.
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Federal Share: $44,933
  City: North Judson
   Fire Department Name: Atlanta Vol. Fire Dept.
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Federal Share: $45,674
  City: Atlanta
   Fire Department Name: Sugar Creek Fire Dept. Inc.
  Program Area: Operations and Firefighter Safety
  Federal Share: $109,049
  City: West Terre Haute
 
 