SEN. LUGAR COSPONSORS FIVE HEALTH BILLS
  Sen. Dick Lugar, a long-time supporter of health care legislation, recently cosponsored five health related bills: the Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act, the Prematurity Research and Expansion and Education for Mothers who Deliver Early (PREEMIE) Act, the Reconstructive Surgery Act, the Breast Cancer Environmental Act, and the Nurse Faculty Education Act. 
   The Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act:
   The Critical Access to Health Information Technology Act seeks to help Critical Access Hospitals (CAH) compete for health information technology. To qualify as a CAH, hospitals must be located in a rural area, provide 24 hour emergency care, be 35 miles from another hospital, and operate up to 25 beds for acute inpatient care.
   Because CAH hospitals are small and rural, they often do not have the resources that larger hospitals have to compete with larger health systems for available federal funding for information technology. This bill would provide CAH hospitals a competitive advantage.
   The Prematurity Research and Expansion and Education for Mothers who Deliver Early (PREEMIE) Act:
   The "PREEMIE Act" seeks to expand and coordinate research on the prevention of preterm birth and the most effective care for babies when they are born preterm.
   Nationally, more than 480,000 babies were born preterm in 2002, and prematurity is the leading cause of infant death in the first month of life. Nearly 13 percent of Indiana's infants are born preterm and in half of the cases, doctors cannot identify the cause. Reducing the number of premature births will improve the health of hundreds of thousands of infants born each year.
   In addition, the financial cost of caring for preterm infants is significant. The March of Dimes estimates that the national hospital bill for infants with a diagnosis of prematurity/low birthweight was $13.6 billion in 2001.
   Lugar co-sponsored similar legislation in the 108th Congress.
   The Reconstructive Surgery Act of 2005:
   The Reconstructive Surgery Act would require insurance companies to cover reconstructive surgeries that are necessary to treat craniofacial abnormalities. A common example in children is a cleft palate. A child born with a congenital abnormality like a cleft lip often faces both physical and psychological burdens.
   Breast Cancer Environmental Act:
   The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act would authorize the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences at the National Institute of Health to make grants to public or non-profit entities for the development of up to eight centers to conduct multidisciplinary and multi-institutional research on environmental factors that may relate to breast cancer.
   The Nurse Faculty Education Act:
   The Nurse Faculty Education Act addresses the lack of qualified nursing faculty, which contributes to the shortage of nurses.
   The bill creates a Nurse Faculty Education Program that would provide grants to schools of nursing to:
   * Provide support for hiring and retaining nursing faculty;
   * Increase enrollment and graduation rates from nursing doctoral programs; and
   * Assist graduates in serving as nursing faculty.
   In recognizing the shortage of qualifies nurses, Lugar included nursing in the 3rd Annnual Dick Lugar Job Fair earlier this year.
   Lugar has been a long-time supporter of expanded health coverage for children and healthy lifestyle overall. He continues to introduce legislation which addresses the three risk factors most responsible for premature deaths and much of our health care costs: poor diet, physical inactivity and tobacco usage.
   In addition to health legislation, Lugar and his wife Char are strong supporters of the March of Dimes, an organization committed to improving the health of babies by preventing birth defects, premature birth and infant mortality.
 
 