FREE FLOW OF INFORMATION ACT CLEARS COMMITTEE
  The U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee today passed the Free Flow of Information Act, S. 2035, by a vote of 15 to 2. The Act seeks to protect the public's right to information through a free press.  
  This bipartisan, compromise legislation is supported by U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar, Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-PA), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Chris Dodd (D-CT), Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC). The bill now awaits Senate floor action.
  U.S. Reps. Rick Boucher (D-VA) and Mike Pence (R-IN) introduced similar legislation in the House of Representatives and it cleared the House Judiciary Committee on August 1, 2007.
  "This legislation confirms America's Constitutional commitment to press freedom and advances our foreign policy initiatives to promote and protect democracy," Lugar said. "We must lead by example and the role of the media as a conduit between government and the citizens it serves cannot be devalued."
  "This committee bill makes some modifications to the earlier legislation introduced in the House by Congressman Mike Pence, and Senator Chris Dodd and myself in the Senate. Bills are moving forward in both houses and I am grateful for the continued progress addressing this important issue," Lugar added.
  The bill would set national standards that must be met before a federal entity may issue a subpoena to a member of the news media in any federal criminal or civil case. It would set out certain tests that civil litigants or prosecutors must meet before they can force a journalist to turn over information. For example, litigants or prosecutors must show, that they have tried unsuccessfully to get the information in other ways and that the information is essential to the case. These standards were based on Justice Department guidelines and common law standards.
  Additional protections are included to ensure that information will be disclosed in cases where it is needed to prevent a terrorist attack, significant harm to our national security, death, kidnapping, or substantial bodily harm. Journalists who witness crimes also cannot refuse to share their eyewitness observations.
  By providing the courts with a framework for compelled disclosure, the legislation would promote greater transparency of government, maintain the ability of the courts to operate effectively and protect whistleblowers who identify government or corporate misdeeds.
 
 