INDIANA COMMUNITIES RECEIVE $8.4 MILLION IN HUD GRANTS
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar was notified that many Hoosier communities and organizations have been awarded $8,406,822.76 in U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development grants. 
  "As a former mayor and also as the former Chairman of the Housing Subcommittee, I recognize the value of federal housing programs and the need of many Americans for housing assistance," said Lugar. "These funds will help ensure Hoosiers have the opportunity to live in and purchase safe, decent, affordable housing in economically stable communities." 
  Hoosier organizations will receive $461,481.76 under HUD's Housing Counseling Program. The program supports the delivery of a wide variety of housing counseling services to homebuyers, homeowner, low-to moderate-income renters, and the homeless. The primary objectives of the program are to expand homeownership opportunities and improve access to affordable housing. Counselors provide guidance and advice to help families and individuals improve their housing conditions and meet the responsibilities of tenancy and homeownership. Counselors also help borrowers avoid inflated appraisals, unreasonably high interest rates, unaffordable repayment terms, and other conditions, which can result in a loss of equity, increased debt, default, and eventually foreclosure. 
  HUD Housing Counseling Program grant recipients are:
   Table omitted (The document can be viewed at: http://lugar.senate.gov/press/record.cfm?id=285045&&year=2007&)
   Additionally, Hoosier communities will receive $7,945,341 under the following programs:
  The American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households. 
  The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program provides annual grants to states and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low and moderate income persons.
  The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low and very low income families by providing grants to states and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. 
  The HOME, CDBG, and ADDI recipients are:
   Table omitted (The document can be viewed at: http://lugar.senate.gov/press/record.cfm?id=285045&&year=2007&)
   Please contact the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development at 202-275-9212 for more information regarding these grants. Questions regarding the grants process in general may be directed to Kim Preston, Grants Coordinator for Senator Lugar, by phone at 202-224-4814 or by email at grants@lugar.senate.gov
 
 