ELEVATING IRAQ DEBATE: CONGRESS, LIKE PRESIDENT, MUST SPEAK WITH CREDIBILITY ABOUT IRAQ
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar has commenced a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." The letters will be made public on Lugar's website at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq. 
   The first letter, dated December 2, is below: 
   Dear Colleague: 
   As Congress continues to debate policy options in Iraq, I believe that we have a responsibility to thoroughly examine information that is available related to the security, economic, and political conditions in that country. Some debate that has occurred both inside and outside of Congress has not been well informed or has failed to acknowledge the complexities that we face as we try to achieve stability in Iraq. 
   Congress, like the President, must speak with credibility about Iraq. Public confidence in our decision-making depends on the rigorousness of our research on Iraq and our understanding of the nuances of the policy choices before us. Even as we urge Administration officials to be forthcoming with accurate and complete information on Iraq, we have an obligation to absorb the information they provide and seek out as many other knowledgeable sources as possible. The quality of Congressional debate has an impact on events in Iraq and our prospects for success. It is followed closely by our coalition allies, our enemies, our troops, and the Iraqi people. We should continually strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse. 
   Making an extra effort to educate ourselves on conditions and events in Iraq is particularly important during this time of year, when we will be out of session for several weeks and, therefore, more remote from daily sources of information. 
   With this in mind, I wanted to call your attention to the attached report produced by the Brookings Institution. The Iraq Indexprovides a broad spectrum of data on innumerable security, economic, and political factors affecting the situation on the ground in Iraq. I believe that all Members would benefit from a careful review of the details presented in this report. 
   The Iraq Index, overseen and frequently updated at the Brookings Institution by Michael E. O'Hanlon and Nina Kamp, draws on U.S. government reports, as well as other sources. It provides both an excellent snapshot of current conditions in Iraq, and month-by-month comparisons of many important indicators that have received little attention. The report, which was updated on November 28, can be found on the Brookings website at www.brookings.edu/fp/saban/iraq/index.htm. 
   I hope that you find this resource useful.
 
 