SEN. LUGAR, INDIANA STATE TEACHER ASSOCIATION COLLECTING FAVORITE TEACHER MEMORIES ON WEBSITE
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar and the Indiana State Teacher Association (ISTA) have started a web-based initiative to recognize teachers and celebrate their vital role in preparing our future leaders. 
  The Favorite Teacher Memories project already hosts a video of Lugar discussing one of his favorite teachers. ISTA President Nate Schnellenberger, Vice President Teresa Meredith and Treasurer Kathy Parks also have submitted videos of their favorite teachers.
  "My school board experience helped to form my views on education and has given me a deep respect for the work of schoolteachers and administrators. These are jobs that continue to be under compensated and often under appreciated," Lugar said. "Teachers are enormously influential in a student's life. Every one of us can look back and remember one or several teachers who have changed our lives for the better. It is exciting to be able to share some of these stories."
  "I am so pleased to be able to share a story of one of many teachers who have had a tremendous impact on my life. I am grateful for the opportunity to celebrate the influence of teachers in my life," ISTA Vice President Teresa Meredith said.
  In an effort to honor those who teach and to encourage those considering the teaching profession, Lugar and ISTA are seeking stories from Hoosiers about their most memorable teachers - regardless of whether it is a classroom teacher, parent, coach, or friend. These memories can be videos or short essays and will be posted online with the Lugar and ISTA videos.
  For more information on the project and how to submit a memory, please visit http://lugar.senate.gov/teacher/.
  Lugar's website also includes an extensive section of education resources through EducateIndiana. This section of the website offers information on education issues including drop-out prevention and adult education, higher education issues including financial aid assistance, and education resources for students, parents, teachers, and administrators. In addition, Lugar highlights success stories from schools across the state. For more information or to suggest content, visit http://lugar.senate.gov/educateindiana/.
 
 