TOYOTA TO RAMP UP MANUFACTURING IN INDIANA
  Sen. Dick Lugar confirmed that Toyota Motor Company officials plan to manufacture vehicles at the SIA factory in Lafayette.  
   "Toyota and Fuji Heavy Industries officials have met and plan to move forward on utilizing the Lafayette, Indiana SIA facility to manufacture Toyota vehicles. While the plan is subject to further negotiations between the companies, as well as with the State of Indiana, this is good news and a testimony to Hoosier workers," said Lugar. 
   No decision has been finalized on which vehicle(s) will be manufactured in Lafayette. 
   Lugar first received details that Toyota production might occur in the Lafayette plant in a meeting in Washington, DC, on Thursday, November 17 with Toyota officials. At the time, Toyota officials noted the unused capacity at the Lafayette plant and the skilled workforce in Indiana as important factors in a possible future decision to expand manufacturing in Indiana. Lugar, an owner of a 2005 Toyota Prius, again expressed his hope that the Prius might be produced in Indiana. 
   As Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Lugar shepherded passage of the Japan Tax Treaty through the U.S. Senate in early 2004. The previous tax treaty between the two countries took effect in January 1973 and posed two main problems: the tax rates allowed were high relative to more recent treaties and it did not account for some changes in the 1986 U.S. tax reform bill. 
   At the time of Senate passage on March 10, 2004, Lugar said, "The Japan Tax Treaty is particularly significant due to our expansive trade and investment relationship with Japan. The United States and Japan are the two largest economies in the world, and account for approximately 40 percent of the world's gross domestic product. Japan is the fourth largest source of imports to the United States and the third largest export market for U.S. goods. The treaty, signed on November 6, 2003, by Treasury Secretary Snow and Japanese Ambassador Kato, will improve the ability of U.S. businesses to expand and prosper in Japan. It also will continue to encourage Japanese investment in the U.S. that contributes to the growth of our economy."
 
 