USDA AWARDS 2 INDIANA PROJECTS DISTANCE LEARNING, TELEMEDICINE GRANTS
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified that two Indiana projects were included in the Distance Learning and Telemedicine grants awarded today by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. St. Vincent Health will receive $205,706 and the Southern DuBois County School Corporation LEA for Southern Indiana Education Center, will receive $389,599.  
   Of the 79 projects selected, 35 provide funding for medical service improvements and 44 promote educational opportunities. The grants will provide improved educational and medical services to residents of 46 states and total over $29.4 million. 
   The Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program is designed to enhance educational and health care services in rural America. This year 227 grant applications were received and 162 were found to meet program eligibility requirements. The 79 successful applicants were selected from that list. During the past five years, USDA's Rural Development has invested over $4.6 billion in telecommunications programs across America. 
   USDA Rural Development's mission is to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life in rural communities. As a venture capital entity, Rural Development has invested over $63 billion since the beginning of the Bush Administration to provide equity and technical assistance to finance and foster growth in homeownership, business development, and critical community and technology infrastructure. Over 1.1 million jobs have been created or saved through these investments. Further information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA's web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov. 
   Lugar staff is participating in a working group to study telemedicine and ways to improve access in Indiana. 
   The U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development and Lieutenant Governor Becky Skillman's Indiana Office of Rural Affairs will host a workshop on broadband access in Indiana on Tuesday, December 13 from 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the Holiday Inn-Airport, located at 2501 South High School Road in Indianapolis. The workshop will provide information on how to apply for the Rural Broadband Access Loan and Loan Guarantee Program, the Community Connect Grant Program, and the Distance Learning/Telemedicine Loan and Grant Program. The workshop is FREE, but space is limited and participants are encouraged to register prior to the workshop.
 
 