SEN. LUGAR WANTS $100 MILLION NUNN-LUGAR BUDGET INCREASE
  Sen. Dick Lugar will offer amendments to this year's U.S. Defense authorization and appropriations bills to increase by $100 million Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program funds in response to the threat of biological weapons. 
   "While the Nunn-Lugar Program has established an outstanding record of success in this area, the Department of Defense's budget request for fiscal year 2008 is insufficient to take advantage of the nonproliferation opportunities available today," Lugar said. "Adding $100 million to the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program budget is necessary to expand ongoing efforts to respond to the threat posed by the proliferation of human and animal biological pathogens and syndromes. In the absence of a substantial funding increase, important nonproliferation will go unfunded and dangerous pathogens could be left unprotected and vulnerable to theft or diversion.  
   "Last August I visited Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Albania and observed important progress in Nunn-Lugar programs to combat nuclear, biological and chemical terrorism. I was particularly encouraged to hear the leaders of these countries describe the Nunn-Lugar partnership against weapons of mass destruction as a vital element of the global war on terrorism and a cornerstone of our relations," Lugar said. 
   "Biological threat reduction programs, which I helped launch during earlier visits to Eurasia, are consolidating and securing dangerous pathogens and building capacity for early warning and containment of biological attacks and potential pandemics. Through this program Georgia and Azerbaijan have provided our Department of Defense laboratories unique pathogen strains of much value to our biodefense. 
   "Pentagon funding constraints, especially in fiscal year 2008, hamper our urgent effort to combat bioterrorism in Central Asia and the Caucasus. Insufficient funding has prevented the timely expansion of this program to other important countries like Armenia and Ukraine," Lugar said. 
   "The U.S. will be unable to ensure that some pathogens are safeguarded and secured because of the deficiency in this year's budget request. These pathogens include: anthrax, plague, hemorrhagic fever, avian influenza, glanders, and encephalitis. In addition, we are forfeiting the opportunity to strengthen international early warning capabilities for detecting biological attacks and pandemics. 
   "It is in U.S. national security interests to improve the security around these deadly diseases, but it is also in our interests to assist these governments in becoming a more effective partner in stopping the spread of pandemics, detecting their sources and identifying a response. We have learned from our experiences battling avian influenza that we must work closely with other countries to succeed in protecting the people of the United States," Lugar said. 
   "The Nunn-Lugar Program is an integral part of President Bush's National Policy for Biodefense, the National Security Strategy and the National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction by engaging in proactive prevention, early warning, bio-security and threat reduction with international partners. The Nunn-Lugar Program plans to build Central Reference Laboratories in each of these countries. Each lab will provide safe and secure storage for pathogen strains that are currently stored in facilities around the countries. In addition, the labs would become a national hub to enhance global disease surveillance that strengthens early warning capacity for biological attacks and potential pandemics. The Pentagon's plan would support the central labs with a network of Epidemiological Monitoring Stations that provide disease surveillance, investigation and analysis. The monitoring stations, in turn, are supported by smaller Sentinel Stations that provide local disease reporting and transportation capabilities. This is a win-win for the United States: Not only do we safeguard dangerous pathogens and diseases but we expand U.S. strategic partnerships in this critically important area. 
   "Unfortunately funding constraints are delaying implementation of a host of projects. In fact, work has not started on central labs in four out of the five countries prepared to cooperate with the U.S. Funding shortfalls have also denied us the opportunity to move forward with other states, including Kyrgyzstan, Armenia, Tajikistan, Moldova, and Turkmenistan. Projects in these states have been shelved awaiting additional funds," Lugar said. 
   "To its credit, the Pentagon's long-range spending plans include major funding increases for biological threat reduction programs in the future. In fact, reports suggest the Department of Defense will request funding for these efforts will increase annually through 2013. While this is a step in the right direction, it is too little, too late. By adding funds to the fiscal year 2008 budget we can significantly increase our efforts in this area, speed up timelines dramatically and permit such cooperative efforts to proceed. Specifically, additional funds this year will permit the Nunn-Lugar Program to commence construction of Central Reference Laboratories in Ukraine and Azerbaijan two years ahead of current projections. In Kazakhstan, completion of a central lab and the supporting network will come online some three years ahead of schedule. Lastly, pathogen security upgrades and scientific engagement programs will start in Armenia and Moldova; whereas right now, current Pentagon budget plans have not even identified target dates to start cooperation," Lugar said. 
   "There are dangerous consequences in delaying these projects. A large number of biological pathogens and disease strains in these countries remain scattered in various locations, often with poor safety and security. With additional funds, Nunn-Lugar will be able to quickly consolidate strain collections in safe and secure storage. Epidemiological monitoring systems focused on disease and pandemic detection and response will reach full operating capability, on average, two years earlier than current budget levels permit. In addition, these funds will permit us to commence the establishment of these same programs in five additional countries. 
   "The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is the number one national security threat facing the United States today. We cannot afford to shortchange important threat reduction programs. My amendment is not a silver bullet to counter every biological threat, but it takes a big step in the right direction. As a Congress we will need to maintain close oversight to ensure that the Nunn-Lugar Program and its partner efforts at the State and Energy Departments do not become pennywise and pound-foolish. $100 million is a small price to pay compared to the economic costs and deaths that could result from a biological weapons attack, pathogen outbreak or disease pandemic," Lugar said. 
   More information about Nunn-Lugar is available at: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.
 
 