SENS. LUGAR, BIDEN EMERGENCY RESPONSE CORPS INITIATIVE INCLUDED IN ADMINISTRATION'S FY 2009 STATE DEPARTMENT BUDGET REQUEST
  A legislative initiative introduced by Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) and Ranking Member Richard Lugar (R-IN) to improve the U.S.'s capacity to undertake stabilization and reconstruction missions in war-torn countries is part of President Bush's FY 2009 State Department budget request. The Lugar-Biden initiative, which passed during the last session of Congress, seeks to establish a corps of active duty and reserve civilian personnel capable of deploying rapidly to address post-conflict needs and humanitarian crises. This week, President Bush proposed spending $248 million and adding 250 new civilian positions to implement their proposal by creating a Civilian Stabilization Program to assist in stabilizing post-conflict countries. 
  Senators Biden and Lugar applauded the Administration's decision to include funding for the initiative in its FY 2009 budget request:
  "It makes no sense to reinvent the wheel every time there is a crisis or conflict - we need a standing corps of civilian experts who can help get a government, a police force, a judiciary up and running in the wake of a war or an emergency," said Sen. Biden, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "This is a mission for the State Department to manage, not the Pentagon to get stuck with as an afterthought. And it's a mission Americans will sign up for. If we keep making a mess of the 'day after' we'll wind up with more failed states and more threats to our security."
   "International crises are inevitable, and in most cases, U.S. national security interests will be threatened by sustained instability. The war on terrorism necessitates that we not leave nations crumbling and ungoverned. We have already seen how terrorists can exploit nations afflicted by lawlessness and desperate circumstances. They seek out such places to establish training camps, recruit new members, and tap into a global black market in weapons," said Sen. Dick Lugar, who welcomed the budget request and co-sponsored the bill with Sen. Biden.
  The President's FY 2009 budget request still requires Congressional approval.
 
 