SEN. LUGAR CALLS FOR INDIANA LEADERSHIP IN AUTOMOBILE INNOVATION
  Sen. Dick Lugar has called on Indiana to become "the 'Silicon Valley' for the automobile of the future."
   "If, as many experts believe, the U.S. auto industry must transform itself, Indiana can play an important role at the center of the re-invention of the American-made car," Lugar wrote today in an Indianapolis Star op-ed. 
   "Currently, the U.S. passenger car fleet averages 22.4 miles per gallon, while popular SUVs, vans and pickup trucks average only 16.2 mpg. Even utilizing all the available technologies, fuel efficiency could not be improved enough to affordably maintain our standards of transportation and to reverse our growing dependence on foreign energy.
   "Crude oil prices have more than doubled in recent months and prospects are that prices will remain high. Supply is limited while demand is increasing in wealthy countries and even faster in developing countries, especially China and India. We import 60 percent of our oil. As President Bush said last week, 'America is addicted to oil.'
   "Clearly, we need breakthrough ideas to bring about truly dramatic increases in fuel economy and to end our over-reliance on foreign fuel. Where will these ideas come from? Why not Indiana as the great car and advanced car component innovator? I propose Indiana as the "Silicon Valley" for the automobile of the future," Lugar wrote.
   "Imagine: why not another race at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway to test not whose car can go fastest, but whose can go farthest on a small amount of fuel? Why shouldn't Indiana, a major agricultural state, be the birthplace of the car that runs best on biomass ethanol? Why can't Hoosiers take advantage of the research already underway in our state to pioneer a new generation of light, high-capacity batteries, or a car chassis that slashes weight without compromising safety?"
   Lugar noted that the Indianapolis Motor Speedway started a century ago as an automotive testing ground and "has fostered innovation, from the rear-view mirror to pure-ethanol fuel" which will power the car at next year's Indy 500 race. He wrote that Indiana has been a leader in automotive innovation since Elwood Haynes built one of the first gasoline cars in Kokomo in 1894.
   "We have legions of companies big and small that build engines, parts and electronic components--including two-thirds of the nation's diesel engines and 20 percent of its transmissions. We have cutting edge research at Purdue's School of Engineering and Technology, Rose-Hulman and numerous other Indiana universities. Electricore, a non-profit consortium formed in 1993 by parts maker Delco Remy, electric car innovator AeroVironment, GM's Allison Transmission division, and Purdue, has managed $150 million in development projects. The gas-electric hybrid technology has strong roots in Indiana," Lugar wrote in today's Indianapolis Star.
   "'Silicon Valley' in California had a critical mass of companies, spin-offs and venture capitalists to become the heart of the computer boom. I believe Indiana has the critical mass of large and small companies, innovative entrepreneurs, and automotive venture capital to lead a new auto tech boom. Indiana's high-tech jobs of the future may be designing and building the world's most efficient automobiles.
   "Silicon Valley had one other ingredient: businessmen and engineers with vision and verve. The Henry Fords, Thomas Edisons and Wright brothers of our times could easily be living, working and experimenting in Indiana if Hoosiers apply similar gusto to this challenge," Lugar wrote. "I believe that Indiana, the Crossroads of America, has the potential to break away and lead the pack."
   A decade ago, Lugar began pushing for a national biomass ethanol research program. Witnesses at Agriculture Committee hearings he chaired from 1996 to 1999 said this would be the most efficient method to produce ethanol. In 1999, Lugar and former CIA Director James Woolsey co-authored a seminal article that linked foreign policy and the high cost of securing the flow of imported oil with the development of homegrown ethanol derived from any form of cellulose ("The New Petroleum," Foreign Affairs). Lugar then authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research.
   In 2005, Lugar led 21 bipartisan Senators in introducing the Fuels Security Act to more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. This legislation laid the groundwork for the renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed Congress in July 2005. Lugar also joined with Sens. Barack Obama (D-IL) and Tom Harkin (D-IA) in introducing the Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as Flexible Fuel Vehicles (FFVs) within ten years. FFVs can use both regular gasoline and E-85 renewable fuel (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content).
   On the web: Senator Lugar's energy web page: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy
   Op-ed at http://www.indystar.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20060205/OPINION01/602050380/-1/ARCHIVE
 
 