SEN. LUGAR CALLS FOR ENERGY LEADERSHIP TO BETTER WESTERN HEMISPHERE RELATIONS
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar attended a speech by President Bush today on Western Hemisphere policy. Following the speech, Lugar encouraged Bush and Latin American leaders to use the new energy realism to better hemispheric relations.  
   "When President Bush meets this month with Brazilian President Luiz In?cio Lula da Silva they will have an unprecedented opportunity to join in a strategic hemispheric partnership that would at once tackle two of the hemisphere's biggest challenges: energy insecurity and poverty. The pair could spearhead a drive to spread biofuels development widely and deeply throughout the region," Lugar said. 
   "Presidents Bush and da Silva should expand and energize the initiative by launching a joint program of investment, training and research to build biofuels production capabilities throughout the region and the world," Lugar and Secretary General of the Organization of American States José Miguel Insulza wrote in a Miami Herald op-ed on February 26. 
   "Grants and loans from regional development banks could be used to assess the suitability of biofuels on a country-by-country basis. Investments and loans from the U.S., Brazil and other interested governments, as well as private-sector sources, could perfect cellulosic technology, train farmers in biomass crops and build biofuel production facilities and distribution systems. Sen. Lugar will soon introduce legislation in the U.S. Senate to initiate this proposal. 
   "Such an investment program could, in short order, create a thriving Western Hemisphere biofuels marketplace that would alleviate poverty, create jobs and increase income, improve energy security, strengthen nations' independence, and protect the environment. If implemented vigorously and expansively, this partnership would signal a transformational change in U.S. policy on Latin America, a true collaboration between north and south on an economic and security strategy that would benefit all," they wrote. 
   The problems of petroleum dependence and the potential for biofuels will be highlighted at the June meeting of the Organization of American States' General Assembly in Panama. The primary focus will be energy, including the search for sustainable solutions for its production and use. 
   For more information: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy.
 
 