SEN. LUGAR RE-ENERGIZES VETERANS PROJECT MEDIA CAMPAIGN
  This November, Sen. Dick Lugar will re-energize his public awareness campaign to encourage Hoosiers to participate in the Veterans History Project by re-launching newly edited Public Services Announcements Lugar and his partners originally released last year. Those spots helped to generate more than 1,900 new submissions since their release last Veterans Day.  
   The campaign will build on nearly three years of work already completed to collect and archive the oral histories of Hoosier veterans. In Indiana, Lugar has gathered more than 4,200 interviews for the national project. 
   As part of this initiative, Lugar has teamed with AARP Indiana and the University of Indianapolis Center for Aging & Community, two of the more than 210 partners statewide, to re-release television and radio public service announcements. The new television spots will be available to Indiana media via satellite feed on November 15. For stations that cannot receive the feed, beta copy tapes are available. 
   "Since 2002, we have worked hard to find Hoosier veterans who want to share their story with the nation and have their personal remembrances recorded and saved forever," said Lugar, who served in the U.S. Navy from 1957-1960. "It is my hope that continuing with this public awareness campaign, we will find even more veterans who wish to participate in the project. The involvement of the Library of Congress assures participants that their contributions will be preserved in perpetuity and take a prominent place in our national archives." 
   The PSAs (three 30 second and one 60 second) all briefly describe the program and call on veterans who wish to participate to contact Lugar's office. 
   "Hopefully, TV and radio stations statewide will incorporate these PSAs into their schedule rotation," Lugar added. "Television and radio have a tremendous ability to educate their viewers and listeners and spread the message about this important project. Hoosiers have already demonstrated their willingness to step forward and participate; currently, Indiana has submitted more interviews to this collection than any other state." 
   TV stations interested in accessing the PSAs can download them on November 15 at 3:45 P.M. EST at Galaxy 3, Transponder 7 horizontal, 3840 downlink, C Band, Audio 6.2/6.8. Starting November 16, radio stations can access all four PSAs at http://lugar.senate.gov/press.html. 
   Veterans interested in participating can contact Lugar's office via email at vetproject@lugar.senate.gov or by phone at 317-226-5555. 
   The Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, with more than 120 million items on approximately 530 miles of bookshelves. The collections include more than 18 million books, 2.5 million recordings, 12 million photographs, 4.5 million maps, and 54 million manuscripts. The veterans histories collected as part of this program will be permanently archived by the Library of Congress and over time will be available for research and study.
 
 