SEN. LUGAR CONGRATULATES CRAWFORDSVILLE COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
  Sen. Dick Lugar today congratulated Crawfordsville Community School Corporation for receiving over $1 million in grants from the United States Department of Education. 
   Crawfordsville is one of only 24 recipients nationwide to submit a winning application to the Safe Schools/Healthy Students program. The grant is worth $953,195.
   The funds, part of a program started in 1999, are aimed to assist schools and communities with providing activities and services that promote healthy youth development and prevent violence and substance abuse. As is the case in Crawfordsville, the programs are often collaborative in nature and are designed to involve a wide-spectrum of the community.
   "I am happy to congratulate Crawfordsville for securing this extremely competitive grant that will help prevent substance abuse in young people," said Lugar.
   Crawfordsville will also receive $98,500 in funding under the Emergency Response and Crisis Management Program. This program provides local educational agencies with funds to improve and strengthen emergency response and crisis management plans, including training school personnel, students and parents in emergency response procedures and coordinating with local government, law enforcement, public safety, health, and mental health agencies.
   "Local officials are to be commended for their efforts to secure this funding," Lugar said. "The fact that Crawfordsville has won both these grants shows the tremendous level of community involvement and cooperation present in Crawfordsville.
   "I know first hand about the inspired work going on in the Crawfordsville Community School Corporation," Lugar added. "Last month, I met with Eileen Thompson, the physical education teacher at Joseph F. Tuttle Middle School. She was in Indianapolis to receive the Dick Lugar Health and Fitness Award. During our time together, I learned about the dramatic changes to the physical education curriculum at Tuttle Middle School, including the use of heart rate monitors and adaptive programs for disabled students."
   While the funding is only for fiscal year 2005, the grant is expected to run for three years.
 
 