POLISH YOUTH EXCHANGE BILL HEADS TO PRESIDENT
  The House of Representatives today approved legislation by U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar to establish a United States-Poland Parliamentary Youth Exchange Program. The Lugar bill, S.377, authorizes the Secretary of State, in cooperation with the government of Poland, to establish an exchange program for American and Polish secondary students under 19 years old who have been accepted for up to one academic year of study abroad in a credit-approved program. 
  The legislation was passed by the Senate in March and now heads to the President, who is expected to sign it into law. 
  "An exchange between the youth of the United States and Poland would demonstrate the benefits of friendly cooperation between our nations based on common political and cultural values and heighten the imagination of our students, of who they may become and where they may work in the future," said Lugar. 
  "As a Rhodes Scholar, I had the opportunity to discover international education at Pembroke College - my first trip outside of the United States. The parameters of my imagination expanded enormously during this time, as I gained a sense of how large the world was, how many talented people there were, and how many opportunities one could embrace. Student exchange programs do more than benefit individual scholars and advance human knowledge. Such programs expand ties between nations, improve international commerce, encourage cooperative solutions to global problems, prevent war, and give participants a chance to develop a sense of global service and responsibility," said Lugar. 
  The bill states that eligible participants shall: (1) live in and attend a public secondary school in the host country for one academic year; (2) undertake academic studies in the host country, with particular emphasis on the history, constitution, and political development of the host country; and (3) be eligible for an internship in the host country.
  Lugar and Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-IN) first introduced the youth exchange bill in the 109th Congress. 
  Lugar also authored the legislation that established the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange, which provides 250 full scholarships annually for American high school students to live with a host family and attend school in Germany for a year. 
  In July, Polish President Lech Kaczy?ski presented Lugar the Commanders' Cross with Star of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland in a ceremony at the Blair House in Washington, D.C. The Order of Merit is one of the most prestigious Polish awards presented to foreign citizens and Polish residents living abroad.
 
 