SEN. LUGAR MEETS WITH HOOSIER FIRE CHIEFS
  Sen. Dick Lugar visited today with 12 fire chiefs from Indiana who were in Washington, DC, to participate in the 18th Annual National Fire & Emergency Services Seminar and Dinner hosted by the Congressional Fire Services Institute. The event will gather approximately 3,000 fire chiefs from across the nation. 
   Included in the delegation was Chief James Greeson of the Indianapolis Fire Department. Greeson was hired more than thirty-years ago by then Mayor Lugar of Indianapolis.  
   Hoosier fire chiefs included: Larry W. Curl, Indianapolis, Former Fire Chief, Wayne Township and Administrator for Figherfighter Life Safety Initiatives Program; Tim Deckard, Bloomington, Fire Chief, Van Buren Township; James Greeson, Indianapolis, Fire Chief, Indianapolis Fire Department; Dale Henson, Indianapolis, Fire Chief, Decatur Township; CSM (ret.) Larry Ketchem, Montezuma, Vice President, Indiana Volunteer Firefighter's Association; L.E. "Buz" Koehler, Rensselaer, Chairman of the Board, Indiana Volunteer Firefighter's Association; Jerry A. Nulliner, Fishers, Division Chief, Fishers; Bill Newgent, Greencastle, Fire Chief, Greencastle; Charles Parker, Tell City, District 18 Chairman, Indiana Volunteer Firefighter's Association; Maurice "Mort" Sorg, Fort Wayne, District 7 Chairman, Indiana Volunteer Firefighter's Association; Carol Thrawley, Spiceland, District 13A Chairman, Indiana Volunteer Firefighter's Association; and Al Williamson, Clarksville, District 14 Chairman, Indiana Volunteer Firefighter's Association. 
   Individual photos of Lugar and the fire chiefs are available at: http://lugar.senate.gov/photos/hoosiers/firechiefs.html. 
   The Hoosier fire chiefs later visited with Lugar's staff to discuss the Assistance to Firefighters Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. This program provides federal grants directly to local fire departments and unaffiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organizations to help address a variety of equipment, training and other firefighter-related and EMS needs. In 2005, 149 fire grants worth $15.7 million were awarded to Indiana. The deadline for the latest round of fire grants is Friday, April 7. 
   More than 25 Hoosier fire departments and volunteer fire departments have contacted Lugar's office since mid-March to request information on the and ask for letters of support. Applications request fire trucks, personal protection equipment, pumpers (water trucks), oxygen tanks, and face masks, etc. 
   Applications are automated and accessible via the Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) website: http://www.firegrantsupport.com. This web site contains useful background information on the AFG program priorities and program guidance, as well as a tutorial on applying for each program and other useful materials. 
   Senator Lugar would like to support additional Hoosier grant applications. To take advantage of this opportunity, please send a letter to Senator Lugar from your department indicating your application for this program. Indicate your interest in obtaining support, along with a copy of your project narrative to the following address: 
   U.S. Senator Richard G. Lugar
  1180 Market Tower
  10 West Market Street
  Indianapolis, IN 46204
  Attn: Bob Healey
   In addition to the AFG, Senator Lugar's staff has information available on other programs that may benefit Indiana fire departments. Please contact the following members of Senator Lugar's staff for more information: 
   Bob Healey, (317) 226-5555, bob_healey@lugar.senate.gov
  Lane Ralph, (317) 226-5555, lane_ralph@lugar.senate.gov
   For additional grant information visit Senator Lugar's Grants webpage at: http://lugar.senate.gov/grantsinfo.cfm.
 
 