LIBRARY OF CONGRESS BOOK TOUR VISITS INDIANAPOLIS
  Sen. Dick Lugar will welcome the Library of Congress to Indianapolis on Friday, December 9, 2005 at 4:30 p.m. for a book tour to promote the Library's newest book on the Veterans History Project, "Forever a Soldier," edited by Tom Weiner, the Library's Veterans History Project Historian. Lugar will speak and Brigadier General J. Stewart Goodwin, Executive Director of the Indiana War Memorial, will emcee the event in the auditorium at the Indiana War Memorial in Indianapolis.  
   According to the Library, "Forever a Soldier: Unforgettable Stories of Wartime Service" was published by National Geographic Books in association with the Library on Nov. 11, 2005, Veterans Day. Wiener and several of the 37 veterans featured in the book will participate in the four-city book tour that includes Indianapolis in November and December. A book signing with the author will follow each program. All programs are free and open to the public. 
   "Forever a Soldier" is a compilation of personal narratives of wartime service from World War I through the current conflict in Iraq. Material includes letters, diaries, private memoirs and oral histories collected by the Veterans History Project. Each story is unique, but taken as a whole the compilation puts a familiar face on the universal realities of war: courage and fear, horror and exhilaration, sorrow and triumph. 
   Previous stops for the book tour included Chattanooga, Tennessee on November 16, Atlanta, Georgia on November 17. The book tour will visit Palm Coast, Florida on December 7. 
   Authorized by legislation passed by Congress, the Veterans History Project of the American Folklife Center is a nationwide volunteer effort to collect and preserve oral histories from America's war veterans. 
   Lugar joined with the Library of Congress in February 2002 and has submitted nearly 6,000 interviews to the collection on behalf of Indiana. These Hoosier histories number more than any other state and account for nearly 20 percent of the Library's entire Veterans History Project collection. The histories are permanently archived by the Library of Congress and over time will be available for research and study.
 
 