SENS. LUGAR, BAYH, REPS. CARSON, BURTON INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN BILL TO PREVENT MEDICATION ERRORS AT HOSPITALS
In a bipartisan effort to help prevent tragedies like the infant deaths at an Indianapolis hospital in September, Senators Richard Lugar along with Evan Bayh and Congresswoman Julia Carson and Congressman Dan Burton today introduced legislation requiring hospitals to report whether they have adopted safety measures designed to prevent such errors.  
 Known as the Hospital Quality Reporting Improvement Act in the Senate and the Medication Safety Act in the House, the legislation will direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to work with national health quality organizations to adopt new safety measures specifically designed to prevent medication errors. Once the new safety measures are adopted, hospitals would be required to report on whether they are meeting the new standards, with the results available to the public. Hospitals that fail to report would receive less federal reimbursement under Medicare. 
 "When it comes to providing quality health care, patient safety is absolutely paramount," Senator Bayh said. "This bill will provide both the resources and incentives to encourage hospitals to use the best technology available, helping prevent these costly and often tragic errors." 
 "The Institute of Medicine has estimated that medication errors injure at least 1.5 million Americans annually and cost our health care system more than $3.5 billion per year," said Senator Lugar. "While completely eliminating the problem of medication errors will require a multi-faceted approach, I believe our bill is a vital first step in helping to address this important issue." 
 "Increasing healthcare transparency is an important part of the effort to reduce preventable medical errors," Congresswoman Carson said. "Giving consumers access to information about which hospitals have adopted the safety measures in this bill will give the hospitals an even higher incentive to make error prevention a priority." 
 "It is always tragic when young children die, but it is unacceptable when their deaths could have been prevented," Congressman Burton said. "This bill not only works towards setting a uniform standard for hospitals across the country, but it also allows the American people to make better, more-informed healthcare choices." 
 The proposed legislation would build on quality control measures recently implemented as part of the Deficit Reduction Act. Their plan would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to work with national medical organizations to adopt new safety measures specifically designed to prevent medication errors. Possible safety measures could include: 
 * Electronic prescribing to prevent errors because pharmacy staff cannot read handwriting or dosage information; 
 * Bar coding of individual dosages with scanners that can compare the patient record with the drug to be administered both at the time order is filled in the pharmacy and at the patient bedside; 
 * Using smart IV infusion pumps that alert nurses if the dose exceeds hospital-established limits before infusion begins. 
 According to a recent report from the Institute of Medicine, medical errors injure at least 1.5 million Americans each year and cost our health system more than $3.5 billion per year. On average, a hospital patient is subject to at least one medication error each day, and many of these mistakes are preventable.
 
 