SEN. LUGAR ADDRESSES U.S-INDIA NUCLEAR COOPERATION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar gave the following prepared comments at a meeting with senior Indian policy makers and business leaders. The delegation was in Washington, DC, to participate in the "U.S. India Strategic Dialogue," a task force of the Aspen Strategy Group.  
   Our bilateral relationship has been dominated of late by discussion of a new "strategic partnership" between the two countries, but more particularly, by a discussion over one of the primary means or vehicles through which that strategic relationship is to be enshrined - namely, the Joint Statement regarding nuclear cooperation between the two countries. 
   That latter debate has not progressed very far on Capitol Hill. The Foreign Relations Committee has held one hearing involving Under Secretaries of State Nick Burns and Bob Joseph, as well as outside experts, and there have been a number of closed briefings at the staff level. The Committee will not likely return to the subject until February of next year, although Secretary Burns and I continue with our consultations. 
   Today, the debate is focused on the Indian Government's Civil-Military Separation Plan. The Committee understands that the Indian side is working hard on the elements of a plan to separate civil and military facilities and programs. The point that I want to emphasize is that this plan, firstly, must be credible; secondly, it must be transparent; and, lastly, it must be defensible from a non-proliferation standpoint. While the Bush Administration has, I think, been very clear in discussions with the Indian Government about its expectations, let me emphasize that any Indian plan will have to pass muster with the United States Congress. That should not be viewed as a threat, but rather as a political challenge that must be met. 
   The civil-military separation plan is the next hurdle to be surmounted in moving forward with the nuclear cooperation agreement. Looking ahead, there are several issues on which the Committee and subsequently the Congress will likely focus when discussing the civil-military separation plan. I would suggest that the Foreign Relations Committee will likely judge the efficacy of the Indian separation plan in terms of three key criteria: 
   1. Safeguards: The first criterion has to do with safeguards. The United States and other Parties to the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) can provide nuclear material and "trigger list" goods to civil nuclear facilities in India only if those facilities are subject to IAEA safeguards. Safeguards focus on tracking nuclear material, so all material exported to India and all material used in safeguarded nuclear facilities would have to be subject to IAEA safeguards. U.S. law requires safeguards to be maintained on nuclear material that the U.S. transfers to India or that is derived or produced from transferred material or equipment. 
   2. Non-Assistance: The second criterion has to do with non-assistance. The separation plan must ensure, and the safeguards must confirm, that U.S.-India civil nuclear cooperation does not in any way assist India in manufacturing nuclear weapons. This is consistent with U.S. obligations under the NPT and with U.S. law. 
   3. Transparency: The third criterion has to do with transparency. To win over the Nuclear Suppliers Group partners (NSG) and the Congress, it is my view that the Indian side must be willing to share a transparent separation plan. Why do I say that? Because an opaque or incomprehensible Indian separation plan would only raise more questions, particularly in the Congress, about India's intentions. Moreover, since the Nuclear Suppliers Group is a consensus body, all Members will have an interest in reviewing the proposed approach. 
   More generally, as a politician in the United States Senate charged with guiding this agreement through the legislative branch, I would urge the Indian side to think in maximalist terms and include as many facilities as possible within the scope of the civilian declaration. Conversely, a minimalist approach will likely only delay consideration of this initiative in the U.S. Congress and in the Nuclear Suppliers Group. Or, at worst, it could result in unfavorable action by one or both bodies. 
   Lastly, caution must be exercised by the Indian side in pursuing so-called "voluntary offer" safeguards, which are viewed by many in the Congress as inconsistent with the Administration's understanding of India's commitments in the Joint Statement. Under Secretary of State Bob Joseph has testified before the Committee that such an arrangement would be indefensible from a non-proliferation standpoint and would, in all likelihood, preclude support from the Nuclear Suppliers Group. 
   Let me conclude by noting that, in the Bush Administration's view, India's safeguard arrangements are supposed to conform to those in place in states other than the five NPT-recognized nuclear weapons states. However, because India has nuclear weapons, the Additional Protocol it negotiates with the IAEA will likely not conform to the Model Protocol that the U.S. is pressing non-nuclear weapons states to endorse. It seems to me that both the U.S. and the Indian governments must plan to consult with one another on the form and structure that these arrangements will take before, not after, the Congress is asked to place its imprimatur on the U.S-India nuclear cooperation agreement.
 
 