LETTER #5: ENCOURAGING IRAQ ECONOMIC NEWS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today sent the fifth letter in a series of letters to his fellow Members of Congress to "strive to elevate our debate by studying thoughtful sources of information and embracing civility in our discourse." Below is the text of the fifth letter. Each letter and any reports mentioned are available at http://lugar.senate.gov/iraq.
   I write to you again to share information about Iraq's economy. Attached is a short summary of a report from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that details the December 23, 2005, approval of a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) for Iraq that is the next step in Iraq's re-entry into the IMF and world economy. The first step was the Emergency Post-Conflict Agreement (EPCA) entered into in November 2004, which stipulated policy and performance goals for Iraq. The EPCA also allowed small IMF borrowings and led to the first tranche (30%) of debt forgiveness from the Paris Club. According to the Paris Club, Iraq has $120 billion of external debt, approximately $37 billion of which is held by Paris Club members.
   Although the SBA did not make headlines, it is a significant event in the economic recovery of Iraq. Although Iraq does not intend to draw funds from the IMF at this time, the SBA is a signal to the market that the country has put policies in place that support economic recovery and growth. Like the EPCA, this agreement is a condition of Paris Club debt reduction, 20% of which is to be forgiven this month. In general, countries enter into an SBA to provide more flexibility in future balance-of-payments transactions.
   Iraq Minister of Finance, Dr. Ali Allawi, and Governor of the Central Bank of Iraq, Dr. Sinan Shabibi detailed their economic strategy in their letter to the IMF requesting the SBA. Their goals are "to maintain macroeconomic stability while increasing our efforts to advance Iraq's transition to a market economy and establish the basis for sustainable growth in the medium term" as well as to reduce "subsidies on petroleum products and the expansion of the market that is now open to the private sector." We have witnessed already some of these price increases, which media reports have detailed along with protests spurred by those who benefited greatly from illicit activity.
   Additional details, including IMF-collected economic indicators, a staff report, and a memorandum detailing economic and fiscal policies that the government of Iraq intends to put in place this year are available on the IMF website (http://www.imf.gov).
   Finally, as we all wait for Iraq electoral results, I commend to you the Independent Electoral Commission Iraq's website (http://www.iecirag.org), where you can now view and download preliminary results.
   I hope you will find this information useful.
 
 