STATE DEPARTMENT TO ESTABLISH STABILIZATION, RECONSTRUCTION OFFICE
  The State Department announced that it will implement a key provision of the Stabilization and Reconstruction Civilian Management Act of 2004 introduced by U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar. 
   The bill, S. 2127, is aimed at establishing a more robust civilian capability to respond quickly and effectively to post-conflict situations or other complex emergencies. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee passed the bill by a 19-0 vote on March 4, 2004.
   As called for in the bill, the State Department will establish a new Office of Stabilization and Reconstruction headed by a Coordinator reporting directly to the Secretary of State.
   "This is a wise decision that will have far-reaching benefits for U.S. efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as future stabilization and reconstruction projects in which the United States may participate," said Lugar, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "It means that, as a country, we will have institutional memory, flexible plans, and people ready on short notice when we are confronted with post-conflict situations like Iraq, Afghanistan, Bosnia, Kosovo, or Haiti."
   Previously, the executive branch has cobbled together plans, people, and resources in an ad hoc fashion. The lack of an established office that is prepared for complex emergencies has increased burdens on the military, slowed reconstruction efforts, and made achieving stability more difficult.
   In addition to the establishment of a new office at the State Department, the Lugar legislation would create a civilian Response Readiness Force that includes an active duty Response Readiness Corps and a reserve component made up of volunteers from the foreign affairs agencies, the other civilian agencies of the U.S. government and from state and local governments and the private sector.
   "The State Department's initiative is an excellent first step toward solving the problems that S.2127 was intended to address, and I am looking forward to working with Secretary Powell as he stands up this new office," Lugar added. "I also will continue working with Senator Biden and other co-sponsors to pass S. 2127, which would further strengthen U.S. preparations for complex international emergencies."
 
 