SENATE MOVES TO APPROVAL OF NEGROPONTE
  The United States Senate has approved U.N. Ambassador John Negroponte to be ambassador to Iraq by a vote of 93-3. 
   Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Sen. Dick Lugar has pushed for quick approval of the ambassador for this critical post. On April 4, on ABC This Week, Sen. Lugar called on the administration to act quickly in naming an ambassador to set up the embassy by the June 30 deadline for transition of power in Iraq. Sen. Lugar also announced on that program that the committee would have a series of hearings on Iraq. At one of these hearings, Under Secretary of State Marc Grossman outlined for the first time the plans for transition and for the embassy. On April 19, President Bush announced that Negroponte was his nominee to be ambassador to Iraq.  
   Lugar chaired five hearings of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Iraq in the month of April, including Negroponte's confirmation hearing on April 27. The committee unanimously approved Negroponte in a vote on April 29. Negroponte was confirmed just 13 business days after his nomination. The Foreign Relations Committee will have more Iraq hearings on May 18 and 19. 
   "This post will be one of the most consequential ambassadorships in American history. The ambassador to Iraq not only will be called upon to lead an estimated 1,700 embassy personnel (1,000 Americans and 700 Iraqis), he will be the focal point of international efforts to secure and reconstruct Iraq and provide the developing Iraqi government with the opportunity to achieve responsible nationhood," Lugar said today on the Senate Floor. 
   "American credibility in the world, progress in the war on terrorism, relationships with our allies, and the future of the Middle East depend on a positive outcome in Iraq. What happens there during the next eighteen months almost certainly will determine whether we can begin to redirect the Middle East toward a more productive and peaceful future beyond the grip of terrorist influences. Helping the Iraqi people achieve a secure, independent state is a vital U.S. national security priority that requires the highest level of national commitment. 
   "If we are to be successful in Iraq, the United Nations and the international community must play a more central role. U.N. involvement can help us generate greater international participation, improve the political legitimacy of the interim Iraqi government, and take the American face off of the occupation of Iraq. The appointment of an Ambassador who occupies such a high and visible post underscores for our coalition partners and the Iraqis that the American commitment to Iraq is strong and that we mean to succeed," Lugar said. 
   "I am convinced that the confidence and commitment demonstrated by the pronouncement of a flexible, but detailed plan for Iraq is necessary for our success. Such a plan would prove to our allies and to Iraqis that we have a strategy and that we are committed to making it work. If we cannot provide this clarity, we risk the loss of support of the American people, the loss of potential contributions from our allies, and the disillusionment of Iraqis," Lugar said. 
   "During Foreign Relations Committee hearings, I have posed six detailed questions as a way of fleshing out a plan for Iraq. I believe that answers to those questions would constitute a coherent transition strategy for Iraq. In pursuit of this clarity, we discussed issues surrounding Ambassador Brahimi's efforts, the status of American armed forces in Iraq after the transition, the role of U.N. Security Council Resolutions, plans for elections, the composition of the U.S. embassy and efforts to provide security for its personnel, and how we intend to pay for the continuing U.S. involvement in Iraq. 
   "Undersecretary of State Marc Grossman testified about the importance of engaging the interim Iraqi government as soon as it is selected. We cannot simply turn on the lights at the Embassy on June 30 and expect everything to go well. We must be rehearsing with Iraqi authorities and our Coalition partners how decision-making and administrative power will be distributed and exercised. It is critical, therefore, that Ambassador Negroponte and his team be put in place at the earliest possible moment," Lugar said. 
   "For this reason, the Foreign Relations Committee made a bipartisan decision to take up Ambassador Negroponte's nomination in expedited fashion. Processing a diplomatic nomination often requires weeks and sometimes months from the time the President announces it. Through the diligent efforts of the State Department and our own Committee staff, we accelerated the normal timetable to give Ambassador Negroponte and the Administration a chance to stand up the U.S. Embassy in Iraq as soon as possible. I would like to thank Senator Biden and all the members of the Foreign Relations Committee for their help in moving this nomination forward."
 
 