SENS. LUGAR, LEVIN RECEIVE FOUR FREEDOMS MEDAL FROM FRANKLIN, ELEANOR ROOSEVELT INSTITUTE
  The Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute (FERI) will recognize U.S. Sens. Richard Lugar (R-IN) and Carl Levin (D-MI) for their bipartisan efforts to reassert the role of the U.S. Senate in critical issues of foreign and military policy in a ceremony in New York City tonight. Richard French, Chair of the FERI Board of Directors presented the Four Freedoms Medals to the senators last week in Washington, D.C., and a video of the award presentation and their acceptance remarks will be played at the ceremony.
  "I can think of no two people today more deserving of this award. Your dedication to bi-partisanship, reasoned debate and high ethical standards for all those who serve in government stands as a shining example of what American leadership can and should be," said French. 
  Lugar's award citation states: "On this 6th day of November 2007, in recognition of his leadership in the fields of foreign policy, energy, and agriculture, his devotion to internationalism, and his commitment to bipartisanship, the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Freedom Medal is awarded to RICHARD G. LUGAR, Senator from Indiana whose foresight and skill at forming alliances across party lines have helped reform federal farm programs, reduce the threat of weapons of mass destruction, direct the nation toward greater energy independence and challenge our leaders to change course in Iraq. The complete text of citation follows at the end of the release. 
  "I am deeply honored to receive the Four Freedoms Medal?It is a special pleasure to receive the award with my good friend Carl Levin, whose leadership for freedom and justice has meant so much to our country," said Lugar in his acceptance comments.
  "President Roosevelt's unique gift, I believe, was the ability to combine inspirational idealism capable of motivating the American public, with the hard-headed political realism necessary to bring idealistic goals to fruition. This rare combination of leadership skills was critical to our country as we attempted to shape a stable world order out of the upheaval of the Depression and World War II. We have made many strides during the last six decades in building institutions that enhance global relationships, reduce miscalculation, and provide for the resolution of disputes. But the world remains a dangerous place, where U.S. leadership is essential," he continued.
  "Advancing technology has opened amazing new opportunities, but it has also shrunk the world and created dangers. We live in a world where weapons of mass destruction have made it possible for a small nation, or even a sub national group, to kill as many people in a day as whole armies killed in months of fighting during World War II.
  "For better or worse, the world's problems are our problems. Our economic health is tied to the prosperity of the rest of the industrialized world. Our environment is deeply affected by global environmental policies. Our access to natural resources and energy supplies depends on stable conditions in some of the most volatile regions on Earth. American isolationism would not make us safer from terrorist attacks or convince governments that have perpetrated human rights abuses to promote social justice," said Lugar. 
  The Four Freedoms Medal takes its inspiration from President Roosevelt's State of the Union speech in 1941 where he describes four essential human freedoms: freedom of speech and expression; freedom of worship; freedom from want; and freedom from fear. Additional 2007 award winners include Bill Moyers (Freedom of Speech and Expression), Rev. Peter J. Gomes (Freedom of Worship), Barbara Ehrenreich (Freedom from Want), and Brent Scowcroft (Freedom from Fear).
  More information on the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute is available at http://www.feri.org.
  AWARD OF THE
  FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT
  FREEDOM MEDAL TO
  RICHARD LUGAR
  On this 6th day of November 2007, in recognition of his leadership in the fields of foreign policy, energy, and agriculture, his devotion to internationalism, and his commitment to bipartisanship, the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Freedom Medal is awarded to
   RICHARD G. LUGAR
   Senator from Indiana whose foresight and skill at forming alliances across party lines have helped reform federal farm programs, reduce the threat of weapons of mass destruction, direct the nation toward greater energy independence and challenge our leaders to change course in Iraq.
  After graduating first in your class at both Shortridge High School in Indianapolis and Denison University in Granville, Ohio, you won a Rhodes Scholarship to study politics, philosophy, and economics at Pembroke College, Oxford. Returning to Indianapolis you helped run your family's food machinery manufacturing business before entering politics. You served two terms as mayor of Indianapolis from 1968 to 1975, leading the movement that unified the city with the surrounding county. Your "Unigov" initiative allowed the entire metropolitan area of Indianapolis to face its problems and opportunities as one, thus minimizing the suburban flight and inner city decay that America's fixation with race has condemned most of our urban centers to suffer. You won election to the Senate for the first time in 1976 and in 2006 won a sixth term with 87 percent of the vote.
  In the Senate your realism, foresight, and deep understanding of the world have made you one of that body's outstanding leaders. Your patience, extraordinary integrity, and gentlemanly manner have enabled you to work collaboratively with your fellow senators, and your toughness, independence, and determination have won their respect. As chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee from 1984 to 1986, you played a key role in persuading President Reagan to withdraw support from the corrupt Philippine president, Ferdinand Marcos--a decision that led to a return to democracy in that country. You also worked with Democrats to impose sanctions on South Africa over the president's veto--which helped bring about the end of apartheid. Seeing the danger of nuclear weapons falling into the wrong hands after the break-up of the Soviet empire, you teamed up with Democratic Senator Sam Nunn in 1991 to pass legislation aimed at dismantling weapons of mass destruction in the former Soviet Republics. Since then, the Nunn-Lugar program has deactivated more than 6,800 nuclear warheads that once targeted the United States.
  As the manager of your family's 604-acre corn, soybean and tree farm, and a Senator from a farm state, you have taken a special interest in agricultural issues. In 1996, while chairing the Agriculture Committee, you courageously challenged America's sixty-year commitment to farm subsidies, winning bipartisan support for reforming the federal farm program and bringing an end to the production controls established in the 1930s, a stance you continue to support. Long a champion of alternative fuels, you have called for "revolutionary changes in energy policy" and "an urgent national campaign" to "ensure that American ingenuity and resources are fully committed" to developing renewable energy sources to free the United States from dependence on Persian Gulf oil. And you have called on the president and Congress to "return to a leadership role on the issue of climate change."
  On June 25 of this year in one of the most important speeches on United States involvement in Iraq and in your characteristic tone devoid of polemics, you challenged both the President and your Congressional colleagues to change course while there was still time to think through the options before the necessarily partisan rancor of a presidential campaign reduces the opportunity for thoughtful, bipartisan and civil compromise. You counseled against both the "surge" and total U.S. military withdrawal. Urging the President and the Congress to go on the offensive together, you observed that "The United States has violated some basic national security precepts during our military engagement in Iraq. We have overestimated what the military can achieve, we have set goals that are unrealistic, and we have inadequately factored in the broader regional consequences of our actions. Perhaps most critically, our focus on Iraq has diverted us from opportunities to change the world in directions that strengthen our national security." Calling for a recasting of geo-strategic reference points in a spirit worthy of Franklin Roosevelt, you urged our leaders to prepare to array forces in the region to target terrorist enclaves, deter adventurism by Iran, provide a buffer against regional sectarian conflict and reassure our friends in the region that America is committed to Middle East security. You concluded by declaring that "the United States has the diplomatic influence and economic and military power to strengthen mutually beneficial policies that could enhance security and prosperity throughout the region."
  In your calls for bipartisanship and for genuine international cooperation, eschewing a go-it-alone unilateralism by the United States, you continue to work tirelessly to create a world in which everyone can enjoy Franklin Roosevelt's Four Freedoms. For this we honor and thank you today.
 
 