NUNN-LUGAR SECURES AZERBAIJANI PATHOGENS, SAFELY TRANSPORTS TO U.S.
  The Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program has transported 124 samples of 62 unique strains of causative agents of plague, anthrax, cholera and other dangerous diseases from here to Washington, DC. 
   The germs were moved to the U.S. Armed Forces Institute of Pathology in Washington, DC by U.S. military transport on September 2. U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar concluded the transport agreement during a meeting with Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev here on August 31.  
   "This is an important cooperation between our two governments to counter the threat of bio-terrorism and to prevent the proliferation of biological weapons, technology, materials and expertise. This is also an important step in assisting both countries to rapidly detect, diagnose and respond to infectious disease outbreaks, whether naturally occurring or as a result of bio-terrorism," Lugar said. 
   A Nunn-Lugar biological threat reduction agreement was signed between the U.S. Department of Defense and the Azerbaijan Cabinet of Ministers in June. In addition to the pathogen transfer, the two countries will work together improving security of the Azerbaijan central pathogen health laboratory. Nunn-Lugar funds will be used to enhance bio-security and bio-safety. The program will also devise modern diagnostic and detection equipment to respond to dangerous disease outbreaks. Azerbaijani scientists will receive training at U.S. laboratories. The program will also work with the Baku Anti-Plague Station. 
   The strains have been collected over many years from environmental, human and animal sources in Azerbaijan. The strains will be studied in join research programs with the U.S. Department of Defense and Azerbaijan medical researchers. 
   Lugar and U.S. Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) just completed a 10-day Nunn-Lugar program oversight trip to Russia, Ukraine and Azerbaijan. 
   The Nunn-Lugar program, through the International Science and Technology Center, has employed 58,000 scientists that were previously involved in weapons of mass destruction programs in the former Soviet Union. 
   In 1991, Senator Lugar (R-IN) and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA) authored the Nunn-Lugar Act, which established the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. This program has provided U.S. funding and expertise to help the former Soviet Union safeguard and dismantle its enormous stockpiles of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, related materials, and delivery systems. In 1997, Lugar and Nunn were joined by Senator Pete Domenici (R-NM) in introducing the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act, which expanded Nunn-Lugar authorities in the former Soviet Union and provided WMD expertise to first responders in American cities. In 2003, Congress adopted the Nunn-Lugar Expansion Act, which authorized the Nunn-Lugar program to operate outside the former Soviet Union to address proliferation threats. In October 2004, Nunn-Lugar funds were used for the first time outside of the former Soviet Union to secure chemical weapons in Albania, under a Lugar-led expansion of the program. 
   The latest Nunn-Lugar Scorecard shows that the program has deactivated or destroyed: 6,760 nuclear warheads; 587 ICBMs; 483 ICBM silos; 32 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 150 bombers; 789 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 436 submarine missile launchers; 549 submarine launched missiles; 28 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. 
   Beyond the scorecard's nuclear elimination, the Nunn-Lugar program secures and destroys chemical weapons, and works to reemploy scientists and facilities related to biological weapons in peaceful research initiatives. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. They otherwise would be the world's the third, fourth and eighth largest nuclear weapons powers, respectively. 
   For more information on the Nunn-Lugar Program, visit http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.html
 
 