SEN. LUGAR ENCOURAGES TRAVELERS TO BE READY FOR CHANGE IN RULES
  U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar today encouraged Hoosiers who will be traveling after September 30, 2007, to be prepared for a reinstitution of previous travel regulations requiring a U.S. Passport for all international destinations. 
  On June 8, 2007, the State Department and the Department of Homeland Defense suspended the new rules requiring Americans to have a valid U.S. Passport for re-entry into the United States following travel to Canada, Mexico, Bermuda, and the Caribbean. That suspension ends on September 30, and citizens traveling to any international destination thereafter will need a passport. 
  "The implementation of the passport requirement completely overwhelmed the system," said Lugar. "Hoosiers encountered long delays and many did not receive their passports in time to make long-scheduled trips abroad. The suspension of the rule generally allowed the passport system a chance to catch up with the demand. While there are still outstanding requests for passports, the number of constituents seeking assistance is dramatically less now than three months ago.
  "However, I remain concerned that a new backlog could be created when the travel suspension ceases," added Lugar. "I encourage Hoosiers who will be traveling internationally after September 30, and who do not yet have their passports, to contact my office."
  Constituents traveling in 14 days or less who do not yet have their passports should visit http://lugar.senate.gov/services/passport/ to fill out a form that allows Lugar's office to contact the State Department and request the passport's expedited completion prior to the travel date.
  Constituents whose travel date is more than 14 days away may also fill out the form on Lugar's website. Lugar's office will then inquire on the constituent's behalf to determine the status of the application. If the passport is still not completed two weeks before the travel dates, Lugar's office will request expedited completion of the application. 
  Earlier this summer, Lugar wrote to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and expressed his concern for Hoosier travelers caught in the passport backlog. Lugar also participated in a Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing in which detailed answers regarding the cause and solution to the backlog were sought from State Department officials.
 
 