SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES AFRICAN GROWTH AND OPPORTUNITY ACT EXTENSION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar yesterday introduced S. 3843, the AGOA Extension Act of 2006, to continue success achieved under the original African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) and subsequent modifications, which offer trade benefits, technical assistance, incentives for U.S. private sector investment, and a higher level dialogue with African governments. 
   The key provision of the bill is the extension of the third country fabric benefit that is set to expire on September 30, 2007. This benefit allows least developed countries to export capped quantities of apparel made from third country fabric to the U.S. duty-free; all other countries must use U.S. or African fabric inputs in order to receive duty-free treatment. The extension in Lugar's bill is needed to enable development of a viable African textile industry.  
   The end of the Multi-Fiber Agreement, which imposed quotas on textiles for 30 years expired on January 1, 2005, has adversely affected apparel exports from sub-Saharan African nations to the United States. Quota-free imports from China and other low-cost Asian producers have made it more difficult for AGOA countries to compete. 
   "In an effort to reverse the persistent under-performance by African economies and to stimulate American involvement in Africa, I introduced the African Growth and Opportunity Act in the United States Senate in 1999. The original AGOA launched an effort to formulate a new American strategy towards Africa. It sought to establish the foundation for a more mature economic relationship with those countries in Africa that undertake serious economic and political reforms. That effort was supported by virtually all sub-Saharan African nations, and it had wide support among American businesses and non-governmental organizations. We should now seize the opportunity to further integrate African countries into the world economy," said Lugar. 
   "AGOA should not be seen as an end in itself. Rather, it is an initial step designed to expand development and decrease poverty by promoting greater integration of Africa into the global trading community. Achieving these goals will require both enhancements to the AGOA framework and additional steps to address the compelling problems facing Africa. Our trade efforts must be part of a broader American partnership with the often-neglected countries of Africa." 
   The proposed bill also supports trade capacity building as well as economic development initiatives. It would authorize the U.S. Trade Representative to provide grants to support the annual U.S.-Sub Saharan African Trade and Economic Cooperation Forum. It would further direct the President of the United States to develop a comprehensive plan addressing specified issues to promote economic reforms and development in sub-Saharan Africa and require the President to establish additional duty-free access for beneficiary countries for agricultural products governed by current tariff-rate quotas. The Administration is also directed to explore tax and investment treaties, agreements which heighten the interest of the private sector to do business in subject countries. Additionally, it specifies that the Export Import Bank should devote resources to promote agricultural and industrial development. 
   The AGOA Extension Act introduced yesterday is the companion to the AGOA section of H.R. 5070 introduced earlier this year by Rep. Charlie Rangel (D-NY). 
   In November 2005, Lugar and Rangel were recognized for their leadership on AGOA with the Annual Visionary Award from The Africa Society of the National Summit on Africa.
 
 