SEN. LUGAR PAYS TRIBUTE TO WORLD HEALTH DAY
  Sen. Dick Lugar joined today in acknowledging World Health Day. In recognition of this year's theme, "Make Every Mother and Child Count," Lugar co-sponsored two children's health bills.  
   The Start Healthy, Stay Healthy Act of 2005 would amend the Social Security Act to give states the option of expanding Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program coverage to some pregnant women and newborns. The federal expansion of coverage will allow states to offer additional benefits to pregnant woman and then cover the infant for the first year of life. States would also have the option of providing pregnancy-related assistance for low-income pregnant women. 
   "The United States ranks 28th in infant mortality and 21st in maternal mortality, the worst among the developed nations," Lugar said. "By reducing the number of uninsured children and pregnant women, this legislation can also reduce infant and maternal mortality." 
   The Children's Express Lane to Health Coverage Act of 2005 would amend the Social Security Act to give states the option of determining that Medicaid or Children's State Health Insurance financial eligibility is satisfied when a family presents evidence that their child is already enrolled in a program with comparable income guidelines. Those programs include the National School Lunch Program, the Food Stamp Program, the Summer Feeding Program and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC). 
   "In the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, I have been involved in the school lunch program for years," Lugar said. "Many children eligible for school lunches are also eligible to receive health care under the Children's Health Insurance Program. The difficulty comes when red tape and bureaucracy prevents the sharing of information between the two programs." 
   The First World Health Assembly, the highest decision making body of the World Health Organization (WHO) called for the creation of "World Healthy Day" in 1948. Since 1950, World Health Day has been celebrated on April 7 of each year. The objectives of World Health Day are to raise global awareness and bolster future activity in the particular area of concern. 
   Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) also co-sponsored the Start Healthy, Stay Healthy Act and the Children's Express Lane to Health Coverage Act. The two partnered to introduce similar legislation in the 108th Congress.
 
 