SEN. LUGAR APPLAUDS NEW APPROACH TO NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND
  Sen. Dick Lugar applauded the new approach to implementing No Child Left Behind announced today by U.S. Education Secretary Margaret Spellings.  
   "I am pleased that states have some additional alternatives in implementation provided that they are reaching their state-set goals and increasing student achievement," said Lugar. 
   "Both Public Law 221, passed by the General Assembly in 1999, and the No Child Left Behind Act, passed by Congress in 2001, came about because we all agree that some work needed to be done in order to ensure that all our nation's students will have the opportunity to get ahead - regardless of where they live or their background. In actuality, No Child Left Behind was about the broadening of the civil rights of our children. 
   "Some have expressed concerns about NCLB, particularly in the area of testing. Valid concerns have been raised, and the U.S. Department of Education has responded. It is possible that further adjustments should be made. But what we must not do is take a step backwards. Accountability is important, not only for each individual child, but for the nation as a whole. Not only is it a civil rights issue, it is an issue of national economic security. If we do not make significant progress in helping more children graduate from both high school and college with skills, we, as a nation, will suffer," Lugar said. 
   The Department of Education announced that it will now allow states to use modified assessments for their students with persistent academic disabilities who need more time and instruction to make substantial progress toward grade-level achievement. 
   In addition, Secretary Spellings announced a new set of guiding principles to help states implement NCLB while taking their unique situations into consideration. The guidelines, called Raising Achievement: A New Path for No Child Left Behind, are as follows: 
   * Ensuring students are learning;
   * Making the school system accountable;
   * Ensuring information is accessible and parents have options; and 
   * Improving teacher quality. 
   If the above principles are met, the Department may consider (when appropriate and as necessary) the following factors in approving additional flexibility under the law: compliance with NCLB and its predecessor, the Improving America's Schools Act; graduation and drop-out rates; fiscal management; high school reform initiatives; data infrastructure capabilities and state capacity to improve achievement; state academic standards; availability of alternate teaching certification programs; and school improvement processes that integrate approaches to serve the needs of all students including those receiving special education and who have limited English proficiency.
   Lugar is currently working on an education website that explores issues faced by parents, teachers and students. The purpose of this EducateIndiana website is to share constructive ideas about education and offer students, parents, teachers and administrators education tools that can be used both inside and outside the classroom. The address for EducateIndiana is http://lugar.senate.gov/educateindiana. 
   If you have ideas for content, please contact educateindiana@lugar.senate.gov.
 
 