SUDAN RELIEF BILL HEADS TO WHITE HOUSE
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar announced final passage of S.2781, the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act of 2004, a bill he introduced this summer. The legislation is now on its way to the President, who is expected to sign it into law.  
   "After decades of civil war in Sudan, the Darfur crisis only reinforces the need to for the international community to act and the importance of making a long-term investment in Africa's future to break the chains of misrule, corruption, instability, war, poverty and famine and to prevent such crises in the first place," Lugar said. 
   This bill authorizes $200 million in assistance to help relieve the effects of genocide in Darfur, including support for immediate deployment of more African Union forces to the region. The bill also sanctions the Government of Sudan for its continued lack of meaningful action in stopping the atrocities in Darfur and helps to hobble those culpable in its support. Additionally, it authorizes $100 million as an incentive for the warring parties to reach a final and comprehensive conclusion to the Naivasha peace process. 
   "Khartoum's status as an oil exporter, a major arms importer, and an Islamic government has diminished the appetite for decisive action in some foreign capitals. But neither economic interests, nor religious identification should trump responsible international actions in a case where genocidal policies are being conducted," Lugar said. 
   Lugar and other members of Congress have worked since early this year to bring attention and resources to the ongoing humanitarian and human rights crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan. The World Health Organization estimates the cost at 10,000 civilian lives each month. Thus far an estimated 70,000 have died and the number of displaced has steadily risen to 1.6 million persons in Darfur and over 200,000 additional refugees in neighboring Chad. 
   "This bill will immediately provide assistance to the people of Darfur, but, it will also impose sanctions on those responsible for the policies and atrocities of genocide," Lugar added. 
   The U.S. Congress declared genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan in July. The Senate then unanimously passed the broadly bipartisan bill, S.2781, following the historic Foreign Relations Committee hearing September 9th when Secretary of State Colin Powell declared the Government of Sudan responsible for an ongoing genocide in Darfur.
 
 