SEN. LUGAR RELEASES REPORT ASSESSING IRAQ ECONOMIC PROGRESS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar released a new committee report today that assesses the progress of Iraq economic reconstruction and government capacity.  
   The full committee staff Iraq trip report, S. Prt. 109-40 - Iraq: Assessment of Progress in Economic Reconstruction and Governmental Capacity, is available at: http://www.access.gpo.gov/congress/senate/senate11cp109.html. 
   "Staff found that U.S. and coalition reconstruction projects, investments and other program and policy reforms implemented since 2003 appear to be having a stabilizing effect on the economy," the report begins. "Iraqis enjoy their new civic and religious freedoms, but some are finding it hard to give up the financial benefits of a state-controlled system." 
   On Oil: "Iraq is the world's second largest oil reserve, with large upside potential from future exploration. The industry, however, remains crippled after decades of sanctions and Saddam's mismanagement. Current production hovers around 2.3 mbpd (million barrels per day), about a half million below existing feasible capacity because of insurgent attacks in the North and "field decline" in the South . . . Because of steady attacks, money originally allocated for this sector is now limited to repairing existing infrastructure, helping to sustain operations and set the stage for revenue growth. Despite lagging production, the world market oil price increases have boosted revenues." 
   "In order not to look as if we had designs on Iraqi oil, the United States has foregone meaningful investment in the one area that would have made the biggest difference, namely Iraq's oil-exporting infrastructure. Coupled with economic and subsidy reforms, the Iraqis need to repair the pipeline, install storage tanks at the ports and borders so that a pipeline interruption doesn't mean export interruption, build refineries, and secure the whole system." 
   Reducing the fuel subsidy will begin in later this month when the price of gasoline will go from 5 cents to 13 cents a gallon and is supposed to increase to normal market price around $1.82 in 2006. 
   On Corruption: "While U.S. efforts have helped put in place several institutions to fight corruption and have worked to train and empower Inspectors General, corruption has not abated and we should not expect that it will for quite some time. As one official pointed out, 'it is not only endemic, it is systemic.' The Treasury Attaché offered that one cannot just fight corruption by itself. He said that the largest source of corruption is 'simply the lack of proper modern administration and controls.' Iraq continues to be a cash economy, and there are no checks and cross-checks in the system. They are very good at record-keeping and receipts, but, 'you can't have the guy that wrote the contract paying it too.' 
   "Reformed systems are coming online. USAID has developed a government-wide strategy to support the automation of planning, budgeting and reporting processes across ministries, including the creation of a Financial Management Information System (FMIS), an accounting and reporting system for all Iraqi ministries. Montran, a payment solutions company, is working with Treasury and OTA to install a direct deposit system for government workers. These and other systems, however, must ultimately be paid for by Iraqi banks and the government of Iraq; a fact the Ministry of Finance understands." 
   A US run program has been "providing loans of up to $25,000 through Iraqi-trained loan officers working in a dozen neighborhood offices to provide seed money for small or start up local business, has made more than 16,000 loans disbursing more than $31 million with no write-offs in two years." 
   The report's first section also analyzes the electricity and food sectors. The second section analyzes the progress of institution building, legal developments, and provincial government capacity. The final section reviews U.S. Embassy construction, security and staffing. 
   This is second in a series of letters Chairman Lugar is sending to his colleagues to elevate the congressional debate on Iraq, and to help bring about stability and success in Iraq. The letters can be found at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/iraq/.
 
 