CONGRESS POISED TO APPROVE U.S.-INDIA PEACEFUL ATOMIC ENERGY ACT
Both houses of the U.S. Congress are poised to approve the Henry J. Hyde United States-India Peaceful Atomic Energy Cooperation Act of 2006. Passage is expected in the House and Senate on Friday, then it will go to the president for signature into law. 
 "This legislation will allow the United States to engage in peaceful nuclear cooperation while safeguarding U.S. national security and nonproliferation efforts, as well as Congressional prerogatives. It is an opportunity to build a vital strategic partnership with a nation that shares our democratic values and will exert increasing influence on the world stage," Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar said.  
 The House-Senate Conference Committee on the bill, H.R. 5682, said the following in a joint statement: 
 "With the fading of the Cold War's global divisions and the rise of new challenges such as globalization and trans-national terrorism, there is increasing recognition in both the United States and in India that significant benefits may be obtained from closer cooperation across a broad spectrum of activities and policies. These range from shared strategic interests, such as enhanced stability and security in South Asia and the international system as a whole, to more specific priorities, including greater effectiveness in combating the AIDS epidemic, combating terrorism, and preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, among others. . . 
 "H.R. 5682 reflects the widely held view in both the House and the Senate that peaceful nuclear cooperation with India can serve multiple U.S. foreign policy and national security objectives, but that this must be secured in a manner that minimizes potential risks to the global nonproliferation regime. Among the most important considerations are ensuring that Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) guidelines and consensus decision-making are upheld and that a U.S. nuclear cooperation agreement and subsequent U.S. nuclear exports are consistent with the decisions, policies, and guidelines of the NSG. The Managers note that the converse is equally important, namely that the United States must ensure that any decision that the NSG makes regarding granting an exemption for nuclear commerce does not disadvantage U.S. industry by setting less strict conditions for countries trading with India than those embodied in the conditions and requirements of this Act. Since the NSG operates by consensus, the United States possesses the necessary leverage to ensure a favorable outcome, and the conference agreement reflects this view... 
 "The Administration's decision to establish an increasingly close relationship with this country of enormous potential and its declaration that the U.S. welcomes India's advancement as a major economic and political player on the world stage represents a new and significant strategic opportunity to advance U.S. goals. Given that India already possesses a vibrant democracy, a rapidly growing economy, and a well-educated middle class greater than the entire U.S. population, it can serve as an engine of global economic growth. Its increasing economic, military, and political power may also contribute significantly to promoting stability in South Asia and other regions. 
 "India has the potential to become a valued partner in countering the rise of extremism around the world as both countries can cooperate to promote religious pluralism, tolerance, and democratic freedoms. As a country with well-entrenched democratic traditions and the world's second largest Muslim population, India can set an example of a multi-religious and multi-cultural democracy in an otherwise volatile region. 
 "The (House-Senate) conferees believe that the conference agreement will help solidify New Delhi's commitments to implement strong export controls, separate its civilian nuclear infrastructure from its weapons program, and place additional civilian facilities under IAEA safeguards. An agreement for peaceful nuclear cooperation with India approved by Congress according to the procedures and conditions of this conference report would be a powerful incentive for India to cooperate closely with the United States in halting proliferation and abstaining from additional tests of nuclear weapons. The conferees, along with both Houses, place great emphasis on their expectation that India's full cooperation with efforts by the U.S. and the international community to prevent Iran from acquiring the capability to produce nuclear weapons will be forthcoming." 
 The bill also includes the IAEA Additional Protocol Implementing Legislation. In President Bush's 2004 speech at the National Defense University, he called on the Senate to ratify the U.S. Additional Protocol with the IAEA. He said: 
 "We must ensure that the IAEA has all the tools it needs to fulfill its essential mandate. America and other nations support what is called the Additional Protocol, which requires states to declare a broad range of nuclear activities and facilities, and allow the IAEA to inspect those facilities ? Nations that are serious about fighting proliferation will approve and implement the Additional Protocol. I've submitted the Additional Protocol to the Senate. I urge the Senate to consent immediately to its ratification." 
 "Our credibility as the leader of global non-proliferation efforts is at stake. Along with many other nations, we are asking the IAEA to perform critical functions aimed at preventing nuclear proliferation. An effective IAEA is very much in the national security interest of the United States," Lugar said.
 
 