SEN. LUGAR RECEIVES HARRIMAN DEMOCRACY AWARD
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar received the National Democratic Institute's W. Averell Harriman Democracy Award on Monday, December 6, 2004. NDI's Harriman Democracy Award is the Institute's highest honor, presented annually to individuals and organizations dedicated to democracy and human rights.  
   Lugar was recognized for advocating free and fair elections and the development of democratic institutions from the 1986 Philippines election to last month's elections in Ukraine. Lugar represented the United States in Ukraine at the request of President Bush. 
   (A photo of U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar receiving the National Democratic Institute's W. Averell Harriman Democracy Award from Madeline Albright, former Secretary of State and current Chairman of the Board of Directors of NDI is available at http://lugar.senate.gov/photos/leaders.html#harriman) 
   In his remarks, Lugar said the goal of the United States should be to "give the face of considerable bipartisan strength to the future of our security." 
   Referencing Ukraine Lugar said, "It is an exciting story that continues to unfold...and factors strong reminisces to the adventure in democracy in the Philippines in 1986...The Reagan Doctrine was an important statement and push forward that has exemplified American foreign policy since. So it's natural we're in Ukraine." 
   He concluded his remarks by saying, "I am hopeful the National Endowment for Democracy and NDI will celebrate again and again...Their influence will be needed for many years." 
   Lugar (R-IN) received the award along with Senator Joe Biden (D-DE), Ranking Member of the Foreign Relations Committee. Lugar and Biden were recognized for their efforts to forge a bipartisan consensus in the U.S. Congress on the promotion of democracy worldwide. Other recipients included former Philippines President Corazon Aquino, Minister of the Interior of Chile Jos? Miguel Insulza, former Foreign Minister of Poland Bronislaw Geremek, President of Senegal Abdoulaye Wade, Prime Minister of Georgia Zurab Zhvania, Human Rights Minister of Yemen Amat Al-Aleem Alsoswa and President of Timor-Leste Xanana Gusm?o. 
   The National Democratic Institute is celebrating its 20th anniversary by "paying tribute to an era of democratic transformation through the eyes of those from different regions of the world who experienced its struggles and successes." 
   NDI is a nonprofit organization working to strengthen and expand democracy worldwide. Calling on a global network of volunteer experts, NDI provides practical assistance to civic and political leaders advancing democratic values, practices and institutions. NDI works with democrats in every region of the world to build political and civic organizations, safeguard elections, and to promote citizen participation, openness and accountability in government.
 
 