SEN. LUGAR URGES MORE EFFORTS AGAINST HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN TSUNAMI-HIT REGION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today praised countries and international organizations for efforts to prevent the illegal trafficking of persons made vulnerable by the tsunami disaster in Asia, especially children. He called on nations and organizations to take additional coordination steps.  
   To advance international attention, Lugar said that he will schedule a Foreign Relations Committee business meeting in the coming weeks to vote on the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children as well as the overarching Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime. The Bush Administration sent the treaty agreements to the Senate last year, and the committee held a hearing on June 17, 2004. 
   Lugar will also introduce legislation to address the specific protection needs of victims of humanitarian crises, especially children. This will include measures ensuring that children have access to food and the emergency items needed during a crisis. It will also add protections for people vulnerable to kidnapping, sexual exploitation and trafficking. 
   "Increasingly, vulnerable populations, especially women and children, are victimized during a major humanitarian crisis caused by war or natural disaster, like the tsunami in Asia. They often face difficulties in securing food and other humanitarian supplies, and are vulnerable to sexual exploitation and being trafficked," Lugar said. 
   According to Save the Children, millions of children have been affected by the catastrophe in Asia and many of them have been separated from their families and have been left homeless. More than one-third of those lost in the tsunami were children. Children who survived the catastrophe are at grave risk of diarrhea and other debilitating yet preventable diseases. While children are always the most vulnerable disaster victims, they face additional risks in locations where bonded labor, forced military recruitment and sexual exploitation take place. 
   The United Nations Children's Fund has warned that human traffickers could prey on some 35,000 children made homeless, orphaned or separated from their parents just in the hardest hit province of Aceh in Indonesia. 
   Like the United States, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Thailand and India have all signed the trafficking protocol, but have not yet ratified the agreement. Lugar hopes that the U.S. leadership in completing ratification will encourage the others, thus providing more protections to vulnerable people. 
   Lugar noted that President Susilo Bambang Yudhyono of Indonesia and Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi of Malaysia have taken specific steps to help prevent the trafficking of children who are victims of the tsunami. In addition, in Sri Lanka the National Child Protection Authority (NCPA), Department of Probation and Childcare, UNICEF and Save the Children have mobilized teams to identify and register all unaccompanied and separated children. Joint teams are identifying children living in temporary camps for the displaced as a priority. They will then be working with communities to identify and register all children who have been separated from their immediate families.
 
 