SEN. LUGAR INITIATIVE WOULD ASSIST ORPHANS IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar introduced legislation to improve assistance for orphans and vulnerable children in developing countries. 
   "Every 14 seconds another child is orphaned by AIDS," Lugar (R-IN) said. "Turning the tide on this crisis will require a coordinated, comprehensive, and swift response."
   "The unprecedented AIDS orphan crisis in sub-Saharan Africa has profound implications for political stability, development, and human welfare that extend far beyond the region," said Lugar. "It is imperative that the international community respond to this crisis that threatens stability within individual countries, the region, and around the world."
   There are currently an estimated 14 million children who have been orphaned by AIDS, most of whom live in sub-Saharan African. This number is projected to soar to more than 25 million by 2010.
   The Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act of 2004 would require the United States Government to develop a coordinated strategy to provide assistance to orphans and vulnerable children. This bill would also authorize the President to support community based organizations that provide for the basic needs of these children.
   "Such an approach enables the children to remain connected to their communities, traditions, rituals, and extended families," said Lugar.
   "Orphans are less likely to be in school, and more likely to be working full time. Yet only education can help children acquire the knowledge and develop the skills they need to build a better future," he added.
   To overcome barriers to primary school education for orphans and to provide an incentive for children to remain in school, Lugar's bill supports programs that eliminate school fees and provide school food programs.
   This bill also supports programs that protect the inheritance rights of orphans and widows with children, who are often denied the right to claim their inherited property.
   Lugar has been the Senate sponsor of the Global HIV/AIDS Initiative and the Global School Lunch Program.
 
 