GREENSPAN CITES NEED FOR RAPID CELLULOSIC ETHANOL PRODUCT
  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today that "if ethanol is to be a significant (solution to our transportation fuel needs) it will have to be cellulosic." 
   Greenspan cited rapidly achieving full-scale cellulosic ethanol production, testing its viability and accelerating developments in liquid natural gas as the best immediate targets for reducing petroleum demand, which he said was an imperative goal.  
   "Current oil prices over time should lower to some extent our worrisome dependence on petroleum. Still higher oil prices will inevitably move vehicle transportation to hybrids, and despite the inconvenience, plug-in hybrids. Corn ethanol, though valuable, can play only a limited role, because its ability to displace gasoline is modest at best," said Greenspan. "But cellulosic ethanol, should it fulfill its promise, would help to wean us of our petroleum dependence, as could clean coal and nuclear power. With those developments, oil in the years ahead will remain an important element of our energy future, but it need no longer be the dominant player." Read Greenspan's full testimony at http://www.lugar.senate.gov/energy/pdf/Greenspan_Testimony.pdf. 
   A decade ago, Senator Lugar began pushing for a national biomass ethanol research program. Witnesses at Agriculture Committee hearings he chaired from 1996 to 1999 said this would be the most efficient method to produce ethanol. In 1999, Lugar and former CIA Director James Woolsey co-authored a seminal article that linked foreign policy and the high cost of securing foreign oil flowing to the United States with the development of homegrown ethanol derived from any form of cellulose ("The New Petroleum," Foreign Affairs). Lugar then authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. 
   In 2005, Lugar led 21 bipartisan Senators in introducing the Fuels Security Act to more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. This legislation laid the groundwork for the renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed Congress in July 2005. 
   "Our capacity to deal with these energy vulnerabilities in a foreign policy context is shaped in part by the ability of our own economy to adjust to changing energy markets. Eventually, because of scarcity, terrorist threats, market shocks, and foreign manipulation, the high price of oil will lead to enormous investment in and political support for alternatives. The problem is that by the time sufficient motivation comes to markets, it may be too late to prevent the severe economic and security consequences of our oil dependence," Lugar said at today's hearing with Greenspan. 
   "The U.S. economy has been able to absorb the huge impact of rising oil prices with little consequence to date because it has become far more flexible over the past three decades owing to deregulation and globalization. Growing protectionism would undermine that flexibility and make our nation increasingly vulnerable to the vagaries of the oil market," Greenspan said. 
   Throughout the 109th Congress, Lugar has cosponsored a host of bipartisan legislation to address U.S. dependence on foreign oil and to promote biofuels. Lugar has joined with Sens. Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Barack Obama (D-IL) in introducing the Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act, S. 1994, that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as FFVs within ten years. In addition, Lugar is an original cosponsor of Sen. Evan Bayh's bill, the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, S. 2025. This bill would provide for changes in oil conservation, new measures to improve fuel economy, tax credits for hybrid cars and advanced fuels, encourage use of renewable fuels, and set new regulations for federal fleets. 
   Lugar also introduced the Energy Diplomacy and Security Act, S. 2435, which would recognize energy security to be a foremost concern for United States national security and would realign U.S. diplomatic priorities to meet energy security challenges.
   Lugar and Obama introduced the American Fuels Act, S. 2446, which would take a four-step approach to reducing America's dependence on foreign oil. First, the legislation would spur investment in alternative fuels by increasing the production of cellulosic biomass ethanol and create an Alternative Diesel Standard. Second, it would help increase consumer demand for alternative fuels by providing a short-term, 35 cents per gallon tax credit for E85 fuel and by providing automakers with a $100 tax credit for every FFV produced. Third, it would require the U.S. government to increase access to alternative fuels by requiring the government to allow public access to alternative fueling stations located on federal government property. Finally, it would create a Director of Energy Security to oversee and keep America focused on its goal of energy independence.
   On Feb. 6, 2006, Lugar addressed the U.N. Security Council, saying, "Like the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the potential scarcity of energy supplies and the imbalances that exist among nations represent grave threats to global security and prosperity. . . When we reach the point that the world's oil-hungry economies are competing for insufficient supplies of energy, fossil fuels will become an even stronger magnet for conflict than they already are. . . The bottom line is that critical international security goals, including countering nuclear weapons proliferation, supporting new democracies, and promoting sustainable development are at risk because of over-dependence on fossil fuels."
   On Mar. 13, 2006, Lugar addressed the Brookings Institution, saying, " . . . the balance of realism has passed from those who argue on behalf of oil and a laissez faire energy policy that relies on market evolution, to those who recognize that in the absence of a major reorientation in the way we get our energy, life in America is going to be much more difficult in the coming decades? there is not a full appreciation of our economic vulnerability or the competition that is already occurring throughout the world? oil will become an even stronger magnet for conflict and threats of military action, than it already is? Geology and politics have created petro-superpowers that nearly monopolize the world's oil supply. According to PFC Energy, foreign governments control up to 77 percent of the world's oil reserves through their national oil companies. These governments set prices through their investment and production decisions, and they have wide latitude to shut off the taps for political reasons?"
 
 