SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES BILL TO EXPAND SUMMER FEEDING PROGRAMS
  U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar (R-IN), Ted Kennedy (D-MA) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) today introduced legislation to expand the Lugar Pilots program nationwide. Lugar introduced similar legislation in the 109th Congress. 
   The Lugar Pilots program is part of the Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) and has operated in 13 states (including Indiana) and Puerto Rico since 2001. Lugar successfully worked in 2004 and 2005 to make the program permanent. As a result of his legislative efforts, a total of 26 states and Puerto Rico participate in the program. In 2004 he won access for non-profit organizations to administer summer feeding programs.  
   "The need to feed youth in the summer time is a nationwide problem and it is clear we have a proven method. I hope that we can extend the Lugar Pilots to all 50 states as quickly as possible, and I appreciate Senators Kennedy and Chambliss joining me in this effort," Lugar said. 
   "Children's food and nutrition needs do not end when school lets out for the summer. This program is a proven effective way to get kids the food and nutrition they need during the summer months. I thank Senator Lugar for his leadership in making sure our kids are healthy and well fed year round," Kennedy said. 
   "The Simplified Summer Feeding Program has proven to be effective in reaching more young people when school is out for the summer," said U.S. Sen. Saxby Chambliss, Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "This legislation offers a common sense solution to the difficulty sponsors often face when administering the program. The simplified program rules make it easier for sponsors to participate and provide the nutritious meals children need." 
   According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the 13 original Lugar pilot states have increased participation by 43.3 percent and non-participating states have decreased participation by 14.6 percent. 
   The SFSP was created by Congress in 1969 to help fill the gap in low-income neighborhoods by providing needy children with the nutrition they need to learn, play and grow throughout the summer months when school lunches are not provided. Lugar recognized, however, that too many schools and other potential providers chose not to participate because of bureaucratic red tape in receiving reimbursements. This lack of participation led to children not having the opportunity to receive summer meals, which is especially concerning because many children in low income homes receive the bulk of their nutrition from schools that do not operate in the summer. 
   Lugar is a member and former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee. His efforts in child nutrition have been recognized nationally by the National Council of La Raza with a 2004 Capitol Award highlighting his efforts through the years for nutrition programs for low-income Americans, especially children. Lugar also has been recognized by FRAC and the School Nutrition Association, among others for his work in child nutrition. 
   Internationally, Lugar has been honored by the Friends of the World Food Program with the Leaders in the Fight Against Hunger award for his work to strengthen the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs, expand food stamps, support food banks, and advance international food aid operations. 
   On Tuesday, March 6, U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar met with representatives of the Indiana School Nutrition Association. Their meeting followed attendance at an Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry hearing that Lugar attended to discuss federal child nutrition programs in schools.
 
 