SEN. LUGAR HONORED FOR RELEASE OF POWS
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar was presented the Commander Medal of the Ouissan Alaouite Order for his successful efforts in August to release the final 404 Moroccan prisoners of war held in Algeria. The presentation was made today in the Committee's formal U.S. Capitol meeting room by Moroccan Ambassador to the U.S. Aziz Mekouar and several of the prisoners freed in August.  
   Ali Najab, retired Moroccan Air Force Captain and spokesman for the prisoners, said that the 404 Moroccan men "owe their freedom today to you . . . I was a prisoner of war held by the Polisario Front - one among the hundreds of longest-held prisoners of war anywhere, anytime, in modern history." 
   Najab said the hopes of the POWs were raised when, "Senator Lugar - in service of your president and your country - came to Maghreb on a difficult mission, determined not to leave until you could personally witness the release and freedom of all remaining POWs." 
   In presenting the decoration on behalf of King Mohammed VI, Ambassador Mekouar said, "Mr. Chairman, in receiving this commendation today, you join the ranks of such other distinguished Americans as Generals George Patton and George Marshall, and President Dwight Eisenhower - all men who served not only their country, but the cause of peace throughout the world and of freedom for all of its citizens. 
   "Last August, on behalf of President George Bush, you set your legislative duties aside to come to our region to seek and secure the release of 404 Moroccan prisoners of war, some of whom had been held more than 20 years. Where many had tried and failed, sir, you succeeded. As a result of your efforts, one of the greatest, gravest and most overlooked abuses of human rights came to an end." 
   Lugar expressed his appreciation for the gracious welcome last August by King Mohammed VI and the honor bestowed today. 
   "The United States has long viewed the release of these prisoners as an important humanitarian goal and a constructive step for peace and stability in North Africa, and I thank Ambassador Mekouar for his advocacy," Lugar said. "The United States strongly supports an Algerian-Moroccan rapprochement and a peaceful political solution to the question of the Western Sahara, within a UN framework, that honors the principle of self-determination. I remain hopeful that Morocco and Algeria will seize on this occasion to create a climate conducive to the settlement of the Western Sahara issue. 
   "It is vital that the United States remain engaged in North Africa and the wider Arab world so that we can work with friends to expand opportunities for democracy, economic development and peace," Lugar said. 
   This premier Order of Morocco, was established in 1913 to recognize exceptional civil and military accomplishments. More information on Lugar's mission can be found at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=243924
 
 