DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS BILL INCLUDES PROJECTS FOR HOOSIER COMPANIES, NUNN-LUGAR FUNDING
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that appropriations he requested for HMMWV fleets and Man Overboard Identification System (MOBI) procurement were included in the Defense Appropriations Bill that passed this morning by a vote of 97-0. The bill also fully funds the Nunn-Lugar program at $416 million.  
   Lugar sent a letter on April 8, 2005, to Sens. Ted Stevens and Daniel Inouye, Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcomittee on Defense for the Senate Appropriations Committee, requesting support for multiple programs of interest to Indiana. 
   "After the terrorist attacks of September 11th and the subsequent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the needs of our military are vast, and the Defense Appropriations Bill passed today helps contribute to our strong defense," said Lugar. "AM General and Briartek are examples of two Hoosier companies working to provide additional protection to our troops." 
   Included in the bill is $240 million for up-armored Humvees and $690 million for Humvee recapitalization or replenishing the fleet with newer vehicles. The funding reflects priority requirements for training, ongoing operations and as platforms for key systems in the Army, Army Reserves, Army National Guard, and Marines. Support was needed for the procurement to ensure the readiness and capability of the services as they continue to adapt to next generation warfare, while meeting the immediate worldwide threats. 
   Humvees are manufactured by AM General, whose general headquarters are located in South Bend. Their assembly plant in Mishawaka, Indiana employees more than 1,000 Hoosiers. In the last two years, Congress has appropriated $4.7 billion for up-armored Humvees and armor kits to fortify existing Humvees. 
   Lugar also supported $9,100,00 for Man Overboard Identification System produced by Briartek, an Indianapolis based, small technology company focused on the development of devices to improve home and industrial safety and security. MOBI provides an active means by which a warship can be immediately alerted to a man-overboard incident, which allows for more precise locating of the individual in the water and reducing incidents of death and serious injury. 
   Fleet evaluations of this system were conducted during 2002 deployments and 100% of evaluating ships recommended full-fleet implementation of the MOBI system. In February 2003, Naval Sea Systems Command concurred with fleet recommendations and has begun installation of this system on all U.S. naval vessels.
 
 