SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES BILL TO LIMIT AMATEUR SPORTS LIABILITY
  Sen. Dick Lugar (R-IN) yesterday introduced S. 2903, the Nonprofit Athletic Organization Protection Act of 2004, to limit the liability of non-profit, volunteer organizations that organize sports events and leagues. Many of these types of organizations sponsor youth athletic programs.  
   "Over the last several years, more and more of these rule-making bodies have become targets for lawsuits seeking to prove that the rule-maker was negligent in making the rules of play. These lawsuits claim that had a different rule been in place, the injury would not have happened. Indeed, these suits place rule-makers into a Catch-22. A participant can be injured in almost any situation no matter how a rule is written. The result has been to have more and more lawsuits," Lugar said. 
   Groups such as the Boys and Girls Club, the National Council of Youth Sports, the National Federation of State High School Associations, and others exist largely to establish rules in order to minimize the risk of injury children face while participating in sports. However, regardless of how well these organizations perform their work, participants still risk injury. 
   As a result, Lugar joined the efforts of U.S. Rep Mark Souder (R-3rd IN) to introduce this legislation. 
   "I believe the Nonprofit Athletic Organization Protection Act of 2004 can help alleviate this problem. This legislation will eliminate lawsuits advancing the claim that a non-profit rule-making body is liable for a physical injury when the rules were made by a properly licensed rulemaking body that has acted within the scope of its authority. This reasonable legislation will help sports' rule-makers to do their job. If we do not pass this legislation, it is likely that rule makers could eventually close their doors, since they will be unable to afford the insurance needed to provide a safe sporting environment," Lugar added. 
   Lawsuits may be maintained if the rule-maker was grossly negligent or engaged in criminal or reckless misconduct.
 
 