8 INDIANA GAS STATIONS RECEIVE GRANTS TO START SELLING E85 FUEL
  Sen. Dick Lugar's office was notified that eight Indiana gas stations will receive grants to establish new E85 fueling locations. E-85 is motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content and 15 percent gasoline. The National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition recently awarded $1,000 grants to:  
   * Tables omitted (The document can be viewed at http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=247141). 
   The U.S. Department of Energy's Clean Cities Program made these funds available within the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee Report. Indiana currently has 5 public E85 refueling stations supported by The National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition 
   "With high oil prices, ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from biomass become increasingly important. Hoosiers growing the feedstocks for these fuels will add to our nation's security while helping our communities prosper," Lugar said. 
   The National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition advocates the use of ethanol as an alternative form of transportation fuel and is supported in those efforts by automakers, corn growers, ethanol producers, the governor's Ethanol Coalition and other advocates of the use of clean, domestic, renewable fuels. 
   The National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition maintains a list of E-85 stations in Indiana at http://www.e85fuel.com/database/locations.php?state=inIndiana and E-85 compatible cars at http://www.e85fuel.com/e85101/flexfuelvehicles.php. 
   On July 8, Lugar visited the Jiffy Mini-Mart in Terre Haute, the first filling station in Indiana to offer E-85 fuel. The Jiffy Mini-Mart is an independent, locally owned filling station that pumps an average of 550 gallons of E-85 fuel per day. 
   As former Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar initiated a biofuels research program to offer a reliable, long-term fuel option to decrease U.S. dependency on foreign oil. In 1999 during a time of relatively low gasoline prices, he co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey. This essay outlined the challenges the U.S. would face in an increasingly energy dependent world if reliable, domestically produced forms of fuel were not developed. 
   Lugar authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. Last March, he introduced the Fuels Security Act of 2005, which served as a basis for the Energy Policy Act's key ethanol provisions that President Bush signed into law this year. These provisions will more than double the amount of renewable fuel America produces by 2012, displacing billions of gallons of imported oil. 
   Another provision Lugar has supported will provide a tax credit to gas stations encouraging them to install and/or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol. With more than five million E-85 capable vehicles in the U.S. and about one million additional vehicles expected annually, the United States could realize an immediate reduction in gasoline consumption by approximately 4.5 billion gallons per year and an annual reduction in fleet greenhouse gas emissions of 26.5 million tons using E-85 fuel.
 
 