SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON ENERGY COMMISSION REPORT
  Sen. Dick Lugar made the following statement today regarding the National Commission on Energy Policy's report: 
   I commend the National Commission on Energy Policy for producing a comprehensive and timely report on our nation's long-term energy prospects. America faces serious challenges in meeting future energy needs. But I share the optimism of the Commission that we have the ability to meet those challenges if we act with appropriate wisdom and urgency.  
   The global appetite for oil and natural gas continues to grow while prospective supplies diminish. The geopolitical realities of the post-9/11 world increase the possibility of severe supply disruptions. Meanwhile environmental concerns restrict the list of traditional alternatives. 
   In this context, the report by the National Commission on Energy Policy is a welcome plan. It illuminates problems Americans face and provides a catalogue of realistic solutions for our future energy requirements. 
   I am especially pleased to see the Commission's call for a dramatic new commitment to the development of renewable fuels, especially those derived from biomass such as ethanol. I have long championed biomass fuels as a key component of our nation's energy future, and coauthored a paper on this topic with former CIA Director James Woolsey, one of the Commission's members. Greater reliance on these fuels will increase our energy independence and improve our nation's economic and physical security. 
   I also applaud the Commission's inclusion of recommendations that address the issue of climate change. Energy challenges facing our nation must take into account the environmental impacts of our actions. 
   The publication of the National Commission on Energy Policy's report provides us with compelling reasons to move as soon as possible to secure our nation's future energy needs. The Commission's findings demonstrate that the time to act is now. 
   I look forward to working with the Commission's members and my colleagues on Capitol Hill to enact substantial energy legislation when the new Congress meets in January. I thank the Commissioners for their remarkable efforts and commend them for issuing such a thought-provoking plan of action.
 
 