U.S., KAZAKHSTAN SIGN NUNN-LUGAR AGREEMENT AMENDMENT TO PREVENT BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS PROLIFERATION
  Today the United States and Kazakhstan signed an amendment to a bilateral agreement that will expand cooperation against the threat of bioterrorism through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. The goal of ongoing U.S.-Kazakhstan cooperation in this area is to counter the threat of bioterrorism and prevent proliferation of biological weapons technology, pathogens, and expertise at their source.  
   Nunn-Lugar assistance will have five key goals: (1) prevention of the proliferation of biological weapons expertise through the cooperative biological research program; (2) securing dangerous pathogens and strains by strengthening biosafety and biosecurity at facilities; (3) consolidation of dangerous pathogens at secure central repositories; (4) elimination of biological weapons-related equipment and infrastructure; and (5) fortification of Kazakhstan's biological threat agent detection and response system to protect against bioterror attacks. 
   "I applaud the work of the Department of Defense and the Administration in concluding this important work with the Government of Kazakhstan. I congratulate President Nazarbayev and his government on having joined Georgia and Uzbekistan in partnership with the United States to work toward successfully eliminating the risk of biological weapons and preventing bioterrorism. This is a critical step forward in addressing the threat posed by the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction." Lugar said. 
   Lugar visited Kazakhstan in August 2003 to discuss the need for strong cooperation in the areas of biological weapons proliferation prevention and combating bioterrorism. During his visit, Lugar met with Kazakhstani officials in Almaty and toured the Kazakh Science Center for Quarantine and Zoonotic Diseases, a former Soviet anti-plague institute currently engaged in public health research. 
   Lugar urged Kazakhstani leaders to sign this amendment and announced that the Nunn-Lugar Program plans to build a diagnostic reference laboratory and infectious disease surveillance system to improve Kazakhstan's ability to detect, diagnose, and respond to natural and bioterrorist infectious disease outbreaks. 
   The Amendment raised the amount of funding that will be spent on biological weapons proliferation prevention projects in Kazakhstan by approximately $35 million. Part of this effort involves the joint study of dangerous pathogens for the purpose of developing medical countermeasures to better protect our populations from dreaded infectious diseases. Through this program the U.S. and Kazakhstan will develop and test new molecular diagnostics and therapies to cure endemic diseases in Central Asia.
   Contact: Casey Aden-Wansbury, 202/224-4041.
 
 