SENATE PASSES HUNGER FREE COMMUNITIES ACT
Sen. Dick Lugar announced Senate passage of the Hunger Free Communities Act, which would result in better analysis of domestic hunger and strengthen local efforts to address hunger through competitive grants to organizations, such as food banks. Lugar introduced the bill in May 2005 with Sens. Dick Durbin (D-IL), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) and Gordon Smith (R-OR).  
 "Each citizen can make an important contribution to the fight against hunger at a local level. Demand on food banks has been rising, and this legislation would help alleviate the increased burden by allowing food banks to identify unique ways to serve their communities with federal assistance," Lugar said. 
 "Over the years, I have visited numerous Hoosier food banks and have been especially impressed by the remarkable work of these organizations. In many cases, they are partnered with churches and faith-based organizations and making a tremendous difference in our communities. We should support this private sector activity, which not only feeds people, but also strengthens community bonds and demonstrates the power of faith, charity and civic involvement." 
 It is estimated that food banks provide meals to more than 23 million Americans and that 13 million children are hungry or at risk of hunger. 
 The legislation passed today compliments the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act also introduced by Lugar and passed by Congress in August 2006. This new law allows farmers and small business owners to receive a tax deduction for food products contributed to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters for donations from January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2007. Previously, this deduction was available only to large corporations, not small businesses. 
 Lugar has long supported Indiana food banks. He is currently partnered with Gleaners Food Bank of Indiana to host a food drive challenge for Indianapolis area corporations and community organizations. Gleaners Food Bank serves 29 counties in Central Indiana and is the largest food bank in the state. 
 Lugar is an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus. The Senate Hunger Caucus provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the world. Lugar joined the Hunger Caucus to further promote issues that he has long supported, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion.
 
 