SENS. BIDEN/LUGAR RESOLUTION CALLING ON INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO SUPPORT PEACEKEEPERS IN DARFUR PASSES SENATE
  Today, the Senate unanimously passed S. Res. 432, a bipartisan resolution on Darfur sponsored by Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Joseph R. Biden, Jr. (D-DE) and Ranking Member Richard G. Lugar (R-IN). This resolution, cosponsored by 35 Senators, urges the members of the international community, including the United States, to step up to fill a critical need in equipping the joint United Nations-African Union peacekeeping force, namely, 24 tactical and utility helicopters. It also calls on President Bush to personally intervene by contacting other heads of state to ask them to commit these aerial vehicles. 
  On December 31st, the United Nations and the African Union jointly assumed control of the peacekeeping mission in Darfur. While the United Nations Security Council has authorized over 26,000 peacekeepers, just over 9,000 are on the ground in Darfur. Sudanese obstruction, including an attack on a U.N. convoy, has delayed deployment, but the failure of nations possessing the necessary tactical and utility helicopters to commit vehicles and crews also endangers the mission. United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has called these helicopters indispensable in order to transport and protect peacekeepers and allow them to carry out their mission. According to press reports, the governments of Ethiopia and Bangladesh are discussing the matter with the United Nations in an effort to help meet this urgent need. Other countries must do their part as well: the peacekeepers in Darfur need the full complement of 24 helicopters. 
  "We cannot allow genocide and suffering to continue because the combined nations of the world cannot find 24 helicopters to help stop it," said Senator Biden. "The United States has led the world in efforts to provide assistance to the people of Darfur. We should continue to lead the world now by providing the equipment or personnel that are needed to ensure the success of the peacekeeping mission. We must make sure that the United Nations and African Union mission have the tools that they need to stop the genocide in Darfur." 
  "We must be steadfast in our commitment, as was mandated in the UN resolution, to intervene together in this humanitarian and human rights catastrophe," U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar said. "The recent regional instability suggests a narrowing opportunity for the international community to make a difference. As the rainy season approaches the difficult task becomes harder still."
  "Preventing genocide is a global responsibility. Too often the world has failed to keep this commitment, and it has failed Darfur for too long. We cannot allow the government of Khartoum to block deployment of the 26,000 peacekeepers, but it would be even more criminal if the international community refuses to provide the peacekeepers with the equipment and vehicles that they need. I thank my colleagues for joining me in urging the United States and the rest of the international community to provide the helicopters needed to save lives in Darfur," said Sen. Biden.
 
 