U.S. SENATE PASSES RESOLUTION TO CONGRATULATE THE COLTS ON THEIR SUPER BOWL WIN
  Last night, the United States Senate passed by unanimous consent S. RES. 75 introduced yesterday by U.S. Sens. Dick Lugar and Evan Bayh to congratulate the Indianapolis Colts on their victory in Super Bowl XLI in Miami. 
   "Like so many of my fellow Hoosiers, I have enjoyed cheering on the Colts since the Irsay family brought them to Indianapolis almost a quarter of a century ago. Over the years Colts Owner and CEO Jim Irsay and President Bill Polian have brought together a remarkable group of dedicated professionals such as Tony Dungy and players who through their hard work and dedication to community service are a credit to the Colts organization, the City of Indianapolis, and the State of Indiana," said Lugar.  
   "Special recognition should be given to Tony Dungy as the first head coach of African American descent to lead his team to victory in the Super Bowl. I have enjoyed following Coach Dungy's remarkable leadership and appreciate the example he sets for all Hoosiers," continued Lugar. 
   "It is rare in today's sports world that an organization carries itself with such character and class - on and off the field," Senator Bayh said. "Throughout the year, the Colts battled week after week, fighting uphill, and never buckling under the pressure. Their conduct this season should be an example for all other teams - not an exception. Tony Dungy, with his historic win, along with Peyton Manning, Jim Irsay and the entire Colts team and organization are a testament to what professional athletes should be." 
   The full text of the resolution follows: 
   Congratulating the Indianapolis Colts on their victory in Super Bowl XLI
   Whereas on Sunday, February 4, 2007, the Indianapolis Colts defeated the Chicago Bears by a score of 29-17 to win Super Bowl XLI; 
   Whereas Colts owner and chief executive officer Jim Irsay and the Irsay family have worked to build the Colts organization not only into a championship caliber team, but also a group dedicated to service in communities across the State of Indiana; 
   Whereas Tony Dungy is the first head coach of African-American descent to lead a team to victory in the Super Bowl; 
   Whereas Peyton Manning, having thrown for 247 yards and made 1 touchdown, was named the game's Most Valuable Player; 
   Whereas the Colts' defense and special teams were able to force 5 turnovers and to limit the Bears to 17 points; 
   Whereas Colts President Bill Polian, widely considered the "architect" of much of the Colts' recent success, and the Colts management have assembled a group of players and coaches that has worked together to win 4 straight championships in the Southern Division of the American Football Conference; 
   Whereas the Colts' regular season record of 12-4 marks the team's fourth straight year with at least twelve wins, and makes the Colts only the second team to achieve such consistent success in the history of the National Football League; 
   Whereas the Colts are committed community leadership, working to help those in Indiana communities who are disadvantaged and underserved, through the generosity of the Irsay family and player groups such as the Peyback Foundation and D.R.E.A.M. Alive, Inc.; 
   Whereas tens of thousands of fans braved bitterly cold temperatures to line the streets of Indianapolis, Indiana for a victory parade and the rally that followed in the RCA Dome; and
   Whereas Hoosiers from across Indiana and the Nation have rallied together to cheer the Colts not just for winning, but for winning the right way, with dignity and professionalism: Now, therefore, be it
   Resolved, That the Senate congratulates the Indianapolis Colts on their victory in Super Bowl XLI.
 
 