SEN. LUGAR ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG SESSIONS FOR 2006
  Sen. Dick Lugar is joining once again with AARP Indiana to educate Hoosiers about prescription drug coverage plans available through Medicare. 
   Effective January 1, 2006, all 880,545 Medicare beneficiaries living in Indiana are eligible for prescription drug coverage through a Medicare-approved plan. In exchange for an average monthly premium of approximately $32, individuals who currently pay full retail price for prescription drugs will be able to cut their drug costs roughly in half. Low-income individuals will receive additional protections.
   The prescription plan is voluntary. Many Medicare beneficiaries already have prescription coverage equal to or greater than the coverage offered under the new prescription drug program. These individuals will be allowed to retain their current policies without change. However, Medicare beneficiaries with limited or no prescription coverage currently have the opportunity to choose from a variety of plans to determine what best meets their needs.
   Medicare beneficiaries in Indiana who choose a stand-alone plan can get coverage for as little as $12.30 a month. Many plans in Indiana also offer coverage with reduced or no deductible. Other plans offer coverage that goes beyond Medicare's coverage limits.
   Hoosiers wishing to enroll in a Medicare program must sign-up by May 15, 2006 to avoid paying a penalty.
   Information is available at the Medicare website: http://www.Medicare.gov or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE. The Indiana Senior Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP) is also available to provide guidance at 1-800-452-4800.
   Lugar's office and AARP Indiana will host the following information sessions on the new Medicare prescription drug program. While registration is not required to attend these sessions, seating is limited. To reserve a seat, please call toll-free 1-877-926-8300 one week before the event. Questions? Contact Bill Gibson in Senator Lugar's Indianapolis office at 317-226-5555.
   Table omitted (The document can be viewed at: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=251310)
 
 