GEORGIA NEEDS OUR SUPPORT NOW, SEN. LUGAR SAYS
  Democracy has advanced substantially in the last year with the Rose Revolution in Georgia and the Orange Revolution in Ukraine, and U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar says the United States is committed to stand with people that step up to the challenges of democracy as they have in these countries. 
   Lugar was asked by President Bush to represent the United States at the funeral of Prime Minister Zurab Zhvania, Republic of Georgia, on Sunday, February 6. Lugar introduced in the Senate today a resolution commemorating Zhvania's life.  
   Zhvania died February 3, apparently killed by carbon monoxide from a faulty heater. Zhvania was a major force in the Rose Revolution a year ago and a continued stabilizing force in the new government. Georgia, strategically located between Turkey and Russia on the Black Sea, was under Russian domination until the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. 
   It is the second time in less than three months that President Bush has asked Lugar to represent the United States in the region. Lugar was the president's envoy to the November 21, 2004, Ukraine run-off election. 
   President Bush wrote in his letter to Georgian President Saakashvili that Prime Minister Zurab Zhvania would be remembered as one of the great figures in the modern history of the ancient land of Georgia. 
   "Zurab Zhvania was a pioneer of democracy. His pursuit of freedom, human dignity, and peace reflected the aspirations of the peoples of Georgia, Ukraine, and all those who thirst for liberty around the globe. His leadership of Georgia's groundbreaking reforms and fight against corruption translated the fervor of the 'Rose Revolution' into the noble labor of good governance. He articulated the strategic ambitions of millions of his fellow Georgians a few years ago when he declared proudly, 'I am a Georgian, therefore I am a European,'" Lugar said. 
   "Zhvania's legacy lives on with his co-leaders of the 'Rose Revolution,' President Mikheil Saakashvili, and Parliamentary Speaker Nino Burjanadze," Lugar said. "During our meeting last weekend in Tbilisi, President Saakashvili stressed his full commitment to continue his policies, as overseen by Prime Minister Zhvania, of deepened reforms and peaceful negotiations to settle Georgia's separatist conflicts. Speaker Burjanadze echoed this vision. The South Ossetia peace plan developed by Prime Minister Zhvania and presented to the European Parliament two weeks ago by President Saakashvili, outlines a breakthrough formula to preserve Georgia's territorial integrity while offering the region unprecedented autonomy. 
   "Georgia needs our support now to realize its goals of peaceful reintegration, inclusion in the transatlantic family, and improving relations with Russia," Lugar said. 
   Lugar last saw Zhvania on December 6, 2004, in Washington, DC when they both received the National Democratic Institute's W. Averell Harriman Democracy Award, for their dedication to democracy and human rights. Lugar had met with him on several other occasions in the United States and Georgia, going back to Lugar's visit to Georgia in August 1998. "His death is a great loss for Georgia, for the United States and for the community of democratic nations," Lugar said. 
   Lugar was also in Georgia last August when he broke ground for the new Central Pathogen Storage Facility in Tbilisi. The facility will secure dangerous pathogens that were used in former Soviet Union bio-weapons programs, and now, under the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program, are part of joint international scientific research. 
   "Georgia's Center for Disease Control scientists, in partnership with U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID), including personnel from Walter Reed Hospital, and other international scientists, are making significant contributions to public health and disease surveillance. This is a shining example of international cooperation advancing science and improving the quality of life," Lugar said then. 
   Georgia has several endemic diseases that will be the focus of the research and prevention work, including tularemia, anthrax, visceral leishmaniasis, tick-borne encephalitis, and West Nile. Work has also been done on reducing food-borne illnesses. 
   In August, Lugar also visited the Institute of Radiobiology, where the United States has secured radioactive materials that could have been used to make "dirty bombs." Georgia also had enriched uranium that was removed by the 1998 Nunn-Lugar Operation Auburn Endeavor. The Nunn-Lugar secure storage facility is now being constructed on the same site. 
   Lugar also met with security and legislative leaders involved in the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   "To combat the WMD threat in the former Soviet Union, our country has implemented the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. Since enactment in late 1991, Nunn-Lugar has devoted American technical expertise and money for joint efforts to safeguard and destroy materials and weapons of mass destruction," Lugar said. 
   To date, the weapons systems deactivated or destroyed by the United States under these programs include: 6,564 nuclear warheads; 568 ICBMs; 477 ICBM silos; 17 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 142 bombers; 761 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 420 submarine missile launchers; 543 submarine launched missiles; 28 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   More information at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.html.
 
 