SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES RESOLUTION ON GLOBAL HIV VACCINE ENTERPRISE
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar commended President Bush's leadership and the G-8's endorsement of a Global HIV Vaccine Enterprise. Sen. Lugar introduced S.Res. 398, a resolution urging the G-8 to continue to cooperate with other countries, especially those affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, to achieve the goal of an HIV vaccine.  
   "An estimated 40,000,000 people around the world live with HIV or AIDS, and nearly 8,500 people die every day from AIDS," said Lugar. Also alarming are the recent projections by the World Health Organization and UNAIDS that there will be 45 million new infections by 2010 and nearly 70 million deaths by 2020, if the pandemic spreads at the current rate.
   "The HIV/AIDS pandemic is unlike any disease in history and has profound implications for political stability, development, and human welfare. The sheer magnitude of the crisis is overwhelming."
   Modeled after the Human Genome Project, the Enterprise would bring together public and private sector researchers to map the human genetic code and coordinate the efforts of scientists to accelerate the development an HIV vaccine.
   "An HIV vaccine would prevent new HIV and AIDS cases, which could save millions of lives and dramatically reduce the negative social and economic consequences of the disease," Lugar said.
   Developing an HIV vaccine is especially challenging because of the complicated and changing nature of the virus and the lack of investment in the vaccine by the private biotechnology firms.
   Lugar and U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator Randy Tobias were presented the Spirit of Motorbike Angels Award by the AIDS Responsibility Project at the Washington debut of "Stepping Up: America Responds to Global AIDS," a documentary highlighting the pandemic in Africa and U.S. humanitarian response, for their efforts involving the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.
   Lugar also recently introduced the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act of 2004 and has been the sponsor of the Global HIV/AIDS Initiative and the Global School Lunch Program.
 
 