SEN. LUGAR ISSUES STATEMENT ON U.N. IRAQ RESOLUTION
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar made the following statement after the United Nations unanimously approved the United States' resolution regarding Iraq.  
   I was most pleased to hear this afternoon's news from the United Nations in New York. It is a tremendous step in the long march toward a truly stable, free and sovereign Iraq. 
   I applaud today's unanimous vote by the Security Council, and I join with the members of the world community, in - to quote the opening lines of the resolution state - "Welcoming the beginning of a new phase in Iraq's transition to a democratically elected government and looking forward to the end of the occupation and the assumption of full responsibility and authority by a fully sovereign and independent Interim Government of Iraq." 
   The resolution endorses the timetable for Iraq's political transition that will result in democratic elections no later than January 31, 2005 leading to a transitional national assembly. This assembly will have the task of drafting a new constitution which will then lead to the election of an Iraqi government in December 2005. 
   With the Security Council speaking once again with a unanimous voice on Iraq, we can put behind us the hand-wringing and finger-pointing that has hindered the world community's full involvement in rebuilding Iraq, a nation whose future holds great promise, but whose present is mired in an instability that is being capitalized upon by nefarious actors from within and without the borders of Iraq. 
   The United Nations' involvement in Iraq has been sorely missed since the tragic bombing of their Baghdad headquarters last August. I am hopeful that this resolution will bring their expertise back into Iraq, especially in setting up elections, as called for in the resolution. I believe that this resolution should go a long way to encouraging individual member states, who have been thus far too reluctant to participate in visible ways, to contribute security forces, send aid workers and offer financial backing for debt reduction, reconstruction and stabilization. 
   The letters annexed to the Resolution from Prime Minister Allawi and Secretary Powell clearly establish both the desire of the Iraqi Interim Government for the continued presence of the Multinational Force, and more importantly, the collaborative nature of the relationship that we have envisioned and that must exist between the Multinational Force and the Interim Iraqi Government. I am also pleased that that Secretary Powell laid out the roles and obligations of the MNF with respect to the Iraqi security apparatus and makes clear that the MNF will provide security for the UN headquarters in Iraq and their personnel. 
   To conclude, this resolution is a milestone in the evolution of Iraq from a totalitarian dictatorship to the newest member of in the fold of democratic nations.
 
 