REP. SOUDER, SEN. LUGAR RE-INTRODUCE BILL TO LIMIT AMATEUR SPORTS LIABILITY
  Sen. Dick Lugar joined fellow Hoosier Rep. Mark Souder in re-introducing the Nonprofit Athletic Organization Protection Act of 2005. This bill would limit the liability of non-profit, volunteer organizations that organize sports events and leagues.  
   "Some trial lawyers are threatening our kids' amateur sporting leagues, because they profit off the fact that physical activity carries inherent risk, and no rule book-no matter how many lawyers scrutinize it-can prevent that. Such lawyers have persistently driven up the insurance premiums of non-profit rule-making associations, which are forced to pass on the costs through fees to families with participating children. Our legislation will implement some common-sense lawsuit abuse reform by helping to protect non-profit, amateur athletic associations from questionable lawsuits," Souder said. 
   "Over the last several years, more and more of these rule making bodies have become targets for lawsuits seeking to prove that the rule maker was negligent in making the rules of play. These lawsuits claim that had a different rule been in place, the injury would not have happened. Indeed, these suits place rule makers into a Catch-22. A child can be injured in almost any situation no matter how a rule is written. The result has been to have more lawsuits," Lugar said. "I appreciate the leadership of my friend and fellow Hoosier Mark Souder on this legislation because the ability for children to participate in sporting events provides our society many benefits that government cannot provide. Studies have shown that these benefits include betterment to a child's health, academic performance, social development and safety." 
   Groups such as the Boys and Girls Club, the National Council of Youth Sports, the National Federation of State High School Associations, and others exist largely to establish rules in order to minimize the risk of injury children face while participating in sports. However, regardless of how well these organizations perform their work, participants still risk injury. 
   Lawsuits may be maintained if the rule-maker was grossly negligent or engaged in criminal or reckless misconduct.
 
 