SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES PREMATURITY PREVENTION BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar yesterday introduced the "Prevent Prematurity and Improve Child Health Act" with Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-AR). The bill would expand and coordinate research on the prevention of preterm birth and the most effective care for preterm babies. 
   "The rise in premature births throughout the country and in Indiana - despite all of our achievements in medicine - is astounding," said Lugar. "Nearly 13 percent of Indiana's infants are born preterm and in half of the cases, doctors cannot identify the cause. Prematurity/low birth weight is the leading cause of infant death in the first month of life." 
   According to the March of Dimes, 1,367 premature babies are born every day in the United States - one in eight babies - and thirteen babies die every day as a result of prematurity/low birth weight. Since 1983, premature births in the U.S. have risen nearly 30%. 
   "Many of these infants will suffer lifelong health problems - such as cerebral palsy, mental retardation, chronic lung disease, and vision and hearing loss - and some will die," Lugar said. "Reducing the number of premature births will improve the health of hundreds of thousands of infants born each year." 
   In addition to these human costs, the Institute of Medicine estimates that the medical care services for preterm infants in the U.S. was $16.9 billion in 2005. The annual societal cost for the same year (medical, educational and lost productivity) from birth through early childhood associated with preterm birth was at least $26.2 billion, according to the Institute of Medicine. 
   Lugar's legislation would improve Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP) to better reflect current knowledge of preterm birth. 
   "Medical research tells us that smoking is a considerable risk factor for preterm and low birthweight infants," said Lugar. "Our bill takes this knowledge and translates it into practice by ensuring that smoking cessation services and pharmaceuticals are available for pregnant women enrolled in Medicaid." 
   Lugar and his wife Char are strong supporters of the March of Dimes, an organization committed to improving the health of babies by preventing birth defects, premature birth and infant mortality. Mrs. Lugar, a former member of the national board of directors of the March of Dimes, established an endowed fund for fighting birth defects and infant deaths. The fund includes support for prenatal care provided aboard the "MOM mobile," which tours Indianapolis neighborhoods.
 
 