SCHOOL FOOD SERVICE WORKER RECEIVES SEN. LUGAR AWARD
  On Saturday, March 12, 2005, Tracy Huser of Fishers, Indiana, will receive the Sen. Richard G. Lugar Award for the School Food Service Employee of the Year. 
   This annual award, administered by the Indiana Department of Education, recognizes outstanding contributions to school food service. Now in its eighth year, the program provides a formal recognition for dedicated school service workers all over Indiana. 
   "Throughout my service in the United States Senate, I have worked to make nutritious food available to school children in Indiana and around the country," said Lugar. "Hoosier food service employees are important to ensuring that the legislative intent we establish in Congress translates into food for Indiana's children. Food service workers have a profound impact in the development of young people." 
   Huser is the cafeteria manager at Fishers Elementary School in Hamilton Southeastern Schools, Fishers. She was nominated by her principal, Ms. Patricia Bittinger Mansfield, who cited dedication to her job and Fishers' students as central reasons for Huser's nomination. 
   Lugar is very active in the development of child nutrition policy. He has been recognized for this commitment by many child nutrition groups and is credited with preserving valuable programs for children by stopping school lunch block grants in 1996. Additionally, this year he has introduced the Good Samaritan Hunger Relief Tax Incentive Act, which would make it easier for farmers and small business owners to contribute products to food banks, pantries and homeless shelters by allowing the deduction of the full market value of food donated. Currently, this reduction is available to large corporations, but not small businesses. 
   Lugar is also an inaugural member of the Senate Hunger Caucus, which has 33 members. The Senate Hunger Caucus provides a forum for Senators and staff to discuss and debate important hunger issues facing the United States and the rest of our world. Lugar plans to use the Hunger Caucus to promote issues that he has long supported, such as incentives to promote charitable food donation, elimination of childhood hunger, foreign food aid, and health promotion.
 
 