SEN. LUGAR RECOGNIZES INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar (R-IN) today introduced a resolution in the Senate to commemorate March 8, 2006, as "International Women's Day" and to call attention to the work that remains to be done to guarantee the basic human rights of women around the world. 
   "International Women's Day is a day on which we celebrate the progress of women and rededicate ourselves to overcoming the inequities that they face around the globe," said Lugar. "Almost one hundred years ago, when the first International Women's Day was celebrated, women in this country and in Europe were fighting for the right to vote and to participate fully in the political process.  
   "Today, nearly one hundred years later, we can celebrate the fact that, in the United States and Europe, many of these barriers have been broken down, and that women now not only vote, but participate in our government at its highest levels. In the past year, we have seen historic elections in Afghanistan and Iraq, where women were voters and candidates. In Kuwait, women are now able to vote and run for parliament. Voters in Liberia have elected the first female head of state in Africa, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, and Chile is just days away from the inauguration of Michele Bachelet, the country's first female president. 
   "Despite these accomplishments, in many places around the world, women are still fighting for their basic rights. Often, especially in developing countries, women and girls lack full political, academic, and economic equality. Two-thirds of the estimated 875 million illiterate adults in the world are women. Girls frequently continue to be denied access to primary education, and constitute the majority of the estimated 121 million children around the globe who do not attend school," continued Lugar. 
   "The lives and health of women and girls continue to be particularly vulnerable to violence. Women are trafficked across international borders for forced labor, domestic servitude, and sexual exploitation. In armed conflict situations and other humanitarian emergencies, women and children risk a range of abuses including sexual exploitation, trafficking and gender-based violence. 
   "The HIV/AIDS crisis is particularly devastating to women and girls. Women now account for one-half of all HIV and AIDS cases, and in sub-Saharan Africa, young girls aged 15 through 24 are three times more likely to be infected with HIV than young men. Not only are women and girls more vulnerable to infection, they are also shouldering much of the burden of caring for sick and dying relatives and friends. In addition, in the vast majority of cases, they are the caretakers of the estimated 14 million children who have been orphaned by this pandemic. Often, widows and orphans have difficulties asserting their inheritance rights, even when those rights are spelled out in law. This often leaves the most vulnerable women and children impoverished and homeless. 
   "International Women's Day is a day for each of us to reflect upon the remarkable progress that women around the world have made, and to remember that much remains to be done." 
   In 2005, Lugar co-sponsored with Senator Biden the Protection of Vulnerable Populations During Humanitarian Emergencies Act of 2005, which the Committee on Foreign Relations supported as an amendment to the Foreign Affairs Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2006 and 2007. The bill would ensure that U.S. foreign assistance programs are a force for protecting women, children, and other vulnerable populations in the wake of military conflict and natural disasters. 
   On November 8, 2005, President Bush signed the Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act of 2005 into law. The bill was the companion to Lugar's S. 350 introduced in February. The Assistance for Orphans Act requires the U.S. to develop a comprehensive strategy for providing assistance to orphans and vulnerable children and authorizes the president to support community-based organizations that provide for their basic care. It supports school lunch programs, improved school enrollment by eliminating school fees and inheritance rights of orphans and widows with children.
 
 