SEN. LUGAR STATEMENT ON FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE APPROVAL FOR SOUTHWEST INDIANA
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced Tuesday evening that President Bush has signed the State of Disaster Emergency Declaration for the State of Indiana as a result of a tornado, severe thunderstorms and extremely high winds that hit southern Indiana on November 6.  
   "I deeply appreciate President Bush's and FEMA's quick response to Governor Daniels' request for federal disaster assistance," Lugar said. "It is important that we commit ourselves to advancing a swift and strong recovery in this area and access to these funds and programs will help Hoosiers start the important process of rebuilding. I will continue to work closely with local and state officials to ensure assistance is obtained. Beyond the compelling humanitarian reasons for immediate action, a stable and prosperous southwestern Indiana is essential to the economic growth and prosperity of our State." 
   Hoosiers in the impacted counties of Vanderburgh and Warrick are eligible for individual assistance programs provided by the federal government. These programs include temporary housing assistance, disaster unemployment assistance, crisis counseling, individual and household assistance programs, and disaster loans. 
   To apply for assistance by phone, call 1-800-621-FEMA, which also has directions in Spanish. Individuals who are hearing impaired may call 1-800-955-8771. Individuals also may apply online at http://www.fema.gov/about/process/. 
   "Governor Daniels saw the need for federal assistance during his visit to Vanderburgh and Warrick counties on Sunday. Many homes and lives were destroyed and programs that provide temporary housing and financial assistance for immediate needs, will give families the necessary tools to regain stability," Lugar added. 
   Services provided by the Individual Assistance Program provides homeowners and renters with funds for rent for a temporary residence or provides temporary housing units when rental properties are not available. Applicants may be eligible for grants for needs caused by the disaster. These needs include medical, dental, funeral, transportation, and other expenses. The program also provides access to Small Business Administration Disaster Loans for business owners to repair or replace disaster-damaged property. 
   As Federal Emergency Management Agency personnel continue to assess damage, individual assistance may be provided for additional counties. 
   Senator Lugar wrote to President Bush and Acting Director R. David Paulison to support Governor Daniels' request for a major disaster declaration. Paulison is scheduled to visit the Evansville area on Wednesday, November 9, 2005. 
   For "Help After a Disaster," FEMA's guide to individuals and households in the event of a disaster, visit http://lugar.senate.gov.
 
 