SEN. LUGAR RECEIVES BISHOP JOHN T. WALKER DISTINGUISHED HUMANITARIAN SERVICE AWARD FROM AFRICARE
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar was presented the 2004 Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award on Friday, November 5, at the Africare Bishop Walker Dinner in Washington, D.C. for his service to international issues. 
   Founded in 1970, Africare is the oldest and largest African-American organization focused exclusively on African aid. Its programs focus principally on food security and agriculture as well as health and HIV/AIDS. Each year since 1992, Africare has recognized individuals for their distinguished service to Africa and to world development as well as their embodiment of the principles of peace, justice and multiracial harmony.  
   Lugar was recognized for his leadership in securing passage of the Anti-Apartheid Act in 1986 and his authorship of the original African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA). He has been the Senate sponsor of the Global HIV/AIDS Initiative and recently introduced legislation to provide assistance for orphans and vulnerable children in regions affected by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. His efforts to rid the world of weapons of mass destruction through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program were also acknowledged. 
   This year's co-recipient was Congressman Donald M. Payne (D-NJ). Speakers at the event included Secretary of State Colin Powell and David O'Reilly, Chairman and CEO of ChevronTexaco Corporation. 
   Past recipients include Archbishop Desmond Tutu (1992), President Nelson Mandela (1994), President Jimmy Carter (1996), and Bill and Melinda Gates (2003). 
   Below is the text of his acceptance speech: 
   I am deeply honored to share with my friend Donald Payne, the 2004 Bishop John T. Walker Distinguished Humanitarian Service Award. I am grateful to Africare for this generous recognition. The work of Africare has exemplified the commitment, creativity, and optimism that is required if we are to engage Africa as a full partner in the international community. It is a special honor to receive an award that commemorates Bishop Walker, who brought so many people together in the service of justice and humanitarianism. It is also a great privilege to be joined on this occasion by Secretary of State Powell, whose leadership for freedom and justice has meant so much to our country and to people throughout the world. 
   This gathering is an extraordinary event in the annual political discourse of our nation. For here we are surrounded by fellow citizens of goodwill who are united in our concern for Africa and our desire that the United States be a constructive friend to the people of that continent. The fellowship of this evening is a reflection of what is possible and what should be. But even as we draw strength and energy from this celebration, we know that advocacy on behalf of Africa sometimes can seem like a lonely endeavor. Most of us in this room could site frustrating occasions when our messages, ideas, or observations about Africa have not been heard. 
   One such experience happened to me during my campaign for the 1996 Republican Presidential nomination. On February 19, 1995, I attended the New Hampshire Republican State Committee's kickoff event for the 1996 Presidential Primary. All nine prospective Republican candidates appeared at this event to deliver speeches outlining their priorities in front of C-SPAN cameras and an audience of New Hampshire Republican leaders. I decided to use this high-profile forum to raise concerns about Africa, along with other foreign policy issues. In my speech, I observed that whoever was elected President in 1996 must focus on the African continent, that Africa represented a remarkable opportunity, but had been "largely forgotten" by the United States. Political commentators were astonished by my inclusion of Africa as a Presidential priority. They noted that this address was supposed to attract activist supporters who would work for me in the critical state of New Hampshire. In their view, the prominent mention of Africa was evidence that my campaign suffered from an eccentric devotion to foreign policy that was completely at odds with the mission of running for President. 
   I cite this experience to illustrate that, in the past, U.S. policy towards Africa sometimes failed to capture the attention of the American electorate, media, or political establishment. With the exception of the brief period in the mid-1980s, when we engaged in a decisive national debate on the Anti-Apartheid Act, issues related to Africa did not ascend to the highest rank of American political consciousness. We noticed humanitarian crises, and often we responded generously. But, too often, Americans have seen Africa as a distant abstraction of poverty, disease, and conflict. 
   My message to you this evening is that this political atmosphere is changing. It is changing because of the hard work and devotion of many people in this room. It is changing because our nation understands more clearly in the post-September 11 world how our own well-being is connected to progress on the African continent. Americans are coming to understand that caring about the fate of Africa is no eccentricity. A stable and prosperous Africa can better cooperate on a range of shared concerns, from weapons proliferation and terrorism, to environmental challenges and contagious diseases. 
   These changing attitudes have bolstered the work of those in Congress who see Africa as a priority for action. With little fanfare, during the last several years we have been able to put in place the building blocks for sustained American engagement in Africa. 
   The latest victory on this front came quietly in July when both houses passed a new Africa trade bill, defying Capitol Hill wisdom that election-year gridlock would block the legislation. Last year when I introduced the Senate bill to extend the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act, called AGOA III, I urged speedy passage because we needed to meet a deadline to maintain special trading privileges for African textile makers that were set to expire. Otherwise, we risked snuffing out a burgeoning textile industry in Africa that relies on these privileges. 
   Thanks to AGOA, which has exempted 1,800 African products from U.S. tariffs and allowed garment makers in the poorest countries to qualify using Asian-made fabric, the African textile industry now employs tens of thousands of workers. Moreover, non-oil trade between the U.S. and Africa is expanding significantly. 
   Many colleagues doubted that we could pass the legislation in time. But we were able to keep it from getting bogged down with non-related items because Republicans and Democrats appreciated its humanitarian impact and its pro-trade virtues. The bill, signed at a White House ceremony by President Bush on July 13, offers millions of Africans renewed hope and economic opportunity. 
   Beyond AGOA, Congress has overcome other differences to work together for Africa. Last year we resolved sharp disagreements over organizational structure that threatened to impede legislation to create the Millennium Challenge Corporation. This bold new approach to aid will funnel extra assistance to developing countries that are making improvements in economic reform, promotion of the rule of law, and anti-corruption measures. 
   Eight African countries are among the first 16 candidates declared eligible for MCC funding, which builds on a key lesson of AGOA - namely, that private investment will flow to countries that create a stable, predictable investment climate. 
   Congress also pledged $15 billion over five years for the most serious crisis facing Africa, the HIV/AIDS pandemic. This disease has already killed 15 million people in sub-Saharan Africa, infected 25 million more, and left 12 million orphans. I have introduced additional legislation to address Africa's AIDS-orphan crisis, and a resolution supporting global cooperation on an HIV vaccine. Both measures have strong bipartisan support in Congress, and I am hopeful that they can be passed early next year or perhaps even this month. 
   In addition, Congress came together at an early date to declare the policies of the government of Sudan in Darfur to be genocide. President Bush and Secretary Powell are leading the international community to implement a stronger response to this tragedy. 
   The legislation Congress has enacted and the proposals underway have the potential to form the type of sustainable, comprehensive program that we have previously lacked. But enactment of a legislative framework for Africa is not an end in itself. These new programs must be nurtured so that they can put down enduring roots, and they must be carefully managed to ensure that they work well and enjoy strong support. Even more importantly, we need to build on this promising foundation. We should provide new incentives for private companies to invest in Africa, and step up efforts to see that the revenues from Africa's new oil boom will go to all of its citizens. We need to promote agricultural development. Wealthy countries must modify their own farm subsidies, so that Africans can both feed themselves and compete in a fair world market for exports. 
   Most African governments have seized opportunities to work with the United States, Europe, and other African nations to advance the welfare of their citizens. These leaders see that their responsibility extends to ensuring the stability and productivity of the region in which they live. The development of responsive regional organizations is evident in the growth of the Economic Community of West African States and the re-emergence of the African Union in addressing regional security. National leaders have made significant efforts to encourage peace and promote cooperation in conflict areas such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burundi, Sudan, and Liberia. African nations and leaders also have risen to confront the debilitating HIV/AIDS pandemic by sharing their own personal and national experiences with other nations facing similar challenges. Further, economic communities in western and southern Africa are developing the means to promote regional trade and development. The New Partnership for African Development and its African Peer Review Mechanism is a proactive initiative that has served to prioritize and coordinate mutual development across the continent. 
   The United States and the industrialized world must embrace Africa as a full partner within the international community. We must connect with individuals, communities, and nations throughout Africa. We must be motivated not just by moral obligation or the crisis of the moment, but by a sustained recognition of the opportunities in Africa and an understanding of how a strengthened Africa can strengthen the world. 
   I have confidence that Africa will be a region where development and cooperation are the hallmarks of our relationship. I thank each of you for your commitment to this goal, and I look forward to celebrating with you the achievements to come that we have charted here tonight.
 
 