GIBSON COUNTY MAN'S WWII PHOTOS ACCEPTED BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
  Sen. Dick Lugar announced that the Library of Congress has accepted the personal World War II photographic collection of William R. Wilson of Princeton. A formal acceptance ceremony has been scheduled for Thursday, November 10 at 11 a.m. at the Evansville Museum of Arts, History, and Science, 411 Riverside Drive in Evansville.  
   The Wilson collection includes over 1,300 black and white and color images taken during Wilson's service as an Army Signal Corps photographer during World War II. It also includes a lengthy reel of 16mm color movie film he shot during the North African and European campaigns, and personal essays written about his World War II journalistic experiences. His widely-published photograph of a German air raid over Oran, Algeria, was named one of the "26 Great Photographs of the War" by Folmer-Graflex. 
   "Throughout my military career, I was fortunate in being able to carry my own personal black and white, as well as color, cameras," Wilson explained. "I decided to keep a pictorial diary of people, places, events, or situations that I believed might be worth sharing with friends and family after the war ended". 
   After sharing his story for the Veterans History Project, Lugar assisted Wilson, 91, with locating an appropriate archive to house his World War II photographs, and the work he produced during a six-decade career as a freelance photojournalist. The Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., will house Wilson's "master photographer" collection upon the recommendation of the National Archives. Despite many offers, this collection has passed the scrutiny through which each of the many offers the Library receives. Dr. Jeremy Adamson, Chief of the Prints and Photographs Division at the Library of Congress will accept the collection personally on behalf of the Library. 
   "I am pleased that by participating in the Veterans History Project, Bill Wilson is now able to make such an important contribution to our nation's research and scholarship. These historically significant photographs will be invaluable to our understanding of World War II," Lugar said. 
   Lugar joined with the Library of Congress in the Veterans History Project in February 2002, and has submitted more interviews to the collection on behalf of Indiana than any other state. 
   The nearly 6,000 Lugar submissions account for almost 20 percent of the Library's entire Veterans History Project collection. The histories will be permanently archived by the Library of Congress and over time will be available for research and study. 
   The Library of Congress is the largest library in the world, with more than 130 million items on approximately 530 miles of bookshelves. The collections include more than 29 million books and other printed materials, 2.7 million recordings, 12 million photographs, 4.8 million maps, 5 million music items and 58 million manuscripts.
 
 