SENS. DORGAN, LUGAR UNVEIL LEGISLATION TO BOOST RENEWABLE ENERGY INDUSTRY
  U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Richard Lugar (R-IN) have introduced legislation (S.2306) that would boost the renewable fuels industry by making ethanol fuel - and vehicles that can use it - more widely available to Americans. 
  The Dorgan-Lugar bill will complement legislation passed recently by the U.S. Senate that calls for refineries to produce and use 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels annually by 2022. The Dorgan-Lugar bill will require automakers to produce more "flex fuel" vehicles that can run on biofuels - starting with a benchmark of 50 percent of the auto fleet by 2012 and increasing gradually to 80 percent by 2015.
  At the same time, the bill will establish targets for the installation of E-85 or blender pumps and other infrastructure. It will also require the federal government to use renewable fuels whenever possible in its vehicle fleet.
  "As the price of oil goes up, it's becoming even more critical that we unlock new fuel supplies," Senator Dorgan said. "We have the ability to produce much of our fuel right here at home, but first there are some disconnects in the marketplace that we need to solve. This bill will set some aggressive goals to help move our renewable fuels industry forward and our nation toward energy independence."
  "Biofuels have the potential to make a major contribution to reduce U.S. dependence on foreign oil, but that potential will not be realized if constrained to the 10 percent blend market alone. Strong government leadership will help accelerate development and use of biofuels from diverse sources of biomass and municipal wastes available nation-wide that can complement today's corn-based ethanol production," Senator Lugar said. "Quick and wide-spread deployment of flex-fuel capable vehicles and E-85 ethanol blender pumps is a critical step in establishing the infrastructure necessary to enable markets for investors and give genuine fuel choice to American motorists."
  "Biofuels are one of the most promising ways we can curb our nation's over-dependence on fossil fuels and reduce greenhouse gas emissions," said Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) one of the bill's co-sponsors. "To make this transition a reality we need to make sure biofuel pumps and flexible fuel cars are available in order for this budding industry to thrive. That's why I'm pleased to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure we make the necessary infrastructure and technology investments so that biofuels are an accessible and affordable option for consumers nationwide."
  Cosponsors include Senators. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Larry Craig (R-ID), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN).
 
 