SEN. LUGAR'S STATEMENT ON WANGARI MAATHAI
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar made the following statement today on the selection of Wangari Maathai for the Nobel Peace Prize:  
   "I congratulate Professor Wangari Maathai on her selection to receive the 2004 Nobel Peace Prize. She follows in the tradition of 1970 Nobel Laureate Norman Borlaug as an extraordinary leader of sustainable development. She demonstrates that caring for the land, providing basic life necessities and empowering people can be powerful tools of peace. Like 1979 Nobel Laureate Mother Teresa of Calcutta, her remarkable work will now be well known around the world, and because of that recognition will be significantly advanced. 
   "I hope that the government of Kenya and other African nations that are inspired by Professor Maathai's leadership will assist her endeavors by taking full advantage of the Lugar-Biden Tropical Forest Conservation Act, which was extended just this week by President Bush. This program reduces a nation's debt in exchange for protecting tropical forests. Kenya is currently in negotiations with the U.S. State Department on an agreement. 
   "The U.S. is assisting Africa through the Millennium Challenge Corporation, the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act and the Global HIV/AIDS Initiative. Kenya is a threshold country for the Millennium Challenge Corporation, meaning it has made substantial progress on reforms needed to gain new assistance. It is eligible for AGOA and is a target country for the Global HIV/AIDS Initiative. 
   "All these initiatives can help improve lives and the plight of Africa, and Prof. Maathai's receipt of the Nobel Peace Prize will heighten and advance the world's assistance to the continent. 
   "Likewise, in the days prior to the Nobel Peace Prize announcement, there was significant worldwide recognition of the paramount importance of preventing weapons or materials of mass destruction from falling into the hands of terrorists, with a surge of new attention for the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program and the work of the International Atomic Energy Agency and its leader Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei. 
   "Hopefully, this attention will be important in the crucial multi-country talks now proceeding to resolve serious nuclear weapons issues in Iran and North Korea and to give timely support to countries that need assistance in securing and destroying weapons that jeopardize the continuity of life for millions of people around the world."
 
 