SEN. LUGAR: REDOUBLE SECURITY OF RUSSIAN WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today called on the United States and European governments to "redouble their efforts to assist Russia in securing the nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and materials left over from the Soviet era."  
   "President Putin has ordered the Russian military to increase security measures at nuclear weapons sites after the terrorist attack on the school in Beslan," Lugar said. "Chemical and biological laboratories and sites are even more vulnerable." 
   Lugar explained that just two years ago he toured a laboratory near Moscow where scientists were still growing anthrax spores. The windows were not locked and the security on the doors was limited to a string mounted with wax to report any break-ins, not to stop them. That lab is now secured through the Nunn-Lugar program that Lugar started with former Senator Sam Nunn in late 1991. 
   "There are still several biological and chemical weapons labs that we have not been able to secure," Lugar said. "We need to do everything possible to help the Russian government contain, control and eliminate these materials before terrorists steal and use them." 
   Lugar said he hoped the Russian government "will also address these issues with a greater sense of urgency" and that the Duma will quickly ratify an agreement to facilitate additional funding for Nunn-Lugar programs by the United States and European countries. 
   "While Washington is consumed over debates on intelligence reform, here is an issue that needs no debate," Lugar said. "We know where these dangerous materials are. We know that terrorists have the motivation and wherewithal to steal them. No more intelligence gathering is needed. We need to act." 
   To date, the weapons systems deactivated or destroyed by the United States under these programs include: 6,312 nuclear warheads; 537 ICBMs; 459 ICBM silos; 11 ICBM mobile missile launchers; 128 bombers; 708 nuclear air-to-surface missiles; 408 submarine missile launchers; 496 submarine launched missiles; 27 nuclear submarines; and 194 nuclear test tunnels. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. 
   More information at: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar.html.
 
 