SENATE PASSES U.S.-POLAND PARLIAMENTARY YOUTH EXCHANGE PROGRAM
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar (R-IN) announced Senate passage last night of S.2200, the United States-Poland Parliamentary Youth Exchange Program Act, which would establish an exchange program to demonstrate to American and Polish youth the benefits of friendly cooperation based on common political and cultural values.  
   "As a Rhodes Scholar, I had the opportunity to discover international education at Pembroke College - my first trip outside of the United States. The parameters of my imagination expanded enormously during this time, as I gained a sense of how large the world was, how many talented people there were, and how many opportunities one could embrace. Student exchange programs do more than benefit individual scholars and advance human knowledge. Such programs expand ties between nations, improve international commerce, encourage cooperative solutions to global problems, prevent war, and give participants a chance to develop a sense of global service and responsibility," said Lugar. 
   "The United States and Poland have enjoyed close bilateral relations since the end of the Cold War. Most recently, Poland has been a strong supporter, both diplomatically and militarily, of efforts led by the United States to combat global terrorism, and has contributed troops to the United States - led coalitions in both Afghanistan and Iraq. Poland also cooperates closely with the United States on such issues such as democratization, nuclear proliferation, human rights, regional cooperation in Eastern Europe, and reform of the United Nations. As a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union (EU), Poland has demonstrated its commitment to democratic values and is a role model in its region. 
   "I believe that it is important to invest in the youth of the United States and Poland in order to help ensure long-lasting ties between both societies. After receiving for many years international and U. S. financial assistance, Poland is now determined to invest its own resources toward attaining its shared desire with the United States to develop international cooperation. A youth exchange program is a terrific place to start," added Lugar. 
   The Senate also passed S.3722, a bill to authorize the transfer of navy vessels to certain foreign recipients, and S.2697, bill to establish the position of U.S. Ambassador for ASEAN Affairs, which Lugar introduced in May. The Bush Administration recently announced its decision to establish the position of U.S Ambassador for ASEAN Affairs.
 
 