NUNN-LUGAR ELIMINATES FINAL RUSSIAN SS-24 INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILES
  The Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program has completed the elimination of all SS-24 "scalpel" intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM) and supporting components. The destruction of the final missile was commemorated today at the destruction facility near Perm, Russia.
   "This is another important milestone in our 16 year effort to secure and dismantle the weapons of mass destruction of the former Soviet Union. The SS-24 ICBM posed a serious threat to the United States with its 10 independently targeted warheads and ability to be moved throughout the country by train," U.S. Sen. Dick Lugar said. 
   The SS-24 ICBM system consisted of 56 missiles: 14 silo-launched and 42 rail-mobile launched. Each ICBM carried 10 independently targeted nuclear warheads, each capable of destroying a city the size of Indianapolis, Indiana. With a range of more than 6,200 miles, the 42 rail-based weapons posed a serious threat because their mobility allowed them to be fired from nearly any location, without the ability to counterstrike attack.
   On August 17, 2003, Lugar visited the destruction site in Perm and announced the Nunn-Lugar program would begin destroying the rail-mobile weapons by unloading them from railcars in a building formerly used to load the cars and maintain the missiles. The rockets were then moved by isothermic rail cars to the facility where they were dismantled and the fuel burned out. He and Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) inspected destruction progress at the site on August 28, 2005. The base will continue to work on the destruction of truck-mobile SS-25 ICBMs.
   All of the SS-24 eliminations occurred in accordance with the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) and contributed to Russia's obligation to meet the Moscow Treaty's deployed nuclear warhead limits by 2012.
   In November 1991, Lugar (R-IN) and former Sen. Sam Nunn (D-GA) authored the Nunn-Lugar Act, which established the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. This program has provided U.S. funding and expertise to help the former Soviet Union safeguard and dismantle its enormous stockpiles of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, related materials, and delivery systems. In 2003, Congress adopted the Nunn-Lugar Expansion Act, which authorized the Nunn-Lugar program to operate outside the former Soviet Union to address proliferation threats. In 2004, Nunn-Lugar funds were committed for the first time outside of the former Soviet Union to destroy chemical weapons in Albania, under a Lugar-led expansion of the program.
   The Nunn-Lugar scorecard now totals 7,260 strategic nuclear warheads deactivated, 682 intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) destroyed, 496 ICBM silos eliminated, 119 ICBM mobile launchers destroyed, 625 submarine launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs) eliminated, 456 SLBM launchers eliminated, 30 nuclear submarines capable of launching ballistic missiles destroyed, 155 bomber eliminated, 906 nuclear air-to-surface missiles (ASMs) destroyed, 194 nuclear test tunnels eliminated, 382 nuclear weapons transport train shipments secured, upgraded security at 16 nuclear weapons storage sites, and built and equipped 13 biological monitoring stations. Perhaps most importantly, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result of cooperative efforts under the Nunn-Lugar program. Those countries were the third, fourth and eighth largest nuclear weapons powers in the world.
   Beyond nuclear, chemical and biological elimination, the Nunn-Lugar program has worked to reemploy scientists and facilities related to weapons of mass destruction in peaceful research initiatives. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs.
   On the web: The Nunn-Lugar program: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/
  The Nunn-Lugar scorecard: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/scorecard.html.
 
 