SEN. LUGAR ANNOUNCES AUGUST FOCUS ON ENERGY
  Sen. Dick Lugar will focus on energy in August with a trip that follows the route of Central Asian oil. The trip focuses on the perils of pumping petroleum from Kazakhstan, through the Caspian Sea, then overland through a pipeline crossing Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, to then be shipped from the Mediterranean to points of consumption around the world. 
   During the week of August 20, Lugar will meet with energy leaders in Kazakhstan, visit Caspian Sea oil rigs and view oil and gas transmission operations in Georgia. 
   Lugar's August will culminate with a major address at the Lugar-Purdue Summit on Energy Security on August 29th at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana (http://www.purdue.edu/energysummit/).  
   "Great expense and strategic planning has gone into moving the vast petroleum reserves from Central Asia to the rest of the world. This narrow petroleum corridor operates with Russia to the North, and Iran, Iraq and Syria to the South. It represents the extent the world is reaching for oil and natural gas and all the pitfalls that threaten that flow. The unexpected closure of the Alaska pipeline this week, causing a spike in prices, shows just how delicate this balancing act is," Lugar said. 
   "We still face many challenges in developing biomass ethanol and other new energies and technologies, but we must work aggressively to do that, because the strategic realities of oil are perilous," Lugar said. 
   Lugar noted that no new oil refineries have been built in the U.S. since the 1970's, while dozens of new U.S. ethanol refineries are under construction today. 
   Lugar will participate in an Aspen Institute conference on Russia during the week of August 15 in Krakow, Poland. Russia is second only to Saudi Arabia in production and exports of oil and has the world's largest reserve of natural gas. 
   A decade ago, Senator Lugar began pushing for a national biomass ethanol research program. Witnesses at Agriculture Committee hearings he chaired from 1996 to 1999 said this would be the most efficient method to produce ethanol. In 1999, Lugar and former CIA Director James Woolsey co-authored a seminal article that linked foreign policy and the high cost of securing foreign oil flowing to the United States with the development of homegrown ethanol derived from any form of cellulose ("The New Petroleum," Foreign Affairs). Lugar then authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. 
   In 2005, Lugar led 21 bipartisan Senators in introducing the Fuels Security Act to more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. This legislation laid the groundwork for the renewable fuels section of the energy bill that passed Congress in July 2005. 
   Throughout the 109th Congress, Lugar has cosponsored a host of bipartisan legislation to address U.S. dependence on foreign oil and to promote biofuels. Lugar has joined with Sens. Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Barack Obama (D-IL) in introducing the Fuel Security and Consumer Choice Act, S. 1994, that would require all U.S. marketed vehicles to be manufactured as FFVs within ten years. In addition, Lugar is an original cosponsor of Sen. Evan Bayh's bill, the Vehicle and Fuel Choices for American Security Act, S. 2025. This bill would provide for changes in oil conservation, new measures to improve fuel economy, tax credits for hybrid cars and advanced fuels, encourage use of renewable fuels, and set new regulations for federal fleets. 
   Lugar also introduced the Energy Diplomacy and Security Act, S. 2435, which would recognize energy security to be a foremost concern for United States national security and would realign U.S. diplomatic priorities to meet energy security challenges. 
   Lugar and Obama introduced the American Fuels Act, S. 2446, which would take a four-step approach to reducing America's dependence on foreign oil. First, the legislation would spur investment in alternative fuels by increasing the production of cellulosic biomass ethanol and create an Alternative Diesel Standard. Second, it would help increase consumer demand for alternative fuels by providing a short-term, 35 cents per gallon tax credit for E85 fuel and by providing automakers with a $100 tax credit for every FFV produced. Third, it would require the U.S. government to increase access to alternative fuels by requiring the government to allow public access to alternative fueling stations located on federal government property. Finally, it would create a Director of Energy Security to oversee and keep America focused on its goal of energy independence. 
   On the web: 
  Lugar's energy webpage: http://lugar.senate.gov/energy 
   While in the Republic of Georgia, Lugar will also visit biological and radiological sites being maintained by the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction program and a conventional weapons cache that underscores the need to pass the Lugar-Obama bill that extends the cooperative threat reduction concept to conventional armaments. Lugar will also travel to Albania to review progress in destroying chemical weapons under the first use of the Nunn-Lugar program outside the former Soviet Union. Lugar will also have meetings in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan on the progress of programs there. 
   In May, the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved, S. 2566, the Lugar-Obama Act. Modeled after the Nunn-Lugar program that focuses on weapons of mass destruction in the former Soviet Union, the bill was introduced by Lugar (R-IN) and Obama to expand the cooperative threat reduction concept to conventional weapons and to expand the State Department's ability to detect and interdict weapons and materials of mass destruction. 
   In November 1991, Lugar and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-GA) authored the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Act. This program has provided U.S. funding and expertise to help the former Soviet Union safeguard and dismantle its enormous stockpiles of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, related materials, and delivery systems. Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan are nuclear weapons free as a result this cooperative effort. They otherwise would be the world's the third, fourth and eighth largest nuclear weapons powers, respectively. 
   The Nunn-Lugar program has deactivated nearly 7,000 Russian nuclear warheads and related material and equipment. The program also secures and destroys chemical weapons, and works to reemploy scientists and facilities related to biological weapons in peaceful research initiatives. The International Science and Technology Centers, of which the United States is the leading sponsor, have engaged 58,000 former weapons scientists in peaceful work. The International Proliferation Prevention Program has funded 750 projects involving 14,000 former weapons scientists and created some 580 new peaceful high-tech jobs. 
   On the web: 
  Nunn-Lugar Program: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/
 
 