STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM REPORT SHOWS NUMBER OF UNINSURED CHILDREN DECLINING
  Sen. Dick Lugar welcomed the news in a report released today by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation that the number of uninsured children in America has decreased 20 percent since the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) was created by Congress in 1997 to provide health coverage to low-income children. Lugar has been a long-time supporter of legislation to expand health coverage for children and in 1999 authored legislation, which allowed schools and school districts to share school lunch program information with state health insurance agencies for outreach and enrollment activities. He has continued to cosponsor bills in the 109th Congress, which seek to increase health coverage among uninsured, low-income children. 
   "Congress created the Children's Health Insurance Program in 1997 to provide essential health insurance coverage to needy children. The report released today shows the important strides SCHIP is making," said Lugar. "Although we made progress with passage of the Lugar-Carson Access to Children's Health Insurance Program Act in 1999, more needs to be done to give states the option of using income and resource eligibility determinations made under other government programs to fast-track enrollment under SCHIP and Medicaid.  
   "Many children eligible for school lunches are also eligible to receive health care under the Children's Health Insurance Program. The difficulty comes when red tape and bureaucracy prevent the sharing of information between the two programs. 
   "It is important that we give states greater flexibility in the ways they can enroll uninsured children by eliminating duplicative multi-agency efforts to collect and verify income and resource eligibility. Census data shows that nearly 8.3 million children remain uninsured, and experts estimate that more than 70 percent of these children are likely eligible for coverage under SCHIP or Medicaid. It is unfortunate that these children remain uninsured largely due to lack of information about the program," said Lugar. 
   While the report also shows a 5 percent decline in the number of children covered through private health insurance, it documents an increase in public coverage programs, resulting in an overall net increase in the number of insured children. 
   Since SCHIP programs began, at least 5 million more children now have public coverage, a 31 percent increase in enrollment in public health coverage programs. In Indiana the percentage of children enrolled in public coverage since 1997-98 has increased 132 percent. 
   Additional findings of the report include: 
   * Uninsured children are twice as likely not to receive any medical care in a given year, compared to children with insurance 
   * More than one in three uninsured children do not have a personal doctor or nurse 
   In 1999, 67 percent of low-income uninsured children were in families that received benefits through Food Stamps, the National School Lunch Program or the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC). Based on this data, Lugar and Rep. Julia Carson (D-IN) introduced the Lugar-Carson Access to Children's Health Insurance Program Act that allowed schools and school districts to share school lunch information with state health insurance agencies to identify and enroll children eligible for SCHIP and Medicaid. This bipartisan bill was included in the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 passed by Congress on May 25, 2000, and signed into law by the President. 
   This provision inspired numerous states to share information with Medicaid and SCHIP for the purposes of enrollment and outreach. Some states and communities also simplified the health insurance application process by utilizing information provided in another program application to make the eligibility or renewal determination for Medicaid and/or SCHIP. 
   An opportunity still exists for states to determine that a child is income eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP based on the fact that they have already been found eligible for nutrition or other comparable programs that operate under similar financial guidelines. While some states have pursued this option, they have found federal law not flexible enough. 
   To address these issues, Lugar introduced the Children's Express Lane to Health Coverage Act of 2005 with Sen. Jeff Bingamen (D-NM) which would amend the Social Security Act to give states the option of determining that Medicaid or State Children's Health Insurance financial eligibility is satisfied when a family presents evidence that their child is already enrolled in a program with comparable income guidelines. Those programs include the National School Lunch Program, the Food Stamp Program, the Summer Feeding Program and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC). 
   Lugar also cosponsored the Covering Kids Act of 2005 that would increase health coverage among uninsured, low-income children. This bill would provide grants to states, faith-based organizations, safety net providers, schools, and other community and non-profit organizations to conduct innovative Medicaid and S-CHIP outreach and enrollment efforts. Grants may also be used to promote the understanding of the important role that health insurance coverage plays in ensuring quality health care for pregnant women and children. 
   "The State of Kids' Coverage" report was released by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and prepared by the State Health Access Date Assistance Center at the University of Minnesota based on analysis of data from the U.S. Census Bureau and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics. 
   SCHIP programs exist in every state and the District of Columbia. Eligibility is based on family size and income. Parents can call toll-free 1 (877) KIDS-NOW to determine if their children qualify for SCHIP or Medicaid. 
   The full report is available at: http://coveringkidsandfamilies.org/
 
 