SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES BILL TO SHIELD MEDIA
  Sen. Dick Lugar today introduced the Free Flow of Information Act to protect reporters against revealing confidential sources. This bill would set national standards for subpoenas issued to reporters by an entity or employee of the Federal Government. Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives last week.  
   "It is important that we ensure reporters certain rights and abilities to seek sources and report appropriate information without fear of intimidation or imprisonment," Lugar said. "Without such protection, many whistleblowers will refuse to step forward and reporters will be disinclined to provide our constituents with the information that they have a right to know. Promises of confidentiality are essential to the flow of information the public needs about its government." 
   During 2004, many members of the media faced subpoenas and/or threats of confinement in federal jurisdictions for refusing to disclose confidential sources. 
   "I appreciate the leadership of my friend and fellow Hoosier Mike Pence in introducing this important bill in the House. His background as a broadcaster, lawyer and free speech advocate make him the ideal originator of it," Lugar said. "After meeting with him today, I am convinced this is the right approach to move forward in the Senate as well." 
   This bill would follow closely the guidelines set forth by the Department of Justice in 1973 for issuing subpoenas to the news media and make those guidelines mandatory to provide protection against compelled disclosure of confidential sources. 
   Last year Congress passed legislation that Senator Lugar proposed that directed the State Department to increase and add greater focus to international initiatives to support the development of free, fair, legally protected and sustainable media in developing countries. The State Department and the National Endowment for Democracy have embraced this initiative and are now proceeding with its implementation.
 
 