SEN. LUGAR COSPONSORS RESOLUTION TO FACILITATE U.S. AGRICULTURAL SALE TO CUBA
  U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today cosponsored S.328, the Agricultural Products Export Facilitation Act of 2005, to help facilitate the sale of U.S. agricultural goods to Cuba under the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (TSREEA).  
   "There have been indications that TSREEA will be interpreted in a way that may serve to impede agricultural exports to Cuba, which is contrary to the original intent of the bill," said Lugar. "This would be a departure from current policy and undermine the benefits for U.S. farmers which the act has achieved." 
   In November 2004, the State Department and the Office of Foreign Assets and Control (OFEC) indicated they might impose regulations requiring payment in advance of loading and shipping goods to Cuba. Current practice has been for Cuba to pay for agriculture goods before transfer of title and release of physical control of goods to the seller. 
   "Cuba's geographic proximity to the U.S makes it an important market for U.S. exporters," said Lugar. "This bill will maintain significant economic benefits not only for the farmers in my home state of Indiana, but for farmers throughout the country." 
   In a study by the Cuba Policy Foundation, Indiana is listed as one of the top 20 U.S. states whose agriculture industry has potential benefits from trade with Cuba and would be adversely affected if such trade were curtailed. 
   Specifically this bill would clarify Congress' intent to legally sell agriculture goods, as authorized by the TSREEA, by defining "cash payment in advance" as receipt of payment before transfer of title and release of physical control of goods to the seller. 
   It would also address other TSREEA issues by: 
   * Authorizing the issuance of a general license for U.S. agriculture producers to travel to Cuba to sell, market, and finalize any sales or trade agreements; 
   * Authorizing direct payments to U.S. banks; and 
   * Expressing the Sense of the Congress on the need for expeditious issuance of temporary visas to Cuban nationals who, pursuant to TSREEA-authorized purchasing activities, need to inspect certain products (beef, poultry, livestock, barley, seed potatoes, etc.) prior to shipment of goods. 
   The legislation is authored by Senator Larry Craig (R-ID) and original cosponsors include Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Lincoln Chafee (R-RI), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Jim Talent (R-MO). 
   In December 2004, Lugar sent letters to then Secretary of State Colin Powell and to OFAC Director Robert Werner indicating his concern about this potential variation from the initial intent of TSREEA.
 
 