SEN. LUGAR RENEWS ENERGY WARNING IN REACTION TO RUSSIAN OIL CUTOFF
  Sen. Dick Lugar released the following statement today in reaction to Russia's decision to halt crude oil shipments to Belarus. The halt, in reaction to an ongoing dispute over duties and transit fees for oil and natural gas, also disrupts supplies to Germany, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic. 
   "The latest action by Russia in cutting off oil to its neighbor, Belarus, is the clearest sign yet of the dangers posed by the world's over-reliance on a few large energy suppliers. Belarus claims that Russia is not paying a fee for use of Belarussian pipelines. Russia says that Belarussians are siphoning oil out of pipelines used to supply other countries.  
   "Therefore, Russia stopped the flow of oil. The move, which took place Monday, threatens not only Belarus, but also Poland, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic, which get oil from the same pipeline. 
   "This is not the first time that Russia has used its grip on energy supplies to coerce other countries. Twelve months ago, Russia denied natural gas to Ukraine, resulting in a drop of supplies to countries as far away as Italy, France, Hungary, and Austria, which depend on Russian gas moving through Ukrainian pipelines. The dispute was resolved only after a near-doubling of the price Ukraine pays for Russian gas, an increase in transit fees paid to Ukraine, and signing of a murky deal to mix cheaper Central Asian gas with Russia's. 
   "Similarly just last month, Russia said it would shut off the gas to Belarus, which relies on Russia for 99 percent of its supplies, and where winter temperatures routinely plunge to zero. Not only did Moscow use the threat to more than double the price of natural gas, but it also forced Belarus to sell a half-interest in its pipeline network to Gazprom, the Russian gas monopoly. Russia has made other intimidating moves against Georgia and Azerbaijan. 
   "Unless steps are taken now, this kind of energy blackmail could become all too common in the future because many Eastern and Central European countries, as well as former Soviet Republics, depend on Russia for up to 100 percent of their natural gas supplies. Even in Western Europe, countries like Germany, Italy, France, and Greece need large amounts of Russian gas. 
   "While Russia is currently the most notable offender, it is not the only country in the world that can use energy as a weapon against its neighbors and customers. Iran and Venezuela, just to name two, have brandished their control of oil supplies to intimidate international opponents. 
   "These threats are not idle. Energy is a potent weapon, and a cutoff of gas or oil supplies in mid-winter could have as devastating an impact on a country's economy as a military attack. In fact, as I said in November in a speech in Riga, Latvia, 'In the coming decades, the most likely source of armed conflict in the European theater and the surrounding regions will be energy scarcity and manipulation.' I strongly suggested prompt security planning by NATO. 
   "This latest move by Russia against Belarus should be a wake-up call to America, its European allies and other energy-consuming nations around the world. Extreme dependence on foreign energy supplies, often manipulated by unfriendly governments, puts our national security at risk. We must act together to diversify our energy supplies, cut dependence on foreign sources through aggressive conservation efforts and deployment of home-grown biofuels and other alternatives, build robust strategic energy reserves, and strike new energy sharing agreements which recognize that in an interdependent global economy, energy aggression against one country is aggression against all." 
   Lugar continued in his speech at the NATO conference in Riga, Latvia, to warn of the potential conflict from over dependence on foreign owned energy resources: 
   "We all hope that the economics of supply and pricing surrounding energy transactions will be rational and transparent. We hope that nations with abundant oil and natural gas will reliably supply these resources in normal market transactions to those who need them. And we hope that vast energy wealth will not be a source of corruption within nations that desperately ask their governments to develop and deliver the benefits of this wealth broadly to society. 
   "Unfortunately, our experiences provide little reason to be confident that market rationality will be the governing force behind energy policy and transactions. The majority of oil and natural gas supplies and reserves in the world are not controlled by efficient, privately owned companies. Geology and politics have created oil and natural gas superpowers that nearly monopolize the world's oil supply. According to PFC Energy, foreign governments control up to 79 percent of the world's oil reserves through their national oil companies. These governments set prices through their investment and production decisions, and they have wide latitude to shut off the taps for political reasons." 
   Lugar's full Riga speech is available at: http://www.lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=266087
   For more than a decade, Lugar has stressed the strategic importance of energy security and the economic and security risks of dependence on imported foreign energy sources. His legislative efforts promote sustainable energy production and use, incentives for renewable fuels like cellulosic ethanol and E85, increased fuel economy in cars, and clean coal. The Lugar Energy Initiative at http://lugar.senate.gov/energy highlights not only the repercussions of America's dangerous dependence on imported oil, but also provides information on energy legislation introduced by Lugar, commentary by outside experts and information on alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
 