SEN. LUGAR INTRODUCES NATIONAL SECURITY AND BIOENERGY BILL
  Sen. Dick Lugar today joined Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA) in introducing the National Security and Bioenergy Investment Act of 2005, S. 1210. This legislation would rapidly expand research into biomass energy and biobased products. It would also establish the production of the first one billion gallons of transportation fuel produced from cellulosic sources such as corn stover, switchgrass and wheat straw.  
   "Increased development of renewable fuels will help ensure national and economic security and gas price stability. With high oil prices, ethanol, biodiesel and other renewable fuels become increasingly important. While it is imperative that we continue to increase production of fuels from grains, as a nation we must rapidly develop the ability to produce large amounts of cheap fuel from a multitude of products - many considered by-products of food production. Hoosiers and farmers nationwide growing the feedstock for these fuels will add to our nation's security while helping our communities prosper," Lugar said. 
   "America's security continues to be vulnerable because of our dependence on foreign sources of energy. This legislation is a vital step in helping alleviate this dependency and would play a crucial role toward America's energy independence," Lugar added. 
   This bill would update the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, originally authored by Lugar, by developing: an abundant production of biobased fuels at prices competitive with fossil fuels; a broad range of biobased products as substitutes for petroleum-based products; and a diverse and sustainable domestic supply of biomass feedstocks. 
   "The need to fully harness the power of biomass in our technologically advanced society is paramount. We also must place greater emphasis on the development of commercially viable cellulosic ethanol," he said. 
   The bill also establishes an innovative incentive program to deliver the first one billion gallons of annual cellulosic biofuels production by rewarding private investment to encourage more efficient production of renewable fuels. These efficiencies should translate into fuels becoming cheaper over time. 
   In addition, it establishes a UDSA program to assist small biobased businesses with marketing, certification and performance testing of biobased products such as hydraulic oil made from soybeans and plastics made from corn. The bill also expands a provision Lugar worked to pass in the 2002 Farm Bill that requires the federal government to greatly increase usage of renewable products during procurement of materials. 
   Earlier this year, Lugar introduced the Fuels Security Act of 2005 that would more than double the production and use of domestic renewable fuels including ethanol, biodiesel, and fuels produced from cellulosic biomass. In May 2005, the Senate Energy Committee included legislation based on the Fuels Security Act in the comprehensive Senate energy bill. 
   The Senate highway bill, passed in May 2005, included two amendments Lugar co-sponsored regarding E-85 ethanol (motor fuel with 85 percent ethanol content). One amendment would provide a tax credit to gas stations encouraging them to install and/or convert pumps that offer E-85 ethanol. With more than five million E-85 capable vehicles in the U.S. and about one million additional vehicles expected annually, the United States could realize an immediate reduction in gasoline consumption by approximately 4.5 billion gallons per year and an annual reduction in fleet greenhouse gas emissions of 26.5 million tons. The other amendment would instate an E-85 labeling requirement for vehicles sold in the U.S. This amendment would ensure that E-85 vehicles sold in the U.S. are clearly labeled so owners are aware of their E-85 capability. 
   As former chairman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, Lugar co-authored "The New Petroleum" in Foreign Affairs with former CIA Director James Woolsey extolling the need to accelerate the use of ethanol, especially that derived from cellulose, in a time of relatively low fuel prices. He authored and passed the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000, which remains the nation's premier legislation guiding renewable fuels research. Lugar also has co-authored and supported legislation to dramatically increase the use of renewable fuels in all U.S. vehicles.
 
 