SEN. LUGAR WELCOMES U.S.-BRAZIL ETHANOL AGREEMENT
  Sen. Dick Lugar praised today's agreement between the United States and Brazil to increase cooperation on biofuels in the Western Hemisphere.
   "Our efforts to promote alternative fuels and reduce dependence on oil at home will have maximum benefit through vigorous partnership abroad. All possibilities for growth in biofuels production must be explored to decrease our 'oil addiction.' President Bush has taken an important first step with Brazil in this direction. 
   "Working with Brazil will help turn ethanol into a global commodity and reduce our dependence on oil. It also demonstrates to our friends in the Hemisphere that we are ready partners in advancing our common interest for energy security. If implemented vigorously and funded generously, a policy of partnerships in biofuels production could rehabilitate the U.S. in the eyes of everyday Latin Americans," Lugar said.  
   The agreement, signed by U.S. officials while President George Bush met with Brazilian President Luiz In?cio Lula da Silva in Brazil, focuses on promoting ethanol production in other Latin America countries. It is expected that the two governments will begin work in the Caribbean and Central America through feasibility studies and technical assistance aimed at attracting private sector investment. The U.S.-Brazil Biofuels Partnership will partner with the Inter-American Development Bank, UN Foundation and Organization of American States. Additionally, the agreement aims to intensify collaboration on next generation biofuels technology and develop international standards for biofuels in cooperation with other nations. 
   "Presidents Bush and da Silva should expand and energize the initiative by launching a joint program of investment, training and research to build biofuels production capabilities throughout the region and the world," Lugar and Secretary General of the Organization of American States José Miguel Insulza wrote in a Miami Herald op-ed on February 26. 
   "Grants and loans from regional development banks could be used to assess the suitability of biofuels on a country-by-country basis. Investments and loans from the U.S., Brazil and other interested governments, as well as private-sector sources, could perfect cellulosic technology, train farmers in biomass crops and build biofuel production facilities and distribution systems. Sen. Lugar will soon introduce legislation in the U.S. Senate to initiate this proposal. 
   "Such an investment program could, in short order, create a thriving Western Hemisphere biofuels marketplace that would alleviate poverty, create jobs and increase income, improve energy security, strengthen nations' independence, and protect the environment. If implemented vigorously and expansively, this partnership would signal a transformational change in U.S. policy on Latin America, a true collaboration between north and south on an economic and security strategy that would benefit all," they wrote. 
   On January 22, 2006, as Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Lugar held a hearing on energy security in the Western Hemisphere. At that hearing Lugar said, "One area of energy cooperation that could be especially fruitful for our hemisphere is ethanol. The expansion of ethanol capabilities would improve the diversity and reliability of fuel supplies, create jobs in many countries and help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Brazil long ago saw the importance of ethanol and is now energy self-sufficient. Brazil and the United States can work together to improve our mutual energy security - and that of the region - by spreading our shared expertise." 
   The problems of petroleum dependence and the potential for biofuels will be highlighted at the June meeting of the Organization of American States' General Assembly in Panama. The primary focus will be energy, including the search for sustainable solutions for its production and use. 
   On January 4, Lugar also introduced the Energy Diplomacy and Security Act, S. 193. The bill urges the Secretary of State to establish: (1) strategic energy partnerships with the governments of major energy producers and major energy consumers, and with governments of other countries; (2) expand energy emergency preparedness mechanisms; and (3) create a regional-based ministerial Hemisphere Energy Cooperation Forum; (4) and integrate energy security priorities into core State Department activities and create a new coordinator for international energy affairs. The bill calls on the Administration to weave a more reliable energy security fabric within the Western hemisphere, working more closely with Canada and Latin America on emergency preparedness, conservation, sustainable energy, and energy access for the poor. 
   For more information: www.lugar.senate.gov/energy.
 
 