CONGRESS UPGRADES TRADE STATUS WITH UKRAINE
  The U.S. House and Senate have repealed 32-year-old trade restrictions against Ukraine and extended permanent normal trade relations to the Eastern European Country of 47 million people. Ukraine had been sanctioned by the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974 for not allowing freedom of emigration. 
   Ukrainian Foreign Minister Borys Tarasiuk was in Washington, DC, today. Following a visit with Lugar, he observed the repeal of Jackson-Vanik from the gallery of the Senate Chamber.  
   This bill permanently repeals the application of Jackson-Vanik to Ukraine and was initiated in the Senate by U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar. "In the post-Cold War era, Ukraine has demonstrated a commitment to greater freedom and free market principles," Lugar said. In November 2004, Chairman Lugar served as President Bush's personal representative to the runoff election between Prime Minister Yanukovich and Victor Yushchenko. During that visit he promoted free and fair election procedures that would strengthen worldwide respect for the legitimacy of the winning candidate. 
   "Improving trade will strengthen the growing relationship between our two nations. I assure President Yushchenko that the U.S. will continue to support Ukraine and its commitment to democracy and free markets. I also encourage him to continue his no tolerance policy for anti-Semitism in Ukraine," said Chairman Lugar. "I look forward to President Bush signing this bill into law as a further signal of U.S. commitment to democracy and free enterprise in Ukraine, especially before the Rada elections this month." 
   "Extraordinary events have occurred in Ukraine. A free press has revolted against government intimidation and reasserted itself. An emerging middle class has found its political footing. A new generation has embraced democracy and openness. A society has rebelled against the illegal activities of its government. It is in our interest to recognize and protect these advances in Ukraine," Lugar said. 
   The United States has a long record of cooperation with Ukraine through the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction. Ukraine inherited the third largest nuclear arsenal in the world with the fall of the Soviet Union. Through the Nunn-Lugar Program the United States has assisted Ukraine in eliminating this deadly arsenal and joining the Nonproliferation Treaty as a non-nuclear state. 
   Lugar and Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) traveled to Ukraine in August 2005 to oversee Nunn-Lugar projects. They also saw a conventional weapons storage and destruction facility that is typical of the focus of new legislation they introduced last November to keep conventional weapons out of the hands of terrorists. 
   The Lugar-Obama bill would recognize that the proliferation of conventional weapons is a major obstacle to peace, reconstruction and economic development in regions that suffer from conflict and instability. The bill would call on the State Department to implement a global effort to seek out and destroy surplus and unguarded stocks of conventional armaments and to cooperate with allies and international organizations when possible. A second part of Lugar-Obama would create a single office to assist allies in detecting and interdicting weapons of mass destruction. 
   "The United States can and should do more to eliminate conventional weapons stockpiles and assist other nations in detecting and interdicting weapons of mass destruction. These functions are underfunded, fragmented and in need of high-level support," Lugar said. 
   "The U.S. government's current response to threats from vulnerable conventional weapons stockpiles is dispersed between several programs at the Department of State. We believe that the planning, coordination, and implementation of this function should be consolidated into one office at the State Department with a budget that is commensurate with the threat posed by these weapons. 
   "We are particularly concerned that our government has the capacity to deal quickly with vulnerable stockpiles of shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles, known as MANPADS. Concerns have grown that terrorists could use these weapons to attack commercial airliners, military installations, and government facilities here at home and abroad. Al Qaeda reportedly has attempted to acquire MANPADS on a number of occasions," continued Lugar. 
   On the web: 
  Lugar-Obama: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=248096
  Nunn-Lugar Program: http://lugar.senate.gov/nunnlugar/
 
 