SEN. LUGAR, REP. VISCLOSKY CONGRATULATE DALE ENGQUIST ON INTERIOR DEPARTMENT AWARD
  Sen. Dick Lugar and Rep. Pete Visclosky recognized Dale Engquist on receiving the Distinguished Service Award from the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) for his leadership as Superintendent of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. Engquist was honored at the DOI 64th Honor Awards Convocation in Washington, D.C. today for his expertise in park operations, visitor services, educational programs, and resource management. 
   "I congratulate Dale Engquist on receiving this award. Under Dale's leadership the Lakeshore has undergone remarkable changes, including a fifteen percent increase in the size of the area being preserved and a visitor center. I have looked forward to each opportunity to be with Dale throughout the years and to learn about the many initiatives he and his staff have undertaken to preserve and share the spectacular beauty of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. I also congratulate Dale on his recent retirement and wish him and his wife JoAnn good health and happiness as they embark upon this new chapter in their lives together," said Lugar.
   "Having known Dale for many years, I can truly say that he is one of the most committed, knowledgeable, and honorable citizens in Northwest Indiana. Nowhere was his knowledge and commitment more evident than in his faithful service to the National Park Service (NPS), and more specifically, to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. Dale served the Northwest Indiana community and the National Park service with great honor, and I commend him for his distinguished service to our country," said Visclosky.
   Lugar also included a statement in today's Congressional Record to congratulate Engquist.
   The Distinguished Service Award is the highest honorary recognition an employee can receive within the Department of the Interior. It is granted for an outstanding contribution to science, outstanding skill or ability in the performance of duty, outstanding contribution made during an eminent career in the Department, or any other exceptional contribution to the public service. Recipients receive a special certificate and citation signed by the Secretary along with an engraved gold Distinguished Service Medal and a gold lapel pin.
 
 