EVANSVILLE TO RECEIVE GRANT FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified that Evansville-Vanderburgh School Corporation will receive $481,311 to promote physical education from the U.S. Department of Education. The funds are part of the Carol M. White Physical Education Program (PEP) which supports local education agencies and community-based organizations in their efforts to initiate, expand or enhance physical education programs for students in kindergarten through 12th grade. 
   "Learning the importance of staying fit is key to leading a physically healthy and long life," said Lugar. "Young Hoosiers must make smart decisions now to prevent future health problems."
   Despite the well-publicized benefits of exercise, more than 50 percent of American adults do not get enough physical activity to provide health benefits. This trend is not limited to adults; nearly one-half of Americans ages 12 to 21 are not vigorously active on a regular basis. Physical education classes are important to ensure that young people have a minimal, regular amount of physical activity and to help establish physical activity patterns that may be carried into adulthood.
   Through this program, grantees are expected to help students make progress toward meeting state standards for physical education and are encouraged to propose research-based projects that reflect integrated, comprehensive approaches to lifelong physical fitness and healthy eating habits. Grantees use program funds to provide teacher training, develop physical education and nutrition education curricula, conduct fitness assessments, and purchase equipment.
   Lugar is a consistent supporter of legislation and activities that promote fitness, nutrition and health. Each September, he hosts an annual community run and walk on the campus of Butler University and Health Fair in the ArtsGarden at Circle Centre Mall in Indianapolis. He has been a longtime proponent of healthy school lunches and efforts to strengthen the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs.
   He recently introduced a bill that would expand the Lugar Pilot summer feeding program from the 26 states it currently serves, to the entire nation. The Lugar Pilot program is part of the Summer Food Service Program that feeds nearly 2 million youths a day during the summer months when the school lunch program is not available.
 
 