HOMELAND SECURITY AWARDS EQUIPMENT TO 17 INDIANA POLICE, FIRE DEPARTMENTS
  Sen. Dick Lugar was notified today that 17 Indiana police or fire departments were awarded equipment from the Department of Homeland Security. The Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness (SLGCP) granted the awards under the 2005 Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP).  
   "Hurricane Katrina has reminded us how important it is to equip first responders with the tools and the training they need to perform effectively," Lugar said. "These equipment awards announced today help Indiana fire and police departments conduct operations in critical situations and increase the overall level of service that responders are able to provide to their communities." 
   Announced this week, the awards are the second and final round under Phase I made to fire and police departments throughout the U.S. The Department of Homeland Security will announce a second phase (Phase II) of CEDAP in October for which jurisdictions and emergency agencies can apply. Phase II includes an expanded equipment catalog. 
   CEDAP provides smaller law enforcement and emergency responder agencies with equipment items that will enhance and support regional response, mutual aid and interoperability of responder equipment. CEDAP recognizes the importance of new equipment education and training to ensure the correct operation and use of the equipment. Therefore, attendance at a training session is required prior to receiving the equipment. CEDAP provides travel, lodging and a limited per diem for one representative from each agency and jurisdiction. Funding for CEDAP was included in the FY 2005 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act. 
   Fire and police departments with questions about the CEDAP awards may reach David Hess at 202-786-9451, Chris Rizzuto at 202-786-9450, or Andrew White at 202-786-9452.
   To view Hoosier communities receiving grants, go to: http://lugar.senate.gov/pressapp/record.cfm?id=245451
 
 