SUDAN RELIEF BILL INTRODUCED
  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Dick Lugar today introduced legislation that would provide an additional $300 million in Fiscal Year 2005 aid to relieve the Sudan humanitarian crisis. 
   Lugar announced the Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act at a committee hearing today in which Secretary of State Colin Powell said the State Department has "concluded that genocide has been committed in Darfur and that the Government of Sudan and the jinjaweid bear responsibility - and genocide may still be occurring." Congress declared in a resolution on July 22 that the Government of Sudan was committing genocide in the Dafur region.  
   Lugar's $300 million aid bill would add to the nearly $600 million already targeted for Sudan in FY 2005. Secretary Powell said that additional funds would be needed. In the Lugar bill, S. 2781, $200 million would be made immediately available for humanitarian assistance to the Darfur crisis encompassing the Darfur region of Sudan and eastern Chad. This assistance would be made available to various organizations working in the region. 
   An additional $100 million is to be made available upon the conclusion of a North-South peace agreement that has been in the offing for months. None of this funding would be made available to the Government of Sudan unless the President certifies that Sudan has met stringent requirements. 
   Committee ranking member Sen. Joe Biden (D-DE), and Sens. Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) cosponsored the bill. 
   "The immediacy of the Darfur emergency is paramount, as the lives of hundreds of thousands of people will be at risk during the coming months," Lugar said at today's hearing. 
   "Time and again, groups of Sudanese have suffered a similar violent refrain: government planes bomb villages in advance of attacks by proxy militia, who destroy homes, burn crops and steal livestock, before driving innocent villagers into the wilderness and beyond assistance. This has happened in villages across Sudan during the long civil war, and is now occurring in Darfur. Today, the 1.4 million Darfurians on the run or huddling in barren camps are vulnerable to murder, rape, starvation, and disease. This is the result of a calculated strategy by the Government in Khartoum and their Janjaweed proxies to decimate the civilian supporters of their political opponents," Lugar said. "The United States is committed to helping resolve the civil war in Sudan that has already claimed the lives of 2 million people. 
   "During a Foreign Relations Committee hearing on the intersection of hunger and AIDS held on May 11 of this year, Jim Morris, the Director of the World Food Program described the acute fear and desperation of the people he encountered while traveling in Darfur. Crowded refugee camps have little access to life sustaining food, medicine, shelter, and clean water. The inevitable outbreaks of cholera and other diseases threaten to kill thousands of people a day. If lives are to be saved and hope is to replace fear, the international community must coalesce and respond to this humanitarian catastrophe, and it must do so quickly," Lugar said. 
   "Khartoum's status as an oil exporter, a major arms importer, and an Islamic government has diminished the appetite for decisive action in some foreign capitals. But neither economic interests, nor religious identification should trump responsible international actions in a case where genocidal policies are being conducted," Lugar said. 
   At today's hearing, Powell released a new State Department Report, Documenting Atrocities in Darfur, available at http://www.state.gov/g/drl/rls/36028.htm. His testimony to the Foreign Relations Committee can be found at http://www.state.gov/secretary/rm/36042.htm.
 
 