'BYRD'S-EYE VIEW' COLUMN: STAYING HEALTHY IN FLU SEASON
  The country's current shortage of flu vaccines has dominated news headlines and caused widespread concern. The insufficient vaccine supply has left hundreds of thousands of high-risk Americans scrambling for the scant doses. The more that West Virginians know about the shortage, the more likely they will be to stay healthy this flu season. 
   The flu shot scarcity is due largely to the closure of one of the major flu vaccine producer's overseas plants. Federal health agencies are working to identify new vaccine sources to help fill the shortage. Medical experts recommend that West Virginians who fall in the high-risk category should take measures to get vaccinated as additional doses become available. Experts further suggest that those in low-risk categories should not get vaccinated but should take precautions to help protect their health during the flu season. 
   Specifically, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommend that the following groups of people should have top priority for receiving the flu vaccine: adults 65 years of age or older; children between the ages of 6 and 23 months; children on chronic aspirin therapy; caregivers for infants younger than 6 months; health care staff that work with patients; pregnant women; women who expect to be pregnant during flu season; and all nursing home residents. In addition, anyone with chronic medical conditions, regardless of age, should be vaccinated. 
   It is important for high-risk West Virginians to stay informed about the quantity of flu shots available locally. State health officials have announced that the vaccine will be distributed based on demand. High-risk individuals should contact their doctors or local health departments to inquire about the availability of the vaccine in their areas. 
   West Virginians in the low-risk groups who do not receive the vaccine can still take steps to stay healthy during the winter months. The CDC advises everyone to eat balanced meals with the recommended amounts of vitamins and minerals, get a proper amount of exercise, minimize contact with people who are sick, stay home from work or school if sick, and wash hands regularly to help ward off the flu and other ailments. 
   All West Virginians can be advocates for their own health. For more information on flu vaccine supplies, they can call the West Virginia Immunization Program at 304-558-2188 or 800-642-3634. The right mix of persistence and precaution can help all of us to stay healthy in the coming months.
 
 