SEN. BYRD OFFERS OPTIONS TO LOWER PRICE AT PUMP
  As people continue to pay higher prices at the pump, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., called for steps that can help to immediately reduce consumer prices. 
   "Today's record-high gasoline prices in West Virginia are affecting literally everyone, from commuters, consumers, and businesses, to public and private agencies," Byrd said. "Meals on Wheels programs are having trouble delivering meals. Local governments, already straining to pay for essential services in these days of cutbacks in federal assistance, are simply overwhelmed in their efforts to keep school buses, police cars, fire trucks, and other city and county vehicles in operation. The damage is devastating, and it is everywhere."
   "As the American people cry out for help in this current crisis, they look to Washington for action. The White House's response to this outcry has been to moan about the failure of Congress to pass its so-called energy plan and recycle old legislation," Byrd stated. "When it comes to dealing with today's energy mess, the White House is out of gas."
   According to the widely respected "Lundberg Survey" that analyzes gasoline costs, prices soared an average 19 cents in the past three weeks due to lingering high crude oil prices, growing demand, and higher refining costs. The survey of 7,000 gas stations around the country found that the average retail price for all three grades of gasoline increased 18.95 cents to $2.32 per gallon between March 18 and Friday.
   Byrd noted that West Virginians spend more time commuting to work than most Americans. Eighty-six percent of West Virginians use cars or trucks to get to work, and nearly 75 percent of West Virginians commute by themselves in their vehicles. Nearly one-third of West Virginians must travel outside their home county to get to work, a figure that is 17 percent above the national average, and the average West Virginian drives more miles each year than the average American.
   "West Virginians rely on their cars and pickup trucks to keep West Virginia working," Byrd told his colleagues. "Large rugged vehicles are not an expensive luxury for workers in West Virginia and in many other rural states. And, anyone who has tried to navigate the narrow, uphill climbs of West Virginia's mountains, by weaving around corners, constantly slowing and accelerating, and stopping and starting, knows the need for these rugged vehicles, and regrettably, the cost of fueling them."
   In his remarks in the Senate, Byrd outlined a series of steps that could be taken to help drive down the prices that consumers are paying at the gas station.
   "It is time that this nation make the necessary investments so that we can reduce our dependence on foreign oil. That means getting the next generation of vehicles on the road. It means investing in fuels that can be made from domestically secure sources such as agricultural residues and through coal gasification. It means investments in building and upgrading our refining and pipeline infrastructure in order to move our petroleum products to market," Byrd said.
   Specifically, Byrd urged the following steps:
   * The White House could direct the Secretary of Energy to suspend the delivery of oil to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve until market conditions improve;
   * The nation create a new tax break for vehicle depreciation to assist workers who daily commute more than 30 miles one way to work; and
   * The Congress could approve Byrd's call for $15.5 billion in targeted tax incentives over the next ten years, including $2 billion to deploy advanced clean-coal technologies, to help strengthen the economy, enhance America's energy resources, promote an array of advanced energy technologies, and increase jobs, while promoting a healthy environment.
   The West Virginia lawmaker also called on the Federal Trade Commission to review whether oil companies are manipulating the oil markets to create greater corporate profits.
   "We need an investigation into what is going on - why the people in West Virginia and other states are getting squeezed and gouged when huge oil companies are enjoying record-breaking profits," Byrd said.
   "Finally, I urge the White House to stop whimping out and confront OPEC. Press these oil-producing countries to increase oil supplies, to help stabilize global prices. While running for the presidency, George Bush promised to get tough with OPEC, especially the Saudis. Now, Mr. President, is the time to do it!" Byrd stated.
 
 