WEST VIRGINIA RESEARCHERS DEVELOP CUTTING-EDGE MILITARY TECHNOLOGY
  Legislation that includes funding added by Sen. Byrd for the continued development of an important new technology for unmanned military aircraft has been signed into law. 
   Byrd added $3.7 million to the Defense Appropriations bill for the development of an intelligent communications and control system for small, lightweight, unmanned aircraft for the U.S. Navy. The technology is being developed by researchers at Morgantown-based Augusta Systems and Alion Science and Technology and the West Virginia University Institute of Technology in Montgomery.
   "This technology would make these robotic vehicles smarter, providing enhanced intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities to military personnel. The collaboration with the U.S. Navy on this effort is a testament to the skill and dedication of West Virginia's technology workforce," Byrd said.
   "This high-tech project would allow individual vehicles to fly in unison, like a flock of birds. Instead of requiring multiple personnel to operate a single vehicle, the project would allow one soldier, sailor or Marine, using a laptop computer, to control multiple vehicles," the Senator said.
   Byrd added more than $8 million to Defense spending bills in previous years to fund this effort, which provides more than 30 engineering, management, and research positions in West Virginia. 
   "Senator Byrd's leadership has been crucial to the development of this technology, and we are grateful for his support. Front-line troops will benefit from smarter unmanned vehicles thanks to Senator Byrd's efforts," said Patrick Esposito II, Chief Operating Officer of Augusta Systems.
   "With the ever increasing challenges that confront our military personnel, it is important to provide them with the latest and most advanced technologies, including unmanned vehicles. These innovative aircraft support military missions while keeping our servicemen and women out of harm's way. I take great pride in West Virginia's contributions to our Armed Forces and will continue to work to ensure that they are provided with the necessary training and equipment to defend our nation," Byrd said.
   Congress gave final approval to the Defense appropriations legislation before breaking for the January recess, and President Bush recently signed it into law.
 
 