COAST GUARD TO LAUNCH SECURITY EFFORT AT PORT OF HUNTINGTON
  Thanks to the U.S. Coast Guard, the Port of Huntington soon will be home to a new security effort that can be patterned throughout the rest of the nation, U.S. Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced Tuesday. 
   Byrd announced that new resources would be added to the Coast Guard's Marine Safety Office at the Port of Huntington Tri-State - including three high-speed response boats and several new personnel to augment on-water security missions along the Ohio and Kanawha rivers and their connecting waterways.
   "River ports serve as a hub for commerce. Chemicals, coal, steel - virtually every product that we have in America is sent or serviced through an inland river port. We cannot turn a blind eye to the security of these ports. They are too vital and too vulnerable," Byrd said.
   For several months, Byrd has worked with Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thomas Collins to identify ways to increase security along the nation's rivers and tributaries. The new Coast Guard boats and personnel, which will improve water enforcement and response in the region, will begin arriving in the next month and will be fully operational later in 2005.
   "The Port of Huntington Tri-State is the largest inland river port in the United States and the 6th largest of all U.S. seaports in terms of tonnage," Byrd said. "Fifty percent of all the cargo entering the port is hazardous, and there are hundreds of critical infrastructure facilities, including potentially vulnerable chemical plants, along the 199 miles of navigable waterways serviced by the Port. We should not delay efforts to boost security at our river ports."
   Admiral Collins agreed with Byrd that port security efforts along America's rivers are vital, and the Port of Huntington is a good place to start.
   "West Virginia and the Ohio River Valley play a vital role in the economic and industrial welfare of our country, so it makes sense that we do what we can to ensure the safety and security of the waterways and adjoining facilities in this region," said Admiral Collins. "Major coastal ports have received considerable attention to date, which is why we are using Huntington as a prototype to develop a more robust homeland security posture that we can deploy throughout the inland river system in the United States."
   The Coast Guard, a part of the Department of Homeland Security, is the lead agency responsible for ensuring adequate maritime security on federal navigable waters and at the nation's 360 ports. The Coast Guard's Marine Safety Office in Huntington has regulatory responsibility over facilities and vessels operating on or along the Ohio River and its tributaries, including the Kanawha, Big Sandy, Elk, and Muskingum rivers.
   "This Coast Guard initiative is a cost-effective solution that will deliver necessary resources to West Virginia, and ideally to other inland ports," Byrd said. "I look forward to a continued partnership with the Coast Guard and the Department of Homeland Security as we work to achieve the optimal level of security for the people who live and work in West Virginia."
   Byrd, the senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has championed efforts to invest much-needed dollars into protections from terrorist attack here at home. Byrd has pushed hard to ensure that the nation's biggest vulnerabilities are addressed, authoring several pieces of legislation to infuse critical resources into the America's homeland defense.
   Senator Byrd has successfully worked with the Coast Guard to bring support functions to West Virginia in the past, including the National Vessel Documentation Center and the Operations System Center in West Virginia's Eastern Panhandle.
 
 