SEN. BYRD: CLOCK IS RUNNING ON WHITE HOUSE MISADVENTURE IN IRAQ
  The Bush Administration is clinging to a failed strategy in Iraq, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Thursday.  
   "The Bush Administration plan is not the outline of a brave new course, but a tragic commitment to a failed policy; not a bold new strategy, but a rededication to a course that has proven to be a colossal blunder on every count," Byrd said. 
   On Friday, the Senate Armed Services Committee will hear from Defense Secretary Robert Gates and General Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, about the proposal to send more than 20,000 troops to Iraq. Byrd has key questions about the wisdom of the Bush plan. 
   "The President is asking us to step on the gas in Iraq, full throttle, while he has not even clearly articulated where we are going. What is our goal? What is our end game? How much progress will we need to see from the Iraqi government before our men and women come home? How long will American troops be stationed in Iraq to be maimed and killed in sectarian bloodshed?" Byrd explained. "The ultimate solution to the situation in Iraq is political, and will have to come from the Iraqis themselves."
   The Friday hearing will be the first opportunity for Senators to ask the Pentagon leaders about the specifics of the troop escalation, outlined by President Bush on Wednesday night. 
   "On every count, an escalation of 20,000 troops is a misguided, costly, unwise course of action. This is not a solution. This is not a march toward 'victory,'" Byrd stated. "The President's own military advisors have indicated that we do not have enough troops for this strategy to be successful. It will put more Americans in harm's way than there already are. It will cost more in U.S. taxpayer money. It will further stretch an army that many commanders have already said is at its breaking point. It is a dangerous idea."
   "It is time to truly change course, and start talking about how we rebalance our foreign policy and bring our sons and daughters home," Byrd stated. "We must learn from the past. We must understand that more money and more troops are not the answer. The clock is running on our misadventure in Iraq." 
   To hear from Senator Byrd visit http://byrd.senate.gov/2007%20january%2011%20questions%20about%20escalation%20in%20iraq.rm 
   To read the Senator's full speech visit http://byrd.senate.gov/speeches/2007_january/byrd%20speech%20reaction%20to%20bush%20escalation%20plan%20in%20iraq.pdf
 
 