SEN. BYRD FUNDS FOR BIOMETRICS FACILITY AT FBI COMPLEX BECOME LAW
  Sen. Byrd today announced that a new law clears the way for the construction of a new Biometrics Fusion Center (BFC) building at the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) campus in Harrison County.  
   "Biometrics technology holds great promise for security at the Defense Department and for the economic future of West Virginia," Byrd said.
   "The long-awaited day has come for the Biometrics Fusion Center to begin its move across Clarksburg to the FBI complex. Planning and design of the new BFC facility is underway, and this funding will allow the Army to move forward with construction in coming months. Centralizing West Virginia's Department of Defense and FBI efforts will further solidify the state's national crime-fighting role," Byrd said.
   Byrd added $7 million for the new 25,000 square-foot module BFC building to the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Appropriations bill which was recently signed into law. Including Byrd's $7 million, the legislation contains more than $35 million for overall Department of Defense biometrics activities.
   Byrd began working with the Pentagon in 1999 to find ways to better safeguard and control access to sensitive military information and installations through the use of biometrics - unique physical characteristics used to verify the identity of an individual. Byrd has secured more than $141 million to launch and expand the Defense Department's biometrics initiatives. In the past year, the biometrics program has broadened its mission to support international efforts to deter terrorists. 
   The BFC personnel in Clarksburg have been collaborating extensively with the FBI CJIS Division, using biometrics to identify individuals who may pose a threat to national security, such as detainees from Iraq and Afghanistan. BFC officials have developed an Automated Biometrics Identification System to identify and catalog the prints of detainees. This database, which is housed at the FBI CJIS Division, processes, searches, and matches fingerprint data taken from enemy combatants and others to identify national security threats. Since July 2004, the system has produced significant matches, identifying bomb makers, U.S. criminals, and passport forgers.
   "Once again, the Pentagon had a need, and West Virginia had the know-how. Having a BFC presence on the FBI campus will further cement this dynamic partnership and will bring even more bad characters to justice," Byrd stated.
   The BFC also has developed a $75 million Biometric Identification System for Access (BISA) to control access to U.S. military installations in Iraq. The effort uses biometrics to protect U.S. forces from unauthorized individuals attempting to gain access to U.S. bases. A BFC presence has been established in Iraq and supports American troops on many fronts.
   Currently, 153 BFC employees are working at the interim BFC facilities in downtown Clarksburg and the Middletown Mall in Fairmont. Establishing BFC operations on the FBI campus is the next step toward establishing a permanent BFC building on the FBI complex once the Army transforms the biometrics program into a Department of Defense Program of Record.
   The Department of Defense Appropriations bill also gives a boost to a private-sector biometrics efforts in North Central West Virginia. 
   Byrd supported funding for the National Biometric Security Project (NBSP) which assists non-DOD government agencies and the private sector in protecting civil infrastructure from terrorist attacks using biometrics technologies. A NBSP biometric technology testing facility is located in Morgantown. The project works in close coordination with the Clarksburg DOD biometrics initiative, the BFC, and West Virginia University (WVU).
   "We are establishing West Virginia as an anchor in the fast-growing biometrics industry. I am excited by the progress made by the Defense Department, WVU, and the growing number of Mountain State companies which are building off of each other's successes in this high-tech field."
 
 