SENATE APPROVES SEN. BYRD PACKAGE TO STRENGTHEN PORT SECURITY
  Port security in the United States received a major boost with Senate approval Tuesday of a $648 million security plan authored by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va.  
   "My port security plan would put the funding in place to inspect more of the ocean cargo headed to the United States. We would be able to scan more containers for nuclear devices - the so-called 'dirty bombs' that could kill hundreds of Americans. We would hire more inspectors and more security teams to ensure that shipments entering our ports are safe," Byrd explained. "In this post-9/11 world, the Congress and the White House must put the safety of our citizens first, and hollow rhetoric won't get the job done."
   The Byrd amendment, approved by the Senate on Tuesday afternoon, would provide resources for radiation portal monitors, container inspections, port inspections, and port security grants - initiatives, experts warn, which are consistently underfunded in the White House budget.
   "The bill that is before the Senate does not provide the necessary resources to secure the country's seaports. My amendment would add $648 million to fill critical gaps in our paper-thin port security program," Byrd said.
   Byrd's proposal had the backing of the American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA), which represents the nation's leading public ports responsible for handling most of the maritime cargo imported or exported from this country. The organization contacted all 100 Senators in support of the Byrd amendment.
   "This amendment represents a critical opportunity to make port security a higher priority for this nation," explained Association President Kurt Nagle.
   A similar Byrd amendment was adopted earlier this spring as part of the national security emergency supplemental bill, but the provision was then dropped in conference at the insistence of the House of Representatives and the White House.
   Senator Byron Dorgan of North Dakota applauded Byrd's leadership on homeland security efforts.
   "In this new age of terrorism, we've got to go the extra mile and make he extra investment to make sure that we've done everything possible to provide security at America's seaports. Senator Byrd has been relentless on this issue, being very concerned about seaport safety," Dorgan said.
   With Senate approval on Tuesday, the port security provisions are now part of the legislation that funds the Department of Homeland Security for the coming year.
 
 