SEN. BYRD PRESSES FOR CHAIN OF COMMAND AT ABU GHRAIB PRISON
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., and other members of the Senate Armed Services Committee Tuesday questioned top Pentagon leadership on the abuse of Iraqi prisoners at the Abu Ghraib prison and at other military facilities. 
   Byrd, one of the most senior members of that committee, questioned Army Major General Antonio M. Taguba, author of a Pentagon report that found numerous "sadistic, blatant and wanton criminal abuses" at the U.S.-run Abu Ghraib prison complex near Baghdad.
   "General Taguba, based on your investigation, who gave the order to soften up these prisoners, to give them "the treatment"? Was this a policy, and who approved it?" Byrd asked.
   Taguba told the Byrd and the committee that the mistreatment resulted from faulty leadership, a lack of order and direction from senior officers, and poor training.
   "We did not find any evidence of a policy or a direct order for these soldiers to conduct what they did. I believe that they did it on their own volition. I believe that they collaborated with several MI (military intelligence) interrogators at the lower level," Taguba stated. "I didn't find any order, written or otherwise, for these soldiers to do what they did."
   "Their leaders should have, could have, provided the necessary resources to train these soldiers," Taguba told the committee.
   "In my opinion, the mistreatment resulted from poor leadership, a lack of discipline, little training, and no supervision. It is, to me, the result of a monumental failure to plan for the long-term occupation of Iraq. That failure is not on the heads of the enlisted men and women, but on the top leadership in the Pentagon and this Administration," Byrd said.
   "I do not condone the abuse of prisoners; I condemn it. But I also must condemn leadership that created an environment at military facilities where abuse could flourish," Byrd stated.
   Byrd has said that the abuse of prisoners in Iraq makes America's efforts to bring peace to the Middle East significantly more challenging.
   "Given the catastrophic impact that this scandal has had on the world community, it is incredibly more difficult to convince not only the Iraqi people but also the rest of the world that America is indeed a liberator, and not a conqueror, not an arrogant power," Byrd has stated.
   The West Virginia Democrat recently discussed these concerns with Ambassador John Negroponte who currently serves as the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. Mr. Negroponte has been confirmed by the Senate to be the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq after the June 30 transfer of power from the Coalition Provisional Authority to the Iraqi people.
   The Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday also heard from Dr. Stephen Cambone, Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, and Lieutenant General Lance L. Smith, USAF, who is Deputy Commander of the United States Central Command.
 
 