WEST VIRGINIA DELEGATION JOINS TO PROTECT NATIONAL GUARD
  The West Virginia Congressional Delegation on Wednesday urged President George W. Bush to work with them to keep the Mountain State's National Guard facilities open. The Delegation has been particularly concerned about reports that the 130th Airlift Wing, based at Yeager Airport in Charleston, W.Va., may be targeted for closure. 
   "Based on the important contributions that this unit is making to the capabilities of the Air National Guard and to the defense of our national security, including the ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, we ask you to reject any list that recommends the closure or realignment of the 130th Airlift Wing," the Members of Congress stated.
   U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., met with President Bush at the White House on Wednesday afternoon and shared with him the West Virginia Delegation's concerns.
   "We are united. We are committed to keeping our National Guard bases open. They are vital to our communities, to our state, and to our national security," Byrd said. "This is not a matter of partisan politics. This is a matter of plain common sense. The West Virginia National Guard is important to our state and to our country. We must ensure that our Guard is well-positioned and well-prepared to continue in that vital role."
   Later this week, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld is expected to release a list of military bases he wants to close. That list will be forwarded to the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission, which will then vote whether to keep individual bases on the list or remove them or add other bases to the list. The BRAC Commission's final decisions are forwarded to the President for his approval.
   In West Virginia, speculation about potential closure has centered on the National Guard's 130th Airlift Wing, based at Yeager Airport. The Delegation urged President Bush to step in and keep the 130th active.
   "The President has important decisions to make regarding the country's military readiness for years to come. The 130th Airlift Wing has provided pivotal support to military operations around the world for over 50 years. Most recently, West Virginia Guard and Reserve were called to serve their country in Afghanistan and Iraq where they put their lives at risk every day," Senator Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., said. "I implore the President to not only honor the soldiers and airmen who have served him so well during the war on terrorism, but also to protect the 130th airbase which has produced some of the best soldiers in the world." 
   "The brave West Virginia men and women of the 130th Airlift Wing are doing yeoman's work in protecting our national security," Representative Nick J. Rahall, D-W.Va., said. "They are a point of pride for all West Virginians. I urge continued support for the 130th and hope that the President and the Department of Defense will work to ensure it remains open."
   "Our National Guard units are a tremendous source of military strength and expertise. Preserving their capabilities is essential to our security. I commend Senator Byrd's leadership on the issue, and welcome the opportunity to work with him and the entire delegation in defense of these units," Representative Alan B. Mollohan, D-W.Va., said.
   Representative Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va., noted, "West Virginia's National Guard has proven time and time again it is effective and professional. That is why our soldiers are among the first called into harm's way," noted Capito. "Every option should be pursued to keep the 130th Airlift Wing in Charleston. I would like to see the commission clarify the role of the Governor in consenting to the moving or withdrawal of a unit. The law is clear - the commission should adhere to the law."
   Specifically, the West Virginia Delegation pointed to two laws that could prevent any National Guard bases from closing without the approval of the governor of that state. Governors serve as commanders-in-chief for their state's Guard units.
   The two provisions - Title 10 U.S. Code at Section 18238 and Title 32 U.S. Code at Section 104 - have been examined by past BRAC Commission members and by congressional legal experts. Those experts believe that the Secretary of Defense does not have the legal authority to ignore or supercede the laws on the books. In other words, the National Guard bases cannot be closed without the approval of a state's governor.
   "The intent of these provisions is to ensure that no decision affecting the organization or relocation of an Army or Air National Guard unit within a State can be made without the consent of the governor of the State," the Delegation wrote to President Bush. "We feel strongly that this is an important pillar of states' rights and we urge you to reject any BRAC list that recommends the closure or realignment of any Army or Air National Guard unit, including the 130th Airlift Wing of the West Virginia National Guard, without the consent of the governor of the affected state."
   Byrd and others in the Delegation have been urging Administration officials involved in the BRAC process to reconsider any effort to shut down National Guard facilities. In addition to Wednesday's White House meeting, Byrd has spoken with Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld, BRAC Commission Chairman Anthony Principi, Chief of the Air Force General NAME Jumper, Chief of the National Guard General Stephen Blum, West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin, West Virginia General Allen Tackett, Charleston Mayor Danny Jones, and many others.
   "I'm not going to sugarcoat this. If any of our bases are on the BRAC closure list, it will be an enormous challenge to get them removed. We will need the strong support of the community. But we also will need the President to help us. We visited the 130th unit and he praised the men and women of the Guard for their tireless efforts. The Administration should not shutter such an important base," Byrd said.
 
 