SEN. BYRD MARKS VETERANS DAY IN MERCER COUNTY
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., paid tribute to West Virginia's veterans Friday night in Bluefield, W.Va. 
   "How fortunate is this great country to have such remarkable men and women, so inspired by service to country, love of flag, and faith in the dream of freedom to risk all to protect what Americans hold dear. The gratitude we express to our country's veterans on this day sends a message to future generations of fighting men and women, as well as to our current veterans, and to the families of the fallen," Byrd said. 
   "West Virginians have been part of every military effort to protect the nation's interests abroad. Our state's sons and daughters have always been prepared to fight for our country. Each of us owes a great debt to our veterans, and to the men and women in our Armed Forces today who will be veterans tomorrow. We owe our veterans thanks; we owe them honor; and we owe them our support," Byrd said.
   "The tribute event in Mercer County gives us a chance to thank, once again, West Virginia's veterans who have served with such pride and courage," Byrd said.
   The event, held at the Brushfork Armory in Bluefield on Friday night, honored veterans and their families from throughout Southern West Virginia. The state has the greatest number of veterans per capita of any of the fifty states. 
   "Rest assured our brave West Virginians will be there whenever the call comes again for service. I am humbled to represent a state which produces such courageous devotion to country, generation after generation," Byrd said.
   "Our veterans served, and many died, so that this country might be able to fulfill the great hope of our Founding Fathers. Our veterans answered the call of their country and they did not fail it, even in death. And it is proper and it is right that we pay our most profound respect to the men and women who have worn our nation's uniform, to thank them, and to recommit ourselves to their support," Byrd stated.
   "Our country needs to make sure that our veterans receive the health care that they deserve. Veterans paid for their medical care at Iwo Jima, at the Chosin Reservoir, at the Mekong Delta, at Fallujah, and at many other locales. They deserve to know that their country will take care of them after their time in the Armed Forces," Byrd said.
   "We know well that the foundation of our freedoms rests squarely on the shoulders of those who proudly wear the uniform of these United States. To anyone willing to so serve this country, everlasting gratitude is theirs by right," Byrd stated.
 
 