SEN. BYRD URGES PRESIDENT TO DROP VETO THREAT ON HIGHWAY SAFETY LEGISLATION
 Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Monday called on President Bush to back away from his veto threat on legislation that would invest critical dollars in West Virginia's highways - an investment that will help to save lives and boost the economy throughout the state. 
   "The President ought to put his political posturing aside and work with us to craft legislation that will save lives and bring important jobs to West Virginia," Byrd said. 
   "What the nation cannot afford is further stonewalling by this Bush White House. America needs these funds for safer roads; America needs these funds for new jobs. If he were to veto this bill, the President would cancel out tens of thousands of new jobs throughout the country," Byrd stated.
   The Senate, by a vote of 76-21, overwhelmingly approved the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act. Because of Byrd's efforts, the legislation provides $2.575 billion for West Virginia highway construction, an increase of $715 million, or 38 percent, above the levels secured under the current highway formula funding law. But President Bush has blocked that measure, implying that the legislation provides too much funding to improve traffic safety and upgrade highways.
   "The President is out of step. He's out of step with a majority of Senators in his own party and he's out of step with the country. It is time for the White House to drop its veto threat and get in step with the Congress and work to make our roads and highways safer for all of America," Byrd stated.
   Byrd noted that Appalachian Regional Commission Federal Co-Chair Anne Pope and Federal Highway Administrator Mary Peters are scheduled to visit West Virginia this week, touring sections of the Corridor Highways D and H.
   "I would hope that these two key advisors would work to change the President's mind," Byrd explained. "They will be able to see first-hand the importance of these highway dollars, and how important it is that the President help us to move closer to completion of the Corridor highway system."
   The West Virginia lawmaker noted that President Bush's highway plan would invest nearly $238 million less in the Mountain State Corridor system, pushing back their completion by several years. Byrd's work in the Senate-passed bill would, during the next six years, invest $652 million in Corridor highway construction, far surpassing the Bush proposal.
   "This investment will mean progress and jobs throughout the state. It will mean new funds for projects that have been in the works for many years, projects that West Virginians are ready to see become reality," Byrd said. "The President ought to drop his stubborn opposition and help to make the long-standing promise of the Corridor highway system a reality."
   Only two West Virginia corridors are incomplete: Corridor H, from Elkins to near the West Virginia-Virginia state boundary; and the Corridor D bypass around Parkersburg to the West Virginia-Ohio boundary. 
   For many years, Byrd has worked to fund improvements to West Virginia's infrastructure - the roads and highways, the water and sewer systems - with the goal of creating an environment that can support new jobs and economic opportunities. The State of West Virginia will be able to utilize these federal funds for initiatives from one end of the state to the other.
   "Whether Route Nine in the Eastern Panhandle, the Mon-Fayette Highway in North Central West Virginia, U.S. 35 in Central West Virginia, or the Coalfields Expressway in Southern West Virginia, these dollars will help to improve the quality of life for all Mountain State residents," Byrd said.
 
 