SEN. BYRD TAKES ON CHEMICAL PLANT, COMMUNITY SECURITY
  With concerns about the safety and security of chemical plants in West Virginia and across the country, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., is spurring the federal Department of Homeland Security to take steps to help protect these facilities against terrorist attack. 
   "An attack against a single chemical facility could cause a massive loss of life and have a devastating effect on both the economy and the environment. We must protect these key facilities and guard against terrorist attack," Byrd said.
   "It does not take great imagination to determine that the chemical plants which dot the Kanawha and Ohio rivers are also potential targets for attack," Byrd stated.
   Byrd's amendment is cosponsored by West Virginia Senator Jay Rockefeller.
   "If the attacks on 9-11 taught us anything, it's that we must be prepared for every sort of situation, whether it's a natural disaster or a potential terrorist attack," Rockefeller said. "Our chemical plants supply vitally-needed products that are used across our economy and provide some of West Virginia's best-paying jobs. We need to do everything possible to make sure that those plants are safe." 
   Last year, at Byrd's request, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) took a hard look at chemical plant safeguards, and concluded that, for 93 percent of the chemical industry, it is uncertain whether facilities are improving security at all. Only 1,100 of the 15,000 chemical facilities identified by the Department of Homeland Security are known to adhere to voluntary industry security procedures.
   The Environmental Protection Agency reports that 123 chemical plants located throughout the nation could each potentially expose more than a million people if a chemical release occurred.
   In West Virginia, there are 73 chemical manufacturing plants and 100 chemical distribution plants. 
   "If there were an attack on one or more of those facilities, the potential loss of human life and damage to the local and national economies would be devastating. The same can be said for facilities in New Jersey, New York, Texas, Michigan, California, Pennsylvania, and many other states," Byrd explained.
   The West Virginia lawmaker won approval of his amendment Wednesday to spur community and chemical plant protections. The proposal would direct the Department of Homeland Security to work directly with chemical companies on ways to ensure that their facilities are better protected from potential terrorist attack.
   More than three years ago, the GAO urged the Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to develop a comprehensive strategy for protecting chemical plants. Yet, that strategy remains unfinished. The Byrd amendment would require the Department of Homeland Security to get to work to protect these vulnerable sites.
   With Senate approval, the amendment is now part of the legislation which funds the Department of Homeland Security for the coming year.
 
 