PRESIDENT GETTING 'F' ON SCHOOL FUNDING
  As President Bush prepares to visit Wood County on Thursday, a new analysis of federal education investments[1] shows that his budget falls short of funding promises made to schools in West Virginia and across the nation.
   "The school year is winding down and students are looking forward to the summer break. But the time away from the classroom does not provide any respite for school superintendents, principals, and teachers. In fact, many of them will spend the summer struggling to find the resources to match the mandates of the federal No Child Left Behind Act," Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said. 
   Sen. Jay Rockefeller, also D-W.Va., echoed Byrd's concern.
   "After years of empty promises on funding for our schools, it is clear to me that President Bush is not making our children's education a priority," Rockefeller said. "Every child has a right to reach his or her potential, but that right is being stifled by an administration that refuses to fulfill the commitment they made to our schools."
   Two years ago, President Bush heralded the No Child Left Behind Act. As part of that Act, the President demanded that schools reach higher standards and greater accountability and promised to devote significant new resources to America's public schools to reach those standards. However, the President's budgets have consistently undercut that funding promise.
   About half of West Virginia's public schools receive Title I funding - dollars geared specifically for children from poor school districts. The No Child law established specific funding levels for Title I for every year through 2012.
   An analysis of the federal Title I investments for this year, comparing the levels pledged in the No Child Left Behind Act versus the President's budget request for this year, shows that not a single West Virginia county will reach the promised NCLBA funding levels. As a result, more than 15,400 West Virginia students are denied full Title I services this year, a figure that will grow to more than 21,000 students next year.
   "President Bush promised that he would work to improve education for our nation's young people, and he pledged that no child would be left behind. Those words now ring hollow," said Congressman Alan B. Mollohan, D-W.Va.
   "Since the signing of this bill two years ago, the President has fought against the billions needed for education that was promised in the new law, shortchanging millions of our Nation's children. A program not funded is not a program at all," noted Third District Congressman Nick J. Rahall, D-W.Va.. "What kind of lesson are we teaching our children, if their government continues to make promises it doesn't keep?"
   The Title I program is not the only education program targeted for cutbacks by the Bush Administration. A review of the President's most recent budget shows that it would:
   * Provide the smallest increase for education since 1996 (total discretionary spending for education would rise three percent), at a time when schools are struggling to meet the mandates of the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB);
   * Fail to fully fund the special education grants through the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;
   * Freeze Pell grant maximum awards for the third straight year at $4,050, enough to pay just 34 percent of the average annual cost of attending college - down from 42 percent in 2001;
   * Eliminate 38 education programs providing vital services to children including those geared toward dropout prevention, gifted and talented initiatives, school counseling, alcohol abuse reduction, and arts in education; and
   * Freeze funding for after-school programs and most other major K-12 education programs without providing an inflation adjustment, including Impact Aid ($1.2 billion) and rural education ($168 million).
   "It takes more than promises to provide a quality education. With his anemic funding proposals, the president has failed to follow through on the commitments he made to students in Wood County, the rest of West Virginia, and all across our country," Mollohan said.
   "If there is one federal investment that can offer real dividends down the road, it is education. But the White House continues to play political games with classroom funding," Byrd said. "It is time to end the posturing and give students and teachers the resources that they need to succeed."
   [1] To read the new analysis of federal education investments, see: http://byrd.senate.gov/byrd_newsroom/byrd_news_may/byrd_2004_maylist/WV_title_one_2004.pdf.
 
 