NATIONAL GUARD'S CAMP DAWSON TO ANCHOR CUTTING-EDGE HOMELAND SECURITY TRAINING EFFORT
  The U.S. National Guard Bureau has selected Camp Dawson in Preston County as one of the signature homeland security training facilities in the nation, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced Wednesday. 
   "This recognition is a testament to the hard work and dedication of the West Virginia National Guard and the effort that they have put forward to make West Virginia a national leader in homeland security training," Byrd said.
   "West Virginia will set the standard for homeland security training for the rest of America to follow," Byrd stated. "By training today, we can save lives tomorrow."
   "What we have accomplished in West Virginia is because of teamwork. The partnerships between the federal government, the National Guard, the West Virginia Office of Emergency Services, and West Virginia University have placed the Mountain State on the top of the list for homeland security preparation. Now, we will be able to share the expertise and the lessons learned in West Virginia with the rest of the country," Byrd explained.
   Camp Dawson in Preston County is the state's premier National Guard training facility. Byrd, the top Democrat on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations panel and a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Emerging Threats Subcommittee, has worked closely with West Virginia Adjutant General Allen Tackett to develop key training facilities in the Mountain State, including Camp Dawson, the Center for National Response at the Memorial Tunnel in Kanawha County, and the Virtual Medical Campus at West Virginia University. Byrd has added more than $43 million to federal appropriations bills to develop these initiatives.
   "Long before September 11, 2001, the West Virginia National Guard had launched its efforts with Sen. Byrd to create the best training facilities in the nation, facilities that could be adapted to any scenario. That hard work has resulted in solid successes, and now we prepare to open a new chapter in our efforts," Tackett explained.
   The West Virginia lawmaker met Wednesday in his Capitol office with Lieutenant General H. Steven Blum, Chief of the National Guard Bureau. For several weeks, the National Guard has been evaluating homeland security and other specialized training needs for the Guard and for emergency responders.
   "Camp Dawson and the other West Virginia homeland security facilities place it among the top tier of training programs. The National Guard will build on the expertise and assets already in place at the Robert C. Byrd Regional Training Institute at Camp Dawson to create one of a very select group of comprehensive homeland defense training facilities," General Blum stated.
   "The facility will serve not only the National Guard, but also the training needs of other federal agencies such as the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense. In addition, it will continue to be a valuable resource for emergency responders and other state and local agencies," General Tackett explained.
   The new facility will be named the National Guard Joint Training Center. It will be one of two national centers, the other to be located in the Western United States at a site yet to be determined.
   In 2003, Camp Dawson provided 87,000 "man-days" of homeland security training for National Guardsmen and first responders. That figure originally is expected to increase to as many as 100,000 "man-days" in 2004. With this new role, the National Guard expects to provide as many as 250,000 "man-days" of homeland security training at the Preston County facility in following years.
 
 