SEN. BYRD TO DEFEND STEEL JOBS IN SENATE BATTLE
  An effort to undermine American manufacturers would threaten thousands of jobs and allow foreign traders to dump products on U.S. markets, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Monday. 
   "Short-sighted trade policies are sacrificing American jobs and American industries. Now, there is an effort in the Senate to gut the two initiatives that have helped to breathe renewed life into our steel industry. I will do all that I can to make sure that our steel jobs and our manufacturing jobs are defended against these wrong-headed policies," Byrd said.
   Byrd's comments came as he launched a defense of the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act (CDSOA), which he created in 2000 and is more commonly called the "Byrd Amendment." Senator Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, has legislation pending in the Senate to eliminate the Byrd Amendment.
   The federal government collects duties on products found to be unfairly subsidized or dumped in the U.S. market. Under the Byrd Amendment, those duties are then made available to U.S. companies and workers most affected by the unfair foreign trade practices. If foreign trade partners follow the rules that they negotiate with the United States, there are no negative consequences and no funds go to American companies; but if our foreign trade partners break those agreements, they must provide a remedy to American companies.
   "The Byrd Amendment has saved thousands of jobs, helping companies and workers to reinvest in themselves and recover from unfair foreign trade practices. It is fair recompense for those U.S. companies which are targeted for elimination by unfair foreign trade practices," Byrd said. 
   Grassley also has offered legislation to shut down the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Program, which Byrd started in 1999 to help U.S. steel producers weather incredible pressures from unfairly subsidized and dumped foreign steel products. 
   The Byrd program gives producers access to short-term capital at critical moments to upgrade their facilities, invest in new technologies, and take other steps that help to make U.S. industry more competitive with foreign producers.
   "If American workers are given the chance to compete on an equal footing with foreign producers, no one can beat our efficiency and ability. But allow foreign countries to subsidize their products or dump their products on American markets at below-cost prices, then no one can compete with them. We must not reward those countries that cheat in order to steal American jobs and drive American companies out of business," Byrd said.
   These two initiatives - the Byrd Amendment and the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Program - have been critically important to the survival of several West Virginia manufacturers, including Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel, Inc., and Weirton Steel, Inc., which is now part of Mittal Steel Company. 
   "Without these two initiatives, West Virginia steel jobs would once again be prey to illegal foreign trade practices which have one goal - to dominate the market and drive U.S. companies out of business," Byrd said.
   Steel is not the only product that has benefitted from the Byrd Amendment. Producers of lumber, wheat, shrimp, catfish, bearings, mushrooms, crawfish, pasta, raspberries, furniture, and a long list of other industrial and agricultural producers stand to be reimbursed under the law for having borne the costs of bringing successful trade cases against illegally traded imports.
   The effort by Senator Grassley to kill these programs comes on the heels of World Trade Organization rulings that claim the CDSOA violates trade rules. However, no trade agreement that the United States has joined prohibits the Byrd Amendment. And the West Virginia lawmaker is confident that the Constitution does not allow an international entity to instruct the United States Congress on how funds can be allocated from the U.S. Treasury.
   In response to the misguided WTO rulings, Byrd has won Congressional approval of legislation instructing the Bush Administration to negotiate the terms of the CDSOA in international trade agreements. Despite having this directive signed into law, the Bush Administration has failed substantively to address the CDSOA in trade talks.
   "The United States must not balance international trade deals on the backs of American workers. It's time for the Administration to do what's best for the working families of this country and not what's best for the WTO or any foreign trading partner," Byrd stated.
 
 