SEN. BYRD: GREEN LIGHT FOR CONSTRUCTION ON RANDOLPH COUNTY WATERSHED
  Construction is set to begin in May for the Upper Tygart River Watershed project, which will help to bring clean drinking water to 21,500 Randolph County residents, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced on Thursday. 
   "This is great news for Randolph County. With this contract, we are a major step closer to clean and safe drinking water for at least two-thirds of Randolph County. I am proud to have been a part of this community effort," Byrd said.
   The nearly $31 million contract for construction of the Upper Tygart Valley Watershed has been awarded to Heeter Construction, Inc., of Spencer, W.Va. Senator Byrd worked to provide $23 million for the project. The remaining $8 million comes from state and local sources.
   "Water quality is one of the many concerns facing rural West Virginians. Having safe drinking water is not a luxury; it is a necessity. A source of safe water is a well from which springs the good things in life. Water is the foundation for growing a healthy community," Byrd said. "That's why I've worked hard to make this Randolph County watershed project a reality."
   The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) is the federal agency involved in the project. 
   "This is a unique project for NRCS in West Virginia utilizing roller-compacted concrete to provide the 55-acre water supply impoundment," said Ron Hilliard, NRCS State Conservationist. 
   "This is indeed great news! More than 13 years of persistent work by the members of the Upper Tygart Valley Watershed Partnership, the NRCS, the Tygart Valley Conservation District, our Randolph County delegation in the West Virginia Legislature, and with the cooperation and support of Senator Byrd -- we are finally seeing the Elkwater impoundment come to fruition," said Elaine Russell, President of the Upper Tygart Valley River Watershed Partnership.
   "With the completion of this project, potable water for towns and communities up and down the Tygart Valley from Valley Head to and including Elkins will no longer have to suffer the depletion of their potable water supply in times of drought."
   Russell noted that the project began as a result of the 1993 drought when Mill Creek and Huttonsville had only a 24-hour supply of potable water remaining when the rains finally came. 
   The reservoir is expected to benefit residents in many Randolph County communities including Mill Creek, Huttonsville, Beverly, Daily, Mingo, Valley Head, and Elkins.
   "The Upper Tygart Valley River Watershed project will mean 21,500 West Virginians will no longer worry about the reliability of the water in their homes. They will finally have the peace of mind that their water supply is safe," Byrd stated.
 
 