SEN. BYRD COLLECTS HOLIDAY WISHES FOR OUR TROOPS
  U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., is encouraging West Virginians to send messages of hope, love, and support to our men and women serving in harm's way this Holiday Season. Over 200,000 Americans are currently stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan, far from home and their loved ones. Senator Byrd believes that few are more deserving of messages of encouragement, love and admiration at this time of year than those who are serving our country during wartime. 
   "Many of our troops have been deployed overseas before, or will spend their second consecutive Christmas in a battle zone. I am thankful that modern technology affords us all the opportunity to let them know how much we care about them," Byrd said.
   "Our service men and women can receive great comfort from knowing that they are in our thoughts and prayers every day. I strongly encourage all West Virginians, old and young alike, to reach out to our troops abroad and show them the respect and appreciation they deserve. Anyone with access to the internet can perform this simple act of gratitude during this holiday season," Byrd said.
   Senator Byrd and the West Virginia National Guard have created a website and email addresses to send text messages to troops stationed around the world. Both email addresses are linked at Byrd's website, http://byrd.senate.gov/heroes.html. West Virginians can also email directly at heroes@byrd.senate.gov or WVdeployed@wv.ngb.army.mil
   "The messages can be from individuals, from families, from schools or classes, or from civic groups. Each of us can take a few minutes to share what's happening in our hometowns with our heroes serving around the world," Byrd explained.
   Earlier this year, Senator Byrd and the West Virginia National Guard launched "Hearts for Heroes", which encouraged West Virginians to send Valentine's Day messages to our troops. The initiative was warmly received across West Virginia, and even included messages from as far away as Colorado.
 
 