WEST VIRGINIANS RESPOND TO CALL FOR 'HEARTS FOR HEROES'
  Valentine's Day messages of support for West Virginia National Guardsmen are coming in from throughout West Virginia, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Tuesday. 
   "West Virginians have responded to the call for 'Hearts for Heroes' with warm messages for our Guardsmen deployed overseas. There is still time for people to send an email to our troops and let them know that the people back home are thinking of them and wishing for their safe return," Byrd said.
   "Hearts for Heroes" is an effort of Byrd's and the West Virginia National Guard. They have created email addresses - heroes@byrd.senate.gov or WVdeployed@wv.ngb.army.mil - where people can write to Guardsmen stationed in Afghanistan, Iraq, and around the world. Byrd has created a website that contains links to both email addresses and also to some of the messages that have been sent.
   Byrd's website also is posting photos and small videos (no more than 20 seconds in length) sent from West Virginians. 
   "I read about you every day and pray for your safety every night. Yours is a noble calling and a very difficult task. I am encouraging you from afar." - Deb and Terry Porter, Kenova 
   "We are proud of all you do and endure, and keep you in our thoughts and prayers. We hope your Valentine's Day is the best it can be, where you are. We pray that your next Valentine's Day will be in the U.S. with family and friends." - The Williams Family, Huntington 
   "I hope you realize how much you are appreciated for what you are doing. I have two small boys and I am teaching them to honor our men and women who are fighting for our freedom . . . Thanks for everything you do." - Tami Napier, Wayne
   While the website was launched to coincide with Valentine's Day, the effort to support members of the military will continue throughout the year. The website and email addresses will stay active.
   "The messages of support have come from people of all ages, from all walks of life. But one theme carries through each of the emails: We support you; we miss you; and we hope you come home soon," Byrd said.
 
 