TRANSIT SECURITY FUNDS GETTING ON TRACK
  More than nine months after the Congress wrote the check for increased security along America's commuter transit and rail lines, the federal Department of Homeland Security is finally putting the money to work.  
   U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., who has continually pressed the Department to invest those dollars in transit security efforts, applauded the release of the funding, albeit nine months late.
   "For too long, dollars meant to help protect the American people from terrorist attack have sat unused in the Treasury, waiting, waiting, waiting for the Department of Homeland Security to put them to work. Finally, after months of delay and after the tragic bombing in London, those dollars will help to save lives," Byrd said.
   "Our security efforts cannot afford month after month of delay in funding. We need those dollars to be put to use quickly and efficiently. The lives of the American people depend on strengthened security," Byrd said.
   Byrd is the leading Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee and that committee's Homeland Security panel.
   While the White House requested no money to secure America's transit rail system last year, the Congress approved $150 million in rail transit security funding on October 11, 2004.
   On June 13, 2005, Byrd wrote to Secretary Chertoff, critical of the fact that the transit funds were still sitting in the Treasury.
   The West Virginia lawmaker repeated this concern to Chertoff directly at a meeting in Byrd's Capitol Office on Monday, strongly urging the Secretary to utilize the funding to better secure transit routes.
   Finally, on Tuesday, the Department of Homeland Security announced the release of $130 million.
   "It's mind-boggling that it took more than nine months to invest in more cameras, locks, canine teams, and training," Byrd said. "When terrorists blew up trains last year in Madrid, Spain, the Administration had no plan for securing transit and rail systems. The horrific bombings last week in London have raised the same questions that we raised last year. Could it happen here? Are we prepared?"
   Byrd noted that passenger rail systems in the United States carry about five times as many passengers each day as do airlines.
   In a letter to Senator Byrd explaining the delay, Secretary Chertoff acknowledged the delays cannot continue in this or other grant programs.
   "I am also committed to making further improvements and will pursue additional reforms, whether organizational changes or process improvements, that ensure that grant funds are distributed in a timely and effective manner without sacrificing effective oversight," Chertoff told Byrd. "Clearly, a more streamlined process could lead to more rapid enhancements in our nation's preparedness. I look forward to continuing to discuss these important issues with you."
   Of the more than $130 million released by the Department of Homeland Security, $107.9 million is for transit security and nearly $22.4 million is for intra-city bus security grants. On Thursday, the Department is scheduled to release $5 million for a freight rail security initiative. Unfortunately, $7.1 million directed toward Amtrak security efforts has not yet been awarded to the railroad.
 
 