BRAC OFFICIALS HEAR REAL STORY OF 130TH AIRLIFT WING
  To ensure the commission deciding whether to strip the West Virginia Air National Guard of all its C-130 aircraft has the right information about the 130th Airlift Wing, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., led a delegation to Charleston Monday to help make the case for keeping the planes in West Virginia. 
   "It is going to be a tough fight to get the 130th Airlift Wing off of Secretary Rumsfeld's base closure list. But in spite of the odds, the case for keeping the West Virginia's 130th Airlift Wing open is clearer than the noon sky," Byrd said. "We've got to do all that we can to keep'em flying."
   Byrd accompanied the top analysts for the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission to the 130th Airlift Wing in Charleston for a detailed briefing and tour of the base. Byrd invited the officials to the base, and has also invited Commission Chairman Anthony Principi to visit. Principi is scheduled to be in Charleston on June 24. At the end of the month, Byrd and other state and local officials will continue to make the case for the 130th Airlift Wing at a hearing in Charlotte, N.C.
   Last month, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld unveiled his plan to strip the 130th of its eight C-130 aircraft and base them at Pope Air Force Base in North Carolina. But Byrd and West Virginia Adjutant General Allen Tackett and others believe that there are major holes in the Secretary's proposal. They highlighted those holes in discussions with the BRAC analysts on Monday.
   "Right from the beginning, Secretary Rumsfeld based his plan on flawed information. His data was just plain wrong. As a result, so was the decision to take away all of the planes from the West Virginia National Guard, " Byrd said.
   "The men and women of the West Virginia National Guard have a passion to serve their state and their nation. They are used to difficult assignments and they have mastered the challenges thrown their way," Byrd stated. "They risk their lives. They perform their duty. All they ask is the ability to continue to carry out their mission."
   The entire West Virginia Delegation to the U.S. House of Representatives joined Byrd at the analysts' briefing, as did Governor Joe Manchin and Charleston Mayor Danny Jones. 
   The BRAC Commission has the authority to stop the Secretary's plan for the 130th Airlift Wing.
 
 