SEN. BYRD: FARMINGTON, A TRAGIC REMINDER
 November marks the 36th anniversary of the tragic Farmington Mine Disaster. It was this mine disaster, in which 78 coal miners lost their lives, that prompted Congress to pass the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 - the most comprehensive mine health and safety legislation to date. In addition to enacting new, stronger safety and enforcement provisions, the 1969 act protected America's coal miners from Black Lung by limiting their exposure to coal dust. 
   The anniversary of the Farmington Mine Disaster is an unfortunate reminder that the struggles of American labor have been a fight for safer working conditions as well as better wages, shorter hours, and job security. It also is a reminder that our federal government must be committed to making America's coal mines safer.
   This message seems lost on the Bush Administration, which has championed the most anti-labor policies in more than a century. The Bush White House has proposed increasing the allowable level of coal mine dust, reversing the 1969 act and needlessly exposing miners to Black Lung. Furthermore, the Administration has proposed killing a host of mine-safety regulations, including rules necessary to protect miners from toxic chemicals.
   The Bush White House assault on American workers hardly ends with coal miners. The Administration has cut funding for needed job training programs. It is blocking efforts to provide unemployment benefits to jobless workers. It is stripping many workers of their right to overtime pay. It is repealing safety rules necessary for the protection of American workers. It has attacked the civil service system. It has sought to weaken collective bargaining rights.
   Under this Administration's watch, 2.5 million good-paying manufacturing jobs, including several thousand in West Virginia, have disappeared. On average, 34,000 jobs a month are being shipped overseas.
   Today, when the real value of the minimum wage is sinking to record lows, the Bush Administration has trapped millions of workers in poverty by blocking congressional efforts to raise the standard of living for working Americans.
   When the great American labor leader Samuel Gompers was asked what labor wanted, he had a simple answer, "more." President Bush has answered with more - more for big oil, more for big insurance companies, more for the well-connected high rollers - but, sadly, less for America's working families.
 
 