SENS. BYRD, ROCKEFELLER WORK TO PROTECT SOCIAL SECURITY
  Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, both D-W.Va., are calling on President Bush and the Republican Congressional Leadership to come clean with the American people about their plans to privatize Social Security after the November election. 
   "Social Security should not be some Wall Street baron's play thing. Social Security is the safety net for tens of millions of Americans. We have to work to strengthen Social Security for this generation and generations to come, and not place that safety net at risk," Byrd said. "I will fight to protect Social Security, and not allow it to be gambled on some risky privatization scheme." 
   "We simply cannot put our seniors' Social Security benefits at the mercy of the stock market," Rockefeller said. "As a U.S. Senator representing more than 400,000 West Virginians who depend on Social Security, I give my absolute promise that I will do everything possible to protect their benefits from any secret Bush plan to privatize Social Security."
   In a recent speech and interviews with national newspapers and columnists, President Bush has announced his intention to wait until after the fall elections to renew his push to privatize Social Security. Earlier this year, the White House included a plan in its budget that would divert $700 billion in Social Security funds for the President's scheme. That plan was met with widespread opposition by the American people and the Republican Congressional Leadership backed away from the proposal. 
   Rockefeller and Byrd have signed the "Golden Promise" petition - a pledge to fight to protect Social Security and not risk it with risky, politically motivated schemes. Recently, hundreds of people gathered at the Capitol to launch the petition drive. Organizations like the Alliance for Retired Americans and Americans United and AFSCME have committed to the effort to protect Social Security.
   "We must make sure our seniors can retire with dignity, and we must protect those who depend on Social Security due to a disability or family death," Rockefeller said.
   "If Social Security is privatized, the arrival of a Social Security check for many families could no longer be guaranteed," Byrd stated. "When the market falls into a tailspin, it is the privileged few at the top - not the ordinary workers - who would have the golden parachutes."
 
 