SEN. BYRD BILL TO EXPAND HARPERS FERRY NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK ALMOST LAW
  Legislation written by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., to expand Harpers Ferry National Historical Park (NHP) was approved by the House of Representatives Monday.  
   "My legislation recognizes the unique character of Harpers Ferry National Historical Park - its natural beauty, its role in American history, and its importance to the cultural heritage of our country. This endorsement by the House of Representatives is a great step forward for the Park and the Eastern Panhandle," Byrd said.
   "With approval of the House, the effort to ensure the long-term preservation of the Park sits on the brink of fruition," Byrd said. "I commend the strong support of West Virginia Congressman Nick Rahall, who guided this bill through that chamber."
   Rahall is the top Democrat on the House Committee on Resources, the committee that unanimously endorsed Byrd's legislation prior to its consideration by the full House of Representatives.
   "During his distinguished career in the United States Senate, Harpers Ferry National Historical Park has had no better friend, no better protector, than Senator Robert C. Byrd," Rahall said. "Few places possess both the scenic beauty and historical significance of Harper's Ferry. Enactment of this legislation is critical because it will enhance both the scenic and historic resources of this unique place."
   Byrd introduced S. 1576, the bill to expand the acreage capacity at Harpers Ferry NHP, on September 3, 2003. The legislation is cosponsored by fellow West Virginia Senator Jay Rockefeller. After committee hearings and Senate debate, the Senate unanimously approved Byrd's legislation on May 19, 2004. Monday's vote by the House of Representatives clears the way for the legislation to be signed into law.
   Byrd's legislation would expand the park's boundary capacity by 1,240 acres, from its current 2,505 acres to 3,745 acres. The expansion of Harpers Ferry, which became part of the National Park System in 1944, has the support of groups including the Friends of Harpers Ferry, the Harpers Ferry Conservancy, and the Civil War Preservation Trust.
   In the Senate, Byrd has worked to provide millions of dollars in federal funding for the National Park Service (NPS) to update, renovate, and refurbish buildings and educational resources at Harpers Ferry. In addition, in 2001, Byrd shepherded $2 million through Congress to allow the NPS, in conjunction with Civil War preservation groups, to purchase the Murphy Farm property adjacent to the park.
   Also in 2001, Byrd facilitated the conclusion of more than four decades of negotiations between the NPS and CSX Corporation, resulting in the Park Service's acquisition of the historic U.S. Armory Grounds in Harpers Ferry. he property includes both the Baltimore & Ohio (B&O) train station and the site where John Brown and his raiders barricaded themselves in 1859.
 
 