SEN. BYRD REACTS TO AT&T JOB LOSSES IN CHARLESTON
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Monday called telephone giant AT&T's decision to close its Charleston Call Center "a severe blow to Kanawha County." 
   "I am very disappointed by AT&T's decision to close its call center in Charleston and eliminate services to new residential customers across the country," Byrd said. "The men and women who work at this center have proved themselves time and again to be among the most dedicated, most efficient, and most loyal employees at the company. It is regrettable that, despite the efforts of these employees, AT&T is shutting the call center's doors. It is the end of an era in West Virginia, and likely signals the end of AT&T as we have known it for so many years."
   AT&T has more than 270 employees at the Charleston call center.
   In July, the Bush Administration announced that it would not appeal a court decision that overturned key portions of a Federal Communications Commission rule on local telephone competition. That ruling outlawed regulations which had enabled AT&T and other long-distance carriers to lease local telephone lines at discounted rates. The lower lease rules had been established in order to ensure competition in residential telephone services and better prices for consumers. By failing to appeal the court ruling, the company states that the cost of providing local service to residential markets would rise substantially - to a level that makes continuing operations unprofitable. 
   "It comes as little surprise that the Bush White House would fail to stand up for those families who work at AT&T and for those consumers who benefit from competition in local telephone service. This is a White House that always puts big special interests ahead of the people's interests," Byrd explained. "By failing to act, the Bush White House has not only doomed these jobs but also likely set the stage for higher telephone bills for all consumers."
   For eight years, the Federal Communications Commission has encouraged competition in the local phone market by allowing companies such as AT&T to lease parts of the local network at deep discounts. AT&T had used those rules to bundle local and long-distance calling for one flat rate, allowing it to compete with similar packages from regional telephone companies such as Verizon, SBC Communications, Inc., and BellSouth. But the decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia tossed those rules out.
   The Administration's failure to appeal the ruling is bad news for competition, according to Consumers Union.
   The move by AT&T to stop competing in several major markets is just the beginning of the end of local phone competition," said Gene Kimmelman, senior public policy director for Consumers Union, publisher of Consumer Reports. "By failing to stand up for a policy that supports competition, the Bush Administration effectively sentenced consumers to a fate of higher prices and poorer service when it comes to their local and long-distance service."
   "The Administration's failure to challenge the ruling and provide leadership on this critical issue has paved the way for the Bells to drive out any real competitors still remaining, which ultimately will lead to higher rates and poorer service for many consumers," Kimmelman stated.
 
 