SENS. BYRD, DEWINE LEAD EFFORT TO DEFEND WORKING FAMILIES IN SENATE BATTLE
  Sens. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., and Mike DeWine, R-Ohio, are leading the effort to stand up for American steelworkers and tens of thousands of working families across the country. 
   Byrd and DeWine are fighting an effort by the White House and the Republican Congressional Leadership that would undermine American manufacturers and allow foreign traders to illegally dump products on U.S. markets.
   "The United States Congress must not abandon working families. We must stand with them. We must fight for them," Byrd said.
   "This law continues to play a very important role in defending American companies from the injuries that unfair trade causes to American workers. Repealing this legislation would be a grievous mistake," Senator DeWine said during debate on Wednesday. 
   The two Senators are leading a bipartisan coalition in defense of the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act (CDSOA) - more commonly called the Byrd Amendment. The House of Representatives, with the strong backing of the Bush Administration, has approved legislation with a repeal of the Byrd Amendment. The Senate has to date refused to approve any repeal of the Byrd Amendment.
   As negotiations get underway between the House and Senate on a final version of the legislation, Byrd and DeWine are pressing the Senate to instruct negotiators to keep the CDSOA as the law of the land.
   "The Byrd Amendment has breathed new hope into American manufacturing industries and farm and fishing industries. The Byrd Amendment also has worked to lessen illegal dumping and subsidies by our foreign trade partners. We must continue to encourage our trade partners to play by the rules and stop dumping," Byrd said.
   First District Congressman Alan B. Mollohan, D-W.Va., has been a key supporter of the Byrd Amendment and the steel industry. He's fighting to keep the Byrd Amendment as law.
   "There is no justification for repealing the Byrd Amendment. The amendment is fair, it is reasonable, and it helps our steel and other industries to recover from the terrible harm they have suffered due to unfair trade. Those who oppose the Byrd Amendment are adding insult to the injury that our communities are experiencing," Mollohan said.
   The federal government collects duties on products found to be unfairly subsidized or dumped in the U.S. market. Under the Byrd Amendment, those duties are then made available to those U.S. companies and workers affected by unfair foreign trade practices. If foreign trade partners follow the rules that they negotiate with the United States, there are no negative consequences and no funds go to American companies; but if our foreign trade partners break those agreements, they must provide a remedy to American companies.
   "We must not reward those countries that cheat in order to steal American jobs and drive American companies out of business," Byrd said.
   Steel, lumber, wheat, shrimp, catfish, bearings, mushrooms, crawfish, pasta, furniture, and a long list of other industrial and agricultural producers stand to be reimbursed under the law for having borne the costs of bringing successful trade cases against illegally traded imports.
   Weirton Steel, now part of Mittal Steel USA (Weirton), Warwood Tool Company (Wheeling), and TSF L.L.C. (Berkeley Springs) all have received assistance thanks to the Byrd Amendment.
   The effort to kill these programs comes on the heels of World Trade Organization rulings that claim the CDSOA violates trade rules. However, no trade agreement that the United States has joined prohibits the Byrd Amendment. Senators DeWine and Byrd are confident that the Constitution does not allow an international entity to instruct the United States Congress on how funds can be distributed from the U.S. Treasury.
   In response to the misguided WTO rulings, Byrd won Congressional approval of legislation instructing the Bush Administration to add the terms of the CDSOA into existing international trade agreements. Despite this directive's being signed into law, the Bush Administration has failed substantively to address the CDSOA in trade talks.
   "The United States must not balance bad international trade decisions on the backs of American workers. It's time for the Congress to do what's best for the working families of this country and not what's best for the WTO or any foreign trading partner," Byrd stated.
 
 