SEN. BYRD WANTS SINCLAIR 'ATTACK-U-MENTARY' INVESTIGATED
 Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Thursday called on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Federal Election Commission (FEC) to put a halt to an upcoming program about John Kerry. 
   Sinclair Broadcast Group reportedly plans to air an anti-Kerry documentary days before the election. The program is being promoted by the anti-Kerry political organization 'Swift Vets and POWs for Truth' (formerly Swift Boat Veterans for Truth) as part of a $1.4 million advertising campaign. Sinclair has told its 64 stations across the country to label the program as a news special and to air it without commercial interruption.
   "What Sinclair Broadcast is doing in airing this so-called documentary is nothing more than blatant politicking. To air such a partisan attack - and to somehow claim that the attack is 'news programming' - is simply outrageous," Byrd said.
   "This is no documentary. This is an attack-u-mentary. It's nothing more than a bought-and-paid-for political ad whose sole purpose is to smear John Kerry and help George W. Bush," Byrd stated. "The FCC ought to clamp down on such a blatant disregard for the law."
   In West Virginia, Sinclair Broadcast owns two stations in Charleston: WCHS-TV8 and WVAH-Fox11. Those stations reach viewers in at least 34 counties in West Virginia, Kentucky, and Ohio.
   "It is absolutely irresponsible for an organization that claims to provide fair and accurate information to air a so-called documentary that is neither fair nor accurate," Byrd said.
   Byrd wrote to Michael Powell, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, and Bradley Smith, Chairman of the Federal Election Commission, to explain his concerns and ask for their intervention.
   "It is my understanding that the Sinclair-owned stations are under marching orders from the corporate headquarters to air this programming during prime-time viewing hours just before the election. I am concerned that my constituents in West Virginia will be led to believe that the attacks in this political production are fact, rather than only one group's opinion," Byrd wrote.
 
 