SEN. BYRD WINS FUNDS FOR KEY UPGRADES AT MORGANTOWN'S ENERGY LABORATORY
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Tuesday won approval from a key Senate committee for funds that he added to legislation to significantly modernize the scientific facilities at the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) in Morgantown. 
   "The National Energy Technology Laboratory is the crown jewel in the country's effort to find more efficient, environmentally sound methods to utilize coal and other fossil fuel sources," Byrd said. "The important research breakthroughs at NETL have contributed to - and will continue to contribute to - the long-term use of West Virginia coal."
   "We cannot expect our scientists and engineers to make 21st Century breakthroughs while using 1960s technologies," Byrd stated.
   Byrd won approval by the Senate Appropriations Committee for $4 million for the new 108,000 square-foot facility to be built on the NETL campus. He is seeking another $4 million in separate funding legislation.
   The new building will be dedicated to NETL's Office of Energy Assurance mission and will also replace existing substandard office space. Currently, seven old trailer buildings house approximately 108 site-support contractor employees, including many scientists and engineers.
   Byrd has worked for the past three years to advance NETL's modernization project in order to bring the lab's facilities up to par with the country's other key research facilities. He has directed $19 million to accelerate the project.
   "The mission at NETL is vital not only for West Virginia, but also to the future energy independence of the United States," Byrd explained. "As the world demand grows for cleaner and more efficient energy sources, these new technologies developed at NETL will help to expand the opportunities for coal and other fossil fuels. By doing so, the United States will be better prepared to use its own natural resources instead of relying on energy imports from the Middle East and other parts of the world."
   In December 1999, Byrd joined then-Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson in Morgantown for the formal ceremony designating NETL as the country's 15th national laboratory - a recognition of the high caliber of work at the lab as well as a commitment to significant energy research in the future.
   Byrd also has worked to expand NETL's mission to include homeland security responsibilities. Byrd was integral in the partnership between NETL's Energy Security Technology Program and the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Energy Assurance to protect the nation against severe energy supply disruptions. Rather than reacting to breaches in energy security, the NETL program emphasizes detection and prevention of potential breaches.
   With approval by the Senate Appropriations Committee, the legislation containing Byrd's $4 million for the lab now goes before the full Senate for further consideration.
 
 