SEN. BYRD LEGISLATION TO PROTECT MINE RECLAMATION WORK CLEARS COMMITTEE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., took the first step to stave off the end of the federal Abandoned Mine Land reclamation program. 
   "This program impacts jobs in local communities, the continuation of health care benefits for retired coal miners and their families, the clean-up of old mine hazards, and environmental improvements around the country," Byrd explained at a meeting of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   Across the country, there is a significant backlog of abandoned mine sites that await cleanup and reclamation. Last year, the federal Office of Surface Mining published a study which stated that 1.2 million Americans live within a half-mile of a dangerous abandoned mine site.
   The Abandoned Mine Land (AML) program finances the restoration and reclamation of abandoned mine sites through grants provided to states. Funds for the AML grants come from fees paid by coal producers at the rate of 35 cents per ton of surface-mined coal and 15 cents per ton of coal that is mined underground. 
   Byrd added a 9-month extension of the AML reclamation program to legislation that funds the U.S. Department of the Interior. The extension is critical because the program is set to expire in two weeks. 
   "The deadline is fast approaching and cannot be ignored. The Bush White House and the Republican Congressional Leadership have made little priority of extending this program which is so vital to the safety of people living near old coal mine sites. It is incredibly short-sighted to allow this program to disappear with the vague promise that it will be recreated later. That is why I feel so strongly that the Congress approve this one-year extension," Byrd stated.
   Byrd's amendment, which was cosponsored by Republican Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, was passed by a voice vote.
   Several Congressional committees, including the Senate Energy Committee and the House Resources Committee, are examining various proposals to change and extend the AML program. However, time is quickly running out as the program, first created in 1977, is scheduled to end on September 30.
   "My amendment is a safety net for coalfield citizens in West Virginia and across the country. The committees face an enormous task to have a full extension signed into law before the end of the month. To reach that goal, the bill would have to make it through a Senate committee, through the Senate, through the House committee without a single change, through the House of Representatives without a single change, and then signed into law before the end of September. While not impossible, it is highly, highly unlikely," Byrd explained.
   "Time is running short. My amendment is a critical backstop because we cannot sit idly by and let this program lapse," Byrd said.
   With approval of Byrd's amendment by the Senate Appropriations Committee, it next moves to the full Senate for further consideration.
 
 