SENS. BYRD, ROCKEFELLER PRESS FOR PERMANENT FIX FOR ABANDONED MINES PROGRAM
  Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, both D-W.Va., are continuing their efforts to win Senate approval of legislation that would ensure the long-term funding for the abandoned mine reclamation program - a solution that is as close as it has ever been to being signed into law. 
   "We have the best opportunity in several years to provide peace of mind to our coalfield communities, and we ought not let it slip away because of partisan politics," Byrd said. "I am committed to doing everything that I can to move this legislation to the President's desk."
   "For far too long, thousands of miners have faced an uncertain future when it comes to their health care. A promise made should be a promise kept. This legislation would give those miners and their families the comfort and satisfaction of knowing they will never have to face another benefit cut in their lifetimes and knowing that their families are safe and taken care of," Rockefeller said. "That would be a huge relief, and Senator Byrd and I are working to accomplish it."
   The federal Abandoned Mine Land (AML) program provides much needed funds to states for restoration and reclamation of old mine sites and helps to shore up the federally guaranteed health care benefits for more than 52,000 retired coal miners and their families nationwide. However, significant underfunding has placed both efforts in jeopardy. A long-term legislative fix has been in the works for several years, but regional concerns have stalled any permanent solution. Those regional differences have been bridged, but the final legislative package has yet to win Senate approval.
   Byrd and Rockefeller are part of a growing coalition of Senators who are pressing for passage of the long-term AML fix. That legislation also includes key extensions of tax benefits geared for families and small businesses.
   "Coal miners in West Virginia deserve stability in their health benefits and deserve economically secure communities in which to raise their families. Republicans should not continue to hold up this long-overdue legislation," Rockefeller added.
   "This is our chance to give peace of mind to the people of our coalfield communities who live near these old, dangerous, abandoned mine sites. This is our chance to protect, for many years to come, the health care benefits for more than 17,000 retired West Virginia coal miners and their families. This is our chance to make sure that small businesses continue to drive our economy, creating new jobs and new opportunities. This is our chance, and the Senate should not let it fall because of election-year political games," Byrd said.
   The West Virginia lawmakers are cosponsoring the AML/tax extender proposal offered by Senator Max Baucus of Montana. An effort to pass that legislation was blocked on Thursday morning by the Senate Republican Leadership. Byrd, Rockefeller, Baucus, and others plan to continue their efforts to overcome the GOP leader's objections and win Senate approval of their proposal.
 
 