SEN. BYRD PRESSES FOR PENSION SECURITY
  At a time when families are seeing their long-planned pensions disappear because major employers are declaring bankruptcy, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Wednesday pressed for greater pension security for working West Virginians. 
   "Many of the workers of my state sacrifice their wages to ensure higher pensions in retirement, and they view those pensions as much their entitlement for a day's labor as their Friday paycheck," Byrd said at a Senate hearing Wednesday.
   "These workers are outraged that companies can escape their pension and health care obligations through bankruptcy. In West Virginia, it has happened in the coal industry. It has happened in the steel, aluminum, and special metals industries. Businesses, rightly or wrongly, file for bankruptcy and workers, through no fault of their own, find themselves stranded - too young to collect Social Security and too old to find a new job," Byrd said.
   "This is incredibly serious for the workers and retirees at Weirton Steel in the Northern Panhandle, at Kaiser Aluminum in Ravenswood, and at Special Metals in Huntington. In those communities and in so many other places, workers and retirees have lost much of their pensions in bankruptcy, and the bankruptcy of Horizon Natural Resources, whose workers and retirees lost their health care benefits, only shows how much is at risk," Byrd said.
   On Wednesday, the Senate Budget Committee took a close look at the problem and heard from Bradley Belt, executive director, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), and Douglas Holtz-Eakin, director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO).
   "Director Belt, the Congress recently passed legislation cracking down on individuals who abusively shed their debts in bankruptcy. What further reforms are necessary to ensure that companies do not abusively shed their pension obligations in bankruptcy? What changes to the corporate bankruptcy laws, as they relate to pensions, should the Congress consider?" Byrd asked.
   "There is no question that, under current law, the interaction of ERISA [Employee Retirement Income Security Act] and the bankruptcy code leads to bad outcomes and multiple losers. All of the stakeholders lose. Workers and retirees lose. Companies who go bankrupt lose. It also poses the taxpayer a risk down the road," Belt responded.
   "But bankruptcy is at the end of the process, while the focus really should be on the front end. There's nothing we can, in my view from a governmental perspective, do to change the business cycle. Companies are going to go bankrupt," Belt said. "What we can and should do something about is making sure that there are the resources in place to cover those promises made in a sponsored defined benefit plan. We need to make sure that everyone gets 100 cents on the dollar [from their retirement plan] and not a nickle on the dollar."
   According to the PBGC, 313,099 workers in West Virginia are covered by single-employer defined benefit plans - plans that usually are based on an employee's salary and years of service. In a typical defined benefit plan, the participant accrues a retirement benefit that is equal to a percentage of the average pay earned over a period of years.
   In recent years, a series of private employers, including many in the steel and metals industries, in West Virginia have declared bankruptcy, forcing many to shed their obligations to pay the defined benefit pensions and health care benefits to retirees. The PBGC is often called to bail out these retirees who are left in a serious financial hole for which they had no responsibility. Currently, the PBGC provides at least a partial payment to 11,215 West Virginians who have seen their defined benefit pension plans vanish.
   In 2001, the PBGC reported a cumulative surplus of $7.7 billion. However, because of significant economic downturns and a sharp spike in the number of companies declaring bankruptcy, it is estimated that the PBGC could be insolvent by 2020 or 2021.
  CBO Director Holtz-Eakin has stated that an insolvent PBGC would necessitate a drastic reduction in benefits, perhaps in excess of 90 percent. The maximum pension insured by Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation now is $45,614. 
   "A different way to think about this is that pensions are just like wages. Pensions are like the pay compensation given to workers for their effort. Pensions should not be affected by any bankruptcy or reorganization as a result of competitive pressures," Holtz-Eakin stated. "The challenge is to make sure that the compensation that has been already earned is paid to workers at retirement."
 
 