HOUSE PANEL TAKES CLOSE LOOK AT SEN. BYRD'S EFFORT TO PROTECT HARPERS FERRY NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK
  A key House panel on Tuesday held a hearing to examine legislation written by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., to expand the boundaries of the Harpers Ferry National Historical Park (NHP). 
   "This is an important bill for Harpers Ferry, for the Eastern Panhandle, and, in fact, for the nation. By expanding the park's boundaries, we can protect the rich historic and recreational opportunities that the park offers to residents and tourists alike," Byrd said.
   Byrd's legislation, S.1576, would expand the Harpers Ferry NHP boundary capacity by 1,240 acres, from its current 2,505 acres to 3,745 acres. Harpers Ferry, which became part of the National Park System in 1944, hosted more than 250,000 visitors last year.
   West Virginia Congressman Nick J. Rahall is the top Democratic member of the House Resources Committee; that panel's National Parks, Recreation, and Public Lands Subcommittee discussed Byrd's bill on Tuesday. 
   "Few places in America can match the scenic beauty and historical significance of Harpers Ferry. Like the State of West Virginia itself, Harpers Ferry occupies such a pivotal location that it has served as the backdrop to many of the most significant chapters in American history," Rahall explained to his colleagues during the hearing.
   "Harpers Ferry is an incredibly powerful tool for telling the great story of our State and of America," Rahall said. "These proposed additions will allow the Park to help us tell those stories even more completely."
   Byrd introduced the legislation on September 3, 2003. He guided it through the Senate, which passed the bill unanimously on May 19, 2004. The House Resources Committee hearing was the first step toward passage in that chamber.
   "Harpers Ferry National Historical Park has had no better friend, no better protector, than West Virginia's Senior Senator, Robert C. Byrd. I salute Senator Byrd for his tireless efforts on behalf of Harpers Ferry and West Virginia and urge the subcommittee to move forward on his legislation as quickly as possible," Rahall stated.
   The legislation is Byrd's latest effort to improve the quality of the park. Byrd has worked to provide millions of dollars in federal funding for the National Park Service to update, renovate, and refurbish buildings and educational resources at Harpers Ferry. In addition, in 2001, Byrd shepherded $2 million through Congress to allow the NPS, in conjunction with Civil War preservation groups, to purchase the Murphy Farm property adjacent to the park.
   Also in 2001, Byrd facilitated the conclusion of more than four decades of negotiations between the NPS and CSX Corporation, resulting in the Park Service's acquisition of the historic U.S. Armory Grounds in Harpers Ferry. The property includes both the Baltimore & Ohio (B&O) train station and the site where John Brown and his raiders barricaded themselves in 1859.
 
 