SEN. BYRD PRESSES IRS ON MARTINSBURG FACILITY JOBS
  In response to concerns from his constituents, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., is pressing top officials at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about the agency's commitment to jobs at its Martinsburg Computing Center. 
   "I have heard from constituents who are worried that they may lose their jobs at the Martinsburg IRS facility. These men and women are tops in their profession. They have been leaders in the effort to modernize and streamline IRS operations, and it would be very shortsighted to eliminate jobs to meet some arbitrary employment cap," Byrd said.
   Byrd contacted IRS Commissioner Mark W. Everson about the job levels at the Martinsburg Computing Complex. Previously, Byrd has discussed the employment situation with Everson, who assured the Senator that Martinsburg was central to the IRS.
   "These allegations of possible job cuts at the Martinsburg Computing Center are contrary to your assurances and are of substantial concern to me and my constituents," Byrd wrote to Everson.
   In response, Commissioner Everson has told Byrd that the IRS is moving toward an overall expansion of the Martinsburg Computing Center. The IRS, Everson explained, is working to avoid duplication of services at its three computing centers - Martinsburg, Detroit, Mich., and Memphis, Tenn - which will mean an elimination of some jobs in the short-term. But the overall employment levels will start to increase as early as this fall.
   "With this new structure, Martinsburg would continue as the predominant computer operations center and would become the home of the Service Delivery Division (the largest unit) as well as our primary command center," Everson told Byrd.
   "In the coming month I hope to formalize our plans and provide additional information to help employees manage the effects of this restructuring," Everson explained. "Again, I stand by my commitment to you to maintain the appropriate staffing levels in West Virginia. Given the necessary budget resources, we may be able to increase staffing levels."
   Everson committed to Byrd that the IRS will work closely with the National Treasury Employees Union with regard to the current employees who will not qualify for new jobs. Everson promised "to identify employment options and consider Voluntary Early Retirement Authority and Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment opportunities where possible."
   Byrd will continue to work with Commissioner Everson and keep a close eye on employee issues at the Martinsburg facility.
   "The IRS facility is in Martinsburg because of my work in the Senate. I am not about to stand by and see what has become a crown jewel of the IRS be tarnished," Byrd stated.
   Byrd helped to obtain the appropriations that led to the construction and outfitting of the $140 million Martinsburg Computing Center, which annually injects more than $66 million into the local economy.
 
 