SEN. BYRD REACTS TO PRESIDENT'S SPEECH ON AMNESTY, BORDER SECURITY
  Sen. Byrd on Monday issued the following statement after President Bush's speech on amnesty and border security.
   "I'm glad that the President is finally joining the bipartisan Congressional effort to tighten our border security. Since 9/11, the Bush Administration has threatened to veto funds and cut back on border security, instead of working with Congress to speed the hiring of new border patrol agents and the installation of new high-tech tools to stop illegal immigration." 
   "I have a great many concerns about the President's plan to place our National Guard troops along the U.S.-Mexico border. First and foremost, our troops are stretched to their limits. Our National Guardsmen have taken on two, three, sometimes four tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan. Now, we are going to ask them to come home from Iraq and go to work patrolling our borders. I'm not sure that the President's plan will work. Our Guardsmen are not trained to be border patrol agents. And logistically, if we were to space out each of the 6,000 Guardsmen that the President wants to send to the nearly 2,000 mile long southern border, there would be about six football fields of territory separating each Guardsman. That just won't work."
   "I believe in legal immigration, in people following the laws and going through the background checks before coming on our shores. But I will not support amnesty for illegal immigrants, no matter how many speeches that the President gives in support of that broken idea. Amnesties open routes to legal status for illegal aliens who want to circumvent vital security checks. Advocates may try to distance themselves from the word 'amnesty,' characterizing their proposals as 'guest-worker' programs or 'temporary visas,' but the real effect of these amnesty proposals is to legalize the unlawful actions of millions of undocumented workers and the businesses that knowingly employ them."
   "The United States cannot afford to allow this huge stream of illegal immigration to continue. We also cannot afford to grant amnesty to millions of people who have broken our laws. Our country's resources - our hospitals, schools, and social programs - are stretched thin by this massive wave of illegal immigrants, and we are much more vulnerable to terrorists who want to slip past our lax security."
   "The President ought to drop his veto threat against the national security emergency funding legislation that includes $1.9 billion for border security. Those dollars can be put to use right now, without delay, to tighten security, to stem the tide of illegal immigration, and to stymie terrorists' efforts to sneak into America. If we are truly serious about securing our borders - and not just engaging in rhetoric and hot air - then we will put real dollars where the rubber hits the road."
   BACKGROUND ON SENATOR BYRD'S BORDER SECURITY EFFORTS 
   On May 4, 2006, the Senate approved the national security emergency funding legislation, which included a proposal offered by Senator Byrd and Republican Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire to dedicate $1.9 billion to border security. The President has threatened to veto that legislation.
   The Gregg-Byrd plan would direct $1.9 billion toward border security initiatives, focused on making sure that U.S. border patrol and immigration officers have the tools that they need to stem the flow of illegal immigration. On the day before the Senate approved the border security proposal, the only unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) patrolling the nearly 2,000 mile long U.S.-Mexico Border crashed and is indefinitely out of commission. 
   Of the $1.9 billion in Gregg-Byrd funding, $120 million would be directed for fencing and tactical border infrastructure. The amendment provides $790 million for new helicopters, fixed wing aircraft, and unmanned aerial vehicles. Another $150 million would go toward communications equipment, and sensors, and cameras, and other technology along our border. The Gregg-Byrd amendment also would provide $600 million to accelerate the Coast Guard's program to modernize its fleet of ships and planes.
   The Gregg-Byrd proposal builds on the success of another bipartisan plan that Senator Byrd authored, this time with Republican Senator Larry Craig of Idaho. That plan, approved by the Congress and signed into law by the President on May 11, 2005, invested more than $273 million in border security initiatives, including the hiring of 500 border patrol agents and more than 200 immigration enforcement agents and criminal investigators. The provision also has paid for 1,950 more detention beds for illegal immigrants detained by U.S. authorities.
 
 