SEN. BYRD: NATION MUST PROTECT LIVES OF COAL MINERS
  The men who died at the Sago and Alma coal mines in West Virginia last year would have survived the explosions and fires if safety requirements on the books had been followed, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Thursday. 
   "Many, if not all, of the coal mine deaths at Sago and at Alma last year were preventable, if only miner safety were a higher priority before tragedy struck," Byrd said. 
   Byrd joined families of the Sago miners and United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) President Cecil Roberts at a Capitol Hill news conference for the release of the union's investigation into the Sago tragedy. U.S. Senator Jay Rockefeller and Congressman Nick J. Rahall, both D-W.Va., also attended the news conference.
   "When these men and women go into a mine, we should do all that we can to ensure a safe return home at the end of their shifts," Byrd said.
   "Mine safety is no simple challenge, and there is no easy solution. But look into the faces of the families who lost their loved ones at Sago, at Alma, and at Darby. Hear their stories. It is plain to see that the cost of a lost father or husband, brother or aunt, is far greater than the cost of making our mining industry safer than ever before," Byrd said.
   Byrd noted that the Congress, in response to the deaths at the Sago and Alma mines in West Virginia, approved the federal MINER Act. That law promotes increased mine safety, better enforcement, and faster rescue in case tragedy strikes. 
   "This legislation was the start of our efforts, not the end of our mission. We can never be satisfied with the status quo. We can - and we must - innovate. We can - and we must - demand accountability and fairness from the federal mine safety agency. Together, we can - and we will - protect the lives and the health of our coal miners," Byrd stated.
   In addition to his work to help craft the MINER Act, the West Virginia lawmaker included $25.6 million in special funding legislation last summer to allow the federal mine safety agency to hire and train 170 new coal mine safety inspectors. Another $10 million was directed toward the development of new communications and rescue technologies that can speed rescue to miners after an explosion.
   UMWA President Cecil Roberts echoed Byrd's concerns.
   "Twelve men are dead today who should not be," Roberts said in releasing the investigation report. "Their deaths came as the result of a series of bad decisions made by the company and the federal mine safety regulatory agency. Some of these decisions were made in the weeks and months immediately prior to the explosion and in the hours immediately after it. Some of these decisions were made many years prior to the explosion."
   "But whenever they were made, all of these misguided decisions contributed to this tragedy," Roberts said. "And without immediate action by mine operators and regulatory agencies to reverse the effects of these decisions, more tragedies are inevitable."
   Members of the Sago families visited with Byrd at the Capitol Hill event and participated in the news conference. Byrd also spoke by telephone on Thursday with family members who could not attend the Washington, D.C., program.
   A copy of the report is available at the UMWA website. The address is: http://www.umwa.org/Sagoreport.pdf.
 
 