SEN. BYRD CARRIES LOCAL VETS' CONCERNS TO VA SECRETARY
  The Bush Administration would turn away hundreds of thousands of veterans from Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Centers, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Tuesday, if the White House budget plan wins Congressional approval. 
   "West Virginians are extremely proud of our veterans. Those men and women who have chosen to serve our nation are owed an enormous debt. It is a moral responsibility that the United States carries, as President Lincoln said, 'to care for him who shall have bourne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan,'" Byrd said at a Senate hearing Tuesday.
   Byrd met last week in his Capitol office with representatives of West Virginia's veterans organizations. The nation's three largest veterans organizations - the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Disabled American Veterans - have called the President's proposals "the most tight-fisted, miserly budgets for veterans programs." Senator Byrd shared their concerns and his with VA Secretary James Nicholson at a Senate hearing Tuesday.
   In his budget, President Bush proposes to double the copayment for prescription drugs, impose a new $250 annual "user fee" for certain veterans, and continue a policy of turning away hundreds of thousands of veterans from VA hospitals because they are classified as "low priority." According to the Congressional Research Service, continuing this policy on "low priority" veterans will deny a staggering 522,000 veterans care from VA hospitals by the end of this year. 
   "The American people must be told how many veterans will suffer under the President's budget proposal," Byrd said. "The more than 190,000 veterans in West Virginia receiving health care from VA Medical Centers in the Mountain State are threatened by these significant hikes in fees and copayments. The expected wave of combat veterans from the Iraq and Afghanistan wars will add to the stress on our VA facilities. Yet, instead of strengthening the VA medical system, the Bush Administration weakens it."
   "Tax cuts and corporate giveaways are helping the super-rich get further ahead, but the President's budget leaves veterans health care far behind. For this Senator, 'support the troops' means taking care of veterans after they come home. Our brave fighting men and women deserve much more from the White House than sloganeering and health care on the cheap," Byrd said.
   The Senate this week is debating the President's budget - including funding levels for VA medical care. Amendments are expected to be offered that would significantly boost VA medical care funding and reverse the President's shortsighted cuts to veterans' health care.
 
 