SEN. BYRD BOLSTERS NATIONAL GUARD'S YOUTH CHALLENGE
  The U.S. Senate has approved legislation by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., to boost funding for the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe program which mentors at-risk youth nationwide, including the Mountaineer Challenge Academy in Preston County. 
   "The highly successful Youth ChalleNGe program helps troubled youth to turn their lives around by teaching them important life skills. The program has created a brighter future for more than 52,000 teenagers in 24 states, but the program is threatened by state budget cuts," Byrd said.
   Byrd's provision in the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Authorization Bill would phase in an increase over the next three years to bring the federal cost-share of Youth ChalleNGe from the current 60 percent federal share to 75 percent. The remaining costs would be covered by the participating states. 
   Also, the bill authorizes an additional $15 million to expand existing Youth ChalleNGe academies and establish new ones in other states. The Senate passed the Defense Authorization Bill by a vote of 98-0 on Tuesday, which sends the bill to a conference committee with the House of Representatives to work out differences between the two versions. 
   "This unique National Guard education program takes students off a path of trouble and places them on a path to becoming responsible adults who will contribute to their communities. The students thrive in the program's tough curriculum, and through hard work, they redeem their futures," Byrd said. 
   The West Virginia Democrat worked with the National Guard Bureau to create this program in 1991, which was first called the National Guard Civilian Youth Opportunities Program. That pilot program was geared for young people who had dropped out of or been expelled from high school. Since then, the program has expanded in size and scope, and is now known as the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program. The program helps students to gain self-respect, job skills, citizenship responsibilities, and other life-coping skills. 
   The program now operates 27 academies in 24 states, including West Virginia's Mountaineer ChalleNGe at Camp Dawson. Ninety-seven percent of the program's students are successful in graduating from the 17-month program, with nearly three-quarters of those students earning their high school diplomas during that time.
   "Budget shortfalls in West Virginia and across the country have put the Youth ChallenGe program in jeopardy. This legislation will help to sustain current ChallenGe sites, and will allow new academies to begin mentoring at-risk young people," Byrd stated.
 
 