SEN. BYRD PUSHES TO STOP CUTOFF OF OVERTIME PAY FOR MILLIONS OF WORKERS
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., joined with a bipartisan band of Senators to block the Bush White House from cutting overtime pay for millions of workers nationwide. 
   "For many West Virginians, a 40-hour work week is just the beginning of their time on the job. These men and women from all walks of life work extra hours and, rightly, expect extra pay for their effort. But the Bush Administration has adopted changes that, for millions of workers across the country, takes away those well-deserved, well-earned dollars. The President's plan would have people working more hours for less money," Byrd said during the Senate Appropriations Committee meeting Wednesday.
   Since 1938, the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) has protected the American worker's right to a 40-hour work week. In March 2003, the Bush Administration announced new regulations that would effectively eliminate overtime protections for millions of Americans. Labeled as an effort to "clarify" existing FLSA overtime exemption criteria, the proposed rules would in fact reclassify many currently eligible workers as having managerial responsibilities and, therefore, ineligible for overtime pay. Workers effected include, among others, registered nurses, team leaders, computer employees, and nursery school workers. Final rules took effect on August 23, 2004.
   Senator Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, offered an amendment to legislation which funds the federal Department of Labor that would block the Department from going forward with the overtime pay changes. The amendment, which Senator Byrd cosponsored, was adopted by the Senate Appropriations Committee by a bipartisan 16-13 vote.
   Byrd helped to lead the effort to win committee approval.
   "In West Virginia, just in the last few weeks alone, five companies have announced that they are closing shop, putting 1,775 people out of work. Instead of looking for ways to take money out of paychecks, the Bush White House would do better to find ways to put more people back to work," Byrd explained.
   "For those who stay on the job after the five o'clock whistle blows or the shift ends, overtime pay is the reward for hard work. These critical dollars belong in the pockets of the workers who earned them. I would hope that Senators take a stand for working families and block this unfair Bush Administration effort," Byrd stated.
   The legislation containing the Harkin-Byrd provision, having been approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee, moves to the full Senate for further consideration.
 
 