SEN. BYRD URGES PARTIES TO STOP SHOUTING, START TALKING
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Saturday urged West Virginians to reject the divisive labels of modern politics and instead reach for what unites Mountain State residents. 
   "We need to try to encourage a fair and robust discussion of the issues we care about. We need to try to encourage a healthier atmosphere for political discourse. Presently in Washington a lot of extremists have taken center stage. Winning has become everything. Ends are justifying means. Intimidation is emerging. And the American people are losing," Byrd said.
   "There are good ideas and good people in both political parties. But we seem to have lost our ability as a country to reach across the aisle and find compromise. Instead, we automatically oppose each other without much thought. It is as though we enjoy the warfare more than serving our country. I think the American people are truly tired of the constant wrangling and finger-pointing, and that may account for the disaffected voter who does not go to the polls on election day," Byrd stated.
   Speaking at Shepherd University to the statewide convention of the West Virginia Young Democrats, Byrd rebuffed those in both parties whose goal is blatant partisanship. He challenged West Virginians to work to bridge the divide between political parties and not give in to "political spin."
   "Politics has become a discordant blur of shouting, punching, and counter punching, which frequently devolves into personal attacks. The challenge is to pick through the mayhem and find the truth," Byrd said.
   "Our system of government works best when there are two major political parties. Unfortunately, there are those in both parties who erroneously believe that their mission is to destroy the other side. That's not good for our state and it is not good for our country," Byrd said. 
   "Some of my best friends are Republicans. They reject, as I do, some of the overheated rhetoric, the extreme tactics, and the false charges which are loosely thrown around by both political parties," Byrd stated.
   In his remarks, the West Virginia lawmaker talked about the dangers of labels and of a citizenry which does not think for itself.
   "Our citizens need to get involved. Discussions of the urgent issues of our time must not be left only to the power elites in Washington. Each of us has to be an active participant in the process. Ask questions, demand accountability, make your views heard, inform yourself well about all of the arguments and do not automatically demonize the opposition. Always strive to be fair," Byrd stated.
   "It may take some time, but perhaps your efforts and your sincere and fresh idealism can get the emphasis back on the issues where it belongs. You and your counterparts in the Republican Party are the future leaders of this country," Byrd told those gathered at the West Virginia Young Democrat convention. "And all of us desperately need to do our part to change the tone in politics. We are all Americans. And America functions best when there is serious, civil, informed debate about real issues in a robust and respectful two-party system."
 
 