SEN. BYRD PRESSES FOR ANSWERS ON UNARMORED VEHICLES IN IRAQ
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Wednesday quizzed the Secretary of Defense as to why it has taken the Bush Administration two years to request funds to armor troops and vehicles in Iraq. 
   "The President has finally requested $3.3 billion for increased force protection, including adding armor onto supply vehicles in Iraq. These funds are now two years overdue," Byrd said.
    Byrd's questions came as the Senate Appropriations Committee started hearings to examine President Bush's latest request for nearly $82 billion primarily to pay for the war in Iraq. On Wednesday, his committee heard testimony from Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and General Richard Myers, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    "Will these funds provide armor for every vehicle in Iraq that needs it? And will these funds be sufficient to address the complaints that we have heard that our troops are scrounging for armor in trash dumps?" Byrd asked.
    "On up-armored Humvees, Senator Byrd, there was no requirement in-theater when we went in. That requirement developed over time," General Myers explained. "In fact, for the whole Army, there was only a handful of up-armored Humvees deemed necessary early on."
    "The supplemental contains the funds we know about in terms of current requirements. Requirements can always change," Myers stated.
    "I cannot understand why the Administration chose to begin a major war knowing that our troops did not have enough body and vehicle armor," Byrd said.
    Byrd criticized the Administration's apparent unwillingness to allow other nations to play a greater role in the security and stabilization of Iraq, forcing American troops to carry a heavier burden that might be necessary.
    "My admiration for our servicemen and women, and my heartfelt gratitude for the great sacrifices they are making for our country, knows no bounds. Our men and women in uniform are indeed among the best and the brightest of our country's citizens," Byrd said. "But we owe our troops more than mere gratitude for a job well done. We owe them the confidence of a clearly defined military mission, one that has measurable goals and benchmarks and, most important, one that has an identifiable end point. In short, we owe our troops in Iraq not only the resources to fight the war but also a strategy to end the war."
    "Unfortunately, this supplemental budget request fails to deliver what our troops need most. The President is asking Congress to continue to shovel money into U.S. military operations in Iraq with no further clarity as to what goals the military is expected to achieve, no hint of a possible timetable, and no end to the occupation in sight," Byrd said. 
   The West Virginia lawmaker has noted that the elections in Iraq provided the United States with a window of opportunity to lower the profile of the American military presence in Iraq and to open the door to greater international cooperation. But the White House has not taken advantage of that chance.
   "I fear that the Administration, despite all its conciliatory gestures to our European allies, has effectively squandered that opportunity with this supplemental request. This $82 billion bill sends a clear and strident message that the United States is not winding down its military operations in Iraq. To the contrary, the U.S. appears to be gearing up either to accommodate a permanent military presence in Iraq or to establish a launching pad for other military operations in the region," Byrd said.
   "Either way, we are sending the wrong signal to the people of Iraq, to its neighbors in the region, and to the larger international community. Instead of taking this opportunity to temper anti-American sentiment among nervous Iraqis and their neighbors, the Administration has effectively decided to turn up the heat," Byrd stated.
 
 