SEN. BYRD HAILS BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT ON MINE SAFETY
  After a number of weeks of intense negotiations with parties representing all aspects of the mining industry, Sen. Byrd and Sen. Rockefeller today announced that they have reached agreement on a comprehensive Senate mine safety bill that could bring about the most sweeping mine safety changes in a generation. Created in the wake of mine tragedies that have killed 18 West Virginia miners in 2006, the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006 (MINER Act) calls for substantial increases in oxygen supplies for miners, better tracking devices, better trained rescue team, and revamps mine rescue rules to better ensure a more rapid response in the event of an accident. 
   The bill, which is sponsored by Senators Rockefeller, Byrd, Enzi (R-WY), Kennedy (D-MA), Murray (D-WA), and Isakson (R-GA) is expected to be considered by the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee tomorrow before being sent to the Senate floor for a vote. The new legislation includes some of the core principles contained in the West Virginia Congressional Delegation's mine safety legislation, introduced in February. 
   "The MINER Act represents the most groundbreaking development in mine safety legislation in a generation," said Rockefeller. "This bill will usher in a new era of safety for our mines. For the first time, we will be better able to address an accident before it occurs, not simply react to it. And when accidents happen - and, unfortunately, they will because coal mining is dangerous - we will now be able to employ the most advanced technology to bring miners back to safety and to their families. All of the Senators who worked on this bill put the interests of West Virginia miners and the coal industry first - they have visited Sago, they have talked to the families, and they have kept these memories uppermost in their minds as we have drafted this visionary legislation."
   "Already this year, 18 coal miners have lost their lives in West Virginia. We must make sure that those deaths are not in vain. We have a moral obligation to apply the lessons from these mine accidents, to enforce tough safety standards, and to prevent other miners from losing their lives," Byrd stated. "The status quo is not good enough; the status quo is putting lives at risk. The MINER Act is a strong step forward for our coal miners."
   The MINER Act carves out new agreements between mine workers and industry officials on issues critical to mine safety. The bill requires each miner to have at least 2 hours of oxygen and stores of oxygen every 30 minutes along escape routes. The bill also requires coal operators to submit plans detailing their mine's use of the most current communications, tracking, and breakthrough technologies - and they must, upon acceptance of their new safety evacuation plans, use the best technology that works in their mines. Within three years, all mines would have state-of-the-art two-way wireless communications and electronic tracking systems in place. 
   In the event of an accident, operators would be required to make an incident notification within 15 minutes. Failure to do so could lead to a penalty of up to $60,000. The MINER Act also requires two rescue teams familiar with each mine to be located within one hour travel time. A trained family liaison will be brought in by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) to provide guidance and counseling for miners' families and to serve as a conduit of information to the press and public. 
   The bill also calls for substantial increases to the current fine structure, including increasing the penalty for the most egregious violations to $220,000 and also for stricter enforcement of those fines. A larger inspector workforce would be created through mine safety scholarships, and MSHA will now have the power to initiate a shutdown of a mine that refuses to pay its fines. 
   Finally, the bill calls for the creation of the Office of Mine Safety in the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to develop and implement new technologies to be used for mine safety applications. After additional study, the Secretary of Labor could push for the use of refuge chambers for underground coal mines. 
   "The MINER Act will save the lives of coal miners, plain and simple. Another fatal tragedy could happen anytime. We've got to act now to protect our coal miners and our coalfield communities," Byrd explained. "Coal miners deserve the best protections and the best safety enforcement possible. This legislation will help to meet that goal."
   "When I went to Sago and Aracoma in January, I said that we would introduce serious legislation to help ensure that another Sago never happened again," said Rockefeller. "I said then that it wouldn't be fast, and I said then that it wouldn't be easy. But I did say that we would be diligent and thorough, armed with a long view of protecting miners for generations to come. The MINER Act is the culmination of those efforts. Now, we must work to make sure that our colleagues in both the Senate and the House move on this critical legislation. Truly, thousands of lives depend on our actions."
 
 