SEN. BYRD LEADS CHARGE FOR HARPERS FERRY PARK EXPANSION FUNDS
  On the heels of his legislation to expand the Harpers Ferry National Historical Park becoming law, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., is leading the charge to fund the expansion initiative. 
   Byrd, who is the top Democratic Senator on the Appropriations Committee, has been working behind the scenes in recent weeks to ensure a down payment on the Harpers Ferry expansion. He has included a provision in a large government spending bill that would direct $2.9 million to begin the expansion work. That bill is in the final stages of negotiations between House and Senate leaders.
   "I am proud to report that my efforts are paying off. Legislation that is expected to come before the Congress in the next few days will include $2.9 million for expansion of the Harpers Ferry National Historical Park," Byrd explained. "This is a two-pronged strategy. First, I wrote the bill to allow for the Harpers Ferry expansion, and that bill has been signed into law. Now, I'm urging Congress to move forward on the funding legislation so that we can bring these acres into federal stewardship. I want to ensure that the Harpers Ferry expansion isn't just an empty promise."
   Earlier this year, the House of Representatives passed legislation that provided zero dollars for National Park Service expansion efforts and placed the Park Service in a severe financial hole. Byrd has pushed in appropriations conference negotiations between the House and Senate to reverse that House vote and fund Park Service expansion efforts.
   "I've said it before and I'll say it again: It's one thing to talk about supporting National Park expansion, and it is quite another to support the funding to make that expansion possible," Byrd said.
   This announcement of $2.9 million for the Harpers Ferry project is testament to the West Virginia Senator's success. Specifically, Byrd's $2.9 million would allow for the purchase of two tracts of land by the National Park Service.
   The first parcel of land is the Kilham Estate Tract, which is also known as Perry Orchard. These 38 acres are located just south of Route 340 along the road and are under option with the Civil War Preservation Trust. Acquiring this land will cost the National Park Service $1.5 million.
   The second parcel of land is the Ott Estate Tract, 73 acres of property which is located just north of Route 340 along the road. This tract is under option with the Trust for Public Land and will cost the National Park Service $1.4 million to acquire.
   "Winning this funding is not an easy task, but it is one that I am proud to achieve. For many years, I have worked with the National Park Service, area officials, and local residents to build support for the park expansion at Harpers Ferry. This funding is a direct result of that long-term effort. It's a reflection of the dedication to one of West Virginia's premier tourism sites and one of the nation's distinct historical locations," Byrd said.
   Byrd authored legislation, signed into law on September 24, 2004, that expands the Harpers Ferry National Historical Park boundary capacity by 1,240 acres, from its current 2,505 acres to 3,745 acres. Byrd's legislation -- cosponsored by Senator Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., and shepherded through the House of Representatives by Third District Congressman Nick Rahall, D-W.Va. -- won unanimous approval by both the Senate and the House.
   The expansion of Harpers Ferry, which became part of the National Park System in 1944, has the support of many civic and historical organizations, including the Friends of Harpers Ferry, the Harpers Ferry Conservancy, and the Civil War Preservation Trust.
   In the Senate, Byrd has worked to provide millions of dollars in federal funding for the National Park Service to update, renovate, and refurbish buildings and educational resources at Harpers Ferry. In addition, in 2001, Byrd added $2 million to legislation to allow the Park Service, in conjunction with Civil War preservation groups, to purchase the Murphy Farm property adjacent to the Harpers Ferry park.
   Also in 2001, Byrd facilitated the conclusion of more than four decades of negotiations between the National Park Service and CSX Corporation, resulting in the Park Service's acquisition of the historic U.S. Armory Grounds in Harpers Ferry. The property includes both the Baltimore & Ohio (B&O) train station and the site where John Brown and his raiders barricaded themselves in 1859.
 
 