SEN. BYRD HONORS NIAGARA MOVEMENT AT HARPERS FERRY
  The Niagara Movement changed the course of history, said Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., at the group's centennial opening ceremony Thursday at the Harpers Ferry National Historical Park. 
   The Niagara Movement was founded in 1905 by a group of courageous and determined African-Americans. The group's 1906 meeting, the first on American soil, was held on the campus of Storer College, now part of Harpers Ferry National Historical Park. The Niagara Movement served as the foundation for the NAACP.
   "The individuals of the Niagara Movement resolved that they would demand their rights and freedoms as American citizens. Despite seemingly overwhelming odds, these stalwart individuals made a commitment to press on," Byrd said. "That commitment and determination are a testament to what a few individuals motivated by passion and faith can achieve. Mountains can be moved. Prejudice can be overcome and the course of history can be changed." 
   The Niagara Movement became the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1909. 
   "The NAACP has been at the forefront of defending and supporting the causes and interests of African-Americans and others in their pursuit of equal protection under the law," Byrd said. "Much progress has been made since the time of the Niagara Movement but the journey must continue. I am delighted that my efforts to add federal funds for this project, together with generous private giving, have enabled this important celebration to remind us all of the brave struggle of many souls moved and inspired by the dream of freedom and justice for all," Byrd said.
   Byrd met with James Tolbert, President of the West Virginia NAACP, and George Rutherford, President of the Jefferson County Chapter of the NAACP, to discuss the Niagara Movement anniversary celebration and its importance not only to the Eastern Panhandle but also to the country. Byrd added $300,000 to federal funding legislation to pay for some of the costs associated with the centennial events.
   The Park expects as many as 20,000 people will visit the park for the centennial celebration.
 
 