SEN. BYRD CALLS FOR INDEPENDENT COMMISSION ON DOMESTIC SPY PROGRAM
  Sen. Byrd Friday continued his push for a thorough investigation into possible legal and Constitutional violations by the Bush Administration - calling for a special commission to look into its warrantless domestic spying program. 
   "President Bush is not above the law. No one in the United States of America is above the law. Remember: this is a nation of laws; not of men," Byrd stated on the floor of the Senate. 
   "I will not sit idly by and allow the President's possible breaking of the law to be swept under the rug," Byrd said. "I refuse to go quietly into the night, abdicating my responsibility as a U.S. Senator to a secretive Executive Branch, which refuses to brief the Congress of the United States on its clandestine spying on U.S. citizens without a warrant - - an Administration that believes it can, on its own, nullify constitutional provisions intended to protect the freedoms of millions of Americans for over 200 years. This travesty must not stand. The peeping and snooping and spying must be investigated."
   On Thursday, the meeting of the Senate's Select Committee on Intelligence adjourned without considering a Democratic proposal to begin an investigation of the warrantless spying program, even though Senator Jay Rockefeller, the vice-chairman of the Intelligence Committee, had been assured that his proposal would receive a vote.
  "The Intelligence Committee jettisoned its constitutional responsibility to make certain that our laws are not being breached, and that the spirit and text of our revered Constitution remain in force. It is a sad day, indeed, to see such an important committee wilt under political pressure behind closed doors," Byrd said.
   Byrd said that he will submit to the Congress legislation that would establish a nonpartisan, independent, 9-11-style commission to investigate and determine the legality of the President's actions. 
   "If there is a justifiable and valid reason to surveil a potential terrorist in the United States, we certainly can find a way to do it legally. If there is a need to provide more efficient tools to fight terror, Congress has the responsibility to deliberate and, if warranted, to approve them. The President should ask Congress for them; not seize new powers that have never been spelled out," Byrd said.
   The West Virginia lawmaker, a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has expressed increasing concerns about the Administration's end-run around the Congress, intelligence laws, and the Constitution. Byrd called for a full investigation to determine if laws have been broken - an investigation that would give members a fuller understanding of just what these surveillance programs entail.
   "A little sunshine on this process is long overdue. Congress cannot fix what the White House does not want us to fully understand," Byrd stated.
   "Congress needs to know if the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act or any other U.S. law has been broken, and whether the constitutional rights of thousands of Americans have been violated without cause. It is essential that Congress obtain the answers to these questions, not for partisan political reasons, but because our system of checks and balances requires it," Byrd said.
 
 