SEN. BRYD: JOB GROWTH AT CAMP DAWSON UNDERWAY
  The West Virginia National Guard is expanding its workforce at Camp Dawson in Preston County by 40 employees, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced Monday. The move is directly related to the decision, revealed last week, to create the U.S. National Guard's first Homeland Security Joint Training Center for Homeland Defense at the facility near Kingwood. 
   "This is exciting news. Already, the National Guard's decision to locate its first homeland security training center in West Virginia is providing new employment in the state," Byrd explained. "This move is a win-win for West Virginia and for the country. West Virginia will see an increase in jobs and funding, while the nation will benefit from top-notch homeland security training and expertise."
   Last week, Byrd met in his Capitol office with Lieutenant General H. Steven Blum, Chief of the National Guard Bureau. During that meeting, Blum finalized the selection of Camp Dawson as the National Guard Joint Training Center (JTC) for Homeland Defense.
   Camp Dawson, which already employs 115 men and women, is expected to continue to grow even beyond these new 40 jobs.
   "The new mission brings new responsibility and new opportunity," Byrd explained.
   The Camp Dawson JTC will be one of two comprehensive homeland defense training facilities. It will serve not only the National Guard but also the federal Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense. In addition, state and local emergency response teams will be able to take advantage of the training at the new facility.
   Trainees will also rely on programs at other West Virginia facilities including the Center for National Response at the Memorial Tunnel in Kanawha County, where specialized military and terrorist-reaction training already takes place.
   West Virginia Adjutant General Allen Tackett, who has partnered with Byrd to modernize the Mountain State's National Guard training opportunities, believes that the 40 new jobs may be just the beginning. This fall, if resources are available through National Guard accounts, another 60 jobs could be added in the fiscal year that starts on October 1, 2004.
   "West Virginia started to train and prepare for possible terrorist attacks long before September 11, 2001. This chance to serve as one of the National Guard's premier homeland defense training facilities will allow Mountain State Guardsmen to share their expertise with the rest of the country," Tackett explained.
 
 