HIGHWAY LEGISLATION TO HELP MOVE WEST VIRGINIA FORWARD
  The U.S. Senate has passed legislation that would protect West Virginia's road and highway construction funding, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced Tuesday. 
   "Large states had tried to grab a bigger chunk of highway dollars at the expense of smaller states like West Virginia. I worked hard to ensure that our state didn't lose in the battle over construction dollars," Byrd said.
   In the Senate bill, West Virginia would receive $405.3 million in construction funds each year, including $101.6 million in annual funding for the Appalachian Corridor Highway System.
   "That is a significant increase over the funding passed earlier this year by the House of Representatives. This increase means more funding for U.S. 35, more funding for the Coalfields Expressway, and more funding for Route Nine. With more dollars geared toward highway construction, long-delayed road projects throughout the state will get an injection of funding and progress," Byrd said.
   Earlier this year, the House of Representatives passed a highway bill that would direct $379.9 million annually to West Virginia, including $84.99 million in annual Appalachian Corridor construction funding.
   "Safe, modern roads are key to economic growth and crucial to saving lives. In West Virginia, where the roads too often are narrow passages between mountains, modern roads and highways are vital. Modern roads save lives; they make trips to school and to work far less dangerous; and they help to attract new jobs to far-reaching parts of the state," Byrd said. "This Senate legislation is a major step in the right direction."
   Byrd was critical that the Senate failed to include any provision to help families offset the high price of gasoline. The Senator had offered an amendment to create a $500 tax credit for people who drive 250 miles each week to and from work. The one-year credit would be available in rural, low-income states, where public transportation is not readily available. 
   "While families have been paying higher prices at the pump, the Congress has taken no action - none - to help," Byrd said.
  The Republican Leadership refused to vote on Byrd's amendment and instead used a procedural crutch to defeat his commonsense proposal.
   "Delay helps no one. Families in West Virginia continue to face high prices at the pump. They aren't to blame for the energy and gas problems that America faces, yet they are the ones paying the price. Just because a back-door maneuver kept this amendment from winning on this bill does not mean that the effort to help working families is over," Byrd pledged.
   The Senate bill now moves to a conference with the House of Representatives to work out the differences between the two versions of the highway legislation.
 
 