MINE SAFETY LEGISLATION HEADS FOR SENATE VOTE
  The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee on Wednesday night unanimously endorsed the MINER Act, legislation put forward by Republican Sen. Mike Enzi of Wyoming, who is Chairman of the Committee, and Democratic Sen. Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts, the leading Democratic Sen. on that Committee. Sens. Enzi and Kennedy worked closely for many weeks to craft this legislation with West Virginia Sens. Robert Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, as well as with key committee members Sen. Johnny Isakson of Georgia and Sen. Patty Murray of Washington. The Act, approved by the Committee tonight, builds on the core principles of the West Virginia Congressional Delegation's mine safety bill, first introduced in February.  
   Created in the wake of mine tragedies that have killed 18 West Virginia miners this year, the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006 (MINER Act) calls for substantial increases in oxygen supplies for miners, better tracking devices, better trained rescue team, and revamps mine rescue rules to better ensure a more rapid response in the event of an accident. 
   The Senate HELP Committee's vote shifts the mine safety debate to the Senate floor. Senator Byrd hopes that the full Senate will approve this legislation quickly, followed by House action, and speed it to the President's desk to be signed into law. 
   Comments from Senator Byrd on tonight's HELP Committee action are below.
   "I'm very proud of this legislation - the MINER Act. The MINER Act will save lives. It is our best opportunity for federal mine safety improvements that will prevent explosions and protect miners' lives.
  This effort is the result of many long weeks and late nights of discussions and negotiations. Democratic and Republican Senators alike listened to me and to Senator Rockefeller; they listened to the Sago and Alma families; they listened to the coal miners and the coal companies. What we have crafted here is a major step forward for mine safety. This legislation will save lives. It will toughen safety standards. And it will mean fewer families will have to experience the pain that the Sago and Alma families are living with each day.
   "Since the Sago explosion, we went to work to find ways to stop such tragedies from happening again. It is painful to say, but I am convinced that these deaths were entirely preventable. If rescue teams would have had the technology in place to talk with those men trapped at Sago, those men would have known that they could get to the surface. If oxygen supplies would have been pre-positioned, those men could have survived until the rescue teams arrived. If there had been better seals in place in the abandoned mine section, the explosion may have been contained.
   "The bottom line is this: Another mine explosion could happen today. It could happen tomorrow. Our coal miners and their families cannot afford any delay on tougher mine safety standards. We have a moral obligation to get this job done, to make our coal mines safer. With the committee's approval of this legislation, our focus will now turn to the full Senate. I hope that we can move this bill through Congress quickly, and get it to the President to be signed into law."
 
 