SEN. BYRD SAYS SENATE SHOULD FOCUS ON BORDER SECURITY, IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT
  The United States Congress should not approve legislation granting a sweeping amnesty to as many as 12 million illegal immigrants in the country, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Thursday. 
   "We should not reward those who break our immigration laws. We should continue to hire more border agents and install the fencing and technology to close the gaps along our land borders. We should encourage employers to hire American citizens and target those companies that hire illegal immigrants," Byrd explained. "And we should not give a blanket amnesty to illegal immigrants who want to flaunt the laws of this land."
   "This proposal could wave a magic wand and give as many as 12 million illegal immigrants automatic legal status. This amnesty plan is no fairy tale; it is a bad dream," Byrd said. "The proposal is a slap in the face to every immigrant who had to wait abroad to come to American shores, and to every immigrant who had to struggle and work to become a U.S. citizen."
   "There is no excuse for turning a blind eye to the 500,000 aliens expected to sneak across the borders illegally this year," Byrd stated.
   The White House and several Members of Congress have been in negotiations over the structure of an amnesty plan that could garner the support of President Bush. A central tenant of those discussions has been a one-time waiver of an illegal immigrant's status to legal.
   Because of Senator Byrd's work, beginning with funding legislation in 2005, Congress has added 4,000 new Border Patrol agents, 9,150 new immigrant detention beds, nearly 1,400 new detention personnel, and more than 500 new Customs and Border Protection officers at U.S. ports of entry. In addition, significant resources have been added for fences, vehicle barriers, sensors, and other tools.
   Last fall, in the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, $1.18 billion was added as emergency funding specifically for neglected but critical border security infrastructure activities, such as fencing, vehicle barriers, helicopters, fixed-wing aircraft, boats, replacement law enforcement vehicles, and border facilities. These funds will also enhance facilities for training new Border Patrol agents. In addition, using the resources provided by Senator Byrd, federal law enforcement officers have significantly expanded their efforts to identify employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants. In 2002, federal agencies were involved in 25 such cases; in 2006, that figure grew to 716 cases.
 
 