SEN. BYRD ANNOUNCES EXPANSION OF GLOBAL HAWK WORK IN WEST VIRGINIA
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced Wednesday that approximately $20 million in components for Northrop Grumman's Global Hawk unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) will be produced in West Virginia. As the top Democratic member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Byrd has been a strong supporter of funding for the UAV program. 
   The components, to be part of the RQ-4A and RQ-4B variants of Global Hawk, will be built during the next fourteen months at the Clarksburg, W.Va., facility of Aurora Flight Sciences, a major subcontractor on the Global Hawk program since 1995.
   "This work is critical not just to the nation's defense but also to West Virginia's economic development," Byrd said. "It demonstrates once again that affordable, high-precision manufacturing is not something that must necessarily be sent out of state or overseas. That expertise is available right here in West Virginia."
   The work will consist of fabricating sets of composite and metal components for eight Global Hawk aircraft. The company's Clarksburg facility recently completed delivery of six Global Hawk component sets with a total value of more than $11 million. To date, components for all 14 Global Hawks have been produced at the facility, and parts for another 80 aircraft remain on option. In addition to the Global Hawk, Aurora Flight Sciences' Clarksburg facility produces components for the F-14 Tomcat, E-8C Joint STARS, EA-6B Prowler, and E-2C Hawkeye aircraft.
   "Aurora Flight Sciences is a great economic success story," Byrd explained. "A decade ago, the company had four employees in the state. Today, it employs almost 200 people in West Virginia and adds more than $15 million to the state's economy each year."
   "For decades, West Virginia's economy has relied on the strength of our arms and backs. But we also must use the strength of our minds and seek new opportunities to create jobs and lift our state. Cutting-edge innovations and growing expertise, like that at Aurora Flight Sciences, will help to lead the way," Byrd said.
   "Senator Byrd helped us to understand that West Virginia is an ideal location for defense manufacturing," said John Langford, President of Aurora Flight Sciences. "The state's large population of skilled workers and proximity to our offices in Northern Virginia has given us a competitive advantage it would be difficult to find elsewhere in the country."
   The Global Hawk is an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) that provides Air Force and joint forces commanders with near-real-time, high-resolution, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) imagery. During the first months of Operation Iraqi Freedom, the Global Hawk captured more than 4,800 images, accounting for more than 55 percent of the targeting imagery used to destroy Iraqi air defenses. During Operation Enduring Freedom, the Global Hawk supplied commanders with more than 17,000 ISR images over the course of more than 60 missions.
 
 