SENS. BYRD, ROCKEFELLER, REP. MOLLOHAN GO TO WORK FOR GRAFTON
  Legislation written by Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller and Rep. Alan B. Mollohan, all D-W.Va., would open the door for a new hydroelectric facility near Grafton. 
   "With the high price of energy, the City of Grafton is looking for low-cost alternatives. Installing hydroelectric power on the Tygart River Dam is a smart step forward," Byrd said.
   "Senator Byrd, Congressman Mollohan, and I know how important this project would be for the City of Grafton," Rockefeller said. "This facility will help meet the energy needs of consumers in Grafton and the surrounding area, and it will provide a major significant economic boost to the City. It means a more prosperous future for Grafton."
   "This facility would provide both near- and long-term benefits to our local economy. It is a project with considerable potential," Mollohan added.
   The three lawmakers have crafted legislation to kick-start the project, clearing the licensing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The City of Grafton has been considering the hydroelectric facility for many years, and first received a license for the project in 1989. However, that license lapsed in 1999 without the City making progress on the project. The Byrd-Rockefeller-Mollohan effort would reinstate the license and allow Grafton to move ahead with the 20-megawatt hydroelectric facility.
   "Good things come to those who wait. The people of Grafton have been patient. They have been planning and preparing. Now, they are ready to go to work and we're ready to help," Byrd said.
   "We are proud to partner with the City of Grafton to make this idea a reality," Rockefeller explained.
   "Reinstating the FERC license is obviously a critical step, and I am pleased to join with Senators Byrd and Rockefeller in this effort to win the agency's approval," Mollohan added.
   The City of Grafton is working with the private contractor NRR Conemaugh to develop the plant project. With a new FERC license, the contractor believes that the project could be in operation as early as 2008. It is expected that the new hydroelectric plan will generate about $300,000 in annual revenues for Grafton, while creating 200 construction jobs in the process.
 
 