NEW LAW MOVES DISASTER EXODUS PLAN FORWARD
  Work between the federal government and state and local governments on disaster preparedness got a boost today as legislation guiding the Department of Homeland Security is signed into law today. 
   "As a nation, we must be better prepared for mass evacuations. We saw the problems that were part of the Katrina and Rita evacuations. People ran out of gas. They didn't have supplies. The governments simply weren't prepared for this kind of emergency. We need to gear up for future evacuations, and must start now," U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said.
   Byrd included a key provision in the final version of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations conference report that spurs the Department to work with state and local governments to develop multi-state, multi-jurisdictional emergency evacuation plans. That legislation was signed into law late Tuesday afternoon.
   The Byrd provision directs that "plans should include, where appropriate, the pre-positioning of items that will be required during a mass evacuation, such as food, water, medicine and interoperable communications equipment."
   "This is a real concern for states that neighbor major metropolitan areas. States like West Virginia - rural states, small states - would face a crush of people if a terrorist attack were ever to hit the Nation's Capital. We hope that such a disaster never happens. But we have to be ready to respond if it does," Byrd said.
   "West Virginia will respond to any emergency, but we cannot do it alone. We need the support and cooperation of our neighboring states and the federal government. One fact is certain: none of us want to repeat the human suffering that we experienced with Hurricane Katrina. We must be ready to respond at a moment's notice," West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin explained.
   Senator Byrd has worked with Governor Manchin, and Secretary Jim Spears, West Virginia Department of Military Affairs and Public Safety, on an emergency plan. The West Virginia initiative would "preset" services and provisions that can help to speed people westward from the Washington, D.C., area. Those items would include gasoline, medical supplies, beds, food, water, and other essential items that help to facilitate a more efficient evacuation.
   "If a terrorist strike hits the Washington area, an almost immediate exodus would start from the Capital area to West Virginia. Are we ready to handle such a rush of more than a million people? What do we need to do to prepare? These are some of the questions that we are working to answer," Byrd said.
   Byrd recently updated U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff about the state's efforts, and then wrote the legislation signed into law on Tuesday to begin the state-federal-local collaboration.
 
 