ARBITRARY CUT THREATENS HOMELAND SECURITY, NATIONAL PRIORITIES
  The Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Defense Appropriations conference report includes an across-the-board cut totaling $8.5 billion. These cuts are above and separate from the significant cuts contained in the budget reconciliation package, that was approved by the House of Representatives earlier on Monday. 
   Summary of the Appropriations Across-the-Board Cuts 
   AGRICULTURE
   WIC: The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) provides nutritious supplemental foods, nutrition education and health care referrals at no cost to low-income pregnant, postpartum, and breast-feeding women, and children up to their fifth birthday, who are determined to be at nutritional risk. An across the board cut of 2% would total $52,570,000. There is a contingency reserve of $125,000,000, and this cut would delete nearly half of the contingency fund. This cut could result in significant reductions in WIC program participation if food costs increase. Additionally, if program demand increase beyond current estimates, a reduction in the contingency reserve could mean eligible participants will be refused program benefits. 
   WIC Conference Level: $5,257,000,000
  1% ATB Cut: $52,570,000 
   Commodity Supplemental Food Program: The Commodity Supplemental Food Program provides supplemental food to low-income women and children, and elderly people. According to USDA, the current conference level will require that the program stop providing benefits to 56,339 participants. If an across the board cut of 1% were taken, this would result in a decrease in funding of $1,082,850, which would result in an additional 4,792, participants losing benefits. It is important to note that because of the way this program is authorized, elderly participants - those earning 135 percent of the poverty level or less - would lose benefits first. 
   CSFP Conference Level: $108,285,000
  1% ATB Cut: $1,082,850
  Elderly participants losing benefits: 4,792, bringing the cut below 2005 to 61,131.
   COMMERCE/JUSTICE/SCIENCE
   The Department of Justice's FY 2006 budget includes resources of over $3 billion for counterterrorism functions alone. Even a small across the board percentage rescission will withhold over $30 million or more from essential counterterrorism operations. The impact by bureau is as follows:
   * $57.5 million cut to the FBI request would reduce the number of FBI agents by over 400. While the threats of terrorism, espionage, cyber crime, and international crime continue to grow, the FBI would not have sufficient resources to address these growing threats. To put this in perspective, $57.5 million reduction to the FBI would equate to cutting approximately 420 field agents, which is about 17% of the number currently working counterterrorism, OR to cutting approximately 420 field agents, which would be nearly equivalent to halving the agent presence in Washington, D.C. (750 agents) or Los Angeles (700 agents).
   * $50 million cut to the Bureau of Prisons request would reduce the number of staff by more than 325 at a time when prison crowding rates are, on average, already over capacity by 35% and exceed 50% in some institutions. With fewer corrections officers to oversee a continuously increasing prison population, assaults on inmates and staff are likely to rise, jeopardizing safety in the prison system and the surrounding communities. In addition, a reduction of this magnitude would prevent the BOP from activating three new institutions or secure thousands of new contract beds from the private sector. 
   * $17 million cut to the DEA request would reduce DEA agents by over 100. Since 9/11, the FBI has moved more than 500 agents from working drugs to working terrorism. DEA has filled this gap but a 100 agent reduction would negatively impact the DEA's efforts to combat international drug trafficking and address the growing problem of small toxic meth labs throughout the country. A reduction of this magnitude is equivalent to eliminating half of the DEA Atlanta or Chicago Field Divisions. 
   * $16 million cut to the U.S. Attorneys request would reduce assistant U.S. Attorneys by more than 100, preventing the federal government from increasing prosecutions for illegal immigration, human trafficking, terrorism, espionage, drugs and cyber crime. Specifically, a $16 million reduction would require 110 additional positions to remain unfilled for FY 2006. In FY 2004, 198 positions were unfilled and in FY 2005 465 positions remained unfilled due to insufficient funding. In FY 2006, an additional cut of $16 million would increase the total unfilled positions to 586. In addition, half of the 110 unfilled positions would be Assistant U.S. Attorneys. This would imperil approximately 1,600 criminal cases in FY 2006.
   * $9 million cut to the ATF request would reduce ATF agents by more than 50 hindering their ability to combat illegal firearms and explosives trafficking and investigate violent street gangs.
   * $8 million cut to the U.S. Marshals Service request would reduce deputy marshals by more than 50, hindering their ability to adequately protect judges, which is short-sighted in light of the killing of a judge's family in Chicago and the courtroom shooting in Atlanta.
   NOAA and the National Weather Service
   The 1% reduction would cut NOAA's overall budget by $39.2M require an immediate reduction in force for over 200 NOAA employees at offices across the Nation. 
   NWS would be required to RIF over 100 employees including forecasters and repair personnel needed to provide life saving weather warning and forecasts. Within NWS, all critical warning lead times would be degraded including the accuracy and timeliness of warnings for tornadoes, flash floods, hurricanes, and severe winter storms. 
   The cut would also require immediate RIFs for critical NOAA researchers and NOAA Corps officiers that operate hurricane hunter aircraft and NOAA ships needed to maintain buoys and map our oceans for safe transportation. NOAA would also be forced to RIF staff needed to safely operate and maintain our satellities and store data for critical climate research. Within Fisheries, NOAA would be forced to RIF over 40 staff including staff employed at laboratories and staff needed to enforce regulations to protect our Nations fisheries and protected species. Within Program Support, NOAA would be required to RIF 30 staff needed for basic administration support such as processing procurements, grants, and producing accurate financial records. 
   The cut would also delayed the GOES R satellite for up to 6 months and delay completion of FSV2 and the improvements to the NEXRAD radar for improved weather warnings. 
   This is particularly galling because OMB has acknowledged that they have the ability to use Stafford Act funding to pay for the restoration of levees in New Orleans and Southeastern Louisiana, but continues to insist that the Corps reprogram dollars out of hundreds of Congressionally mandated funding priorities to pay for the levees. There is no guarantee that these funds will ever be repaid.
   HOMELAND SECURITY
   Customs and Border Protection (CBP): CBP would be cut by approximately $48 million. Of this amount, nearly $19 million would be cut from security operations between the ports of entry on our borders - i.e., the Border Patrol. In order to absorb this cut, CBP would be unable to hire, train, equip, and deploy approximately 100 new Border Patrol agents. This reduction would represent a 10% decrease from the 1,000 new agents the Congress wanted to see hired in FY 2006 and would result in Arizona and Texas receiving 100 fewer new agents in the deployment plan the Department announced on December 5, 2005. These reductions in hiring are the only way for CBP to absorb the cuts, because over 80% of the total budget directly supports the salaries and benefits payments for the Border patrol workforce. If we are serious about enforcing our immigration laws, it makes no sense to slow Border Patrol hiring before it even begins in earnest. This cut would undermine increases in Border Patrol agents promised in the Intelligence Reform Act.
   Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE): ICE would be cut by over $32 million. Of this amount, over $10 million would be cut from Detention and Removal Operations, including nearly $1 million from funding for additional bed space and support personnel. This means that there will be fewer detention beds for holding illegal aliens pending their removal from the country and more, potentially dangerous, illegal aliens roaming freely on our streets and in our towns. There would be less worksite enforcement. This undercuts the President's recently announced plan to expand expedited removal to all locations along the Southwest border. Cutting detention funds calls into question the commitment of the Congress to enforce our immigration laws. 
   FEMA: Preparedness, Mitigation, Recovery and Response programs within FEMA will be reduced by $2 million dollars. Given recent events, such as Hurricane Katrina, and the lack of federal capability in responding to natural disasters, we are not prepared for short-term or long-term response. Cutting these programs will reduce funding for programs like catastrophic planning, including planning for mass evacuations. A 1% cut will result in further inadequate capability to reduce the risk to life and property in a man-made or natural disaster.
   TSA: TSA screener funding would be cut by $25 million, resulting in a reduction of 500 TSA screeners. When combined with the reduction made in the FY 2006 Homeland Security Appropriations Act, TSA's screener workforce would be 2,500 below the FY 2005 enacted level. This comes at the same time air traffic grew by 3 percent in FY 2005. Funding for Explosive Detection Systems for baggage and passengers would be decreased by $6 million, resulting in 4 less systems installed at key airports and inadequate funding to maintain existing systems.
   Coast Guard: A $68 million cut to the Coast Guard, when combined with a $70 million energy shortfall due to increasing fuel prices and $210 million in unbudgeted costs related to Hurricane Katrina, would force the Coast Guard to cut new military billets by 47% and new civilian hires by 42%. Cutter patrol hours would be reduced by at least 5,000 and aircraft hours would be reduced by more than 1,000. The cut would also result in delays in the production of Deepwater assets such as the National Security Cutter, Offshore Patrol Cutter, and Fast Response Cutter. The reduction would result in a reduction in military recruitment of 30 percent or 579 personnel.
   Secret Service: A $12 million cut to the Secret Service would severely reduce hiring at the same time workload levels are near all-time highs. 125 agent positions vacated through attrition would not be fully restored. In addition, the Secret Service would not be able to bring on board all of the new investigative positions funded in FY 2006. These new positions were intended to advance successful programs such as the Electronic Crimes Special Agent Program (ECSAP). The ECSAP program has proven to be invaluable in the prevention of cyber attacks that would have otherwise resulted in large-scale financial losses to U.S. based companies. With just one case last year, known as Operation Firewall, over 33 arrests were made and potential loses of up to $950 million were prevented. Cutting new hires for this program will result in similar cases not being pursued.
   Transit Security: Funding would be cut by $1.5 million. Despite a $6 billion requirement to secure rail and transit systems, and despite the London and Madrid terrorist attacks, FY 2006 funding would be below FY 2005 levels. 
   INTERIOR
   Indian Health Service (IHS) Clinical Services: A 1% cut would be $22 million. A 1% cut slashes funding for basic medical services for Indian Country at a time when lack of access to health care means Native Americans have shorter life-spans and higher death rates from preventable diseases, such as diabetes, heart disease, and tuberculosis. GAO estimated that IHS spent, on average, $2,037 per capita on medical care for IHS patients in FY 2003. At that rate, a 1% cut eliminates funding that would pay for the care of approximately 10,790 patients.
   Indian Health Service, Public Health Nursing: A 1% cut would be $494,500. A 1% cut further undermines a program that provides preventative health care for Indian Country, particularly for children and pregnant women. Funds provided in the FY 2006 bill allow for 449,628 patient visits with nurses. At that rate, cutting 1% of the FY 2006 budget eliminates funding that would pay for 4,475 patient visits.
   Forest Service (FS) and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Wildland Fire Preparedness: A 1% cut to FS and BLM preparedness accounts would cost approximately $9.5 million - about what it costs to pay 500 firefighters for a fire season. Budgets since 2003 have not kept pace with inflation; reducing the number of firefighters, engines, and specialized equipment that result in containment of wildland fires before they escape and become catastrophic - both in terms of damages and suppression costs. It is likely that a 1% fire preparedness cut would increase wildfire suppression costs disproportionately because of continued erosion of base funding for fire preparedness.
   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): Environmental Protection Agency, Clean Water & Drinking Water State Revolving Funds - 1% cut would be $17 million. A 1% cut to the state revolving funds would reduce funding to local communities for necessary infrastructure upgrades. According to an EPA "gap analysis," over $220 billion is needed over the next 20 years for capital expenditures to upgrade drinking water and wastewater systems. And, that figure does not take into account the million in damage to infrastructure from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
   LABOR/HHS/EDUCATION
   Title I: Funding would drop by $128 million, resulting in a cut of $28 million below the FY05 level, compared with the $2.25 billion increase for FY06 that was authorized in the No Child Left Behind Act. A $28 million cut would leave behind 160,000 needy children who could no longer be fully served by Title I.
   Special Education: Funding would drop by $107 million, resulting in a cut of $7 million below the FY05 level, compared with the $2.3 billion increase for FY06 that was authorized in the IDEA Improvement Act of 2004. As a result, the Federal share of the excess cost of educating students with disabilities would drop from 18.6 percent in FY05 to 17.8 percent.
   Community Health Centers: Funding would be reduced by $18 million, which would preclude the scheduled opening of 28 new clinics expected to treat 36,000 patients.
   Head Start: Funding would be cut by $69 million, resulting in 9,500 children being expelled from Head Start classrooms.
   Social Security/Medicare and Prescription Drugs: After the 1% percent cut, the FY 2006 LHHS bill virtually freezes funding for Social Security Administrative Costs. Social Security is responsible for educating seniors about the prescription drug benefit and making the determination of eligibility. SSA will have no choice but to cut back on its drug plan activities. . Call volume to the SSA 1-800 number has sky-rocketed. The busy signal rate increased from 9.5% in October to an extraordinary 22.8% in November. This is not just a problem for callers with Medicare questions, but also for callers with questions about any of SSA's regular programs. It is estimated that SSA would need $285 million more just to reduce backlogs to responding to questions on the new benefit. The 1% cut also cuts the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services budget by $31 million, which will make it more difficult to answer seniors questions about the new benefit.
   MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
   A 1% across-the-board cut would equate to a reduction of $120 million from the $12.166 billion appropriation. The impact of this cut would be to potentially delay or defer the execution of some construction projects, and could create a shortfall in FY2007 if projects are pushed into the next fiscal year. The Services' military construction budgets are already being squeezed by cost escalations as a result of the impact of Hurricane Katrina on the building industry, and an across-the-board reduction will only compound that problem.
   STATE DEPARTMENT AND FOREIGN OPERATION
   A 1 percent across the board cut of the $2.82 billion Global HIV/AIDS budget would be $28.2 million. The consequence of a $28.2 million cut would obviously be enormous. These funds are used for life-saving anti-retroviral drugs, HIV testing, prevention programs, and training for nurses and other health workers.
   A 1 percent across the board cut of the $1.8 billion President's Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief would be $18 million. That would deny 12,000 people who need life saving anti-retroviral drugs from receiving them.
   TRANSPORTATION/TREASURY/THE JUDICIARY/HUD
   FHWA - Federal-Aid Highways:
   A one percent across-the-board cut would reduce funding for the Federal Highway Administration's federal-aid highway program by $360.32 million. A cut of this size would mean the loss of 17,115 new transportation construction-related jobs. 
   HUD Housing Assistance:
   A one percent across-the-board cut to the tenant-based rental assistance program (Section 8) would result in a decrease of about 17,051 families receiving vouchers necessary to be able to live in safe and affordable housing including 126 families in West Virginia. On the project-based side, this one percent reduction would result in about a loss of 8,482 units for low-income residents. The Homeless program that was reduced in Conference from the Senate-passed number of $1.415 billion to $1.340 billion will further reduce services to 600 transitional housing units with this one percent cut.
   Community Development Block Grant (CDBG):
   In recent years, the CDBG formula program has been on a downward trend from the FY 2004 level of $4.3 billion, the FY 2005 level of $4.1 billion to the current FY 2006 level of $3.7 billion. With an additional one percent reduction or $38 million, this with further erode essential funding used in communities to rebuild and revitalize low and moderate-income neighborhoods including water and waste facilities, affordable housing, senior programs, job creation and retention, etc. (In FY 2004 this program saved or retained 90,000 jobs) . In addition, for FY 2006, the administration proposed to eliminate this program at HUD, reduce the overall funding level by 34% from the FY 2005 level, and transfer the reduced funding to the Department of Commerce under as a "new, lower funded block grant program" that was never defined or submitted to Congress.
   Federal Aviation Administration Operations:
   A one percent across-the-board cut would reduce funding for the Federal Aviation Administration's operations account by $81.86 million. A reduction of this size would result in the further attrition of federal aviation safety inspectors. The FY 2006 enacted bill provided an increase of $12 million specifically to allow the FAA to restore the 231 inspectors that the agency has lost over the last two years. A one percent across-the-board cut would prevent the FAA from replacing these lost inspectors and result in an even greater attrition level in the FAA's aviation inspector workforce. At a time when several commercial air carriers are financially distressed or under bankruptcy protection, it is important to exercise adequate safety oversight to ensure that the carriers are not taking shortcuts in the maintenance of their aircraft fleets. 
   It is estimated that 73 percent of the FAA's air traffic controllers will be eligible to retire over the next decade. Since it takes over three years for an air traffic controller to become fully trained and certified, the FAA must remain vigilant in hiring and training these new air traffic controllers. As a result, the FAA requested, and the Fiscal Year 2006 Transportation Appropriations bill included, $24.9 million to hire 1,249 air traffic controllers in order to replace the 654 air traffic controllers that were expected to be lost through attrition and retirement and to hire an additional 595 controllers as proposed in the agency's workforce staffing plan in order to maintain safety in our skies. A one percent across-the-board cut will completely nullify the agency's ability to hire back air traffic controllers and cause the controller workforce to continue to shrink to unsafe levels.
   Internal Revenue Service:
   With a reduction of one percent, support for newly-appropriated enforcement initiatives to combat abusive trusts and shelters, corporate non-compliance, taxpayer non-compliance, and tax return preparer fraud would be reduced by one-third and enforcement hiring would be reduced. Further, this level of funding would not permit IT support for these enforcement initiatives or even be sufficient to deliver the IT support of current levels. Finally, it is possible that if funding for taxpayer law enforcement is cut, the $447 million in additional funds for taxpayer law enforcement permitted by the budget resolution would not be provided after all because it is predicated on fully funding tax law enforcement.
 
 