SEN. BYRD ENCOURAGED BY BRAC COMMISSION VOTE
  The Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission held special hearings in Washington this week to examine the Secretary of Defense's plan for restructuring America's military bases, which include stripping planes from Charleston's 130th Airlift Wing.  
   "I am encouraged by the tough questions that the BRAC Commissioners asked during the hearings and by the information that the West Virginia National Guard and area leaders have provided to the BRAC Commission in support of the 130th. I am confident that West Virginia's voice is being heard by the BRAC Commission. But, this is a long process, and we must keep the pressure on," said U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va.
   Commission members queried Defense Department officials about the plans to close or realign Air Guard National bases throughout country, raising concerns about the impact on recruitment and the units' regional homeland security duties. The nine commissioners questioned the recommendation to downsize rather than fully close Pope Air Force Base in North Carolina and voted 7-2 to put the base on the list to be considered for potential closure - a move that may bode well for Charleston.
   "I was happy to hear commissioners express real reservations about many parts of Secretary Rumsfeld's base closure plan, particularly his plans to take away the aircraft from Air National Guard bases including ours. But until the BRAC Commission votes to remove the 130th Airlift Wing from the realignment and closure list, we cannot rest for a minute," Byrd stated. 
   "I think that we're upbeat. We're hopeful. But we have said all along that this is a tough fight. We must continue to do all that we can to ensure that the 130th Airlift Wing keeps flying," Byrd said.
   Following the BRAC hearing on Tuesday, Byrd met in his Capitol office with representatives of the "Keep 'Em Flying" coalition - the grassroots organization that has worked hard to protect the West Virginia Air National Guard's 130th Airlift Wing. The group emphasized the Charleston base's critical role in protecting West Virginia and the surrounding region.
   "The BRAC Commissioners are right to ask how the National Guard's important homeland security mission factors into the BRAC process. The 130th Airlift Wing is the backbone of homeland security efforts not only in our state but also in 10 other states and the nation's Capital," Byrd said.
   In May, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld released his plan to cease flying operations at the Charleston-based 130th Airlift Wing, and instead locate the unit's fleet of eight C-130 planes at Pope Air Force Base. The BRAC Commission has the authority to change the Secretary's plan. Byrd, Senator Jay Rockefeller, and the entire West Virginia Congressional Delegation have been working closely with Governor Joe Manchin, Adjutant General Allen Tackett, Charleston Mayor Danny Jones, and other local and regional leaders to convince the BRAC Commission to remove the Charleston base from the Pentagon list. 
   "The information put forward by the Pentagon is simply wrong. The Pentagon low-balled the number of planes that can be based at Charleston. The efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the 130th Airlift Wing were not accurately portrayed. And the fact that it will actually cost the Defense Department much more to move and maintain these planes at the Pope Air Force Base has been ignored by Pentagon planners. Thankfully, the BRAC Commission is learning the truth and hearing the facts that the Pentagon chose to ignore," Byrd said.
 
 