SEN. BYRD CONTINUES TO PROTECT VETERANS MEDICAL CARE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., on Tuesday continued to press the Congress to fill the growing gap in funding for veterans' medical care, winning approval of emergency funding for the coming fiscal year from a key Senate panel. 
   "We cannot turn away from the fact that the financial hole facing the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is getting deeper, and that the Administration must not play politics with VA medical care," Byrd said.
   "More than 190,000 West Virginia veterans, and millions of veterans across the country, rely on the VA for their health care. The need grows daily, as soldiers return home from the battles in Afghanistan and Iraq. Yet, instead of insisting that these veterans receive every medical benefit to which they are entitled, we see Washington unwilling to help our veterans," Byrd said. "That simply is not right."
   Late last week, after repeated calls for more information from Byrd and others, the White House asked Congress to approve an additional $1.977 billion for the next fiscal year for VA medical care. That funding for next fiscal year is on top of money that is needed for the current year, where the shortfall is now estimated at more than $1 billion.
   In response to the latest request from the White House, Byrd worked with Republican Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Democratic Senator Patty Murray of Washington, Republican Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, and Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California to find a way to help the $1.977 billion become law. Today, the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs approved that funding.
   With the green light from the Senate Appropriations subcommittee, the full panel is scheduled to vote on the funding on Thursday.
   "The additional $2 billion for next year is a major step forward for the veterans in West Virginia and across this country," Byrd said. "But we cannot lose sight of the massive shortfall facing us right now for the rest of this year. I have been visiting VA hospitals in West Virginia, and I can tell you that the needs are great."
   To help ensure that no veterans' services are cut because of the massive shortfall this year, Byrd has twice won unanimous Senate approval of legislation that would immediately direct $1.5 billion in emergency funding to the VA. Those bills are pending before a House-Senate conference committee before final Congressional approval.
   "We have veterans from World War Two, Korea, Vietnam, the first Gulf War, and so many other battles already waiting in line to see a doctor. Now, we have new veterans coming home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan each day, many with grievous injuries. With increasing pressures placed on the VA medical system each day, we've got to do all that we can, provide everything that we can, to the young men and women who have sacrificed for all of us," Byrd said.
 
 