SEN. BYRD URGES LOCAL FIRE DEPARTMENTS TO APPLY FOR GRANT FUNDS
  As the deadline for applications draws near, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Friday encouraged West Virginia fire departments to apply for financial help through the federal FIRE Act grant initiative.  
   "Fire departments throughout West Virginia have benefitted from this grant program. It has helped local departments to replace aging equipment and upgrade facilities. The grants have paid for training that helps to save the lives of firefighters and the people they protect," Byrd said, noting that, last year, West Virginia fire departments received 108 FIRE Act grant awards, totaling nearly $9 million.
   The FIRE Act program, which Congress created in 2000, is administered by the Department of Homeland Security's Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP), in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The deadline for applications for 2005 is 5 p.m. on April 8, 2005. Departments can take the tutorial to learn more, or apply on-line. 
   "The equipment, technology, and training that the FIRE Act grants help to provide are key to protecting West Virginia's firefighters, our homes, and our families," Byrd explained. "In West Virginia, many fire departments are staffed by volunteers, people who have full-time jobs elsewhere but are always prepared to set those jobs aside when the fire alarm rings. These men and women who put themselves in harm's way to protect their communities deserve the best equipment and training available."
   Byrd, the leading Democratic member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and that panel's Homeland Security Subcommittee, has championed efforts to ensure funding and resources for first responders.
   According to the Department of Homeland Security, fire departments can apply for financial support in two areas: 
   * Operations and Safety Program. Eligible activities are Training, Equipment, Personal Protective Equipment, Wellness and Fitness, and Modifications to Fire Stations and Facilities. 
   * Vehicle Acquisition Program. Eligible apparatus for fire departments include but are not limited to pumpers, brush/attack units, tanker/tenders, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam trucks, and fireboats. Eligible apparatus for non-affiliated EMS organizations includes ambulances, rescues, and command vehicles, but not firefighting apparatus.
 
 