SEN. BYRD PRESSES FOR SOCIAL SECURITY DETAILS
  Massive changes to the Social Security system shouldn't happen behind closed doors, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Tuesday. The West Virginia lawmaker believes that the country should have all of the details of the President's plan to revamp Social Security before Congress moves forward on any proposals. 
   "I am not one of those who believes that Social Security can continue to pay benefits, without changes, fifty years into the future. A significant problem exists, and, while it may not be on our doorstep, it's certainly on the horizon," Byrd said. "The Congress has a responsibility to make the relevant facts known to the American public."
   "Social Security belongs to the people. It is their taxes that finance it, and their benefits at stake," Byrd said, noting that 405,000 West Virginians receive funds from Social Security each month. "The people deserve to know the specifics, and not just hear political slogans."
   At a Senate Budget Committee hearing on Tuesday, Byrd pressed for the release of more details of the President's plan - details that, to date, have been kept from the public. Last week, Byrd urged the President Bush to lay out the specifics of his proposal.
   Byrd questioned Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, the Director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, about the long-term future of Social Security and what information the American people should have before deciding to replace the traditional Social Security program.
   In a recent forum, Director Holtz-Eakin referenced the "important details" that he hoped would emerge from "high-level discussions" about Social Security reform. Byrd noted that those discussions have not included the American people.
   "When you say 'high-level discussions,' are you referring to conversations behind closed doors at the White House, or do you mean to encourage an open, public discussion in which all of the details of Social Security reform emerge?" Byrd asked.
   "That was intended to convey my desire as an individual to learn about the details, from an economic, from a budgetary, and from a programmatic perspective," Holtz-Eakin stated.
   According to the Social Security Administration, Social Security is the major source of income for most of the elderly. More than nine out of 10 individuals age 65 and older receive Social Security benefits, and about two-thirds of senior Social Security beneficiaries receive 50 percent or more of their income from Social Security. The benefit is the only source of income for approximately 22 percent of the elderly.
 
 