SEN. BYRD APPEALS TO WHITE HOUSE FOR SWIFT SUPPORT, ACTION IN COAL MINE SAFETY CRISIS
  Following news of the deaths of two West Virginia coal miners in separate incidents on Wednesday, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., phoned the White House this evening to ask for quick federal assistance in what is fast becoming a coal mine safety crisis. 
   "We have approximately 550 mines in West Virginia - 350 underground mines and 200 surface mines. Starting tonight, the State will begin a new tough round of emergency inspections at each and every one of these mines. But we don't have enough people on the ground to get this job done quickly and to get it done right," Byrd told White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card. "The Governor has asked the Labor Department for manpower - inspectors, engineers, and certified specialists to get the job done. I ask that the White House help to expedite this request. We've got to put an end to these coal miner deaths." 
   Byrd called the White House after speaking with Governor Joe Manchin about his decision to implement a "mine safety stand down" and what resources the state needed to carry out the new round of emergency inspections at each of West Virginia's coal mines.
   "We've had 16 coal mine deaths in West Virginia so far this year - a year that is only 32 days old. The situation is intolerable," Byrd said.
   The West Virginia lawmaker also urged the White House to consider new federal coal mine safety emergency rules. Under federal law, the Labor Secretary has the authority to implement rules that would place a higher priority on mine safety.
   "That means better escape routes and pre-positioned oxygen and emergency communications. I would urge that the Administration put in place whatever emergency rules are needed. People are dying in the coal mines, and it has got to stop," Byrd said.
   Earlier in the day, Byrd and the other members of the West Virginia Congressional Delegation introduced legislation that would mandate those new safety initiatives, toughen enforcement, and create mandatory minimum penalties for mine safety violations.
 
 