DON'T GAMBLE WITH SOCIAL SECURITY
  Once again, a presidential candidate is talking about gambling with the future of Social Security. Unfortunately, the candidate floating these bad ideas is the same candidate who, as president, has squandered the best opportunity in decades to cement the promise of Social Security for generations to come. 
   From modest beginnings in 1935, Social Security has become an essential facet of modern life. Today, one in seven Americans receives a Social Security benefit. But when the baby-boomer generation begins to retire, the cost of benefits of retirees will exceed the contributions of workers paying into the system. That will place a much greater financial strain on the Social Security system which, if left unaddressed, could jeopardize retirement and disability benefits for tens of millions of Americans.
   But rather than address the fundamental problem, the Bush White House talks about privatizing Social Security while wasting any opportunity to responsibly secure America's primary retirement and disability program. In fact, instead of ensuring the Social Security benefits promised to workers, the President has proposed spending the entire Social Security surplus of the next five years - $1.1 trillion - to pay for tax cuts for the affluent and corporate elite. Not one dime would be allocated to save Social Security.
   Everyone has a stake in the future of Social Security. It provides a safety net for retirees, workers with disabilities, and children who have lost a parent. Social Security can be the difference between living with dignity or living in poverty.
   I will continue to push for sensible approaches to strengthen Social Security, not ill-conceived fiscal plans that jeopardize its future. Congress must anticipate the looming retirement of the baby-boomer generation and plan for it. That means eliminating the massive federal deficits sparked by the Bush White House's fiscal priorities of tax cuts above all else. We must put the people's priorities first. Instead of short-sighted proposals and campaign slogans that gamble with the long-term stability of Social Security, it is time for serious debate about the future of the program.
   In 1935, when President Franklin Roosevelt signed the law creating the Social Security system, he recognized its importance. He stated that Social Security would "give some measure of protection to the average citizen and to his family against the loss of a job and against poverty-ridden old age." We must not allow that protection to fail.
 
 