SEN. BYRD TO FIGHT WHITE HOUSE ON MCDOWELL COUNTY PRISON FUNDS
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., will fight a White House effort to cancel $142 million in construction funds for the planned federal prison in McDowell County. 
   "It is absolutely short-sighted for this White House to try to take away the dollars, already signed into law, for the new federal prison. This is a project that the federal Bureau of Prisons is firmly behind. The local community is firmly behind this project. And the need for new prison space is substantial. There is no logic in the White House plans," Byrd said.
   The White House, in its budget request of the Congress, unveiled plans to eliminate the $142 million already set aside for the design and construction for the federal McDowell County prison. Byrd worked to win Congressional approval of those funds as the Bureau of Prisons moved forward with its siting process. 
   "My work to secure that $142 million means that there would be no delay in design and construction of the new McDowell County federal prison. Now, the White House wants to take that money away. I, for one, will not sit by and let that happen," Byrd stated.
   "This project is a win-win for the nation and for West Virginia. The United States, like it or not, needs more prison space. Prisons are overcrowded. Inmate populations are expected to continue to climb. McDowell County wants this facility for the new jobs and the new investments that will accompany it," Byrd said. "It is incredibly short-sighted for the White House to try to erase those dollars just as we get ready for construction."
   The 1,280-bed facility is expected to employ approximately 330 men and women and infuse as much as $35 million each year into the local economy.
   In the Fiscal Year 2007 budget, the Bush Administration requested the cancellation of $142 million in the federal Bureau of Prisons' Buildings and Facilities program. Byrd plans to fight the White House plan, and has enlisted the support of a very powerful group of Republican and Democratic Senators in the effort. The West Virginia lawmaker is working with Republican Thad Cochran of Mississippi, who chairs the Senate Appropriations Committee, Republican Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, Democratic Senator Barbara Mikulski of Maryland, and Republican Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, who chairs the Senate Budget Committee.
   West Virginia's Third District Congressman Nick J. Rahall will partner with Byrd in the House of Representatives to block this White House move.
   "I applaud Senator Byrd for standing firm and fighting for a critical national need which will at the same time have a major impact on McDowell County's economy," Rahall explained. "We are working together, using every resource at our disposal, to avoid any delay in moving the McDowell County federal prison forward." 
   Byrd announced in August that the federal Bureau of Prisons has issued the final Record of Decision for the medium-security facility to be built at the Indian Ridge Industrial Park near the McDowell County-Wyoming County line. The Record of Decision is the final step in the environmental review process, clearing the way for the BOP to proceed with the project.
 
 