SEN. BYRD PLAN BOOSTS SECURITY AT U.S. BORDERS
  The United States Senate has given its strong support to a plan offered by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., to substantially improve security at America's borders. 
   "We must start now. This cannot wait," Byrd told his colleagues. "The job of our immigration officers is staggering, and their resources are meager. This is our opportunity to reverse that sorry record. This is our opportunity to strengthen our border defenses. This is our opportunity to support a substantive, concrete effort to address the alarming rise in illegal immigration."
   "Our citizens are concerned about the security gaps along our borders. It has reached such a fever pitch in some locations that private groups -- such as the self-proclaimed 'Minutemen' -- are banding together to form watch groups along the borders to act as additional 'eyes and ears' and report suspicious border crossings to the Border Patrol for appropriate response. While perhaps not reaching the level of vigilante activity, this is a clear expression of the frustration felt by many citizens along the border areas that the federal government is asleep at the switch and failing to address a key federal function," Byrd said during Senate debate on his proposal on Wednesday.
   Byrd's amendment, cosponsored by Republican Senator Larry Craig of Idaho, passed the Senate by a 64-35 vote. It is now part of legislation to provide funds for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
   The amendment provides $390 million to hire 650 more border patrol agents, 250 new immigration investigators, and 168 new immigration enforcement agents and deportation officers. The amendment also provides funds for 2,000 additional detention beds as well as funding to train the new personnel.
   Byrd noted that Congress has repeatedly passed legislation to authorize these new border agents. But neither Congress nor the President has provided the funds needed to actually hire the agents.
  "Empty promises do not make our borders more secure," Byrd said. "My amendment will."
   The West Virginia lawmaker noted that the agency responsible for enforcing America's immigration laws -- Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) -- has been forced to endure a hiring freeze and funding shortfall for more than a year. Through the end of January alone, ICE lost a total of 299 personnel. 
   "Vehicles are not being replaced. Body armor is not being purchased. Travel to pursue immigration investigations has been curtailed. ICE continues to lose personnel, and the agency has not been able to fill those positions because of a hiring freeze," Byrd said. "My amendment would give ICE the resources that are so vital to beginning the process of hiring and training the personnel it needs to enforce our immigration laws."
   The Byrd proposal also revitalizes the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) along the U.S.-Mexico border. For a limited period of time this year, these UAVs assisted in the surveillance and detection of individuals attempting to enter the U.S. illegally. Patrolling a 350-mile stretch of the desert border, UAVs helped to apprehend more than 350,000 illegal immigrants crossing into the U.S. were apprehended during the operation. The funds provided in this amendment would allow for the immediate resumption of these surveillance and detection operations. 
   Finally, the amendment includes funds for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center Border Patrol Academy in Artesia, New Mexico, to train the new personnel.
 
 