REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP GIVES HEAVE-HO TO AMERICAN WORKERS
  Sen. Byrd on Tuesday said that the Republican Congress and the White House have undercut working families in order to satisfy the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
   "The Republican Congressional Leadership and the Bush Administration have made it clear where they stand: They stand with foreign trade bureaucrats and not with the working people of this country who suffer from illegal foreign trade," Byrd said.
   Last week, the Senate voted overwhelmingly - 71-20 - to back the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act (CDSOA), more commonly called the Byrd Amendment. But, in the final budget package negotiated between the House and Senate Republican Leadership, the CDSOA is repealed after two years.
   "CDSOA was enacted to restore conditions of fair trade, so that jobs that should stay in the United States are not destroyed by unfair foreign competition," Byrd stated on Tuesday. "Now is the time to hold foreign unfair traders more accountable, not less! There is no need to repeal the law today, two years from now, or ever."
   "If our trading partners don't like this trade law, the solution is not to repeal the law. If our trading partners are offended by the law, I have only two words for them: Stop dumping!" Byrd argued.
   In 2000, Byrd won Congressional approval of the CDSOA. Under this law, after the federal government collects duties on products found to be unfairly subsidized or dumped in the U.S. market, those duties are then made available to U.S. companies and workers proved to be affected by unfair foreign trade practices. If foreign trade partners follow the rules that they negotiated with the United States, there are no negative consequences and no funds go to American companies; but if our foreign trade partners break those agreements, they must provide a remedy to American companies.
   Weirton Steel, now part of Mittal Steel USA (Weirton), Warwood Tool Company (Wheeling), and TSF L.L.C. (Berkeley Springs) all have received funds thanks to the Byrd Amendment. Across the country, steel, lumber, wheat, shrimp, catfish, bearings, mushrooms, crawfish, pasta, furniture, and a long list of other industrial and agricultural producers stand to be reimbursed under the law for having suffered the negative effects of unfair trade practices for years.
   However, the CDSOA was ruled by the World Trade Organization to be in violation of international trade agreements. Since that ruling, the Bush Administration has pressed the Congress to repeal the law. But Byrd and others argue that no trade agreement that the United States has joined prohibits the Byrd Amendment. Senators have expressed confidence that the Constitution does not allow an international entity to instruct the United States Congress on how funds can be distributed by the U.S. Treasury.
   In response to the misguided WTO rulings, Byrd won Congressional approval of legislation instructing the Bush Administration to add the terms of the CDSOA to existing international trade agreements. Despite this Congressional directive's being signed into law, the Bush Administration has failed substantively to address the CDSOA in trade talks.
 
 