SEN. BYRD LEGISLATION TO EXPAND HARPERS FERRY NHP PASSES SENATE
  Legislation authored by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., to expand the boundaries of Harpers Ferry National Historical Park has been approved by the U.S. Senate. 
   "This is great news for the Eastern Panhandle and truly for all of the country," Byrd said. "Expanding the borders at Harpers Ferry not only protects one of West Virginia's historic jewels, but it also ensures that future generations of Americans will continue to visit and learn from the park's lessons of history."
   "I look forward to the day when this legislation is the law of the land," Byrd said.
   Byrd's legislation would expand the park's boundary capacity by 1,240 acres, from its current 2,505 acres to 3,745 acres. Harpers Ferry, which became part of the National Park System in 1944, hosted more than 250,000 visitors last year.
   The expansion also has the support of groups including the Friends of Harpers Ferry, the Harpers Ferry Conservancy, and the Civil War Preservation Trust.
   "The story of Harpers Ferry is the story of America. George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Meriwether Lewis, John Brown, 'Stonewall' Jackson, and Frederick Douglass are just a few of the men and women whose notable events in American history are intertwined with Harpers Ferry," Byrd explained. "By expanding the park while also investing in the educational resources there, we can ensure that the lessons of history come alive for decades ahead."
   In the Senate, Byrd has worked to provide millions of dollars in federal funding for the National Park Service (NPS) to update, renovate, and refurbish buildings and educational resources at Harpers Ferry. In addition, in 2001, Byrd shepherded $2 million through Congress to allow the NPS, in conjunction with Civil War preservation groups, to purchase the Murphy Farm property adjacent to the park.
   Also in 2001, Byrd facilitated the conclusion of more than four decades of negotiations between the NPS and CSX Corporation, resulting in the Park Service's acquisition of the historic U.S. Armory Grounds in Harpers Ferry. The property includes both the Baltimore & Ohio (B&O) train station and the site where John Brown and his raiders barricaded themselves in 1859.
 
 