THANKS TO SEN. BYRD, EMERGENCY GRANT FUNDS HEADING TO NORTHERN PANHANDLE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Wednesday overcame Bush Administration opposition to funds to assist 600 former Weirton Steel workers, securing the release of a nearly $1.7 million grant for them. 
   "The men and women who worked at Weirton Steel were promised this help, only to see the Bush Administration walk away from that promise," Byrd explained.
   "These people lost their jobs because of unfair foreign competition. The Bush Administration has been more than happy to help big corporate interests. But it was all too willing to throw roadblocks in from of assistance to Weirton Steel workers who lost their jobs," Byrd said. "That simply is not right. There is no 'compassionate conservatism' in leaving these people high and dry."
   At a White house meeting with senior Bush Administration officials on May 5, 2003, Weirton Steel representatives were instructed to apply for assistance through the U.S. Department of Labor's National Emergency Grant program. But, once the application was submitted on Weirton's behalf by the State of West Virginia, the federal Labor Department dragged its feet and refused to provide the funding. The Bush Administration cited various reasons why it had chosen not to release the grant to help Weirton Steel's former employees.
   "These people needed help. What they got was a bureaucratic runaround," Byrd explained.
   The West Virginia lawmaker contacted the Administration and urged that the obstacles be removed and the grant funds be released. The announcement came Wednesday that the Labor Department had cleared nearly $1.7 million for an array of employment-related and training services. The grant will be administered by the State of West Virginia.
   Byrd has consistently championed the causes of West Virginia's steel communities. As a member of the Senate Steel Caucus, the West Virginia lawmaker has fought to bolster the American steel industry against record levels of below-cost steel imports.
   In 1999, Byrd authored the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Act. This initiative is designed to provide a monetary infusion to hard-hit steel companies in need of capital, enabling them to maintain operations during these times of dumping-induced fiscal strain. And, despite Bush Administration efforts to dismantle the program, Byrd has successfully ensured that it remain available to America's steel manufacturers.
   Byrd also created in 2000 a grant program for American industries, including steel, that are injured by unfair foreign trading practices. The grants are funded by tariffs levied against foreign trade partners found to be in violation of trade laws. While the Bush White House has called on Congress to repeal the program, Byrd has spearheaded efforts in the Senate to sustain this lifeline for American manufacturers.
 
 