'SEN. BYRD'S-EYE VIEW' COLUMN: LEAVE NO WEST VIRGINIA CHILDREN BEHIND
 At Raleigh County's Mark Twain High School, I was one of 28 students in my 1934 graduating class. At Mark Twain, there was no question of accountability. The teachers were in charge. The students were there to study. The goal was to learn and always strive to make yourself smarter tomorrow than you are today. 
   Sadly, too often today, that same emphasis is not placed on teaching and learning. Parents know it. Members of Congress know it. That's why we voted to create the No Child Left Behind Act. Congress and President Bush worked together to ensure greater accountability in America's schools. We established standards and promised increased resources to help schools reach those standards and surpass them. But, to date, funding No Child Left Behind has been a Bush Administration empty promise.
   Since President Bush signed the No Child Left Behind Act into law in 2002, not one Bush Administration budget has provided the funds that America's schools expected. In fact, nationwide, the Bush White House has shortchanged schools by $33 billion. The Administration trumpets No Child Left Behind, but fails miserably when funding it. 
   For example, the federal Title One initiative provides dollars geared specifically for children from poor school districts. About half of West Virginia's public schools receive Title I funding. While the President's No Child Left Behind Act promised West Virginia schools $154 million for Title I for 2005, the Bush Administration's budget undercut that funding by 36 percent. Translated into students, it would deny full services to 18,398 West Virginia children. Evidently, "Leave Only 18,398 Children Behind" was not a catchy enough title for the new law.
   When President Bush signed No Child Left Behind, he said, "There's no greater challenge than to make sure that every single child, regardless of where they live, how they're raised, the income level of their family, every child receive a first-class education in America."
   But what the President said and what the President does has proved to be vastly different. When it comes to America's schools and keeping the promise of No Child Left Behind, the Bush White House gets an 'F.'
   If there is one federal investment that can offer real dividends down the road, it is education. It is time to end the posturing and give students and teachers the resources that they need to succeed. It is time for an Administration that will not play games with America's kids. Our schools and our children cannot afford four more years of broken promises.
 
 