SEN. BYRD ISSUES CALL FOR DEBATE ON NATIONAL PRIORITIES
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd and West Virginia Gov. Joe Manchin, both D-W.Va., met in the Senator's Washington office to kick-start emergency plans should disaster strike the nation's Capital. 
   \"Katrina taught us many lessons. One of those lessons is that we have got to be better prepared to handle an emergency. God forbid that a terrorist attack ever hit the Nation's Capital. But, if disaster does strike, we have got to be ready to respond,\" Byrd said.
   \"If a terrorist strike hits the Washington area, an almost immediate exodus would start from the Capital area to West Virginia. Are we ready to handle such a rush of more than a million people? What do we need to do to prepare? These are some of the questions that Governor Manchin and I are working to answer,\" Byrd said.
   "If our worst fears came true, West Virginia will be prepared, but we can't handle it alone. We have been working for some time on our plan, and now we must work closely with the Department of Homeland Security. We must make sure that we don't see the human suffering that we saw with Katrina," Manchin said.
   In light of Katrina and the incredible difficulties in moving hundreds of thousands of people during an emergency, the State of West Virginia wants to start planning on how it can handle a mass infusion of people should a terrorist attack hit the Washington area. The D.C. metropolitan area is the fifth largest metropolitan area in the United States. A massive exodus of people westward, escaping from the terrorist attack, would place an enormous pressure on the infrastructure in West Virginia. 
   The West Virginia plan would \"preset\" services and things that can help to speed people westward. Those items would include gas supplies, medical supplies, beds, food, water, and other essential items that help to facilitate a more efficient evacuation.
   "West Virginia has been leading the way in emergency response efforts. After Katrina hit, West Virginia was one of the first states to step to the plate and be able to help outside the affected areas. We put a three-stage plan together to help the citizens of New Orleans. We've been sharing with other states how we were able to mobilize so quickly. If disaster strikes again, we need to be prepared," Manchin said. 
   \"I plan to take this proposal to the Secretary of Homeland Security. It would be incredibly short-sighted if we, as a nation and as a government, did not take the lessons of Katrina to heart. The Administration has repeatedly warned that it is a matter of when, not if, another terrorist attack may come. But we've got to be ready to respond,\" Byrd said.
   The West Virginia lawmaker is scheduled to meet with the Homeland Security Secretary on Thursday.
   Byrd met earlier this year with Secretary Jim Spears, West Virginia Department of Military Affairs and Public Safety, where the emergency plan was first discussed. Earlier this month, at a Katrina-related briefing at the West Virginia National Guard Headquarters, Byrd was updated on the effort by Spears and West Virginia Adjutant General Allen Tackett.
 
 