SEN. BYRD SAYS BUSH'S VIEW OF IRAQ OUT OF TOUCH
 Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Tuesday charged that President Bush has failed to handle the increasing violence in Iraq, and instead has foolishly continued his dead-end occupation policies in that nation. 
   "Today at the United Nations, the President of the United States painted a pretty picture of the occupation of Iraq. But the President's picture was far from the reality of the situation facing our soldiers, the very limited Iraqi security forces, and, importantly, the Iraqi people," Byrd said.
   "The reality is that, today, Iraq is in flames. A horrifying wave of violence has struck yet again, targeting Iraqi police, government leaders, innocent civilians, and our very own troops. The death toll in Iraq continues to mount," Byrd stated. 
   The Pentagon on Tuesday reported that 1,034 American servicemen have been killed in Iraq, while more than 7,400 servicemen have been injured. Also on Tuesday, news organizations reported on the increasing possibility of civil war in Iraq as the security situation in many parts of that nation continues to erode.
   "The Commander in Chief seems to be in the dark about the worsening situation in Iraq. Faced with the spread of violence in Iraq, the President continues to speak of Iraq as a country of free people. But what liberty is there to be enjoyed when the police are being killed by the scores, the chances of a peaceful election have been thrown out the window, and many Iraqis are too afraid to send their children to school?" Byrd asked on Tuesday.
   "One must begin to question whether the President is getting the bad news about what is happening on the streets of Baghdad and Fallujah, or if he is simply ignoring it. Surely the Commander in Chief has a responsibility, has the obligation, to change his strategy when it has been proven a failure," Byrd stated.
   The Bush Administration has outlined plans to shift more than $3.4 billion in funds that Congress intended to go toward the reconstruction of Iraq and instead use those dollars for security efforts.
   "This is even more evidence that the Administration has no plan for post-war Iraq, other than to throw more money at the problem and hope for the best," Byrd said. "As the President wants to spend more and more money in Iraq, our troops are getting sucked ever-deeper into the bloody quicksand of the Middle East. Most astonishing yet, the White House has not held anyone in the Administration accountable for the mess that has become Iraq. It is business as usual in the White House bubble."
   "The situation in Iraq has been elevated beyond a crisis. Instead of demonstrating the leadership to bring more countries in to assist in rebuilding Iraq, the President pays lip service to international help. The President has only proposed to sink more taxpayer money into the same failed policies that brought us to this point," Byrd said. 
   "The President has failed to act to counter the surge in violence that is costing the lives of our men and women in uniform," Byrd stated in the Senate. "How long can this bumbling by the White House go on? How long must our troops be tied down in Iraq? How long will we struggle without a plan to end the spreading violence? How long will it take for our country to turn away from this dead-end policy created by the dead-brained thinking in this White House? How long, Mr. President? How long?"
 
 