SEN. BYRD: COAL A CORNERSTONE FOR ENERGY INDEPEDENT FUTURE
  Sen. Byrd Wednesday told an audience of business, university, and state leaders with coal interests that coal and coal-based technologies should be a major player in a comprehensive national effort to break America's addiction to oil.  
   "When it comes to crafting an energy policy, we can delay no longer. Energy policy cannot continue to be revisited on an ad hoc basis. We have to begin now to make energy security our highest priority because to fail to do so is flirting with disaster," Byrd said. 
   Byrd was the keynote speaker at the Coal Utilization Research Council's Annual Winter Conference in Washington.
   "To backfill the coming oil shortfall, it will take a variety of energy sources. Renewable resources as well as nuclear and natural gas, all must be part of a comprehensive national effort to shake our oil addiction," Byrd said.
   "A major player in any such effort must be coal and coal-based technologies which has been to date primarily directed toward electric power generation. However, alternative fuels made from coal can burn cleaner and perform better than petroleum fuels. We can produce alternative fuels and other by products right here in the U.S., using our own abundant supplies of coal and other resources," Byrd stated.
   The Senate adopted and the President recently signed into law legislation that Byrd authored to bring the National Energy Technology Laboratory, based in Morgantown, W.Va., and Pittsburgh, Pa., into the process of advancing a coal-to-liquid fuels initiative. The amendment also allows the Department of Defense (DoD), which has a strong interest in transforming alternative resources into transportation fuels, to examine potential uses for these new fuels within the DoD system.
   Byrd has long been a champion for the possibilities of coal, including crafting legislation as far back as 1985 to establish a clean coal technology program at the Department of Energy. 
   "For the United States to be free of our heavy reliance on Middle Eastern oil, we must make new investments in coal and other domestic energy-producing resources. That is absolutely clear. If we do not make that commitment, instead of freeing ourselves from foreign oil dependency, we will be sinking our military and energy fortunes deeper and deeper into the sands of the Middle East," Byrd stated.
   The Senator asked the coal leaders in the audience to envision a better energy future. A future where foreign policy decisions are not driven by oil, where troops and equipment aren't garrisoned around the globe to protect oil supply lines, where a stronger military can depend on America's domestic energy supplies, and where new coal-based fuels power vehicles, airplanes, and more and providing a myriad of energy benefits for consumers and our country. 
   "Energy research will produce spin-offs that create jobs, improve life, secure our energy future, and enhance our environment. Not even with our crystal ball can we fully know what fantastic gains can be made. It is time, once and for all, to think about our Nation's energy resources, especially coal, differently. It is our ace in the hole. I say let us begin that effort now, and let us begin to do this critical work in earnest," Byrd said.
 
 