SEN. BYRD URGES SENATE TO MOVE QUICKLY ON MINIMUM WAGE HIKE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., wants the Senate to move quickly to approve an increase in the minimum wage. 
   "The fundamental promise of the American dream is that hard work leads to a better life for our families. We should continue to be a land of opportunity, and not a land where fair wages and benefits are only available to some people, but not to all. We need to create a cycle of opportunity to replace the cycle of poverty that has engulfed too many working families. Raising the minimum wage is a good step forward," Byrd said.
   The federal minimum wage has not been increased from $5.15 an hour since 1997. A person working full-time at the minimum wage earns, before taxes, $10,712 annually. Nearly 15 million American workers and their families live on that income, even though it is almost $6,000 below the poverty level for a family of three. Moreover, the value of the minimum wage has eroded by more than 20 percent since the last increase while the cost of living has skyrocketed.
   In West Virginia, this minimum wage increase would immediately benefit 59,000 workers. When fully implemented in two years, as many as 133,000 Mountain State workers would see their paychecks increase.
   The Senate began debate on Monday on a proposal that would lift the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour. This increase would mean an additional $4,400 a year for the individual minimum-wage worker. 
   "The minimum wage has not been increased for a decade. That wage is at its lowest buying power in 50 years. It's time to help working families and start to put an end to poverty," Byrd said.
   Byrd also supports efforts to support small businesses which will shoulder some of the burden of the minimum wage increase.
   "Many minimum-wage earners are employed by entrepreneurs who spark our economy. If there are commonsense ways in which Congress can reduce the burden on small businesses, then we ought to help," Byrd stated.
   "Developing incentives for businesses will create new jobs and benefits for working families. Lifting the wages of those same families will give them greater buying power at stores, a stronger ability to afford college tuition, and an overall better quality of life," Byrd explained. "This balanced approach can help to build a better future for our state and nation."
   Last year, the West Virginia Legislature approved an increase in the state minimum wage, increasing the level gradually to $7.25 an hour on July 1, 2008. However, limitations placed on that raise mean that about 2,000 people in the state will benefit from the state's action. The state law only affects employers with six or more employees and that have an annual gross income of $500,000; the state law also does not apply to businesses involved in interstate commerce.
   To hear from Senator Byrd visit http://byrd.senate.gov/2007%20january%2022%20minimum%20wage.rm
 
 