SEN. BYRD PREPARES FOR MINE SAFETY HEARING ON MONDAY
  The federal government's point man on mine health and safety will be the lead witness at the first Congressional hearing on mine safety after two fatal coal mine tragedies in West Virginia this month.
   "First, there were the 12 deaths at the Sago mine. Now, West Virginia is reeling from two deaths at the Aracoma mine," U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said in advance of the Senate hearing. "We must look at one simple question: Is enough being done to protect the men and women who risk their lives to provide the power and energy for this country? After the tragic events unfolded in West Virginia's mines, everyone should finally agree that the answer is no."  
   "I am very concerned that the nation's mine safety watchdog has lost its bark, as well as its bite," Byrd said.
   After the January 2 mine explosion in his home state that killed a dozen miners while leaving one miner hospitalized with serious injuries, Byrd worked closely with Republican Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and Democratic Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa - the Chairman and the Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education - to schedule the mine safety hearing set for Monday morning at 11 a.m. in the Hart Senate Building, Room 216. 
   The weekend's tragic news from Logan County, W.Va., that two miners had lost their lives after being trapped by a mine fire, only underscored the importance of the mine safety hearing.
   "The federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) is supposed to be a coal miner's shield. I worry that political decisions have weakened that shield. MSHA needs to remember that its mission is health and safety, and that mission must always come first," Byrd stated.
   MSHA Acting Administrator David Dye will be the first witness to testify at the Monday hearing. Senior officials from MSHA will accompany Dye, including: Ray McKinney, Administrator, MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health; Bob Friend, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health; and Edward Claire, Associate Solicitor, Division of Mine Safety and Health.
   A second panel of witnesses is expected to include Davitt McAteer, Vice President of Sponsored Programs, Wheeling Jesuit University, and former Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health; Ben Hatfield, President and CEO, International Coal Group; Chris Hamilton, Senior Vice President West Virginia Coal Association; Cecil Roberts, International President, United Mine Workers of America; and Bruce Watzman, Vice President, Safety and Health, National Mining Association.
   Byrd believes that new technology could be employed to save lives. Mine rescue teams are using technology that, in many cases, is 30 to 40 years old.
   "We should not rely on 1966 technology to save lives in 2006. We ought to be able to use 21st century technologies to enhance communications. We should be able to pre-position oxygen and other emergency supplies. These are safety basics that must be addressed," Byrd said. 
   Another key area of concern for the Senator is the Bush Administration's refusal to implement mine safety regulations, preferring instead to rely on voluntary efforts at individual mines.
   "The coal industry used technology to make great gains in production. The Bush Administration has not been shy about making regulatory changes when it wants to help boost operations. But the same priority has not been given to keeping miners safe and healthy," Byrd said. "I look forward to hearing from the federal officials on Monday. I want to learn what steps the leaders of the Mine Safety and Health Administration are ready to take to prevent more mining disasters from occurring."
 
 