SEN. BYRD: BUDGET GAMESMANSHIP ENDANGERS LIVES OF OUR FIGHTING MEN, WOMEN
  Sen. Byrd, the top Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee, made the following remarks as the Senate started debate on the $416.2 billion Department of Defense Appropriations Conference Report.
   Yesterday the General Accounting Office released a shocking report about the state of funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Simply put, our troops are running out of money, but the White House denies that there is a problem. 
   The findings in the GAO report are alarming. The Army is overspending its Fiscal Year 2004 Operations and Maintenance funds to the tune of $10.2 billion. The Air Force urgently needs another $1.4 billion this fiscal year, and the Marines are short by $500 million. Our military is cutting back on training at the same time that retired service members are being pressed back into uniform to be sent overseas. These budget problems are being compounded by the fact that the White House planned on having only 99,000 troops in Iraq by this point, instead of the 140,000 troops we will have there for the foreseeable future.
   This is the most astounding evidence to date that the Administration has fundamentally mismanaged the financing for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The President did not bother to put a single dime in his February budget request for these wars. He insisted that more funding would not be needed until January 2005.
   Even when the Administration flip-flopped and came to Congress on May 13, 2004, to ask for a $25 billion emergency reserve fund, top Administration officials denied that there was an urgent need for more funds to support our troops in the field. Deputy Defense Secretary Wolfowitz described the $25 billion, which is contained in the conference report of the defense appropriations bill now before the Senate, as "an insurance plan." Secretary Wolfowitz stated in his testimony to the Armed Services Committee that our troops would not run out of funds until February or March 2005.
   I didn't buy that line. The Administration has fallen down on the job in budgeting for these wars, and its budget projections simply are not to be trusted. It should have been clear to anyone who has picked up a newspaper in the last six months that our troops were beginning to run low on funds, but the Administration sent witnesses bearing only rosy scenarios.
   To add insult to injury, the White House asked for a $25 billion blank check. Coming on the heels of Bob Woodward's revelations in his book, Plan of Attack , about the Pentagon hiding from Congress $700 million in spending to prepare for war in Iraq, this was an astounding request.
   Thankfully, Congress has seen through the Administration's double dealing on funding our troops. I thank the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Stevens, and his colleague, the Ranking Member of the Defense Appropriations Committee, Senator Inouye, for working with me to pierce the fog of rhetoric to reshape this $25 billion reserve fund to best help our troops while protecting the Constitutional prerogatives of Congress. 
   Instead of being a $25 billion blank check, $23 billion of these funds - that is 92 percent - are made available for regular appropriations accounts. This means that Congress will be better able to track how these additional funds are used. In addition, the $25 billion in funding will be available for our troops as soon as this bill is signed into law. They will not have to wait until October 1 to purchase the critical equipment our troops need to survive in the combat zones in Iraq and Afghanistan. Again, I thank Senator Stevens and Senator Inouye for working with me to promote fiscal responsibility and accountability for how these funds are to be used.
   Despite the improvements made to the Administration's request for funding for the wars, I continue to have serious concerns about the direction of the so-called "peacetime" defense budget, that is, the huge amount of funds not related to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. This bill contains $391.2 billion for the Pentagon, not including $25 billion for the cost of the wars. That is a massive increase over the $287.1 billion appropriated for the Pentagon as recently as Fiscal Year 2001.
   The Administration claims that this explosion in defense spending is necessary to transform our military into a faster, lighter, and stronger fighting force. But today's Los Angeles Times states that the Army is delaying by two years the launch of its first modernized unit that is supposed to be the centerpiece of this defense transformation effort.
   In this age of sky-high deficits, could it be that we are getting less bang for more bucks? How else can the Administration explain a stalled transformation effort when defense spending has risen 36 percent in just four years?
   If this rate of growth continues, this country will soon be spending half a trillion dollars per year on the defense establishment, with no assurance that those funds are being well spent. The Pentagon's accounting systems are a mess. Despite Secretary Rumsfeld's promise at his confirmation hearing in January 2001 to get this problem fixed, the General Accounting Office has recently issued serious warnings that his accounting reform effort is headed down the wrong track.
   In fact, this Defense Appropriations bill cuts funds from this accounting reform effort precisely because the Defense Department's program to fix its accounting systems is underperforming. Tens of millions of taxpayer dollars that were supposed to have been put to use in establishing a robust system of financial accountability remain unspent. This Congress made the wise decision not to throw more money at a problem that is not being fixed. When Secretary Rumsfeld gets his accounting reform program back on its feet, I will be the first Senator in line to support all necessary funds for that purpose.
   Senators should also realize that this defense appropriations bill brings back from conference something that was never included in the Senate-passed bill and something that was never included in the House-passed bill. It includes a deeming resolution to increase the annual discretionary spending limit to $821.9 billion for the Fiscal Year 2005.
   The failure of this Congress to pass its annual budget has led to this move to include a deeming resolution in the defense appropriations bill, signaling the complete breakdown in this year's budget process.
   Setting aside the fact that this provision violates Rule XXVIII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, Senators should know that this deeming resolution authorizes $11 billion less than what the Congressional Budget Office says it necessary to maintain current services, adjusted for inflation. That $11 billion is needed to maintain services to our veterans, fund health care and education programs for our seniors and our youth, and maintain our mass transit and highway programs.
   In a time of war, each dollar devoted to our military must be put to full use. No matter how many additional hundreds of billions Congress may approve for the Pentagon, defense spending without accountability ultimately hurts our troops in the field. 
   Each dollar that is spent on wasteful contracts, or lost in an accounting maze, is one less dollar for our troops to buy ammunition, fuel, or body armor. There must also be a budget so that Congress can know the spending plan for our troops on the battlefield will be supported in the coming months and years.
   The Administration would do well to listen to this common-sense message. Stop the budget gamesmanship that only endangers the lives of our fighting men and women. Enough of the political posturing that denies that our military in the field may have urgent needs. The President must take responsibility for the fiscal mess that he has created.
 
 