SENATE CLEARS SEN. BYRD PROPOSAL TO GIVE GUARD STRONGER VOICE AT PENTAGON
  The U.S. Senate on Thursday approved a proposal put forward by Republican Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond of Missouri and Democratic Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia to give the U.S. National Guard a stronger voice at the Pentagon. 
   "We ask our National Guardsmen to put their lives on hold and go half-way around the world to serve their country. Our Guardsmen face front-line dangers each day. But when it comes to setting policy at the Pentagon, the Guard is given a seat on the back bench," Byrd explained.
   The bipartisan Guard initiative would increase the rank of the Chief of the National Guard to a four-star general, and allow the Guard to have direct communications with the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   Byrd, a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, was contacted by West Virginia Adjutant General Alan Tackett about the proposal. 
   "For too long, bureaucratic roadblocks have limited the ability of the Guard to have a voice in our national security priorities. This effort will break through those roadblocks and give the Guard a much stronger voice in Defense Department activities," Byrd said.
   The Senator pointed to last summer's Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) effort as a prime example of where the National Guard's voice needed to be stronger.
   "The Secretary of Defense wanted to shut down hundreds of Guard bases around the country and eliminate as many as 17,000 Army National Guard positions. The Secretary wanted to shut down the West Virginia National Guard's 130th Airlift Wing, one of the best trained, best prepared Guard units in the country. BRAC was a broken plan that jeopardized the safety and security of our states and our nation. Thankfully, we were able to beat BRAC and save the 130th. But if the Guard had had a voice at the table from the beginning, the BRAC plan might never have been hatched," Byrd explained.
   "The National Guard is the backbone of our Armed Forces. It's time for the Pentagon to give the Guard the respect that it has earned," Byrd stated.
 
 