SEN. BYRD EFFORT TO EASE GAS PRICE PAIN PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., on Wednesday successfully renewed his work to give drivers a break from the high gas prices expected to continue through the peak driving season this summer. 
   "We need to help provide immediate relief to rural workers. We need to help provide relief to working mothers and fathers, both of whom are searching for ways to stretch their paychecks just a little bit further," Byrd said.
   Byrd offered an amendment to the Senate energy bill to create a new transportation fringe benefit for eligible rural workers. Employers could offer rural employees who share a ride to work a monthly $50 benefit to help offset costly gasoline purchases. His proposal was adopted by an overwhelming vote. No Senator spoke against the amendment during debate.
   "My amendment represents an acknowledgment by the Senate that rural workers can be affected more directly and harshly by high gas prices, and that the Senate is beginning to respond to that reality," Byrd said. "I hope that this amendment is just a first step in relieving the pain that West Virginians are facing at the gas pump."
   "This amendment will provide relief directly and immediately to the little guy. This is an opportunity to help working men and women today. We don't have to wait and hope that gas prices will decrease. We can take action now!" Byrd said during debate in the Senate.
   Earlier this week, the American Automobile Association (better known as "Triple A" or AAA) reported that the average price of a gallon of gas around the country will likely be 25 to 30 cents more per gallon this summer compared to last summer.
   "The American public is reminded, day after day, as they drive to work, as they drive their children to school, as they drive to the local market, of the outrageous cost of gasoline, and how it squeezes their pocketbooks," Byrd said. "That fact alone is probably the single most important catalyst for this energy bill. And, yet, Senators candidly acknowledge, as has the president, that no energy policy can immediately deliver lower prices at the fuel pump."
   Byrd pointed out that workers in every state would benefit from his amendment. 
   "Rural areas have less access to public transportation. Subways and buses are not usually available to rural workers. In Appalachia, rural roads, twisting and winding and bending around the hills and mountains, exacerbate the financial pain. When gas prices spike, rural workers often have no extra income to absorb the increase, forcing painful cuts in essential expenditures," Byrd said.
   "These rural workers seek immediate relief, and they grow increasingly frustrated with the hemming and hawing of their representatives in the Congress. They do not want equivocations about economic theories. They do not want tutorials about tax policy. They want relief, and today I submit an amendment to answer that call for relief," Byrd stated.
   Rural workers who share a ride to the same place of employment on an average of three weeks each month would be eligible for this initial tax benefit. The benefit would be available through January 1, 2007.
   The proposal is now part of the Senate energy bill, which is expected to receive a final vote later this week. If approved, the bill would go to conference with the House of Representatives to work out the differences between the two versions.
 
 