SEN. BYRD, BIPARTISAN COALITION WORK TO FIX VA SECURITY PROBLEMS
  Veterans in West Virginia are scrambling to ensure that their financial data are secure after the theft of personal information from federal Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) staff last month. Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., and a bipartisan coalition of Senators on Thursday offered a plan to make sure that any cost associated with that theft does not fall onto the shoulders of individual veterans, and rather is paid for by the VA.
   "The United States has an obligation to protect the private information of our veterans and our military men and women. But when it came to meeting that obligation, the VA failed. This amendment is an effort to clean up the VA's mess," Byrd said during committee debate on the proposal. "If this personal information finds its way into the wrong hands, criminals could use it to fraudulently apply for credit cards, cell phones, or other consumer purchases, leaving the charges to be paid by an unsuspecting veteran." 
   "Without this plan, veterans could have to pay thousands upon thousands of dollars from their own pockets to protect their own credit records, which the VA has placed in needless jeopardy. That's not right. The VA is responsible for protecting this personal private data. It didn't. And now the VA should bear the responsibility for setting things right," Byrd said.
   The bipartisan proposal would provide the VA with $160 million in emergency funding for credit counseling and to repair the credit of any veteran whose identity is stolen and abused as a result of the May theft. Without these dollars, the VA plans to take funds from other VA accounts, including the Veterans Health Administration, to pay for the credit security gaffe.
   The Senate Appropriations Committee on Thursday approved the effort, and it now moves to the full Senate action.
   The VA has admitted that an employee took home on computer files and then failed to protect critical personal data, including the names, Social Security numbers, dates of birth, and some disability ratings for up to 26.5 million veterans and some spouses, National Guardsmen, Reservists, and active duty members of the Armed Forces. 
   Byrd is also working with West Virginia Senator Jay Rockefeller on legislation to allow the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to work with individual veterans, National Guardsmen, and members of the Armed Services affected by the theft. Senator Rockefeller has authored legislation called the Veterans and Military Privacy Protection Act that would, among other priorities, require the Federal Trade Commission - the government experts on personal data security - to develop a toll-free hotline for veterans and military personnel to provide information, counseling, and help necessary to protect themselves from the theft of their personal data. 
   "From the very first moment I learned about the VA data theft I have been shocked that such a massive security breach could occur, and angered that our veterans and military personnel would have to question whether their personal information had fallen into the wrong hands," Rockefeller said. "This legislation lets all those affected know that the federal government is taking every step possible to deter abuse. We are providing veterans and service members with an alert system if they believe they are victims of identity theft, and we are giving them the tools they need to protect their financial information."
   The Rockefeller bill, which Byrd is cosponsoring, is headed to the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs. Senator Rockefeller is the senior Democratic member on that committee.
 
 