SEN. BYRD CRITICIZES SENATE REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP FOR INABILITY TO SAFEGUARD NATION
  As the Senate prepared to start the August break without action on the Homeland Security Appropriations bill, Sen. Byrd, the top Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee, once again criticized the Senate Republican Leadership for failing to pass legislation that helps to make the country safer from terrorist attack. 
   In a mere matter of days, we will officially kick off the 2004 Presidential election season with the convening of the Democratic convention in Boston. The political festivities in Boston will also mark the beginning of a tense interlude between the conventions and the November elections during which the nation has been told to brace for the possibility of a large-scale terrorist attack on the United States.
   Earlier this month, Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge and FBI Director Robert Mueller went on national television to warn the American people that credible evidence pointed to plans by al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack on the United States before the November elections in an effort to disrupt out democratic process.
   Yet, in the weeks since our nation's top homeland security officials issued that blunt and alarming warning, the Administration appears to have buried its head in the sand, carrying on with business as usual, seemingly oblivious to the gathering danger predicted by its own experts.
   This morning, The Washington Times newspaper published on its front page a chilling account of shadowy groups of Middle Eastern men carrying out surveillance at airports, probing security measures, and conducting what appear to be dry runs on aircraft. The reports are anecdotal, but regardless of whether the article turns out to be accurate or merely an example of scare-mongering, it raises serious questions and underscores serious flaws in the Administration's preparedness to respond to another terrorist attack on the United States. 
   Following the tragic events of September 11, protecting the nation's commercial aircraft became the top anti-terrorism priority of the federal government. The Administration established a firm goal for the number of federal air marshals so that a high percentage of critical flights could be protected. The exact number of air marshals is classified. However, it is no secret that the Federal Air Marshals program has never reached the staffing level deemed necessary to protect the American people in the wake of the September 11 attacks.
   Worse, as commercial air travel rebounds to its highest level since the September 11 attacks, the number of federal air marshals is actually declining, falling nine percent below the meager staffing level the program was initially able to achieve and far further below the Administration's stated goal. As air marshals leave the program, budget constraints prohibit the hiring of replacements. The number of air marshals continues to dwindle, and the number of critical flights they are able to cover remains on a steady, downward spiral.
   At a time when Americans have been told, in the starkest terms possible, that al Qaeda is moving forward with plans to attack our homeland, the Administration continues to twiddle its thumbs and allow our homeland defenses, including protection of commercial aircraft, to erode.
   While the Bush Administration claims progress in the war on terror and asserts that it is making the nation safer, the facts belie the rhetoric. The assertions are hollow. The Administration has consistently put homeland security on the back burner. At the prodding of Congress, the Administration grudgingly created the Cabinet-level Department of Homeland Security, but since its creation, it has failed to provide the department with the resources needed to make America safer.
   The Senate, I am sorry to say, is complicit in the Administration's negligence. The Senate has danced right along to the White House tune. As Brutus said, in scolding Cicero for attempting to toady up to Antony, "Our ancestors would have scorned even a gentle master."
   Although the Senate Appropriations Committee passed the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill more than a month ago, it has been languishing on the shelf since then and has yet to see the light of day on the Senate floor.For some reason which I cannot divine, this "Do Nothing" Senate under the Senate Republican leadership has bottled up the Homeland Security bill, refusing to allow the Senate to debate it and pass it and send it to the President.
   And unlike the billions upon billions of dollars in funding the President has demanded from Congress to fight his war in Iraq, he has been strangely silent on the need to bulk up homeland security funding to better protect Americans at home. In the wake of the most recent terrorist alert, one would think that the President would have called on Congress to provide supplemental funding for new measures to thwart the threat from al Qaeda. There are so many weak links in our homeland security network for which added resources could be a true lifesaver. The country needs additional funds to secure our mass transit systems, to increase the inspection of air and ship cargo containers, and, yes, to increase the number of federal air marshals.
   And yet, the White House is doing nothing. If the reports of pilots and flight attendants and air marshals cited in The Washington Times article are accurate, our nation's aircraft may be under a renewed threat of attack. If the "credible evidence" cited by the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Director of the FBI is accurate, then the United States is entering an extremely dangerous period. And if the chairman of the so-called 9/11 Commission was correct in the assessments he made today, then the United States must face up to the mistakes it made in the past and to the probability of another terrorist attack of even greater magnitude than that which shook the nation on September 11, 2001. 
   And yet the White House is doing nothing. By pretending that funding for homeland security can wait, and by refusing to acknowledge that additional resources are needed to protect the nation, the Administration is callously playing fast and loose with the safety of the American people.
   I hope and pray that America remains safe over the coming months. I hope and pray that the reporting is wrong and that the evidence collected by our homeland security experts is off the mark. I hope and pray that the political conventions will be the scenes of nothing more sinister than elbowing for a better view of the platform. Above all, I hope and pray that the Administration will come to its senses, drop its pretense that all is well with homeland security, and provide the resources required to truly protect the American people at home.
 
 