SEN. BYRD: HISTORY PROVIDES KEY TO COMMUNITY'S FUTURE
  Sen. Byrd delivered the following remarks at the City of Charles Town's community celebration and dedication of its downtown revitalization project. 
   This remarkable community is blessed with the special richness of history. Look around you! History is alive in Charles Town. Take for instance, the Jefferson County Courthouse originally built in 1808, on land donated by Charles Washington. If the old courthouse could speak, what tales it might tell us! The courthouse might whisper of the trial of John Brown, in 1859, when Brown was found guilty of treason, conspiracy to commit treason, and murder in connection with his seizure of Harpers Ferry. The old courthouse might recall for us the time when Charles Town was the scene of another famous trial, involving 200 miners and union leaders during the Coal Mine wars of the 1920's. We might hear tales of the Civil War, when federal troops set fire to Charles Washington Hall to prevent ammunition from falling into the hands of advancing Confederate forces. Listen closely in the quiet and you can almost hear voices echoing from the mists of history. 
   Yet, relative to other nations, America is a mere infant. Our history, though rich and compelling, is brief compared to the nations of Europe. In fact, Americans do not always really appreciate the past or understand how it influences the future, so focused are we on the shiny promise of tomorrow. All too often, we fail to linger and to learn in the corridors of our yesterdays. But, as we strive together to weave a stronger future, we must never overlook the strong threads of our past.
   Thankfully, Charles Town is a different story. The people of this community have a longer view. The people of Charles Town understand that their history is an inextricable part of the fabric of their future. In Charles Town, you have gathered the threads of your town's story and are weaving them into a beautiful tapestry.
   I have been glad to be part of this effort to help build a solid foundation for Charles Town's growth by obtaining $1.2 million in federal funding to support economic development and tourism in Charles Town. Our efforts in Charles Town include the replacement of cracked and deteriorated sidewalks; the installation of underground utility wires; the replacement of the entire drinking water main and service pipe system; the repaving of Washington and George Streets; and, many beautification items such as historically styled street lamps, new trees, and outdoor furniture. These changes mean citizens will reap benefits in public safety and increased entrepreneurial and private sector activities. Careful care and planning will now carry residents and visitors alike, "back to the future" right here in the eastern panhandle.
   While Charles Town is near Washington if you measure in miles, it is really light-years away. Here, it seems the air is always fresher, the faces are brighter, and the thinking is always clearer. The people of Charles Town understand the value of community and the benefit of investing in your own unique legacy. What the elitists from Washington D.C. sometimes fail to understand is that efforts like the Charles Town revitalization project deserve Federal investment because the history of our country is not one story, but many. In Charles Town, and in communities like it all across the nation, American values and standards are bred and nurtured.
   Charles Dickens said it well in the Old Curiosity Shop when he wrote, "In love of home, the love of country has its rise."
   When I think of America, I think of neat family houses with fresh-cut lawns, giggling children walking to school and carefully tended vegetable gardens brimming with ripe red tomatoes. I hear church bells, and fireworks, and high school marching bands, and I think of main streets with small family-run stores, and window-shopping couples, and babies being pushed in strollers. When I think of America, I think of hometowns like Charles Town. Amidst the hustle and hurry of life in the 21st century, your vision and your efforts have preserved that kind of America for generations yet to come.
   I thank you for the opportunity to be with you today. I wish you success as you continue your endeavors to revitalize downtown Charles Town. Yours is a labor of wisdom and love.
 
 