SEN. BYRD FUNDS FOR ROUTE NINE HEADING TO EASTERN PANHANDLE
  More than $6.6 million in construction funds for Route Nine that Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., added to federal legislation is on the way to the Eastern Panhandle. 
   "We have seen the tragic price of an inadequate Route Nine. Too many lives have been lost. Too many tragedies have taken place. It is time to move forward with Route Nine's upgrades, and move quickly," Byrd said.
   The $6.6 million being released to the State on Tuesday is a down payment on the $10 million in funding that Byrd added to the transportation appropriations legislation last fall.
   "Each new mile of an improved Route Nine saves lives. Each new mile creates hope and expands opportunity. There has been too much delay in construction of this modernized road. It's time to get to work," Byrd said.
   Senator Byrd has worked for many years on funding the upgrades for Route Nine. Since 1991, he has obtained more than $142 million for planning, design, and construction of the modernized route.
   In the coming days, the Senate will turn its attention to the bill that sets the baseline for federal construction dollars. The U.S. House of Representatives recently passed the President's $284 billion bill to fund highway and public transit programs over a six-year period. When making changes to the President's plan, the House failed to direct any funds toward Route Nine construction.
   "The Eastern Panhandle's problems cannot be ignored. It is absolutely critical that we ensure the safe travel on one of West Virginia's deadliest stretches of road for people in our state's fastest growing region," Byrd said.
   "In fact, the overall level approved by the House - $284 billion over six years - is just a drop in the bucket to address the rapidly deteriorating network of roads and highways across the country," Byrd said.
   The West Virginia Democrat is not alone in his criticism of the highway bill. In a hearing where he and Byrd quizzed U.S. Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta last week, Republican Senator Christopher "Kit" Bond of Missouri was critical of the funding in the six-year bill.
   "To be clear, I'm an infrastructure Republican who supports funding for highways and transportation. Our nation's network of roads keeps communities and families connected to one another, serves as a primary system for moving goods and products that are the life blood of our economy, and a good transportation system is necessary to reduce the fatalities we have in transportation in too many areas," Bond stated. "Nevertheless, this [$284 billion funding level] still falls short of the investment that's needed to maintain and repair our nation's crumbling infrastructure, much less to construct the new roads, to reduce time spent in traffic, and make needed safety improvements in rural and urban roads."
 
 