WEST VIRGINIA SENATORS PRESS FOR MINE SAFETY LEGISLATION AFTER FATAL EXPLOSION AT KENTUCKY MINE
 Following another mine tragedy over the weekend - this one killing five miners in Harlan County, Kentucky - Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, both D-W.Va., are pressing hard to make sure that Congress expedites comprehensive, bipartisan mine safety legislation currently pending before both houses of Congress. Sens. Rockefeller, Byrd, and several other Senators last week introduced the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response (MINER) Act, which represents the most groundbreaking development in mine safety legislation in a generation. Among other things, the MINER Act calls for miners to carry double the amount of oxygen they now carry and calls for mines to situate pre-positioned oxygen supplies throughout the mine.
   "Obviously we're still learning the details of this tragedy, but one thing that seems to be clear is that several of the miners who died needed more breathable air," said Rockefeller. "I can't guarantee that if the MINER Act were enacted, the miners would have lived, but I believe that they would have had a much greater chance." 
   "Each day that goes by without mine safety solutions enacted into law is another day when miners' lives are at risk. This weekend's tragedy at the Harlan County mine underlines that very real truth. The MINER Act is a major step toward saving lives and preventing future tragedies. The Congress ought to pass this legislation now, and not let more lives be put at risk because of a broken safety regimen in our coal mines," Byrd said. 
   The MINER Act, which passed the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee last week by a 20-0 vote, reflects new agreements between mine workers and industry officials on a number of issues critical to mine safety. The bill requires each miner to have at least 2 hours of breathable air and additional stores of self-rescuers every 30 minutes along escape routes, as well as at the working face of the mine. The bill also requires coal operators to submit plans detailing their mine's use of the most current communications, tracking, and breathing apparatus technologies - and they must, upon acceptance of their new safety evacuation plans, continue to introduce and use the best technology that works in their mines. Within three years, all mines would have state-of-the-art two-way wireless communications and electronic tracking systems in place. 
   The bill also demands a quicker incident notification, more local rescue teams, stricter fines, and tougher fine enforcement. 
   "The time for talk is over. It is time for the federal government to get serious about mine safety. This MINER Act will save lives. Coal mining families shouldn't worry whether, when their loved ones go to work, those miners will come home again at the end of that shift," Byrd stated. "There is a moral imperative to send this legislation to the President's desk right now." 
   "How many accidents have to occur before we pass comprehensive mine safety legislation?" Rockefeller said. "We need to move quickly to pass this legislation before we go into the Memorial Day recess. As we've seen this weekend, any delay jeopardizes the lives of our miners."
   Rockefeller and Byrd are working with the Republican Senate Leadership, including Kentucky Senator Mitch McConnell, the Senate's Majority Whip, to urge that the MINER Act be a priority in the next few days before the Senate recesses for Memorial Day. 
   In the House of Representatives, Representatives Nick J. Rahall, D-W.Va., Alan Mollohan, D-W.Va., and Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va., introduced the MINER Act on Friday, and the West Virginia Senators have praised their efforts on leading the charge for mine safety in the House.
 
 