HAZELTON PRISON SERVES LOCAL ECONOMY, NATIONAL GOOD
  In addition to confining and rehabilitating criminals, prisons benefit communities by providing jobs and other economic advantages, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Tuesday at the dedication of the new Hazelton U.S. Penitentiary (USP) and Work Camp. 
   "The Bureau of Prisons needs more capacity and West Virginia needs more jobs. I think that adds up to a mutually beneficial partnership and we inaugurate the first stage of that effort in Preston County here today. This prison will provide hundreds of jobs for local residents while also playing an important role in the nation's justice system," Byrd said.
   Byrd, working in close partnership with First District Congressman Alan B. Mollahan, D-W.Va., started the effort to bring a prison to Hazelton by adding a $10 million amendment to an appropriations bill in 1999. That funding paved the way for construction of the 960-inmate, high-security penitentiary and the 128-bed minimum-security camp in Preston County.
   "Teaming with Senator Byrd to develop USP Hazelton is gratifying work that is bringing significant economic benefits to Preston County," Mollohan said. "This facility stands as yet another example of how, through his leadership, our state is able to carry out priority missions of federal government agencies."
   Senator Byrd spoke Tuesday on the grounds of the Hazelton compound. He was joined by Congressman Mollohan and Federal Bureau of Prisons Director Harley G. Lappin. Approximately 300 people, including USP-Hazelton staff and their families, attended the event. 
   The $148 million facility currently employs more than 300 people, but when fully operational in 2006, it will employ 350. The prison will boast an annual operating budget of approximately $39 million, most of which will be spent locally in Preston County on such things as salaries, goods, services, and utilities.
   "This is a worthy place and employment here is worthy work," Byrd said of the prison. "Even for those who have gone very far astray, there is hope. Forgiveness is possible."
   Byrd reminded the audience that his work with the Hazelton prison is not done. The Senator jump-started plans for a secure female inmate facility by asking then OMB Director Mitch Daniels to include construction money in the federal budget for fiscal year 2003.
   "I have more plans for this site, and if you look right over yonder, you will see the ongoing construction of another 512-bed secure facility for female inmates. Sometime next spring, we will gather here again to celebrate its completion," Byrd told the audience.
   That new $75.8 million project is expected to be fully operational in 2008. It will employ 100 personnel and have an annual local economic impact of at least $12.5 million.
 
 