SEN. BYRD URGES SECRETARY OF DEFENSE RUMSFELD TO EXAMINE MARINE RECRUIT'S DEATH
  Sen. Byrd on Wednesday asked U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to involve himself personally in the investigation into the death of 19-year-old Marine recruit Jason Tharp of Braxton County. Mr. Tharp died earlier this month while at the Marines' Parris Island, S.C., facility. The text of Senator Byrd's letter to Secretary Rumsfeld is below.  
   February 23, 2005
   The Honorable Donald Rumsfeld
  Secretary of Defense
  The Pentagon
  Washington, D.C. 20301 
   Dear Secretary Rumsfeld:
   On February 8, 2005, a Marine recruit from Braxton County, West Virginia, Jason Tharp, died while at training at Parris Island, South Carolina. Mr. Tharp, 19 years old, was a member of Platoon 3024, India Company, 3rd Recruit Training Battalion. 
   The day before his death, a local television crew visiting the facility recorded footage of a drill instructor apparently striking Mr. Tharp in the chest in an effort to get the recruit into a pool for water training. Many military experts who watched this tape and subsequently were interviewed by the media found the treatment of Mr. Tharp to go beyond the Military Code of Conduct. These apparent actions came after several letters from Mr. Tharp to his parents stating that he wanted out of the Marine Corps - letters that were known to his Marine trainers, according to initial reports.
   The family first contacted me on the day after their son died. I worked with them to ensure that their immediate needs were met. Now that their son has been laid to rest, their focus and mine has turned to finding out how their son died and how future tragedies can be prevented for other recruits and their families.
   The U.S. Marine Corps has undertaken a preliminary investigation, and I have requested a full briefing from the Office of Congressional Liaison on the progress of that investigation. However, due to the seriousness of the allegations and the sensitivities involved in the case, I urge you to give this investigation your personal attention.
   The United States Marine Corps has a long and distinguished tradition. The Marines have been America's front line of defense since 1775. Their bravery stretches from the Revolutionary War to the current battles in Iraq and Afghanistan. Those men and women who proudly serve in the Marines would not want the Corps' reputation to suffer because of the abuse of new recruits. 
  I thank you for your consideration of this matter. I look forward to hearing from you soon about the investigation.
   Sincerely yours,
   Robert C. Byrd
 
 