SEN. BYRD BELIEVES MINE DEATHS PREVENTABLE
  At the first Congressional hearing on mine safety after two fatal West Virginia coal mining tragedies, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., stated his belief that the deaths of the 14 miners could have been avoided. 
   "Fourteen men have died in the coal fields of West Virginia - 14 men in the span of three weeks. These deaths, I believe, were entirely preventable, and we owe the families of these deceased men a hard look at what happened and why," Byrd said. "I intend to find out why it was that the federal agency charged with the safety of this country's miners failed to protect them."
   "Mine safety is a moral imperative. These miners ought not be considered expendable," Byrd said. "The Congress must not tolerate complacency about the health and safety of the brave men and women who risk their lives to provide energy for this country. Profits should never come before protection for miners. Politics must never play a role in the enforcement of safety and health regulations."
   Byrd joined with Republican Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, Democratic Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, and Republican Mike DeWine of Ohio at the Senate hearing on Monday. The first witness was David Dye, the Acting Administrator of the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA). Dye is the federal government's point man on mine safety.
   "Have decisions to cut the mining health and safety enforcement budget and staff, and abandon critical mining regulations endangered the safety of the miners of Buckhannon and Melville, and Lord knows how many other communities in West Virginia and across the country?" Byrd asked. "We must determine what is wrong at MSHA, and contemplate how to make sure the leadership of that agency does its job."
   "We must not allow the call for action in the wake of this tragedy to recede without stiffening mine enforcement and emergency preparedness. I hope that this is the beginning of an effort that will yield a worthy legacy for the Sago and Alma miners," Byrd said.
   In addition to Mr. Dye and other federal MSHA officials, the Senate Appropriations panel heard from Davitt McAteer, Vice President of Sponsored Programs, Wheeling Jesuit University, and former Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health; Ben Hatfield, President and CEO, International Coal Group; Chris Hamilton, Senior Vice President West Virginia Coal Association; Cecil Roberts, International President, United Mine Workers of America; and Bruce Watzman, Vice President, Safety and Health, National Mining Association.
   On Tuesday, Byrd will host a meeting at his U.S. Capitol Office of the bipartisan West Virginia Congressional Delegation and Governor Joe Manchin to discuss the mine safety bills under consideration by the West Virginia Legislature in light of the Sago and Alma mine disasters, and what federal action could be considered to prevent future mine safety deaths.
   At the hearing, Byrd pressed the MSHA officials to direct more funding toward mine safety. The West Virginia lawmaker explained that, in four of the Bush Administration's first five budget requests of the Congress, the coal enforcement budget has been cut. In addition, during those same years, MSHA coal enforcement personnel has dropped by nearly 190 employees, with additional reductions anticipated this year.
   In response, MSHA Administrator Dye promised that the President's next budget request, expected in the first week of February, would include additional funding for mine safety technology; however, Dye offered no suggestion for increased funding for inspection personnel and enforcement.
   Chris Hamilton of the West Virginia Coal Association expects that many of the issues that Byrd raised will be addressed, both in West Virginia and nationally.
   "I think we'll see legislation calling for a central rapid response program. I think we'll see requirements calling for additional self-contained breathing apparatuses stored at strategic places underground. And I think we'll see legislation that drives technological advances to have improved communications systems," Hamilton said. "We want to be part of the solution. We recognize, despite all of the improvements and technological advancements, that much work remains."
   Davitt McAteer, who currently serves as Vice President of Sponsored Programs at Wheeling Jesuit University and who headed the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration during the Clinton Administration, testified that safety is not a top priority in the mining industry.
   "The industry has focused its efforts on productivity. But we do have to say that the failure to focus attention on safety improvements is most unfortunate for the miners. That needs to be changed," McAteer said.
 
 