SEN. BYRD SAYS TIME FOR HOLLOW PROMISES IN IRAQ OVER
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., urged the man tapped to lead the U.S. military effort in Iraq to provide honest, sober assessments of the situation on the ground.  
   "The military leadership should not adopt the hyperbole and exaggeration which have been hallmarks of the Bush Administration," Byrd said.
   Byrd met with Lieutenant General David Petraeus, whom President Bush has nominated to lead the military forces in Iraq, prior to the General's confirmation hearing today in the Senate Armed Services Committee.
   The West Virginia lawmaker was straightforward with Petraeus.
   "Congress and the American people are tiring of this war. Too many times we have been told that the 'next six months will be crucial,' only to find that the situation continues to get worse. It is as though Congress is being given sound bites, not sober assessments of the military situation," Byrd stated in their meeting.
   "The time for hollow promises that things are getting better in Iraq is over. The time for sobering, accurate assessments of the challenges before our troops in Iraq is long overdue," Byrd said.
   In his testimony before the Armed Services Committee on Tuesday, Petraeus seemed to take Byrd's advice.
   When asked whether the President Bush's planned escalation of American forces could be stopped, especially if the Iraqi government fails to meet its commitment to provide thousands more Iraqi troops, Petraeus replied it could. He noted that, if the Iraqis did not meet their commitment, he would consult with the Secretary of Defense and the Congress on how to respond.
   The first week of February, the Bush Administration is expected to send Congress a request for as much as $100 billion in new funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Byrd, as chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, plans to take a hard look at the President's funding demands.
   "I am going to carefully scrutinize all the funds that the President will request for this war. We have an obligation to our troops and to the American people that we not sign a blank check for this White House. We will make sure that our military men and women have the resources that they need, but the time has come for Congress to establish benchmarks for the mission in Iraq and begin to bring our troops home," Byrd stated.
 
 