SEN. BYRD REACTS TO STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., issued the following statement after President Bush delivered his State of the Union Address tonight. 
   I'm glad that the President has finally turned his eyes back home, realizing that there are major problems facing our families. I'll hold judgment on his speech until I see his budget and until I see the President put a commitment behind his rhetoric. For example, when it comes to energy independence, President Bush has talked about this before but, year after year, he fails to put a single new dime toward breaking America's reliance on foreign oil. Clean coal technology gets gutted. Renewable fuels are shoved to the background. The American people deserve more than empty promises from their Chief Executive. 
   Congress needs to get to work on the issues that most concern West Virginia families - good jobs; access to better health care; improved classrooms. Those 'kitchen table' issues that people talk about every day with their wives and their husbands - that's where Congress ought to focus. Very soon, the Senate will approve an increase in the minimum wage. That's a good start. We've got to continue to work together in Congress, Democrats and Republicans, to make smart investments and take innovative approaches to address these tough problems.
   After listening to the President, I remain very concerned about the direction of his foreign policy. Iraq is an out-of-control civil war, with our troops caught in the crossfire. I believe that it is time to establish benchmarks and begin to bring our troops home. And the White House seems all too ready for a military confrontation with Iran, with another battle group arriving in the Persian Gulf this week. We cannot continue on this path of strike first, try diplomacy later. If Iraq has taught us anything, it is that we cannot dictate international policy with the barrel of a gun.
   To hear Senator Byrd's reaction visit http://byrd.senate.gov/2007%20january%2023%20state%20of%20the%20union.rm
 
 