BYRD'S-EYE VIEW COLUMN: PROTECTING PIECE OF HISTORY
  West Virginia is blessed with great natural and historical treasures. Places like the Monongahela National Forest, the New River Gorge, and the Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge are among the crown jewels of West Virginia and are important tourist attractions. Just as critical are the lessons of history that abound throughout West Virginia. Point Pleasant has the distinction of being the site of the Revolutionary War's first land battle. Wheeling served as a jumping-off point for the famed Lewis and Clark expedition to the West. 
   One of West Virginia's most famous landmarks is Harpers Ferry National Historical Park. At the confluence of the Shenandoah and Potomac rivers, Harpers Ferry played an important part in many events that helped to shape America.
   Familiar names of history - George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Meriwether Lewis, Thomas 'Stonewall' Jackson, and Frederick Douglass - are intertwined with the history of Harpers Ferry.
   Key events - such as the arrival of the first successful American railroad, John Brown's revolt against slavery, and one of the earliest integrated schools in the country - are also part of the legacy of Harpers Ferry.
   But that legacy needs protection.
   Today, Harpers Ferry National Historical Park has nearly reached its capacity. It cannot take steps to protect many historically unique sites without help. In an effort to provide that help, I have crafted legislation to expand Harpers Ferry National Historical Park by 1,240 acres, from its current 2,505 acres to 3,745 acres.
   I am very happy to report that my legislation has passed the Senate, and recently was the subject of a committee hearing in the House of Representatives.
   West Virginia Congressman Nick J. Rahall, who serves as the top Democratic member of the House Resources Committee, is working to guide this legislation through the House. At that hearing, he applauded the effort to expand the park, telling his colleagues, "Harpers Ferry is an incredibly powerful tool for telling the great story of our State and of America. These proposed additions will allow the Park to help us tell those stories even more completely." Congressman Rahall is absolutely right.
   In the coming weeks, I hope that the full House of Representatives will move forward on my legislation to protect Harpers Ferry National Historical Park. This is an important bill for Harpers Ferry, for the Eastern Panhandle, and, in fact, for the nation. By expanding the park's boundaries, we can protect the rich historic and recreational opportunities that the park offers to residents and tourists alike.
 
 