APPLAUDING COMPROMISE, NOT CONFRONTATION, IN SENATE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., applauded the bipartisan compromise that short-circuits the so-called "nuclear option" that would have ended freedom of speech in the United States Senate. Byrd, who played a key role in the bipartisan discussions, issued the following statement about the agreement reached Monday night. 
   "From the bottom of my heart, I thank my Republican colleagues and my Democratic colleagues for agreeing to find common ground in this all-too-partisan confrontation on judicial nominations. We have agreed to step away from partisan priorities and place the priorities of the Senate and of the American people at center stage.
   "This agreement is truly a historic event. We have kept the faith with the Founding Fathers and the Constitution's Framers whose collective vision gave us this marvelous piece of work, the Constitution of the United States. We have lifted ourselves above politics. And we have signed this agreement in the interest of United States Senate, in the interest of freedom of speech, and in the interest of the American people.
   "I am pleased that this agreement reinforces a principle that has, all too often, been allowed to languish in recent years. This agreement encourages the Executive Branch to consult with Senators, both Democratic and Republican, before submitting a nomination for the Senate to consider. 'Advice and Consent' is a shared responsibility between the President and the Senate. This bipartisan agreement not only kept that construct alive, but it also helps to make it real. Our agreement encourages the Administration to consult with the Senate in a bipartisan fashion. In recent times, there hasn't been all that much consultation with the Senate. Here, we're saying to the Chief Executive, consult with us. You don't have to take our advice, but here it is. And by considering that advice, any president can be more assured that his nominees are going to be met with a kinder reception.
   "This bipartisan agreement is so refreshing and so gratifying. I have literally prayed about this. I am grateful to the Heavenly Father for giving us this result, the result of men and women sitting down together, Democrats and Republicans working together, giving a little, taking a little, and coming out with a product saving the Senate as a forum for dissent, as a forum for minority views, as a forum where freedom of speech and freedom of debate will live on. We can give this treasure to our posterity."
 
 