WEST VIRGINIA DELEGATION, GOV. MANCHIN UNITE TO IMPROVE MINE SAFETY
  The bipartisan West Virginia Congressional Delegation and Gov. Joe Manchin met Tuesday to map out a cohesive state and federal plan to improve safety for America's miners. 
   "It is sad that it takes two tragedies and 14 precious lives to turn the attention of the country and the federal government to protecting the health and safety of miners," U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said following the meeting in his U.S. Capitol Office. "But good can and must come from these heartbreaking events. Another accident could happen tomorrow. The time is now to take the right steps to prevent accidents, toughen enforcement, and bring mining families the reassurance they deserve."
   "A comprehensive effort to improve mine safety must be fought on two fronts," said Senator Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va. "At the state level, Governor Manchin and the West Virginia State Legislature have already passed legislation that will make mining safer. And, as we agreed today in our meeting, the entire West Virginia Congressional Delegation will be working together to introduce comprehensive bipartisan legislation at the federal level. We owe it to the 14 West Virginia miners who gave their lives this month to ensure that their legacy will be safer and more responsible coal mining in the future."
   The group discussed the mine safety legislation that Governor Manchin shepherded through the West Virginia State Legislature on Monday and determined what federal action should be taken to prevent future mine deaths. The Delegation committed to work to craft legislation that would address the federal government's failures to protect miners. It is expected that at a minimum, the Delegation's legislation would implement at the federal level the safety reforms advanced by West Virginia yesterday. 
   "I couldn't believe that we had the same recurrence from the mine at Sago and then three weeks later at the Aracoma mine -- miners that were trapped with limited oxygen and could not be located. It took far too long for us to find them," said West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin. "I used everything we saw at the Sago and Aracoma mines that could have made a difference and came up with a bill that passed the state legislature in one day. My reason for today's meeting was to ask Congress to take the same quick action to protect all miners across America."
   "We owe it to our coal miners and their families. We can never be too vigilant in our efforts to protect their health and safety. It is unfortunate that every coal mine health and safety law on the books today has been written with the blood of coal miners," said Representative Nick J. Rahall, D-W.Va. "We're going to be sure that these miners did not die in vain. The status quo is totally unacceptable. We will do our very best, in a bipartisan manner and with the Administration, to get this job."
   "Today, we have shown that West Virginians speak with one voice when it comes to preventing future mining tragedies. The West Virginia Congressional Delegation had a productive meeting with Governor Manchin that focused on immediate and quick actions that we can to improve mine safety and rescue. We will work together in a bipartisan way to ensure that safer mines are the legacy of the 14 miners lost this month," said Representative Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va.
   "I would predict that we're going to move forward as a united delegation and come forward with legislation quickly to address consensus issues. At the same time, there are a lot of investigations going on," said Representative Alan B. Mollohan, D-W.Va. "Over the coming months, we can anticipate a greater detail of concern. Looking at the results of these investigations and seeing what's needed in response to these investigations -- you can depend on this Congressional Delegation supporting statutory changes. In a regulatory response, we're going to be on MSHA to be sure that they fully enforce the laws that are on the books."
   Following the meeting in Byrd's office, the delegation and Governor Manchin met with White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card and other key mine safety officials to further discuss how the federal government can better ensure the safety of America's miners.
 
 