SENATE CLEARS MINE SAFETY LEGISLATION; NEXT STOP - HOUSE VOTE
  In an effort to bring about the most significant mine safety legislation in a generation, the Senate unanimously today passed The Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response (MINER) Act. As co-authors of The MINER Act, West Virginia Sens. Jay Rockefeller and Robert C. Byrd said the legislation would usher in significant safety changes that could potentially have helped save miners' lives during recent tragedies at Sago, Alma - and in Kentucky, where six miners have died in the last 4 days. Among its key features, The MINER Act would require each miner to have at least 2 hours of breathable air and additional stores of self-rescuers every 30 minutes along escape routes, as well as at the working face of the mine. 
   "By passing the MINER Act, the Senate will save lives," Byrd said. "It will save more coal mining families the heartache of losing their loved ones in a mining disaster. Many, if not all, of the coal mine deaths this year were preventable, if only miner safety were a higher priority." 
   "We have a moral obligation to do everything we can to put an end to the safety crisis in our mines. This MINER Act is the best hope to begin fixing obvious problems that, if left unaddressed, would continue to cost lives," said Byrd.
   "We have a duty and a responsibility to make mining safer for the thousands of miners who risk their lives every day to make sure that Americans have the electricity they need," said Rockefeller. "We've done that today, and we do not have a moment to waste as we now push for action in the House and for the bill to be signed into law. Last weekend's accident in Kentucky, as well as the miner who perished today, are only the most recent reminders of how dangerous coal mining is.
   "The MINER Act will make mining not free of danger, but less dangerous," Rockefeller said. "Its call for improved oxygen supplies, new electronic tracking systems, and local rescue teams - all of which will enable miners and their families to have some greater peace of mind about the work they do every day. Coal mining in West Virginia and across the country continues to be on the rise, so safety must be, too."
   The MINER Act reflects new agreements between mine workers and industry officials on a number of issues critical to mine safety. In addition to the increase in oxygen supplies, the bill requires coal operators to submit plans detailing their mine's use of the most current communications, tracking, and breathing apparatus technologies - and they must, upon acceptance of their new safety evacuation plans, continue to introduce and use the best technology that works in their mines. Within three years, all mines would have state-of-the-art two-way wireless communications and electronic tracking systems in place. 
   The bill also demands quicker incident notification, more local rescue teams, stricter fines, and tougher fine enforcement.
   After months of intense negotiations, The MINER Act was passed out of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee last week by a unanimous vote of 20-0, and Rockefeller and Byrd pushed the Senate leadership to immediately pass this bill this week. Today, the Republican and Democratic leadership joined together to allow the bill to be passed by unanimous consent. The bill now will be considered by the House of Representatives where Representatives Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Nick J. Rahall (D-WV), and Alan Mollohan (D-WV) have introduced the MINER Act.
 
 