SEN. BYRD URGES SENATE LEADERSHIP TO GET BACK TO PEOPLE'S BUSINESS
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., urged that the Senate Republican Leadership refocus its priorities - from ramming the "nuclear option" and controversial judicial nominees through the Senate to instead focusing on issues important to West Virginians. 
   "The current uproar over judicial nominations serves only to underscore the mounting number of problems not being addressed by this government," Byrd said Monday.
   "More than 45 million Americans - including 275,000 West Virginians - cannot afford health care insurance. Our infant mortality rate is the second highest of the major industrialized countries of the world. Poverty in these United States is rising, with 34 million people living below the poverty line. Our veterans lack adequate medical care after they have risked life and limb for all of us. Our education system produces 8th graders ranked 19th out of 38 countries in the world in math, and 12th graders ranked 19th out of 21 countries in both math and science," Byrd said Monday.
   "Yet, we debate and seek solutions to none of these critical problems, and instead focus all energy on the frenzy over the selection of judges, and seek as an antidote to our frustration, the preposterous solution of permanently crippling freedom of speech and debate and the right of a minority to dissent in the United States Senate," the West Virginia lawmaker said.
   Byrd spoke at the Center for American Progress in Washington, D.C., and challenged both the Republican and the Democratic Leaders to find middle ground.
   "Our best leaders search for ways to avert such crises, not ways to accelerate the plunge towards the brink. Overheated partisan rhetoric is always available, although these days it seems to come especially cheap, but the great majority of our people want a healthy two-party system and leaders who know how to work together, despite serious differences," Byrd stated. 
   Byrd has been working to forge a way to avoid the launching of the "nuclear option" in the Senate. While approving more than 200 of the President's nominees for the federal judiciary, ten have been rejected. Instead of picking different nominees that can win bipartisan support, the Bush Administration has resubmitted seven of the ten men and women who were not confirmed. To force a vote on these nominees, the Republican majority may attempt to break Senate rules.
   "Yet, incredibly, today we stand right on the brink, maybe only days away, from destroying the checks and balances of our Constitution. What has happened to the quality of leadership in this country that would allow us to even consider provoking a Constitutional crisis of such major proportions? Where is the gentle art of compromise?" Byrd asked.
   "When the nation becomes this divided, when the spin becomes this mean, the destruction of basic principles which have been our guide for more than two centuries looms straight ahead. Moreover, the trashing and trampling of comity leaves ugly scars sure to fester and linger," Byrd said.
 
 