BIOTECH JOBS ON RISE IN WEST VIRGINIA; MARSHALL CENTER OPENS DOORS TO SCIENTIFIC LEARNING, RESEARCH
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Friday that the new Biotechnology Science Center at Marshall University represents amazing possibilities for scientific research and economic development in the state. 
   Byrd traveled to Cabell County to celebrate the dedication of the new Marshall biotech facility and to look forward to expanded educational opportunities and the growth of high-tech scientific jobs in the future.
   "This state-of-the-art facility represents the cutting edge of biotechnology research in the United States. The discoveries that will be made by the scientists, researchers, doctors, and students at Marshall will advance science beyond the power of our imaginations, and create one of the future economic pillars of the Mountain State and our country," Byrd said. 
   Byrd obtained $35.6 million in federal funds, which was matched by $12.4 million from the state, to construct the 144,000 square-foot building. The new Biotechnology Science Center is the largest capital improvement project in Marshall University history and will bring together under one roof the faculty, staff, and students of the School of Medicine and the College of Science.
   "We have the talent right here in West Virginia to take advantage of the coming biotechnology wave. The state's colleges and universities, led by the efforts at Marshall, are producing more graduates with greater skills in various biotech fields. Our goal is to provide the opportunities that can enable our graduates to pick up the local want ads and find good paying jobs in West Virginia, rather than look to other states," Byrd said.
   Already, companies like Alcon Surgical, and Vandalia Research, a home-grown company started by Marshall students, are creating jobs in West Virginia. 
   "I hope that these companies are but the vanguard of dozens of new West Virginia biotech firms in the future," Byrd stated.
   To further the momentum of the nascent biotechnology industry in Huntington and Cabell County, Byrd recently added an additional $2.7 million to federal legislation to create the Center for Bioengineering/Biomanufacturing Commercialization at Marshall. 
   These latest funds will expand specialized training in chemistry, biology, and manufacturing technology to create a pool of highly trained individuals ready to enter the growing field. The funds also will provide specialized equipment for emerging West Virginia biotechnology companies, acting as an incubator for future economic opportunities. 
   "There is a global race underway to see which countries can harness the benefits of these new fields of research and production. West Virginia is ready to join that race. So hold on, change is coming!" Byrd said.
 
 