NORTHERN PANHANDLE WINS NATIONAL INNOVATION AWARD
  For the second year in a row, Touchstone Research Laboratory in Triadelphia has been recognized by a prestigious national publication for creating one of America's top 100 technologically significant new products, announced Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va. 
   "West Virginia's Touchstone Laboratory is a national leader in the development of groundbreaking materials with applications ranging from space exploration to military defense systems to making better golf clubs. The laboratory, which started as a small business in the basement of a house in Wheeling, has developed into a cutting-edge research and development firm that is helping to create new economic opportunities in the Mountain State," Byrd said. 
   Called "the Oscars of invention" by the Chicago Tribune, The R&D 100 Award is presented by R&D Magazine and is determined after an independent judging panel and editors of the magazine rigorously examine new technologies invented by U.S. companies. Touchstone received this year's award for its MetPreg product - an innovative and affordable fiber reinforced aluminum product with applications in aerospace, defense, and commercial markets. Last year, the materials research laboratory won for its CFOAM product - a structural material made from coal which is inexpensive, lightweight, fire-resistant, and impact absorbing drew the distinction.
   "Winning this coveted prize one time is significant," Touchstone CEO Elizabeth Kraftician said. "Winning it twice in a row for two different products is truly rare and remarkable. It puts Touchstone in a unique category of innovators."
   Kraftician and Touchstone President Brian E. Joseph credited Byrd for recognizing the valuable potential of both CFOAM and MetPreg.
   "Senator Byrd recognized that both CFOAM and MetPreg held great potential for the defense of America," Joseph said. "He has supported appropriations to the U.S. Army and the Military Defense Agency that contained funding for the development of MetPreg that allowed us to move research forward and expand to accommodate the work that had to be done."
   According to Joseph, MetPreg has broad application for military and commercial arenas for aerospace fuel tanks; aircraft skins; lightweight structures for automotive, rail and other transportation applications; crane booms; tennis rackets; bicycle frames, and golf club shafts. Touchstone has expanded the MetPreg group to a 3,000 square foot prototype facility to move the program forward. 
   "Defense and commercial applications require materials that offer comparable performance to costly polymer matrix composites in strength and stiffness, but with superior operating temperature capability for use in space," Joseph said. "MetPreg meets those needs and consists of aluminum reinforced with continuous, high strength fibers that is then consolidated into shapes using various patented processes. That eliminates costly and time-consuming processes involved with the production of comparable materials." 
   Joseph said the significant military and space applications for MetPreg include: 
   * Homeland defense - The Missile Defense Agency (MDA) is interested in the technology for use in systems to protect the U.S. from rogue missiles and terrorist threats. MDA has expressed a desire to continue development of the Touchstone technology in its airborne laser and space-based laser defense applications.
   * Next-generation Army artillery - The U.S. Army is interested in MetPreg for production of its Excalibur artillery shell and 120 mm mortar tube.
   * Aircraft improvements - The strength and weight properties of MetPreg makes it an attractive candidate for reinforcement of tailored aircraft wings. The Army is actively pursuing this application possibility.
   * NASA - NASA remains interested in continued MetPreg development for incorporation in advanced warning/early detection/space exploration projects. NASA wants to consider MetPreg for assembly in space projects. Additionally, MetPreg is a candidate for cryogenic fuel tanks. Designers believe it can help reduce costs and risks involved with future space projects.
   Touchstone has also aggressively pursued grant opportunities that led to funding for MetPreg development.
   Touchstone Research Laboratory was established in 1980 in Wheeling with the mission of providing world-class materials testing and industrial problem solving services to U.S. manufacturers. Building on its success, Touchstone leveraged its broad industry experience, modern laboratory facilities, and creative human resources to win several Small Business Innovative Research proposals - spawning a growing activity in the research and development of advanced materials.
 
 