SEN. BYRD TALKS WITH AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER ABOUT NEW PLANT IN WEST VIRGINIA
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., met with the head of American Electric Power (AEP), in hopes of strengthening West Virginia's case for a new advanced coal-based electric power plant. 
   "West Virginia has the workforce, the coal, and the desire to be home to a new AEP power plant," Byrd said. "AEP has a strong presence in West Virginia. We have proved to be a good partner with AEP in the past, and I believe that our partnership will continue to grow."
   "If West Virginia is selected for this new power plant, it would mean an infusion of new jobs, construction of a 21st century facility, and a continued commitment to West Virginia coal. This new plant would be a mainstay of West Virginia for many years to come," Byrd said.
   AEP is searching for a site to build a 600 megawatt power plant that relies on integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) technology - a high-tech term for a plant that can gasify coal and turn it into electricity and other products at high efficiencies and with low emissions.
   Byrd has worked in the Senate to create America's "brain power" for such technologies, leading the way for research and development funding at the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL), based in Morgantown, W.Va., and Pittsburgh, Pa. In addition, he has talked with West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin about the importance of potential new AEP investments in West Virginia.
   "A new power plant, utilizing IGCC technologies, would demonstrate that there is a long life ahead for West Virginia coal. It would show what I have believed for a long time, namely, that energy production and environmental protection can work in tandem. We can burn coal more cleanly and efficiently, and we can find new ways to address climate change," Byrd said.
   The West Virginia lawmaker talked about the benefits of locating an AEP plant in West Virginia with company President, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer Michael Morris. The two men met in Byrd's U.S. Capitol Office late Tuesday afternoon. Byrd strongly urged AEP to make a filing before the West Virginia Public Service Commission and to work with Governor Manchin and his Administration on opportunities in West Virginia.
   "AEP is taking a leading role in the nation's energy future. The company has demonstrated its willingness to lead the way with a new fleet of highly efficient, clean burning power plants. And West Virginia has demonstrated its willingness to be the home for such a facility. I think that this is a great opportunity for AEP and for West Virginia," Byrd said.
   The company, headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, is searching for a site to build a 600-megawatt IGCC plant so that the company can meet expected energy demand in 2010. AEP already has announced plans to construct another IGCC plant in Meigs County, Ohio.
   Earlier this year, the West Virginia Legislature passed and Governor Manchin signed a proposal to accelerate the regulatory and siting process for such clean coal projects.
 
 