SEN. BYRD RAISES KEY QUESTIONS ON SOCIAL SECURITY
  As a Senate committee started to push forward with the President's plan on Social Security, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., pressed the Treasury Secretary for specifics that so far haven't been provided to the country. 
   "The people deserve the full, unvarnished details about the President's plan. Does it come with benefit cuts? Will it cause massive new debt? What pain will the President's plan cost to working families and senior citizens and young people? We don't know, because the President hasn't told us," Byrd said.
   Byrd questioned Treasury Secretary John Snow at a committee hearing Tuesday. Byrd pressed for specifics of the President's Social Security plan. 
   "You have been traveling around the country, as has the President, touting a plan to change Social Security, but, here we are, nearing the mid-point in the Congressional calendar, the Finance Committee is holding hearings today and reportedly preparing to draft legislation soon, and the public still does not know how much the President's plan will cost or how it will affect their benefits," Byrd told Secretary Snow.
   "I know about the importance of Social Security. I remember when people received the very first Social Security checks. I have a deep-rooted respect and appreciation for Social Security and I'm very concerned about the future of Social Security," Byrd said.
  Byrd has repeatedly called on the Administration to provide the details of its Social Security plan. In West Virginia, more than 405,000 retirees, widows, and disabled individuals receive monthly Social Security checks averaging more than $800.
   "President Bush told workers in his State of the Union with regard to personal accounts 'Your money will grow, over time, at a greater rate than anything the current system can deliver,'" Byrd explained. "However, the stock market has ups and downs. If workers retire when the stock market is down, they are in deep trouble. They cannot wait for the market to recover. What guarantee would the Administration support to ensure a minimum benefit from an individual account?"
   "Senator, you're right. The markets go up and down. There is no guarantee," Snow responded. "But, taking your point, under the President's proposal, which we continue to think about so we can put it forward in a way that's most effective. There is this suggestion that, when a person turns 47, their account would automatically shift heavily into fixed income instruments so the principal would be protected. But it's a good point and one that we've been giving a lot of thought to," Snow responded.
   "We've heard a great deal about the President's 'plan.' When will the President submit his 'plan' in detail so Congress will know what's being suggested and how to respond?" Byrd asked.
   "The President wants this broad dialogue. That broad dialogue is better calculated to create a good result than now laying out a firm set of proposals," Snow responded.
 
 