SEN. BYRD APPLAUDS 130TH; BASE SAVED FROM CLOSURE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., issued the following comments after the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) voted unanimously to preserve the mission of the 130th Airlift Wing and keep the unit's fleet of C-130 planes in Charleston. Byrd led the West Virginia Congressional Delegation effort to fight the Pentagon's plan. The Senator attended Friday's BRAC meeting in Northern Virginia where the Commission voted to save the 130th. 
   "The 130th Airlift Wing - there's no finer unit in the nation. With their record, they should never have been put on the Pentagon's list. It was a raw deal. But thank heavens that justice has prevailed. More than anything else it was the men and women of the 130th who earned the right to keep flying. They worked hard to retain their mission. The people of West Virginia can be justly proud.
   "I'm so proud of the West Virginia National Guard. They've performed in peace time and in war time, all over the world. They are brave. Their performance has been sterling. There's just no finer group than the West Virginia National Guard. I'm so proud of our National Guardsmen.
   "To convince the BRAC Commission to save our airbase, it took teamwork. We had the Mayor of Charleston, Danny Jones. We had Governor Manchin. We had the Kanawha County Commission and the Yeager Airport Authority and the Keep 'Em Flying Coalition and so many others. We had the united, solid, bipartisan Congressional Delegation. We all went to bat for the people of the 130th because we believed in them. Their performance was such that they should never have been put on the Pentagon's closure list. But the people of the 130th prevailed. Thank God for the 130th. Thank God for our National Guard. And thank God that things have been set right, and the 130th will keep on flying.
   "I commend the BRAC Commission for their hard work. They came to Charleston, they listened to our case, and they recognized the glaring flaws in Secretary Rumsfeld's plan to close the 130th. They stood up to Pentagon pressure, and they made the right decision to keep the 130th flying."
 
 