SEN. BYRD GIVES BOOST TO RANDOLPH COUNTY HISTORICAL PROJECT
  Preservation of the Randolph County site that once served as the headquarters of Civil War General George McClellan will soon benefit from new federal funding, thanks to the work of Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va. 
   "This site is a unique piece of West Virginia's heritage and America's history. That's why I worked to ensure that it will benefit from $250,000 in federal 'Save America's Treasures' funding," Byrd said.
   Byrd added the funds for the restoration and preservation of the Bushrod Crawford/McClellan Headquarters building in Beverly, W.Va., to federal legislation that has recently been signed into law.
   "Communities should recognize and embrace their history. Through the effort underway in Beverly, local residents are helping to preserve the history of our state and our nation. At the same time, area residents are creating a solid anchor in their plans for increased tourism and job opportunities," Byrd said.
   "We are honored and delighted to receive this funding for restoration of the Bushrod Crawford/McClellan's Headquarters building in Beverly. It will become an integral part of the Beverly Heritage Center, providing an exciting interpretive museum telling the story of the nineteenth century in western Virginia and the first campaign of the Civil War," explained Phyllis Baxter, President of the Historic Beverly Preservation group.
   "It was from this building that General McClellan was called to Washington to lead the Army of the Potomac, following his victory at Rich Mountain in July 1861. His victory here set the stage for the formation of the State of West Virginia two years later," Baxter said.
   The 1808 Randolph County Courthouse and the attached 1900 Beverly Bank building on Main Street in Beverly are now restored to their appearance of over 100 years ago. The exterior restoration of these buildings completed this summer marks Phase 1 of a multi-stage effort to rehabilitate the exterior and interior of these buildings and their neighbors. The Hill Building and the Bushrod Crawford Building, once used as Gen. McClellan's headquarters, along with the Bank and Courthouse, will become the Beverly Heritage Center, a unified museum and interpretive visitor center.
   Historic Beverly Preservation will host an open house this Saturday, August 27, to celebrate the completion of Phase 1 of this ambitious restoration project. The buildings are located on Court Street (Files Creek Road) at Main Street in Beverly.
 
 