ABANDONED MINE LAND RECLAMATION PROGRAM GETS LIFE EXTENSION THANKS TO SEN. BYRD
  The U.S. Congress will once again give a nine-month life extension to the federal Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation (AML) program - thanks to the efforts of Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va. 
   Byrd and Republican Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania have twice worked to pass temporary extensions of the AML program in Congress, already winning an additional year for the initiative. With nine more months set to win final Congressional approval, Senator Byrd hopes that, finally, enough time will be available for the Congress time to craft a long-term package to ensure that the reclamation work continues.
   "Coalfield families are living in limbo, not sure whether the funding will be available one month to the next to repair and restore abandoned mine sites near their homes. Three different times now, Senator Specter and I have had to push the Congress to give the AML program just a little more time. But the fact is that the clock is ticking, and the foot dragging has got to stop. Life in limbo is not fair to the people of the coalfield communities," Byrd said.
   Last fall, as the AML program neared the end of its legislative life on September 30, 2004, Congress was stymied in an effort to renew the program. Regional factions have prevented progress. But Byrd, joined by Senator Specter, was able to push through Congress two extensions - the first for nine-months and the second for an additional three months.
   With progress on a long-term fix for the AML program still stalled in Congress, and with the September 30, 2005, deadline looming, Byrd, again with Senator Specter, worked to give AML until June 30, 2006.
   On Tuesday night, a key House-Senate conference committee approved the Byrd-Specter provision, clearing the way for final Congressional approval.
   "It is my hope that this nine-month extension will finally give Congress the time and the opportunity to put aside regional differences and reach an agreement to accomplish the top priority of this program - namely, reclaiming the hundreds of abandoned mine sites across the country," Byrd said.
   "I know that the people living in the coalfields in West Virginia are getting impatient. Like me, they want certainty in the AML program. Like me, they want these mine sites cleaned up," Byrd said.
   "AML is not a cat with nine lives. At some point, we will not be able to continue to extend this program in this stop-gap manner. Coalfield communities desperately need a balanced, long-term approach to mine reclamation work," Byrd explained.
   The Abandoned Mine Land program finances the restoration and reclamation of abandoned mine sites through grants provided to participating coal-producing states. Funds for the AML grants currently come from fees paid by coal producers at the rate of 35 cents per ton of surface-mined coal and 15 cents per ton of coal that is mined underground. Money from these fees is placed in a fund, which, subject to appropriation, is used to reclaim old mine sites and watersheds adversely impacted by mining and to mitigate the adverse impacts from these sites on individuals and communities.
   Once Congress approves the package containing the Byrd-Specter provision, the legislation will go to the White House to be signed into law.
 
 