SEN. BYRD CARRIES LOCAL WAR WIDOW'S CONCERNS TO DEFENSE SECRETARY
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., brought front-and-center the concerns of a National Guard widow to the U.S. Secretary of Defense on Wednesday. 
   Mrs. Lisa Vance contacted Byrd recently about the incredible difficulties facing her and other survivors of America's soldiers killed in action. Mrs. Vance is the widow of Staff Sergeant Gene Arden Vance, Jr., of Morgantown. Sgt. Vance, a 10-year member of the West Virginia National Guard, died in May 2002 from enemy fire in Afghanistan. He was the first member of the West Virginia National Guard to sacrifice his life for his country on active duty since World War II.
   "Mrs. Vance has related her story of the incredible burdens she has had to face after her tragic loss. She has gone through more trouble than any military widow should have to bear," Byrd told Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld in a Senate hearing Wednesday.
   The West Virginia lawmaker is concerned that Mrs. Vance's situation is not an isolated case.
   Specifically, Mrs. Vance told Byrd that: Pentagon paperwork errors nearly cost her $50,000 in life insurance funds; she has never received the financial counseling to which she is entitled; and she received no explanation of the health insurance benefits that she was eligible for immediately after her husband's death. 
   "A simple pay issue took three years to resolve. Some of the guidance Mrs. Vance received on important matters was based on Army Field Manuals that were more than ten years out of date. At one point, her casualty assistance officer retired, but no replacement ever arrived to assist her," Byrd told Rumsfeld and General Richard Myers, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   "The bottom line is that the casualty assistance officers who assist widows do not appear to have adequate training for the incredibly difficult job that they must perform. I do not question the dedication or commitment of the soldiers who must perform this job, but I do have questions about whether the military is giving these officers sufficient training to assist grieving widows in their hour of greatest need," Byrd stated.
   "Have there been any changes to the training for casualty assistance officers based upon the experiences of war widows like Mrs. Vance?" Byrd asked.
   "Senator Byrd, anytime one hears a story that you've cited about Mrs. Vance, obviously, you can't be satisfied," Rumsfeld responded.
   General Myers promised to find out further details.
   "Senator Byrd, that's an issue that we follow very, very closely," Myers said. "It's a very bad case, and nobody should have to go through that."
   "How can Congress be assured that the widows of troops who were killed in Iraq in recent days will not have the same problems that Mrs. Vance encountered?" Byrd asked.
   "It's something we've addressed from the day that we started this war," Myers said. "And in an effort to try to do that, to help, if everything else fails, we have an operation called 'Military OneSource' that's been set up. It's available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. So if people aren't getting the help they need on any question, they have a toll-free telephone number, Internet and e-mail access, and we'll refer the questions to the appropriate authorities and follow up to make sure it gets done."
 
 