GOP BUDGET SLASHES FUNDING FOR WEST VIRGINIA
  The federal budget, finalized late Thursday by Republican leaders in the Congress, will slash funds for vital programs in West Virginia, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Thursday.  
   "A few simple phrases describe this budget - higher deficits and debt; more tax cuts for the wealthy that we cannot afford; more cuts to programs for the elderly, veterans, and children; and not a dime to ensure the solvency of the Social Security and Medicare programs," Byrd said.
   "West Virginia values are not part of this Republican budget plan. This budget will result in serious problems for the people of my state," Byrd said. 
   The House and Senate Republican Leadership were expected to push the budget through the Congress late Thursday night.
   "In West Virginia, this budget will result in tens of millions of dollars in cuts for our schools, and tens of millions of dollars in cuts in nutrition, child care, and family services for lower-income families," Byrd said. "It will eviscerate economic development programs, likely resulting in half-a-billion dollars in cuts for the state and its localities over five years. It requires cuts in Medicaid and other programs that will deny affordable health care to the elderly and families across the state."
   Specifically, the GOP federal budget would cut education funding for the first time in a decade.
   "The budget takes $1.3 trillion from the Social Security Trust Fund at a time when the nation is being constantly reminded of the dangerous shortfalls facing Social Security in the near future," Byrd stated. "The budget provides tax cuts of $35,000 for people earning more than $1 million annually, while providing an annual tax break of $6 per year for Americans who earn $50,000 or less."
   The Republican budget increases debt to record levels, reaching $11 trillion in 2010.
   "The nation started this year with a debt of $8 trillion. Under the GOP budget, the national debt will increase by more than $600 billion each year," Byrd said. "States will be told to absorb $10 billion in cuts during the next five years to Medicaid, which serves low-income children and their families, people with disabilities, and the elderly."
   "This budget cuts investments that are essential to the care of our older citizens and veterans and children, and the result is a $33 billion increase in the budget deficit. Our constituents must wonder for what they are being asked to sacrifice," Byrd said.
   "Cheap shots at programs for the elderly and poor and for rural America hardly represent tough choices. The Bush Administration has been clear that, despite the deteriorating budget, it will not sacrifice its political priorities. The sacrifice, the White House insists, must come from others - from veterans who need health care, from families who cannot afford to heat their homes, from students who require federal loans, from our police and firefighters who need training and equipment to cope with new dangers," Byrd stated.
 
 