SEN. BYRD OPPOSES MASSIVE, UNDEFINED CUTS IN SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., on Thursday promised to fight any plan in Social Security that jeopardizes the retirement security for hundreds of thousands of West Virginians. 
   "I will oppose any plan where the costs are undefined and the benefit cuts so uncertain," Byrd stated.
   "My constituents are right to be leery of schemes to privatize Social Security, particularly when efforts to learn more about so-called Social Security reforms are being stonewalled," Byrd said in a Senate speech on Thursday.
   "If we knew the answers, if we knew for certain that the retirement security of our constituents would be protected, that would be one thing. We are all enticed by the idea of ensuring the solvency of Social Security, but what are workers being asked to give up? No one in the Administration is willing to tell," Byrd said.
   In West Virginia, 405,000 people receive a monthly Social Security benefit check, averaging more than $800 each. Byrd wants answers on how any Social Security reform would affect not only those West Virginians, but also the baby-boomers in West Virginia who are edging closer to retirement.
   "President Bush has proposed changing the scope of the Social Security program, adding personal accounts to wean workers from the traditional program. Needless to say, the outcry to such a proposal has been deafening. Thousands and thousands of constituents are contacting me - phone calls, e-mails, letters - in opposition to the President's Social Security plan," Byrd said.
   "They fear that personal accounts are a scheme to take away their Social Security benefits. They fear it is an effort to crack open Social Security and break it apart, piece-by-piece. I too fear such efforts, and feeding that fear is the secrecy that permeates the Administration's plans," Byrd said.
   Earlier this week, the West Virginia lawmaker pressed Treasury Secretary John Snow to provide specifics: Does the President's plan come with benefit cuts? Will it cause massive new debt? What pain will the President's plan cost to working families and senior citizens and young people?
   "My constituents are right to be leery of schemes to privatize Social Security, particularly when efforts to learn more about so-called Social Security reforms are being stonewalled. If we knew the answers, if we knew for certain that the retirement security of our constituents would be protected, that would be one thing. But this proposal for personal accounts feels a lot like the kind of telephone scams you hear of when folks are told they have won a prize and then asked for their bank account number," Byrd said. 
   "We ought to engage in a genuine effort to end the rumors, and help the public understand exactly what is being asked of them with regard to their Social Security benefits."
 
 