AMERICA'S BORDERS, OCEAN PORTS REMAIN WIDE OPEN FOR TERRORISTS TO EXPLOIT, SAYS SEN. BYRD
  America's borders and ocean ports remain wide open for terrorists to exploit, three years after the Department of Homeland Security came to life, Sen. Byrd said Tuesday.
   Byrd is the top Democratic member of the Senate Appropriations Homeland Security panel, which Tuesday heard testimony from Secretary Michael Chertoff about the progress his department has made in the past three years. 
   The West Virginia lawmaker, joined by the Republican Chairman of the panel, Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, pressed Secretary Chertoff to explain the disconnect between known terrorist dangers and a budget that fails to close the gaps in protections for the American people.
   "There is a continuing drum beat that another terrorist attack is likely. The President, in the State of the Union Address, told America, 'The enemy has not lost the desire or capability to attack us,'" Byrd said at the hearing. "Yet, a look at the budget reveals an odd complacency. The Administration's speech writers and its policy writers seem to be living in alternate realities. The Administration continues to have a huge credibility gap when it comes to homeland security."
   In its budget for the coming fiscal year, sent to the Congress earlier this month, the White House calls for "integrating and synchronizing the Nation's homeland security plans across Federal, State and local governments." Yet, the budget proposes to cut funding for Emergency Management Performance Grants (EPMG), which are the only source of funding that assists state and local governments with planning, preparedness, and response activities associated with natural disasters and terrorist attacks.
   "The tragic events during and after Hurricane Katrina must be a lesson to us all that we must take steps now to plan, to prepare, and to practice for all potential emergency situations. The investment of time and money we make today will help to save lives tomorrow," Byrd stated.
   Similarly, Byrd pointed to a rhetoric-versus-policy disconnect with port security. 
   "In response to the Administration's decision to allow Dubai Ports World to operate terminals in six major U.S. ports, the Administration has asserted that they have a robust, layered security system for our ports; yet, the White House proposes for the second straight year to eliminate the port security grant program. There is nothing 'robust' about that," Byrd stated. 
   "How serious is the Administration about port security when it decides to allow Dubai Ports World to control six major U.S. ports and the President, the Vice President, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security don't even know the decision was made? How serious are they about port security when Customs and Border Protection inspects only five percent of the 11 million containers that come into the country each year?" Byrd asked.
   Land-border security also was a focus at the hearing. Byrd expressed strong concern about the Administration's proposed "amnesty" program for illegal aliens, giving illegal aliens a six-year period to remain in the U.S. without legal consequence. The national security consequences of illegal immigration and lax border security are underscored by the fact that three of the 19 9/11 hijackers were in the country illegally when they carried out their deadly attacks.
   "Why would such a program not encourage other illegal aliens to break the law in the hope of being similarly rewarded with legalized status? We've got to get tougher on border security and illegal immigration, and not make it easier for people to break the law," Byrd stated.
   Byrd and Republican Senator Larry Craig of Idaho last year won approval of emergency funding legislation that has led to the hiring and training of 500 new border patrol agents. But the job is not yet done. Homeland Security Appropriations Chairman Judd Gregg is working with Byrd to build that progress, pressing Congress for an additional $1.1 billion this year to provide U.S. border security personnel with the tools they need to do their jobs effectively.
 
 