SEN. BYRD: AGE NO BARRIER TO SERVICE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., decried would-be critics on Thursday, declaring that age is "no barrier to accomplishment." 
   "My only adversity is age. It is not a bar to my usefulness as a Senator. I still look out for West Virginia. I still zealously guard the welfare of this nation and its Constitution. And I still work every day to move the business of this nation forward, to end this reckless adventure in Iraq, and to protect, preserve and defend the Constitution of the United States against all those who would reshape it to suit partisan agenda," Byrd said in the Senate on Thursday.
   "I will continue to work until this old body just gives out and drops - but don't expect that to be any time soon," Byrd stated.
   The West Virginia lawmaker, who is the longest serving Senator in the history of the country, challenged Senators and citizens alike to get over stereotypes about growing older. He pointed to the accomplishments of senior citizens in a wide number of fields, and urged people to realize that age is only a number.
   "I believe that all ages and all occupations should be part of a truly representative Congress. I also believe that society works best when the energy and idealism of youth pairs with the experience and wisdom of age," Byrd said. "America is the land of opportunity. I don't think that our some 36 million citizens over age 65 are disqualified from participating in the life of the country that we helped to build."
   "Age is no barrier to accomplishment. When the spirit and the mind are willing, the creative juices continue to flow. I like to think that I still have a few things left on my 'to do' list. I also like to think that some day our rapidly aging society will get over its fear and its denial of aging," Byrd stated.
   Missouri Senator Claire McCaskill applauded Byrd for making a stand for senior citizens. McCaskill pointed out that age has not been an impediment for Byrd.
   "Let me tell the people of West Virginia, they don't need to worry. They have a very strong Senator," McCaskill said. "His passion and his intellectual heft and his knowledge of history and the Constitution far outweigh any considerations that one would have about his age."
   After the remarks, Byrd met one-on-one with Jim Nussle, President Bush's nominee to serve as Director of the Office of Management and Budget. The Senator on Thursday is also chairing the Senate Appropriations Committee mark-up of three key funding bills.
 
 