CHEMICAL PLANT DANGERS SPARK SAFETY INVESTIGATION
  Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States has worked to prevent a tragedy from occurring again. We have made progress in areas like airplane security and emergency response preparedness, but there are many gaps that remain - gaps that we must address before it is too late. 
   One gap is the lack of protection at 'critical infrastructure' sites. Critical infrastructure includes the systems that, if disrupted, would threaten our national security, public health and safety, economy, and way of life. Earlier this year, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the chief investigative arm of Congress, examined one specific segment of critical infrastructure - reported that, despite voluntary efforts by individual companies to improve protections, the extent of security preparedness at chemical facilities across the country remains unknown.
   In West Virginia, we are not immune from this responsibility. We have many sites that need to be fortified. We have many places that need to be protected. One of our largest vulnerabilities is also one of our key industries. It does not take great imagination to determine that the chemical plants that dot the Kanawha and Ohio rivers are also potential targets for attack. 
   But fortifying security at these facilities, according to the Bush White House, is solely an industry responsibility. Despite the government's Constitutional responsibilities to provide for the safety and protection of the nation's citizens, the Bush Administration has consistently shifted the responsibility for 'critical infrastructure protection' to the private sector. The White House refuses to take the extra step to guard against attack - a refusal that could cost lives if not fixed.
   That is why I have asked the GAO to go back and determine what steps are being taken by the private sector to protect the American people, and what more needs to be done. Knowing and understanding what private sector industries are doing to protect critical infrastructure assets is essential in assessing the need for federal investments to protect the American people.
   Protecting the American people from terrorist attack is a primary government responsibility. As we approach the third anniversary of the September 11 attacks, it is a responsibility that demands no further delay. The Bush Administration has, for too long, ignored the many holes in our homeland security protections. But just hoping that there will not be another attack is not enough; Congress must make the investments that protect the people, even if the President will not.
 
 