SENS. BYRD, ROCKEFELLER URGE VETERANS TO SHARE THEIR HEALTH CARE EXPERIENCES
  With attention focused on the quality of medical care that returning troops and veterans receive, Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, both D-W.Va., are asking Mountain State veterans to share their experiences - good and bad - with Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities. 
   "I want to hear directly from our state's veterans: How do they judge the medical care that they receive from our VA medical clinics? Is the quality of care what they expected? What is working well, and what can be improved?" Byrd explained. "I have visited our VA medical centers on many occasions and seen how these facilities run, but our veterans are there every day. They have a much better understanding of what works and where we can make changes to improve the quality of care." 
   "As often as I can, I meet with our returning soldiers and veterans to get a sense of the problems they're facing. Most often they're struggling to get their deserved VA benefits or they're not getting the mental health care that's so important following their tour of duty," Rockefeller said. "I try to hear first -hand from as many veterans as possible about the VA system and what's working and what needs to be fixed."
   Byrd, as Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Rockefeller, as a leading member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, have partnered to stave off billions of dollars in funding shortfalls for VA medical care.
   But their efforts have only ensured that proposed White House cuts were defeated and funding levels were maintained, and not expanded to allow for significant improvements in the VA system.
   "West Virginia's sons and daughters have a long history of placing themselves in harm's way to defend their country. Our nation made them a promise, and we have a moral obligation to keep that promise and to ensure that they are provided with quality health care and treated in a way that honors their service," Rockefeller added.
   "I fear that the egregious situations that we have witnessed at Walter Reed are not isolated problems. I believe that there has been a systemic neglect of veterans services. The gap between the VA's political rhetoric and the reality of regular VA services is wider than the New River Gorge. I want to hear from our veterans to hear what they think," Byrd said.
   Byrd and Rockefeller are encouraging veterans to write to their Charleston offices with their reports. The Senators also have established special email addresses for West Virginia veterans - vets@byrd.senate.gov and vets@rockefeller.senate.gov.
 
 