SEN. BYRD LEADS WAY FOR VETERANS EMERGENCY FUNDING
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., is urging President George W. Bush to put emergency medical funding into the hands of local veterans' hospitals without delay. 
   "Veterans from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the veterans of prior wars, should not have to wait to receive the money needed for their health care," Byrd stated in a letter to the President.
   "These funds are urgently needed. There should be no delay in providing emergency funds to the veterans health care system," Byrd said.
   President Bush is expected to sign soon legislation funding the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical care - including more than $1.2 billion in emergency funds to cover a financial shortfall at the VA. At Byrd's urging, Congress designated those funds an emergency, meaning that the dollars could be shifted to the VA medical centers in West Virginia and across the country immediately - but only if President Bush also designates the funds as an emergency.
   "The shortfalls in the veterans budget, as admitted by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in June 2005, threaten the health care services that our veterans require. The budget shortfall is due, in part, to the increased numbers of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan that require the specialized health care services that only the Department of Veterans Affairs can offer," Byrd explained.
   The West Virginia lawmaker, in his position as the leading Democratic Senator on the Appropriations Committee, worked with Senators on both sides of the aisle to ensure that the emergency funding was approved by the Congress.
   "'Support the troops' means taking care of veterans after they come home. Our brave fighting men and women deserve quality health care. They should not be cut off from their doctors and nurses simply because the White House failed to put these funds to work. We must not fund veterans' health care on the cheap."
   This summer, Byrd visited with veterans at each of West Virginia's VA Medical Centers - Beckley, Huntington, Clarksburg, and Martinsburg - to talk with veterans and VA doctors and nurses.
 
 