SEN. BYRD EARNS BIG WIN FOR VETERANS MEDICAL CARE
  America's veterans will not see their medical care shortchanged, thanks to a bipartisan amendment that Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., helped to guide through the Senate Wednesday. 
   "There is a crisis in the Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system. The VA has belatedly admitted that it is desperately short of cash and can't make ends meet. As a result, our veterans are in real danger of being shut off from the medical care they so urgently need and so rightly deserve. They are already suffering the indignity and the physical toll of understaffed medical facilities and dangerous delays in treatment. This is a shabby way to treat America's veterans," Byrd said.
   The Bush Administration has acknowledged that it has significantly underestimated veterans health care funds for the current fiscal year. The shortfall of more than $1 billion would result in a drastically lowered quality of veterans' health care. Without Congressional action, essential services and programs would be placed at risk.
   Byrd and Senator Patty Murray of Washington offered a fix to help the federal VA on Monday. On Wednesday, the two were joined by several Republican Senators in increasing the funds to $1.5 billion and securing Senate approval. The Senate approved the proposal with an overwhelming, bipartisan vote.
   "The ability of the VA to deliver health care to scores of veterans is at stake. I welcome my Republican colleagues to the table, and I urge Senators on both sides of the aisle to do the right thing for our nation's veterans. The VA needs this money now. The Senate has both the opportunity and the obligation to provide it," Byrd said.
   Veterans groups have complained that funding is not keeping pace with rising medical costs, and some veterans experience long waits for care.
   "We have been hearing since the beginning of the year of the difficulties that the current budget shortfall has caused VA hospitals and clinics around the country. Due to budget shortfalls at the regional level, many of our local VA hospitals and clinics are being forced to institute hiring freezes, and having to spend money set aside for equipment and maintenance on health care," Byrd said.
   "The crisis in veterans' health care is now, and the time to act is today," Byrd stated.
   Senator Murray echoed Byrd's concern.
   "When we ask men and women to serve this country overseas, we tell them that we will be there for them when they come home. What you see in the Senate is Republicans and Democrats standing together, shoulder to shoulder, to say that, in the Senate, we will be there for our men and women who serve America overseas," Murray stated during debate.
 
 