MARTINSBURG AIRPORT EXPANSION MAKES MAJOR PROGRESS
  The major overhaul of the airport in Martinsburg took a significant step forward on Thursday, with the award of a $16 million contract for the runway extension and upgrade project to Clark Construction Group, LLC, of Bethesda, Maryland.
   "The runway extension is a significant piece of the overall changes underway at the Martinsburg airport and the West Virginia National Guard's 167th Airlift Wing," U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Thursday. "The community is getting closer, day by day, to the arrival of the new fleet of C-5 aircraft and the new mission for the 167th. The runway extension will service not only those bigger, more capable planes, but also expanded commercial opportunities for the Eastern Panhandle. This is an exciting step forward." 
   Byrd included $16 million for the runway extension in legislation that was signed into law last November. The contract for the runway extension and upgrade is the latest development in the overhaul that is underway at the Eastern West Virginia Regional Airport at Martinsburg. The work with this contract primarily involves extending the western end of the current 7,000-foot runway by 800 feet to accommodate the departure and landing of C-5 aircraft.
   "Senator Byrd always stands with the National Guard. He has a plan for the future of the Guard and the Eastern Panhandle, and the major renovations at the airport are key to that future," West Virginia Adjutant General Allen Tackett explained.
   "The 167th Airlift Wing is ready for our new mission with the C-5 aircraft and the challenges that that mission will bring. Without Senator Byrd's support, there would be no new mission. There would be no C-5 fleet. There would be no major construction at the airport. The 167th is ready to keep on flying, and we're glad to have Senator Byrd as our partner," said Colonel William Gain, Air Commander at the 167th Airlift Wing.
   The arrival of the C-5 airplanes at Martinsburg will mean a sustained economic impact of more than $50 million per year, and will bring nearly 200 new full-time jobs to the base.
   In addition, Senator Byrd expects that the modernized airport - complete with the new runway, control tower, and maintenance facilities - will open doors to new jobs and businesses for the area.
   "The key to a region's economic success is a mix of good people and up-to-date infrastructure. We have that mix in the Eastern Panhandle," Byrd stated. "We have a smart workforce. We are investing in safer, wider highways. Our health facilities are growing, and the high-tech infrastructure is in place to handle the demands of the global economy. With this investment at the Martinsburg airport, all of the pieces are in place for fantastic opportunities for the community."
   The first of the National Guard's C-5 aircraft could begin to arrive later this year.
  The C-5 is one of the largest aircraft in the world. According to the U.S. Air Force, the plane has a range of 6,320 nautical miles and can take off or land in relatively short distances. Ground crews can load and off-load the C-5 simultaneously at the front and rear cargo openings. The C-5, with its massive payload capability, has opened unprecedented dimensions of strategic airlift in support of national defense. For 20 years, it has been involved in many historic airlift missions, and is invaluable to the Air Force military and humanitarian efforts.
 
 