VETERANS PRIVATE DATA RECOVERED, BUT CONCERN REMAINS
  Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, both D-W.Va., expressed relief that law enforcement officials have recovered personal data for at least 26.5 million people contained on a stolen federal Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) computer, but noted that questions remain as to the potential abuse of that data.
   "I am glad that law enforcement has recovered the personal information, but we can't assume that our veterans' identities are safe. Their personal information has been placed at risk," Byrd stated. "We've got to take steps now to ensure the peace of mind and good credit ratings for these people." 
   "I am relieved to hear that the stolen VA laptop has been recovered, and I applaud the efforts of the law enforcement officials involved in the investigation," Rockefeller said. "But I am still outraged that such a gross violation of veterans' privacy could have occurred in the first place. During the six weeks since we finally learned of the theft of the computer from VA, approximately 28 million veterans and active duty soldiers, as well as their families, lived in uncertainty about their privacy and their financial records."
   On Thursday, the Federal Bureau of Investigation located the laptop computer, stolen in May from a VA employee's home. On that computer were critical personal data, including the names, Social Security numbers, dates of birth, and some disability ratings for up to 26.5 million veterans and some spouses, National Guardsmen, Reservists, and active duty members of the Armed Forces. The VA has also warned that personal data for as many as 80 percent of America's active duty military personnel may have been part of the data stolen in May.
   The West Virginia Senators are working together on legislation authored by Rockefeller that would clear the way for the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to work with individual veterans, National Guardsmen, and members of the Armed Services affected by the theft. Senator Rockefeller has authored legislation called the Veterans and Military Privacy Protection Act that would, among other priorities, require the Federal Trade Commission - the government experts on personal data security - to develop a toll-free hotline for veterans and military personnel to provide information, counseling, and help necessary to protect themselves from the abuse of their personal data. 
   The Rockefeller bill would also force an outside audit of VA security and recommendations to protect private data in the department's computer networks.
   The legislation is headed to the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs, where Senator Rockefeller is the senior Democratic member on the committee.
   "My bill was drafted in immediate response to this crisis. If we can be assured by the FBI that no personal data has been compromised, then we may not need the security freezes and credit reports called for in the legislation," Rockefeller said. "But we will still need the outside investigation demanded by the bill to figure out how and why this occurred. Our veterans and families should be able to have the peace of mind that they will not have to live through this kind of crisis in the future."
   "One thing is clear: security at the VA must be improved. Millions of veterans and members of our military and their families have been scrambling to make sure that their personal financial information was not abused or their identities stolen. If there is a one-in-a-thousand chance that our veterans' personal data is at risk, then we should take steps now to start credit monitoring, financial counseling, and whatever else may be necessary to protect the peace of mind and good credit ratings of our veterans and their families," Byrd stated.
 
 