SENS. BYRD, ROCKEFELLER PRESS FOR FASTER MINE SAFETY PROGRESS
  Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, both D-W.Va., want to know why the U.S. Department of Labor is dragging its feet on implementation of new federal mine safety laws. 
   The West Virginia lawmakers, together with a bipartisan coalition of Senators, are pressing Labor Secretary Elaine Chao to accelerate the implementation of the mine safety standards which were signed into law last June. 
   "Here we are, more than a year since the tragedies at Sago and at Alma, and ten months since Congress passed new safety standards, yet the Department of Labor continues to blatantly disregard mandatory mine health and safety standards included in the MINER Act. This is inexcusable. Each day that passes without aggressive implementation of the new mine safety standards is another day where lives are unnecessarily placed at risk," Byrd said.
   "When Congress passed the MINER Act, we sent a clear message that, when it comes to the safety of our coal miners, the status quo is no longer acceptable. The Department of Labor's slow walk toward implementing requirements for breathable air, rescue teams and communication devices is inexcusable. Coal miners in West Virginia and across the country deserve better from this Administration, and I encourage Secretary Chao to move quickly to implement these necessary safety measures," Rockefeller stated.
   Specifically, the Senators noted the following problems: 
   * MSHA has not fully approved a single mine's Emergency Response Plan. 43,000 coal miners are working under partially approved emergency response plans. 
   * MSHA has not yet approved any wireless communications and tracking technology for use underground. 
   * Miners still do not have adequate oxygen supplies underground. One-third of coal mines do not provide at least two self-rescue devices for each underground worker. 
   * Only 145 mine rescue teams are available to serve 481 active underground coal mines. MSHA still does not ensure that underground mines have flame-resistant lifelines in escape ways. 
   Rockefeller and Byrd were driving forces behind last summer's passage of the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response (MINER) Act. The legislation, based on a proposal put forward by the West Virginia Congressional Delegation, promotes increased mine safety, better enforcement, and faster rescue in case tragedy strikes. The Senators wrote Secretary Chao to express their concern over the Department of Labor's insufficient implementation of the MINER Act.
   "This situation is unacceptable," the Senators wrote. "Prior to the MINER Act, the Department already had the authority to mandate the placement of emergency shelters, the prohibition of belt-air ventilation, and stricter standards for breathing equipment. The Department must not continue to hide behind these deadlines and reporting requirements in order to justify further delays and inaction. The Department should strive to exceed all deadlines and mandates whenever possible."
   Another area of concern for the lawmakers is the ability of coal companies to negotiate changes to fines for safety violations until the fines mean next to nothing. Under the MINER Act, Congress directed MSHA to issue revised penalties regulations in an effort to spur a strengthened and targeted penalties regime. Existing standards have permitted many mine operators to escape the consequences for serious health and safety violations.
   Last week, MSHA fined Massey Energy Co. $1.5 million for ignoring safety hazards that existed in its Alma mine. The company is expected to appeal the fine.
   Investigators found that negligence at Alma led to the fatal underground mine fire that killed two miners in January 2006. The investigation into this tragedy also found a host of other egregious violations that were never corrected. The Senators are committed to enforcing the MINER Act and continuous oversight of MSHA in order to prevent future mining tragedies.
   The bipartisan letter was also signed by Senators Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Arlen Specter, R-Pa.
 
 