SEN. BYRD WINS PLEDGE FROM WHITE HOUSE TO SPEED MINE INSPECTORS' HIRING
  Sen. Byrd has won the commitment of the White House to accelerate the hiring of more than 200 coal mine safety enforcement personnel.
   "The safety of our miners must be the highest priority for MSHA. That is why I put money into law for hiring and training mine safety inspectors. The status quo is not satisfactory," Byrd said. "I will not stop working for the safety of our West Virginia coal miners and our coalfield communities." 
   For five years, the White House has cut the jobs of more than 200 coal mine safety inspectors. Byrd added $25.6 million to emergency funding legislation, signed into law in June, to replace those coal safety inspectors.
   In July, the Bush Administration released a plan to hire only 12 inspectors this year - despite the continuing safety crisis in America's coal mines. Across this country, 37 coal miners have died this year - including 20 men who have lost their lives in West Virginia mines. Unsatisfied with only 12 new inspectors this year, Byrd pressed the White House to speed up the inspectors' hiring. The result of the Senator's work: the Bush Administration has agreed to hire at least 40 inspectors by December 31, with another 125 to be hired and trained in 2007.
   "This commitment is good news for our coalfield communities. Mining families want to know that their mines are safe, that their loved ones are going to come home again at the end of a shift," Byrd said. "We cannot sit back and hope that the problems will take care of themselves. We need to hire these inspectors, train them, and put them to work. Their front-line efforts can help to prevent accidents and save lives."
   On Wednesday, Byrd met in his U.S. Capitol office with David Dye, the top official at the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), to cement the hiring agreement.
   "We have a moral obligation to do everything we can to put an end to the safety crisis in our nation's mines," Byrd said.
   Mine safety has been at the forefront of Senator Byrd's work this year. In February, after the explosions at the Sago and Alma-Aracoma mines in West Virginia, he and the other members of the Mountain State's Congressional Delegation introduced emergency mine safety legislation. The priorities of that bill served as the foundation for the new federal mine safety law - the MINER Act - which Senator Byrd and Senator Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., helped to write.
   Byrd also pressed MSHA on its plans to strengthen seals and to contain explosions, like the one at Sago in January. The Senator also made the case for accelerated training of the portable oxygen supplies which miners carry on their belts.
   A report commissioned by Governor Joe Manchin, issued last month, into the Upshur County tragedy found irregularities in the testing and approval of explosion-proof seals. The report also concluded that at least four of the emergency air packs the miners were carrying failed to operate.
   "We must move more quickly to test these seals and replace them, if necessary, so that they don't continue as ticking time bombs in our coal mines. And coal miners must know that the oxygen that they carry on their belts and pre-positioned throughout the mines will work. No more excuses. No more delays," Byrd said.
   MSHA officials told Byrd that they were moving quickly to ensure that coal operators were addressing the problems raised by the independent report. The federal agency also plans to follow-up with regular inspections of the mine facilities.
 
 