SEN. BYRD REMINDS WHITE HOUSE OF ITS BROKEN PROMISES ON STEEL
 Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Friday that the Bush White House has walked away from promises it made to West Virginia's working families, highlighting broken pledges of support to the steelworkers at Weirton as a prime example. 
   "When George W. Bush and Dick Cheney needed West Virginia's votes, they promised our to help our steelworkers. They got the votes, but then walked away from the promises," Byrd said.
   "In West Virginia, where we stand up for steel, the Bush White House has been weak in the knees," Byrd stated.
   In October 2000, then-candidate Dick Cheney campaigned in Weirton, W.Va., telling the steelworkers and their families: "We will never lie to you. If our trading partners violate our trading laws, we will respond swiftly and firmly...There should be no more looking the other way so that politics triumph over principle."
   But the Bush White House, Byrd noted, has turned its back on its promises to the U.S. steel industry. The President abruptly ended the tariffs on steel imports 16 months ahead of schedule, has worked to eliminate funding for the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Program, and has pushed to repeal the Byrd Amendment, also known as the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act (CDSOA) - an initiative that seeks to assist American injured by unfair foreign trade practices.
   Byrd has pressed the Administration to reverse course and back legislation that would help to preserve American jobs while protecting health care and pension benefits.
   "Instead of taking the side of American families, the White House has adopted a course of action that jeopardizes many jobs and could lead to even more manufacturers closing their doors and heading overseas," Byrd said. "That is not the kind of economic leadership that we need in West Virginia. That is not the kind of leadership that we need in America."
   Byrd noted that during this Bush Administration more than 2 million private sector jobs have been lost. Meanwhile, the White House and the Republican Congressional Leadership have refused to extend unemployment benefits for those seeking work. In addition, the White House has successfully championed new federal regulations that will lead to the elimination of overtime pay for 8 million Americans.
 
 