BRAC TEAM COMING TO WEST VIRGINIA
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced that officials with the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission will visit the West Virginia National Guard's 130th Airlift Wing. 
   "The men and women of the 130th Airlift Wing deserve every chance to make the case for this base. The information put forward by the Department of Defense was wrong. That report selectively ignored key pieces of information and failed to follow the Department's own BRAC guidelines," Byrd said.
   "I have talked with the BRAC Commission Chairman. He promised that West Virginia's case would be heard, and now we have that chance," Byrd said.
   Byrd spoke with Commission Chairman Anthony Principi about the importance of the 130th Airlift Wing to America's national security and to the security and economy of the State of West Virginia. As a result of that conversation and the strong appeals made by the West Virginia Congressional Delegation, Governor Joe Manchin, Charleston Mayor Danny Jones, the Kanawha County Commission, West Virginia Adjutant General Allen Tackett, and the members of the 130th Airlift Wing, BRAC analysts will be in Charleston on June 14 to review the case for the West Virginia base.
   Following that review, Byrd is expected to lead a West Virginia team to a regional BRAC Commission hearing in Charlotte, N.C., where the formal case for protecting the Charleston-based National Guard unit will be made.
   "The West Virginia National Guard is the best in the country, hands down. Our Guardsmen have always answered the call to duty. Now it is our duty to stand with them," Byrd said.
   Last month, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld included the 130th Airlift Wing on its base realignment and closure recommendations. The Defense Department wants to remove the eight C-130H planes housed at the 130th Airlift Wing and relocate them to Pope Air Force Base in North Carolina. The BRAC Commission has the authority to change the Secretary's plan.
 
 