SEN. BYRD WINS MORE RESPONSIBLE APPROACH ON WHITE HOUSE BLANK CHECK
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., has won Senate approval of a proposal to rein in an unrestricted, 'blank check' funding proposal from the Bush White House. 
   Last month, the White House submitted to Congress a request for $25 billion for ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan in an emergency reserve fund. The request would have allowed the Bush Administration to shift any or all of that $25 billion to any purpose that it deemed important. Almost immediately, Byrd and other Members of Congress were critical of that massive new transfer authority.
   "The President's request amounted to a blank check: there were virtually no strings at all on how those funds could be used," Byrd explained. "It included blanket transfer authority that gave the Secretary of Defense carte blanche to move the entire $25 billion into whatever accounts he chose."
   "Congress should not sign away its power of the purse by giving a rubberstamp approval to the President's proposal," Byrd said. "This outrageous power-and-money grab that the President sought in his original request to Congress should not become law."
   Byrd, the top Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee and a senior member of the Armed Services Committee, worked with Republican Senators Ted Stevens of Alaska and John Warner of Virginia and others to ensure that the $25 billion included better accountability provisions.
   As a result of the bipartisan effort, the amendment insures greater accountability for how the $25 billion is to be used. Of that amount, $22.5 billion would be directed to specific Defense Department accounts. The remaining $2.5 billion would be available for the Secretary of Defense to allocate to accounts as necessary. Additionally, the amendment strengthens Congressional oversight by requiring consultation with the Congressional defense committees and five-day notification of the proposed use of these funds.
   "Giving the Defense Department a 10 percent margin of error in calculating where it will need these funds provides more than adequate flexibility," Byrd said.
   The amendment was approved Wednesday night by a vote of 95-0 as part of the Department of Defense authorization bill.
   "Approval of this amendment is but one step in providing the necessary support to our troops in a manner that promotes accountability and oversight by the Congress," Byrd said. "The Senate should build on its work here to insure that the appropriations bill includes similar provisions that preserve the power of the purse that resides with Congress. I look forward to working with my colleagues on that bill, in the same bipartisan manner as we did today, to support our troops and protect the Constitution."
   Also Wednesday, at a hearing of the Senate Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, Byrd was assured by the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Peter Pace, and senior Administration officials that the $25 billion funding would only be used in Iraq and Afghanistan, and not for military actions in other countries.
 
 