SEN. BYRD TAKES ON FIGHT FOR BILL OF RIGHTS
  Sen. Byrd wants the American people to know the truth about the White House's warrantless domestic spying program, and has introduced a bill to create a 9-11 style commission to get to the facts. 
   "With so many questions unanswered by the Administration, it is imperative that there be an objective investigation of this program, and any violations of law that may have occurred," Byrd said in the Senate as he unveiled his legislation.
   "No one is suggesting that the threat of terrorist attacks is anything but a real threat, and one that must be the Congress' utmost priority. But the suggestion that the American people will be safer in their homes if they just forego their Constitutionally-protected rights, is a deliberately deceptive assertion, that may forge the fetters that bind law-abiding citizens. Make no mistake, it is these ill-conceived strictures that may ultimately destroy precious liberties," Byrd stated.
   The legislation that Byrd introduced on Thursday would create a nonpartisan commission, patterned on the effective 9/11 commission, to examine the procedure for the National Security Agency's use and retention of intelligence obtained without warrants, and the method and scope of dissemination of such information to other agencies. The commission would have the authority to investigate any questions raised by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court concerning the legality of the domestic spying program. 
   "It will examine the obligation of the President to brief Members of Congress on warrantless surveillance of American citizens. It will lift the fog of secrecy and clandestine government activity misaimed at law-abiding citizens. Perhaps most importantly, it will shed much-needed sunshine on any unlawful or unconstitutional executive intrusions into the lives of ordinary Americans," Byrd explained.
   The West Virginia lawmaker noted that the warrantless spying on American citizens has actually contributed to slower responses in law enforcement. 
   "What most Americans don't know is that FBI agents complained about the utility of the wiretapping program. FBI officials repeatedly complained that they were being drowned by a river of useless information that diverted their resources from pursuing important counterterrorism work. Such complaints raise the question of whether the domestic wiretapping program may have backfired by sending our top counterterrorism agencies on wild goose chases, thus making our country less secure, instead of more secure," Byrd said.
 
 