NEW BORDER SECURITY CENTER DEDICATED AT HARPERS FERRY
  West Virginia is leading the way in America's border security training, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Tuesday at a ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Advanced Training Center in Jefferson County.  
   "In our post-9/11 world, an advanced training facility for Customs and Border Protection law enforcement personnel is crucial. The Harpers Ferry Training center is sui generis - the only one of its kind in the country, and another reason for West Virginia pride," Byrd said.
   The CBP Advanced Training Center will be the first in the nation to provide advanced law enforcement training specifically relating to border protection efforts. When fully completed, the facility will include an armory, academic-administration building, defense tactics building, state-of-the-art firing range complex, and practical training areas including a land border crossing, airport arrival area, marine training lake, and urban training area. 
   Byrd spearheaded the effort to attract and build the new Department of Homeland Security facility on 104 acres near Harpers Ferry National Historical Park. In 2000, Byrd included $24.9 million in a federal appropriations bill to design and build the Advanced Training Center. Since then, the Senator has facilitated meetings between Customs and local residents and officials to ensure that the design of the new facility addressed community concerns for noise, traffic, and historical protection.
   "The CBP Advanced Training Center is a winner for our country. The United States will be more secure because our Customs and Border Protection officers and agents will be better trained to meet the security challenges we face today and tomorrow. The center is also a winner for our state. West Virginia and Jefferson County will benefit from the new, important, well-paying jobs that will be here. And there will be more jobs as this facility expands," Byrd said.
   Senator Byrd was joined at Tuesday's ribbon-cutting ceremony by CBP Commissioner Robert C. Bonner, CBP Assistant Commissioner Thomas J. Walters, and Director of the Advanced Training Center William V. Beaumet. 
   "The Customs and Border Protection Advanced Training Center will provide critically needed, state of the art training for the men and women charged with the responsibility of securing our nation's borders and ports of entry," stated CBP Commissioner Bonner. "The world-class training our frontline men and women will receive here will better equip them to prevent terrorists and their weapons from entering America." 
   The Center will train and certify the federal officials who will then prepare the more than 30,000 Customs and Border Protection law enforcement officers - the largest cadre of armed civilian law enforcement officers in the country. Once fully operational, the facility is expected to employ approximately 45 full-time staff and contractors and to train an estimated 12,000 law enforcement officers each year.
   "West Virginians are always on the front lines and proud to be there for our great country. Now, the Eastern Panhandle of West Virginia, along with our sons and daughters serving in our Armed Forces, will write a new chapter in our efforts to stop terrorism," Byrd stated.
   "Right here, among the beautiful, rolling green hills of our beloved state, the men and women who work here will make a huge contribution to securing our borders, and they will do it with the diligence and pride that always mark the people of our state," Byrd added.
 
 