NIAGARA MOVEMENT TO BE HONORED AT HARPERS FERRY
  Next summer's celebration of the history of the Niagara Movement, to be held at the Harpers Ferry National Historical Park, will benefit from $300,000 that Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., included in federal legislation this week. 
   "The Niagara Movement served as the foundation for the NAACP and many of the important changes in American civil rights," Byrd said. "The NAACP is one of the most effective engines for change in America."
   The Niagara Movement was founded in 1905 by a group of African-American men led by W.E.B. DuBois and others. The group's 1906 meeting, the first on American soil, was held on the campus of Storer College, now part of Harpers Ferry National Historical Park.
   The Niagara Movement became the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1909.
   Byrd added $300,000 to the Fiscal Year 2006 Interior Appropriations bill to assist with the 100th anniversary celebration of the Niagara Movement. The Park is estimating that as many as 20,000 people will visit the park in August 2006 for the celebration. More information on the planned events is available at http://www.nps.gov/hafe/niagara/.
   James Tolbert, President of the West Virginia NAACP, and George Rutherford, President of the Jefferson County Chapter of the NAACP, met with Byrd earlier this spring to discuss the Niagara Movement anniversary celebration.
   "The West Virginia State Conference of Branches NAACP is very, very pleased that Senator Byrd was able to secure $300,000 for the Centennial Commemoration of the Niagara Movement," Mr. Tolbert said. "We think this funding will enable the Niagara Movement Committee to bring focus to this important event, which was held in Harpers Ferry and ultimately led to the creation of the NAACP. We would like to congratulate Senator Byrd on his diligence, and his efforts to put West Virginia forward on the history of the Civil Rights movement."
   "I really want to thank Senator Byrd for his support. He has always been supportive of the needs of the community and we really appreciate it. This funding is a big help to the Niagara Movement and will enable this story to get out across the country," Mr. Rutherford explained.
   "It is important that we celebrate the history of the Niagara Movement and recognize the progress we have made as one people in America, while committing ourselves to surpassing the challenges that yet face us," Byrd said.
   The Fiscal 2006 Interior Appropriations bill, including the Harpers Ferry funding, was approved by the Senate on Wednesday night. The Senate version of the bill now moves to a conference with the House of Representatives to work out the differences between the two versions.
 
 