BIPARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS HOLDING FIRM FOR VETERANS
  Less than a day after the Senate passed $1.5 billion to fill a massive funding hole in the federal Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., led the charge to defend that funding against attempts by the White House to undercut it.  
   "We have veterans from World War Two, Korea, Vietnam, the first Gulf War, and so many other battles already waiting in line to see a doctor. Now, we have new veterans coming home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan each day, some with grievous injuries. I know. I've visited them, and so has, I expect, every Senator in this room," Byrd said in a Senate committee meeting on Thursday.
   On Wednesday evening, the Senate passed 96-0 an amendment by Senator Patty Murray of Washington and Byrd to infuse $1.5 billion into the VA so that medical services would not be shut off this year.
   Within hours of the Senate's overwhelming action, the White House sought to cut that funding, urging Congress on Thursday to cut $525 million from the Senate-passed legislation.
   Byrd offered an amendment in a key committee meeting that expressed the Senate's commitment to hold firm to the $1.5 billion - an amendment that was approved without opposition.
   Byrd's effort has the strong support of West Virginia Senator Jay Rockefeller, who has long served on the Senate's Veterans Affairs Committee.
   "Today's action by the White House demonstrates once again what a low priority veterans are for this administration. Last night on the Senate floor, our veterans won a great victory when every Senator from both parties voted to provide VA with the $1.5 billion it needs. Even though the White House has moved to see this victory undone, I'll continue to work with Senator Byrd to make sure that this administration does not shortchange our veterans," Rockefeller pledged.
   "Instead of stepping up and admitting that its funding shortfall is alarming, the White House wants to shortchange our veterans," Byrd said. "The House, instead of agreeing with us and putting the dollars to work where they are so needed, has decided to take a major step backwards."
   "With this growing need, and with the massive, almost unbelievable, funding hole facing the VA, the Senate took action. The Senate, in a bipartisan effort, voted 96 to zero and approved an amendment providing $1.5 billion in emergency supplemental funding for the VA. The Senate stated very clearly that we would not allow veterans' health care needs to go unmet," Byrd stated.
   Byrd was backed up by Senate Veterans Affairs Chairman Larry Craig, R-Idaho.
   "I do believe that the Senator is accurate in his description of and concern about the shortfall in veterans' health care. The Senate acted unanimously yesterday. To do anything less than what we did yesterday [$1.5 billion] would be inadequate," Craig said. "We have a substantial shortfall [in the VA], and I would want and hope that the House could be with us on this. The Senate spoke in a very loud, unanimous, bipartisan voice yesterday and I hope that we could sustain that level."
   Hawaii Senator Daniel Inouye, who earned the Medal of Honor for his heroism during World War Two - a war in which he lost his right arm - in saying that Byrd's efforts were vital, stated:
   "I was wounded in April 1945. I left the hospital two years later. If I had been wounded in April of this year in Iraq, I would have been discharged five months later," Inouye said.
   "In World War Two, the VA not only provided medical care, but they made sure that I was ready for the world. They prepared me for the world," Inouye explained. "Today, they will not do that. They don't have the funding. We've got to do all that we can, provide everything that we can, to the young men and women who have sacrificed for all of us."
 
 