SEN. BYRD CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO DEMAND APOLOGY FOR BIBLE SLANDER
 Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., denounced a Republican National Committee flyer that suggests Democratic officials want to ban the Bible. Byrd sees the flyer as the latest in a pattern of distortions from the Administration, the Republican National Committee, and the Republican Leadership - and points to the situation in Iraq as evidence. 
   "The Republican National Committee is spreading this tripe to smear Democrats, and the President ought to demand that the Republican National Committee apologize to the people of West Virginia," Byrd said Thursday in a fiery Senate speech.
   "If ever there were one book that should never be used for political gain, if ever there were one book that should never be the subject of lies and deception, it is the Bible. Yet, that is exactly what is happening today," Byrd said. "The Republican National Committee sent a mass mailing to West Virginians suggesting that liberals - in other words, everyone but Republicans - are out to ban the Bible. What a ridiculous claim. It is a flat-out, no-doubt-about-it, silly, sophomoric charge."
   "All West Virginians should be insulted by such dirty tricks. Paid henchmen who talk about Democratic politicians who are eager to ban the Bible obviously must think that West Virginians are gullible, ignorant fools. They must think that West Virginians just bounced off the turnip truck. They must think that spreading nonsense about banning the Bible is a sure-fire way to get votes in an election year. But the people of West Virginia are smarter than that. We are not country bumpkins who will swallow whatever garbage some high-priced political consultant makes up," Byrd said.
   The West Virginia lawmaker compared the false claims about Bible banning with other half-truths put forward by the Bush Administration and the Republican Leadership. He pointed to Iraq as the most visible example.
   "False claims seem to the modus operandi in politics these days. The truth gets tailored to fit the occasion. No where is this more evident than on the subject of Iraq. Whether it be weapons of mass destruction or an imminent threat or mushroom clouds, the reason for the war changes faster than the weather. Talk about flip-flops!" Byrd stated.
   "The White House said that our troops would be welcomed with flowers; yet, our soldiers saw mortar attacks and suicide bombings. The White House said the world would be with us in the war and the reconstruction in Iraq; but the Coalition of the Willing was never that large, and it has become the Coalition of the Wilting. How can the American people trust an Administration that can't get its stories straight? The flipping and flopping from this slippery fish crowd is a sight to behold," Byrd said. "The situation in Iraq is far more dire and the future far more uncertain than Administration officials are ever going to admit. The lives of our sons and daughters are on the line in Iraq, and still we hear happy talk about success right over the horizon."
   "Misleading scenarios about Iraq or ludicrous nonsense about banning the Bible insult the values and the intelligence of West Virginians, and the millions of other Americans who share their beliefs," Byrd said. "The people of this country know about honesty, and they must start demanding it from their leaders."
 
 