SEN. BYRD LEADS EFFORT TO IMPROVE VETERANS HEALTH CARE
  Two days after staving off an alarming shortfall in veterans' health care, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., stopped at the Martinsburg VA Medical Center on Sunday to thank those who sacrificed for America's freedoms. 
   "Our veterans served and they sacrificed to permit this country to fulfill the great hopes of our Founding Fathers. We should take time to thank those who have sacrificed for our freedoms," Byrd said, noting that there are more than 190,000 Mountain State veterans.
   Byrd steered $1.5 billion funding through the Congress, with the final vote sending the funding to the President this past Friday. The funding emergency was sparked by a massive shortfall in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) budget found earlier this summer. The Bush Administration acknowledged that it had underestimated, by more than $1 billion, veterans health care funds for the current fiscal year. Without action, essential services and programs would be placed at risk. That's why Byrd's effort was so critical.
   Fearing that veterans would see their medical services cut off, Byrd went to work to fill the hole. In June, he added the $1.5 billion to a federal spending bill - the first expected to head to the President's desk for the coming fiscal year. After winning unanimous Senate approval for his measure and then guiding it through the Senate, the Congress sent the measure to the White House on Friday to be signed into law.
   "We have veterans from World War Two, Korea, Vietnam, the first Gulf War, and so many other battles already waiting in line to see a doctor. Now, we have new veterans coming home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan each day, some with grievous injuries. They should not come home to long lines to see a doctor or, worse, no doctor at all," Byrd said. "With increasing pressures placed on the VA medical system each day, we cannot afford to shortchange the health care of our veterans."
   "The funding shortfall is alarming," Byrd said. "There is a crisis in the VA, which is desperately short of cash and can't make ends meet. As a result, our veterans are in real danger of being shut off from the medical care they so urgently need and so rightly deserve. This is a shabby way to treat America's veterans."
   The $1.5 billion approved by the Congress on Friday will cover the shortfall for the current fiscal year, which ends on September 30, 2005. However, a growing hole remains in the budget for the coming fiscal year. Byrd is continuing to press for emergency funding to fill that growing gap.
   "Abraham Lincoln said very clearly that the nation has an obligation 'to care for him that shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan.' My efforts to protect medical care services at VA facilities are aimed at meeting those obligations. We must continue to stand up for America's veterans and resist the efforts to shortchange our veterans in their hour of need," Byrd stated.
   Byrd secured the funding for the $76 million new construction replacement of the Martinsburg VAMC, which the Senator dedicated in 1984. The 559-bed center is a medical, surgical, psychiatric, nursing home, outpatient, and domiciliary facility. The hospital employs approximately 1,270 full-time-equivalent personnel and has an annual economic impact of $146 million.
 
 