SEN. BYRD TO PRESS SENATE FOR FBI FUNDING
  When the Senate gets back to work after the November election, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., will push for more than $449 million in funds for the FBI's operations based in Harrison County. That's a $50 million boost over the Clarksburg facility's current funding - an increase that Byrd hopes will allow the agency to keep ahead of the complex networks of criminals and terrorists alike. 
   "We all know that the FBI Complex in Harrison County is an important part of keeping criminals off the streets. That facility also plays a key role in America's counterterrorism efforts. Criminals and terrorists continue to change tactics, and our defenses should always be ready to adapt," Byrd said.
   The FBI's fingerprint database at Clarksburg includes information on some 40,000 known or suspected terrorists as part of approximately 47 million sets of fingerprints and corresponding criminal history information stored electronically at the site. Since the FBI fingerprint system became operational in Clarksburg in July 1999, more than 130 million fingerprint submissions have been processed.
   Byrd hopes that, once the November election has passed, the Senate Leadership will finally allow for debate and votes on the legislation which funds not only the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but also the U.S. Marshals Service, the Drug Enforcement Agency, and state and local law enforcement efforts. The Senate Republican Leadership has purposely delayed the legislation until after the election. Byrd believes that it's time for the Senate Leadership to drop the political maneuvering and get back to work.
   Terrorism prevention is one of the top missions at the Harrison County facility, but not the only one. The facility continues to provide critical support for state and local law enforcement agencies, helping them to identify suspected criminals and assist in crime scene investigations through the analysis of biometric evidence gathered at the scene.
   "The Harrison County FBI Complex has helped to revolutionize the nation's crime-fighting effort. West Virginians can be proud of the fact that our state is home to a world-class initiative geared toward helping the entire nation to realize a better, safer quality of life," Byrd stated.
   "The Clarksburg FBI complex is a prime example of Mountain State resources and top-notch manpower helping to meet national security and law enforcement challenges. The men and women there work each day to make the country safer," Byrd said. "I commend their efforts, and look forward to their continued success."
   More than 2,500 federal employees work at the Clarksburg FBI Complex, with another 1,000 contract personnel in West Virginia having jobs linked to the facility. 
   In 1990, Byrd added $185 million to construct the Harrison County FBI Complex, and, since then, he has obtained more than $1 billion for upgrades of the computer and high-tech infrastructure at the facility.
 
 