WHITE HOUSE TERRORIST ALARM NOT MATCHED BY TRAINING, FUNDING
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., hopes that a visit on Wednesday by the Homeland Security Secretary to one of the nation's premier first responder training facilities signals an end to Bush Administration opposition to increased funding for first responder training and equipment. 
   Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge was scheduled to visit the West Virginia National Guard's Center for National Response (CNR) at the Memorial Tunnel in Kanawha County on Wednesday.
   "Police, firefighters, and emergency medical teams are a community's first line of defense in an emergency, but these teams seem to be the last priority of the Bush budget," Byrd said.
   "The Bush White House tells people to be vigilant of terrorists on one hand, then slashes funding for police officers and firefighters with the other. It is a backwards approach to homeland security," Byrd said. "We cannot expect our police and fire departments to respond to terrorist threats with funding from bingo nights and bake sales."
   Byrd is the top Democrat on the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations panel, and the co-chairman of the Senate's National Security Working Group.
   The Bush White House has proposed to cut funds for first responders by $729 million. These cuts come despite continued warnings - from think tanks, from commissions, and from first responders themselves - that our nation is not adequately prepared to respond to another act of terrorism.
   Specifically, the Bush Administration has proposed cutting homeland security priorities including: grants for fire departments, cut from $749 million to $500 million; state homeland security grants, cut by $1 billion; and Search and Rescue team funds, cut from $59.6 million to $7 million.
   Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge planned to visit the West Virginia National Guard's Center for National Response (CNR) as part of a discussion with local emergency responders about their needs. Byrd helped to launch the top-notch training center, which opened in December 2000. Since its inception, more than 13,000 military and emergency responder personnel have taken advantage of the training opportunities at the Center for National Response.
   Most recently, Byrd added $3 million to legislation to fund the Center's work. That legislation will be signed into law on Thursday.
   "All who have utilized the expertise and the unique training programs available at the CNR have come away more than impressed; they have come away prepared to handle danger and disaster. They have come away prepared to protect America," Byrd explained.
   Byrd and West Virginia Adjutant General Allen E. Tackett have worked in partnership to develop top-notch homeland security training facilities in the Mountain State. Their efforts recently gained the strong support of the U.S. National Guard Bureau, which selected Camp Dawson in Preston County as the country's first signature homeland security training facility. Camp Dawson will incorporate the facilities at the Center for National Response in its training programs.
   "Long before September 11, 2001, Senator Byrd recognized the importance of homeland security and the leading role that the National Guard could play in that mission," Tackett explained. "The West Virginia National Guard has been proud to partner with Senator Byrd to prepare Guardsmen, emergency responders, and top military teams to handle dangerous missions and diverse crises. Thanks to Senator Byrd and the commitment of the men and women of the West Virginia National Guard, our teams are leading the way to a safer America."
   The West Virginia Democrat noted that the actions of the Bush White House have not lived up to the White House rhetoric on protecting people from terrorist attack.
   "While the Bush Administration has consistently promised the American people that they are making this country safer, the facts show that the Administration has consistently put homeland security on the back burner. For this Administration, homeland security can wait," Byrd said. "It created a new Department of Homeland Security that rearranges the deck chairs, but it did not energize that Department with the resources that it needed to make America safer."
   "In response to terrorist threats, one might have anticipated that the President would have placed a higher priority on homeland security. Instead, the White House has done little. The Administration seems satisfied with a go-slow, business-as-usual approach to homeland security," Byrd said.
   "The Bush Administration issued advice to mass transit systems for improving security, but provided no funding to increase law enforcement presence, or to deploy canine teams. Despite the approach of a busy summer season for airline passengers, the White House has allowed the number of Federal Air Marshals to shrink precipitously, and the President's budget would result in even deeper reductions next year. Despite concerns about the safety of our borders, the Department, in March, imposed a hiring freeze on Customs officers and immigration inspectors," Byrd said.
   "In the President's own words, results matter. But this is not the record of an Administration committed to protecting the lives of the American people," Byrd stated.
   "Protecting the American people from terrorist attack is a primary government responsibility. As we approach the third anniversary of the September 11 attacks, it is a responsibility that demands no further delay. The Bush Administration has, for too long, ignored the many holes in our homeland security protections. But just hoping that there will not be another attack is not enough; Congress must make the investments that protect the people, even if the President will not," Byrd said.
 
 