SEN. BYRD CHAMPIONS WORK FOR VETERANS HEALTH CARE
  As the nation prepares to celebrate the 4th of July, Sen. Robert C. Byrd and Rep. Nick Rahall, both D-W.Va., stopped at the Huntington VA Medical Center on Sunday to thank those who sacrificed for America's freedoms. 
   "Our veterans served and they sacrificed to permit this country to fulfill the great hopes of our Founding Fathers. As America celebrates Independence Day, we should take time to thank those who have sacrificed for our freedom," Byrd said, noting that there are more than 190,000 Mountain State veterans.
   "We give thanks to the Almighty, especially this week, that we are blessed with men and women who freely offered the sacrifice of their lives that we all might continue to breathe the sweet air of freedom. We are also thankful to the gallant efforts of Senator Byrd, who this week played the pivotal role in fully funding the needs of our Veterans' health care. It is a testament to Senator Byrd's seasoned seniority, that through his clear vision, tireless grit and determination, he can make a stand to do what's right, and impart that vision to a majority of his colleagues," Representative Rahall said.
   This past week, Byrd led a bipartisan Senate coalition on behalf of those veterans, working to fill a massive funding hole in the VA budget. The Bush Administration has acknowledged that it significantly underestimated veterans health care funds for the current fiscal year, which ends on September 30, 2005. The funding shortfall of more than $1 billion would result in a drastically lowered quality of veterans' health care. Without Congressional action, essential services and programs would be placed at risk.
   "We have veterans from World War Two, Korea, Vietnam, the first Gulf War, and so many other battles already waiting in line to see a doctor. Now, we have new veterans coming home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan each day, some with grievous injuries," Byrd said. "With increasing pressures placed on the VA medical system each day, we cannot afford to shortchange the health care of our veterans."
   Byrd helped to forge a broad bipartisan coalition of Senators and won unanimous Senate approval, 96-0, of $1.5 billion to keep the VA from cutting its services and turning veterans away from medical facilities. 
   "That funding would not only fill the gap facing the VA this fiscal year, but also would help the VA to meet the increasing demands for medical care from veterans returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan," Byrd explained.
   But just hours after the Byrd amendment was approved, the White House launched efforts to cut the support for veterans' medical care by $525 million. Byrd is now leading the Senate effort to keep the full emergency funding for the VA in place.
   "The funding shortfall is alarming," Byrd said. "There is a crisis in the VA, which is desperately short of cash and can't make ends meet. As a result, our veterans are in real danger of being shut off from the medical care they so urgently need and so rightly deserve. This is a shabby way to treat America's veterans."
   "Abraham Lincoln said very clearly that the nation has an obligation 'to care for him that shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan.' My efforts to protect medical care services at VA facilities are aimed at meeting those obligations," Byrd stated.
   Later Sunday, Byrd was scheduled to participate in a salute to the men and women of the West Virginia National Guard, to be held in Charleston. Byrd has been an ardent supporter of West Virginia's Guardsmen, and wanted to be part of the celebration marking their service to the state and to the country.
   "At any hour of any day, the Guard is standing by, always ready to help. These men and women truly are the pride of the Mountain State, and I thank them for their long-standing record of service to West Virginia and to our nation," Byrd stated.
 
 