WEST VIRGINIA COMPANY WINS CONTRACT AT KEY HOMELAND SECURITY FACILITY
  A West Virginia company will operate and maintain one of the nation's key homeland security facilities, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced Friday.
   Azimuth, Incorporated, headquartered in Morgantown with facilities also in Fairmont and in Frederick, Md., has won a five-year contract worth up to $20 million to operate and maintain the Center for National Response (CNR) at the Memorial Tunnel in Kanawha County. The West Virginia National Guard manages the center. 
   "The partnership between Azimuth and the West Virginia National Guard will be a strong one for our state and our country," Byrd said.
  First District Congressman Alan B. Mollohan, D-W.Va., echoed Byrd's belief in this partnership.
   "Azimuth has developed into a major force in our West Virginia technology community and deserves a great deal of credit for this impressive contract win. I am pleased to congratulate this latest success by a charter member of our West Virginia High-Technology Consortium (WVHTC) Foundation," said Congressman Mollohan.
   "It is a sign of our growing capabilities that a team led by a West Virginia company, and including a number of state-based partners, will manage such an important security initiative," Mollohan said.
   "Perhaps the most visible piece of West Virginia's counterterrorism training is the Center for National Response," Byrd said. "Started in 2000 with funding that I added to federal legislation, this Center has provided one-of-a-kind instruction to more than 20,000 military and emergency responder personnel. Now, because of more than $20 million that I have added to federal legislation to equip and update the CNR, the National Guard is able to shape training to virtually any situation that emergency teams might face."
   "Long before September 11, 2001, our state already had identified looming threats and put in place the resources and expertise to train America's first responders," Byrd stated.
   "This facility has proved invaluable to our security abroad and here at home. For example, after the fall of the Taliban in Afghanistan, Marines and Army Special Forces scoured the rugged hills and caves of that country searching for remnants of the old regime and for al Qaeda terrorists. Where did they train? They trained at the CNR in West Virginia," Byrd said.
   "First responders - police officers, firefighters, and emergency medical teams - answer the call when the Department of Homeland Security raises the terrorist alert. The threat could come from a chemical tanker or a biological weapon. Where do America's first line of response train to handle these and other situations? They train at the CNR in West Virginia," Byrd said.
   Byrd has worked closely with West Virginia Adjutant Maj. General Allen E. Tackett to make the CNR a success.
   "I am proud to continue the important training of our first responders from throughout our nation. The Center for National Response is a critical asset in the Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) training arena. I look forward to utilizing the Azimuth corporation to ensure West Virginia remains at the forefront of our homeland defense training. Senator Byrd, Congressman Mollahan, Governor Manchin, and the West Virginia National Guard are committed to our national security, the activities and management of the CNR will continue to serve our nation in this post 9-11 world," Tackett said.
   "Through the wisdom and hard work of Senator Byrd and General Tackett, West Virginia is positioned to make increasing contributions to the defense of our nation and the safety and security of our people. This award is further evidence of the crucial support that we are capable of providing," Mollohan stated.
 
 