SEN. BYRD LEGISLATION WOULD BOOST NATIONAL GUARD YOUTH CHALLENGE PROGRAM
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., introduced legislation Thursday that would expand the National Guard's "Youth ChalleNGe" program across the country. 
   "This legislation supports one of the most successful programs that has allowed the National Guard to change the lives of tens of thousands of young Americans," Byrd explained when unveiling the legislation in the Senate. "The Youth ChalleNGe Program gives high school dropouts the skills they need to turn their lives around."
   Byrd's legislation increases, during the next three years, the federal cost-share of the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program from the current 60 percent federal share to 75 percent federal share. The remaining costs are covered by the states participating in the program.
   To pay for the increased federal share, Byrd's legislation authorizes $6.3 million. The bill authorizes an additional $10 million to provide the first significant per-student increase in funding since the program began.
   The Senator noted that, for more than twelve years, the funding of the Youth ChalleNGe program has remained constant at $14,000 per student, per year. 
   "At a time when the cost of education is growing by leaps and bounds, the Youth Challenge program has held the line on its budget for more than twelve years. But this budget discipline means that there have been cutbacks in teachers, uniforms, and activities. The additional $10 million authorized in my bill would end these cutbacks, and may also be used to open new Youth Challenge academies, providing more at-risk youth the chance to straighten their lives out before it is too late," Byrd explained.
   "Budget shortfalls in West Virginia and across the country have put the Youth ChalleNGe program in jeopardy. That's why I have authored legislation to increase federal funding for the program so that it will continue to mentor at-risk young people who want to change the direction of their lives," Byrd stated.
   The West Virginia Democrat worked with the National Guard Bureau to create this program in 1991, which was first called the National Guard Civilian Youth Opportunities Program. That pilot program was geared for young people who had dropped out of or been expelled from high school. Since then, the program has expanded in size and scope, and is now known as the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program. The program helps students to gain self-respect, job skills, citizenship responsibilities, and other life-coping skills. The program now operates 27 academies in 24 states, including West Virginia and Virginia.
   Ninety-seven percent of the program's students are successful in graduating from the 17-month program, with nearly three-quarters of those students earning their high school diplomas during that time. In West Virginia, the National Guard program is called "Mountaineer ChalleNGe," and is operated at Camp Dawson in Preston County.
 
 