COMMITTEE CLEARS SEN. BYRD PORT SECURITY AMENDMENT
  America's seaports would get a major boost in security funding thanks to a proposal put forward by Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., and approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee on Tuesday. 
   "The Bush Administration continues to have a huge credibility gap when it comes to homeland security," Byrd said. "The Administration has asserted that it has a robust, layered security system for our ports, yet the White House proposes for the second straight year to eliminate the port security grant program. There is nothing 'robust' about that."
   The West Virginia lawmaker, who is the leading Democratic member of the Senate Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, won committee approval of $648 million to significantly boost port security. The Byrd port security package is now part of the national security emergency funding bill, which includes monies for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The next step is winning the approval of the full Senate.
   "How serious is the Administration about port security when it decides to allow Dubai Ports World to control six major U.S. ports and the President, the Vice President, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security don't even know the decision was made? How serious are they about port security when Customs and Border Protection inspects only five percent of the 11 million containers that come into the country each year? How serious are they about port security when the Coast Guard inspects only one-third of foreign ports that trade with the U.S. How serious is the Administration when the Coast Guard Deepwater budget for replacing its ships, planes, and helicopters will not be completed until 2026?" Byrd asked during the committee meeting. "If we do not invest in the Coast Guard now, it could be the FEMA of 2010."
   In its request of Congress for more than $92 billion in emergency security funding, no money was requested for port security. The Byrd amendment would provide resources for radiation portal monitors, container inspections, port inspections, and port security grants.
   "My amendment would provide $648 million to fill critical gaps in our paper thin port security program," Byrd stated. "The American people expect more than just a paper thin security plan for our ports."
   In its budget request for the Department of Homeland Security for the coming year, the White House completely eliminates the federal port security grant initiative. This is the second year in a row that the Bush Administration has worked to erase port security dollars. The Congress rejected that effort to kill port security funding last fall, but the White House is now dragging its feet on getting the funds to the ports. 
   "Six months ago, the Congress approved $173 million for port security grants, yet the Department of Homeland Security has not even seen fit to announce how ports can apply for the funds. I do not understand why this Administration allows port security dollars to collect dust at the Treasury in Washington," Byrd said.
   "Waiting to make major investments in homeland security only places the American people at greater risk," Byrd stated.
 
 