GAO REPORT SOUNDS ALARM ON CHEMICAL, WATER SECURITY
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D.-W.Va., said that a report released Monday on the security of the nation's and chemical and water sources reveals glaring vulnerabilities and a lack of White House action to address them.  
   "Unfortunately, there is nothing in this report that eases my concerns about the security at our chemical and water facilities or the ability to respond to a terrorist attack against them. The lives of millions of Americans could be endangered," Byrd said. 
   The Senator asked the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the chief investigative arm of Congress, to determine what steps are being taken by the private sector to protect the American people, and what more needs to be done. 
   With regard to chemical facilities, the GAO concluded that for 93 percent of the industry, it is uncertain whether facilities are improving security. Only 1,100 of the 15,000 chemical-producing facilities identified by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) are known to adhere to voluntary industry security procedures.
   For the nation's drinking water systems, the GAO report notes that "water systems are not required to implement any risk reduction actions based on their vulnerability assessments." The water segment assessments were required by the Bioterrorism Act of 2002, but taking action to address vulnerabilities is not enforceable.
   In its "National Strategy for the Physical Protection of Critical Infrastructure and Key Assets," the Administration acknowledged that the "lion's share of our critical infrastructures and key assets are owned and operated by the private sector" and the "private-sector owners and operators should reassess and adjust their planning, assurance, and investment programs to better accommodate the increased risk presented by deliberate acts of violence." 
   "When it comes to protecting the nation's infrastructure, the Bush Administration tells us that 'the private sector is taking care of it.' Yet, there is no mandate on the private sector to make these security investments. The private sector's involvement is completely voluntary. There are no benchmarks in place to assess the private sector's role in critical infrastructure protection," Byrd explained.
   The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has estimated that there are 123 chemical plants across the country that could each expose more than 1 million people if attacked. DHS analysis concluded that protective security measures for chemical plants would cost "many billions of dollars." The FBI has warned that the risk of a terrorist attack for the purpose of an industrial chemical release is "both real and credible." Yet in GAO testimony before Congress last year, officials reported that "despite the industry's voluntary efforts, the extent of security preparedness at U.S. Chemical facilities is unknown." 
   "I am deeply troubled by the lack of progress in addressing the known weaknesses in the security of the country's chemical and water supplies," Byrd stated. "This report is a reminder of the Administration's absence on this issue. It has been more than two years since the GAO urged the EPA and DHS to develop a comprehensive strategy for the protection of our chemical plants. Yet the Administration has remained on the sidelines while this known vulnerability has gone unaddressed."
 
 