WHITE HOUSE BUDGET GIMMICKS JEOPARDIZE VETS' HEALTH CARE
America's veterans have paid for their health care through their service to the nation and should not be subject to the whims of White House budget games, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., told the top Bush Administration budget officer on Monday. 
 "Veterans paid for their health care at Iwo Jima, at the Mekong Delta, at the Chosin Reservoir, at Fallujah, and at so many other locales. They should not be expected to sacrifice yet again. But, make no mistake, if the choice is between budget-busting tax cuts or funding veterans health care programs, the Bush Administration seems always ready to choose to take care of America's elites instead of taking care of America's heroes. I would hope that the White House would change its ways and stand with our veterans," Byrd said.
 Byrd on Monday met with Rob Portman, Director of the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Portman, the Bush Administration's top budget officer, is in the process of finalizing next year's spending plan, due to the Congress in February. Byrd urged the Administration to reverse course on budget practices which have placed veterans medical care in jeopardy.
 Across the country, there are 25 million veterans, including more than 200,000 veterans in the Mountain State.
 Action this year on funding for veterans medical care has already been delayed for two months, and the Republican Congressional Leadership and the Bush Administration are forcing many more months of delay by refusing to complete work on the federal budget and appropriations process. As a result, legislation that would have invested an additional $3 billion in VA medical care likely has been shelved until after the New Year.
 "These delays are simply irresponsible. Our veterans deserve better by their elected leaders," Byrd said.
 For several years in a row, the Bush White House has shortchanged veterans health care by billions of dollars. The Administration has attempted to force veterans to pay enrollment fees and higher copayments for prescriptions, and even sought to block some veterans from medical care entirely. 
 "America's veterans have given much for their country. We have an obligation to give back to them, and to provide for their health care needs," Byrd explained. "'Support the troops' means taking care of veterans after they come home. Our brave fighting men and women deserve quality health care. They should not be cut off from their doctors and nurses simply because the White House failed to make their health care a priority."
 When the new Congress takes control in January with Democratic majorities in the House and Senate, Byrd will become chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. He hopes to speed passage of veterans medical care funding when that new session begins.
 
 