SEN. BYRD BEGINS RECORD NINTH SENATE TERM, WORK TO FOCUS ON JOBS, HEALTH CARE
  With the Golden Rule as his guiding principle, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., took the Oath of Office for a record ninth consecutive term representing West Virginia in the U.S. Senate.  
   "I'm excited. I'm ready to go," Byrd said. "We have an opportunity to work for the people and to put their priorities first. Good jobs, access to better health care, improved classrooms - these are the priorities of the people of West Virginia, and I'm going to put every ounce of my strength and experience toward working for the people of the Mountain State."
   As he was sworn in for his new term, Byrd had two books with him that have served as the bedrock for his service: the Constitution of the United States and the King James Bible. In that Bible, the Senator says, is the compass for the nation.
   "I'm guided by the Golden Rule, 'Do unto others as you would have others do unto you,'" Byrd explained. "That's a good rule to live by and a good rule for the government to govern by."
   The West Virginia lawmaker hopes that the extreme partisanship which has dominated Congress in the past few years is being put aside.
   "The American people are tired of the political games. It's time for Congress to focus more on what is best for the nation rather than on what is best for any political party. We need to work together to shape the future of this country," Byrd said. "Working together, Democrats and Republicans, we can find the best solutions for the country."
   As the new Congress begins, Byrd regains the chairmanship of the Senate Appropriations Committee - a post that he believes can strengthen the foundations of the nation's future.
   "We have a responsibility to make smart investments in education and health care and the infrastructure that will give our people the tools they need to open new businesses and create jobs. We also must put the resources in place to better protect this country from potential terrorist attack - tougher border and port security, improved security for both people and cargo at our airports, and better training and equipment for our police officers and firefighters and hospitals," Byrd said.
   To hear more from Senator Byrd visit http://byrd.senate.gov/newsroom/news_jan/start_of_congress.html
 
 