SEN. BYRD CONCERNED ABOUT STONEWALLING ON PRISONER ABUSE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., wants full and open hearings into prisoner abuse at U.S. military facilities in Iraq and throughout the world. 
   Byrd's call comes on the heels of news reports Tuesday of the murder of at least two foreign prisoners at the hands of Americans, one an Army soldier and the other a CIA contractor.
   "Secret, closed door meetings on a subject of such enormous import smack of damage control and cover-up," Byrd said. "The time for public hearings on prisons run by the U.S. armed forces is now. We must leave no room for charges that investigations are being glossed over, pushed aside, sat on, or ignored."
   "The abuse of Iraqi prisoners was covered up for months until it was reported by the news media. Congress has no time to spare to find out what went wrong and what is still wrong, and take action to prevent further abuse of prisoners in our charge," Byrd said. "These hearings should take place as soon as possible, and examine all detention facilities run by the U.S. military, including those in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere."
   Byrd, a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has written to Committee Chairman John Warner, R-Va., and Ranking Member Carl Levin, D-Mich., requesting that top civilian and military leadership at the Department of Defense appear before the committee to answer questions about the treatment of prisoners not only at facilities in Iraq, but also at military prisons around the world. The Pentagon is already looking into the abuse of Iraqi prisoners by U.S. forces at the Abu Ghraib prison on the outskirts of Baghdad.
   "The photographic evidence that Iraqi prisoners have been humiliated, abused, and mistreated is absolutely shocking. One can hardly ponder the technicalities of the Geneva Conventions when the most basic rules of human decency have been violated. The disgust expressed by many Americans has been amplified a thousand times by outraged Muslims around the world," Byrd said Tuesday.
   "It is not clear at this point who should be held to account. No one has stepped forward to take responsibility for the conditions in Iraqi prisons. Instead, fingers are being pointed in every direction. Soldiers are blaming superior officers, and generals are blaming subordinates. Others blame our intelligence services, which blame contractors, who blame others still. Some military leaders claim that this is an isolated incident, others make ominous claims about patterns of abuses," Byrd said. "With whom does this buck stop?"
   The Armed Services Committee has heard from military officials during a closed briefing about the allegations of abuse. But Byrd believes that the American people deserve to hear the facts.
 
 