SENATE CLEARS $35.6 MILLION FOR MINE SAFETY
  The United States Senate has approved $35.6 million for immediate improvements in coal mine safety, Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., announced Thursday.
   "In the wake of 18 coal mining deaths in the State of West Virginia this year, and another 17 mining deaths in other states, it is imperative that the Congress act immediately to ensure that an adequate number of safety inspectors will be provided for our nation's mines, and to expedite the introduction of critical safety equipment," Byrd said. 
   Byrd worked to ensure that the $35.6 million for mine safety improvements was included in the Senate version of the emergency national security funding bill. The funding will begin to pay for more mine safety inspectors as well as to move advanced safety and rescue technologies into America's coal mines.
   Today, there are 217 fewer coal mine safety inspectors on the job than five years ago. Many of the technologies, already in place in other countries, have not been deployed in U.S. mines.
   Byrd and Rockefeller have partnered to press the Senate for changes in the federal mine safety laws with the aim of preventing future mine tragedies from occurring.
   "Once again, Senator Byrd has come through for our coal miners. Under his leadership, the Senate will provide $35 million in funding to improve mine safety. These critical funds will result in immediate action by increasing the number of mine safety inspectors and improving safety equipment," Rockefeller said.
   "And, this is only the beginning. I am working closely with Senator Byrd to achieve some of the greatest strides in mine safety in a generation. For the past few months, we have worked together on bipartisan legislation to provide better communication, access to adequate oxygen supplies, and more efficient rescue operations," Rockefeller added. 
   The Senate's action to approve $35.6 million for mine safety comes on the heels of two days of hearings by state and federal investigators into the cause of January's Sago mine explosion and the rescue efforts that followed. 
   "We have heard testimony from the families of those killed in the Sago explosion in January. We have heard from the coal operators. We have heard from experts. In all of this testimony, one truth is clear: lives can be saved when the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration places miners' safety and health at the very top of its priority list," Byrd said during Senate debate. "We must have more inspectors on the job. We must have better rescue teams trained and equipped and ready to go at a moment's notice. We must have pre-positioned oxygen and emergency supplies in our coal mines. And we must have ways to communicate with trapped miners. We have to do these things."
   "It is simply inexcusable that our miners have oxygen canisters that last only one hour when miners may be trapped underground for several days, or that the miners may not have emergency communications equipment that can reach the surface in the event of an extended rescue effort," Byrd stated.
   "Our miners risk their lives every day to help power our nation's economy. They deserve safe working conditions. Never again should we have to endure the tragedies of this year and years past," Rockefeller said.
   With Senate approval, by a 78-20 vote, on Thursday, the emergency national security funding package moves to a conference with the House of Representatives. There, Senators and House members will work to iron out the differences between the two chambers' versions of the legislation.
 
 