NATION NEEDS DETAILS OF BUSH PLAN FOR SOCIAL SECURITY
  As President Bush delivered another campaign-style Social Security speech, this one in Parkersburg, W.Va., Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., called on the President to share the details of his plan with the country. 
   "The President is running all over the country talking about his 'plan,' but he hasn't told the American people the details of his plan," Byrd said. 
   "I want to be fair to the President and study what he offers. But until he offers the details, we don't have anything but empty rhetoric," Byrd said. "We ought to know what he's talking about."
   President Bush invited the Senator to join him for the trip to Parkersburg, but Senate business kept Byrd working at the Capitol.
   The West Virginia lawmaker has asked specific questions about the Bush proposals, such as: How much will it cost? Will it add significant debt to the nation? Will the President's plan spark benefits cuts for the elderly or the disabled? How will the country pay for the President's plan? What are the risks? The Senator had hoped that the President would use his trip to Parkersburg to answer those questions.
   The current worker-to-retiree demographics in the United States spell trouble for Social Security and its ability to keep up with its promised benefits for future generations. People are having smaller families resulting in fewer new workers paying taxes into Social Security. And seniors are living longer and collecting benefits for many more years. In fact, in a little over a decade, in 2018, the Social Security Trustees anticipate that the revenues collected from Social Security taxes will no longer be enough to pay full benefits to everyone eligible.
   "I don't hear anything about the details," Byrd said.
   "I know what Social Security means to the 405,000 West Virginians who rely on that monthly check. They rely on Social Security. How will the President's plan impact them? The young people ought to know, too, because they are the ones just starting to pay into Social Security today," Byrd stated.
   Byrd has written to President Bush to urge him to explain the full cost of his Social Security plan and its possible effect on people's benefits.
 
 