SEN. BYRD PRESSES GATES ON MIDDLE EAST STABILITY
An American attack against Iran or Syria could risk any hope for peace and stability in the Middle East, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., told the man nominated to be the new U.S. Secretary of Defense. 
 "Make no mistake about it - if you are confirmed as Secretary of Defense, you will be walking into a buzz saw," Byrd told Defense Secretary nominee Robert Gates at his confirmation hearing Tuesday.
 The West Virginia Democrat immediately turned his attention to the volatile situation in the Middle East.
 "We hear all these rumors about the potential for an attack on Iran due to its nuclear weapons program, or on Syria due to its support of terrorism," Byrd said. "Do you support an attack on Iran?"
 "I think that military action against Iran would be an absolute last resort, that any problems that we have with Iran, our first option should be diplomacy and working with our allies to try and deal with the problems that Iran is posing to us," Gates responded. "We have seen in Iraq that once war is unleashed, it becomes unpredictable. And I think that the consequences of a military conflict with Iran could be quite dramatic. Therefore, I would counsel against military action except as a last resort and if we felt our vital interests were threatened."
 The consequences of such an attack, Gates warned, could be disastrous.
 "While Iran cannot attack us directly, militarily, I think that their capacity to potentially close off the Persian Gulf to all exports of oil, their potential to unleash a significant wave of terror in the Middle East and in Europe and even here in this country is very real," Gates explained. "And I believe that a military attack by the United States on Syria would have dramatic consequences for us throughout the Middle East. I think that it would give rise to significantly greater anti-Americanism than we have seen to date. I think it would immensely complicate our relationships with virtually every country in the region."
 After the hearing, Byrd believed that Gates provided straightforward insight not often associated with the civilian leadership at the Pentagon today.
 "The current Administration policy in Iraq - a heavy handed, unbalanced, preemptive policy - has put long-term peace in the Middle East in great jeopardy," Byrd said. "We do not have the luxury of time. The frustration and anger of the Iraqi people, including those who would otherwise support the American effort, grows by the day."
 "Before the war began, there was no doubt as to the military outcome of the initial invasion of Iraq; our might was unquestioned. The doubt centered on the specious motives for war, and the repercussions that would follow. We have experienced those repercussions all too clearly, yet the White House still clings to its failed approaches. We must have a new direction for the American mission in Iraq, and I hope that Mr. Gates, if confirmed, can help to map that course," Byrd said.
 
 