A TRAGEDY OF AN INCREDIBLE MAGNITUDE
  On December 26, an earthquake with a magnitude of 9.0 on the Richter Scale occurred off the west coast of Northern Sumatra, Indonesia. That quake triggered a series of tsunamis that affected several countries throughout South and Southeast Asia, as well as Somalia, Tanzania, and Kenya in East Africa. But that scientific explanation does not begin to describe the devastation left in the wake of the calamity. 
   Lives by the tens of thousands destroyed. Families broken. Houses flattened. Communities washed away. There are few words to describe the destruction. It is a tragedy that is almost beyond comprehension.
   At such times, one must wonder why it takes such tragedies to bring out the best of the human spirit. Yet, many of us only come to grips with our common bond of humanity in the face of truly enormous disaster.
   The stark reminder of such horrific events is that man is really not in control of this world. God rules this world, and perhaps He sends us such devastation from time to time so that the goodness of human kindness and true empathy toward our fellow man can manifest themselves on a large scale. I do not know, but I do know that the prayers of many West Virginians are with the devastated families, the missing and the dead at this time.
   Recovery will not be simple or quick. It will be a monumental task, one that I am encouraged to see the entire world joining to undertake. The United States is a strong partner in this work. The federal government has already pledged $350 million to the effort, but our commitment to this effort does not stop there.
   Americans from all walks of life have opened their hearts and their pocketbooks to the victims of the tsunami disaster. I commend President Bush for designating his father President George H. W. Bush and President Bill Clinton to lead the effort in raising private contributions. Those donations are pouring into relief agencies, and many people with expertise in medicine and other critical needs are putting their lives on hold to travel to these regions to help. 
   West Virginians wishing to make a contribution to the relief effort can help in several ways. Visit my Internet site, http://byrd.senate.gov, to learn more.
   There may be many miles between our country and the victims of the tsunami, but we share the common bond of humanity. America will continue to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with those recovering from this disaster.
 
 