BUDGET OUT OF STEP WITH WEST VIRGINIA
  Sen. Byrd said Monday that the Bush Administration's new budget jeopardizes health care for West Virginia's seniors and veterans, while breaking the promise made to West Virginians to strongly support the clean coal technology program. Sen. Byrd's statement follows.  
   The White House budget will make it harder for working families trying to make ends meet. The people's priorities - health care, education, affordable energy, jobs, retirement security - these priorities are forgotten in the Bush Administration budget.
   Families are worried about how to pay their rising health care bills. More than 44 million Americans, including 275,000 West Virginians, have no health insurance. But there is no relief in this budget. The Medicare safety net is slashed. Cures for cancer, heart disease, and many other illnesses so prevalent in West Virginia are pushed farther away as medical research is reduced to shamefully low levels. Rural health initiatives, emergency medical services for children, and support for children's hospitals - these and so many other vital health care efforts are on the White House chopping block.
   For too many veterans, this budget slams the door of the VA. Our veterans paid the price for their health care on battlefields around the world. But the White House wants veterans to pay more. Their prescription costs go up while many will be charged a new fee to receive their medical services. This is no way to thank our veterans from past wars and from the battles of today.
   For students with the smarts to succeed in college but not the money to pay rising tuition bills, the White House says tough luck. The federal Perkins student loan program is completely eliminated. Pell Grants are frozen. All of this comes at a time when tuition costs are skyrocketing - between 17 and 28 percent in the past five years at many schools. Overall, the Bush Administration is proposing the largest cut to education funding in the 26-year history of the U.S. Department of Education. How will our young people compete with students in other countries if the Bush Administration continues to take teachers and resources out of America's classrooms?
   We all know that families are rearranging priorities and cutting back on their household budgets so that they can afford to fill up their gas tanks and pay the heating bills. But the Bush budget does little to relieve the pressure facing families. Instead of investing in clean coal technology and other domestic energy resources, the Bush budget drains our energy power by virtually eliminating our brain power in energy research. In 2000, George W. Bush promised the people of West Virginia that he would devote $200 million a year for clean coal technologies, but he has yet to live up to his pledge. And this year his budget puts a mere $5 million toward this critical effort. This paltry funding level means that the next generation of advanced clean energy technologies will be several generations of Americans away.
   At a time when America's coalfield communities are worried about mine safety, this budget does little more than offer the status quo. Four years of budget cuts, four years of coal enforcement staff cuts, are left in place. Instead of offering significant resources to help make coal mines safer for the men and women who provide the power for this country, the Bush White House offers a band-aid. The federal government must get serious about coal mine safety.
   And in a day when we are constantly reminded about the threats of terrorist attacks here at home, support for first responders is slashed. The White House is sending a clear message to police officers and firefighters and emergency medical teams: If you want the latest training and equipment, if you want to be ready to respond at a moment's notice, then you had better have more bake sales and bingo nights to pay your way. The Administration's budget would rather pay $10.4 billion for a pie-in-the-sky missile defense system than for our communities' first line of homeland defense. It appears that the White House has learned no lessons from the dismal response to Hurricane Katrina.
   For five years, the Bush Administration has made it harder for West Virginia families. This budget is no different. This budget increases the national debt in every year for as far as the eye can see. Once again, West Virginia families are given the short end of the stick from the White House, and it will take hard work from Congressional Republicans and Democrats alike to restore some common sense to America's budget priorities.
 
 