SEN. BYRD BACKS TSUNAMI RELIEF EFFORTS
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., has added his support to legislation that would encourage more Americans to make immediate cash contributions to Tsunami relief efforts by allowing them to claim the donations on their 2004 tax returns. 
   "For hundreds of thousands of people living along the coast of the Indian Ocean, the days of the typically joyous holiday season were marked by horror and disbelief. More than 150,000 people have lost their lives so far from the disaster's wrath. Families have been broken, houses flattened, and whole communities washed away. It is a tragedy that is almost beyond comprehension," Byrd explained.
   Byrd is cosponsoring legislation that would allow taxpayers to claim a 2004 charitable tax deduction for cash gifts made to aid tsunami relief efforts during the month of January 2005.
   Numerous charitable organizations are collecting donations to aide the victims of the magnitude the 9.0 earthquake that occurred on December 26 off the west coast of Northern Sumatra, Indonesia. The quake triggered a series of tsunamis that affected several countries throughout South and Southeast Asia, as well as Somalia, Tanzania, and Kenya in East Africa.
   "This legislation is a simple and cost effective way to encourage Americans not to put off making desperately needed contributions for the tsunami victims. Individuals can make a donation today and deduct it on tax forms they will prepare in coming months. So many Americans have already opened their hearts and wallets to our world friends, and this proposal will allow more people to join the effort," Byrd said.
   According to the World Health Organization, if basic needs are not restored to the affected regions by the end of the week, the outbreak of infectious disease could kill almost as many people who have already lost their lives.
   "The recovery from this tragedy will not be simple or quick, but it can be accomplished with the help of the American people. There may be many miles between our country and the victims of the tsunami, but we share the common bond of humanity. The generosity of the American people has been proven time and again, and we will continue to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with those recovering from this disaster," Byrd said.
   "I hope the Congress will act quickly on this legislation so it will have the greatest impact on the relief efforts," Byrd added.
   West Virginians wishing to make a contribution to the relief effort can find information at Senator Byrd's website, http://byrd.senate.gov, or the site for the U.S. Agency for International Development, http://www.usaid.gov.
 
 