SEN. BYRD: WEST VIRGINIA VETERANS NEED HELP
 West Virginians have a proud record of service in the United States Armed Forces. The famed General Stonewall Jackson hailed from present-day West Virginia. Chuck Yeager, the World War II ace and first man to travel faster than sound, is a proud West Virginian. Staff Sergeant Junior Spurrier from Bluefield was the second most decorated American soldier in World War II. 
   There are many more West Virginians who served the nation but whose names will not be recorded in the great military histories of our country. These veterans have asked little of their country. They expect only that the government provide them with the benefits they earned in service to their country.
   But, time and time again, the Bush White House has turned its back on veterans. When choosing between budget-busting tax cuts or funding veterans programs, the Administration has cut taxes for America's super-wealthy instead of taking care of America's veterans. 
   For the last three years, Congress tried to increase veterans benefits by allowing military retirees to keep all of their Veterans Administration (VA) disability checks and military retirement pay. But the Bush White House fought against funds for veterans and even threatened to veto a $396 billion defense bill to prevent veterans from receiving their due compensation. 
   This year, President Bush approved plans to close or cut services at veterans' hospitals across the country. The Beckley VA Medical Center, which serves 40,000 veterans in Southern West Virginia, narrowly missed the President's chopping block. The Beckley facility was saved only with a last-minute intervention by Senator Rockefeller, Representative Rahall, and myself. 
   Last year, the Bush Administration decided that an entire category of veterans should no longer be eligible to seek health care from the VA. As a result, more than 520,000 veterans will be barred from VA hospitals. The Bush Administration also wants to double the cost of prescription drugs for thousands of veterans while increasing their doctor visit fees by 33 percent and sticking them with new annual enrollment fees.
   West Virginia's veterans know about sacrifice. They have given much in service to this country. Yet, the Bush White House wants veterans to give up more and more of their hard-earned benefits. The Administration ought to stick up for veterans instead of sticking them with a bigger health care bill.
 
 