SEN. BYRD SCHOOL PRAYER AMENDMENT GAINING GROUND; KEY MEMBERS OF REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP TEAM BACKING BYRD EFFORT
  A proposal to clear the way for voluntary prayer in America's classrooms and at school events is gaining the support of a key group of Senators. The latest to join as a cosponsor is North Carolina Republican Elizabeth Dole, who, as the chair of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, is a key member of the Senate Republican Leadership team. 
   "Prayer and faith in the Creator have helped to shape this nation from its earliest days. Our Founding Fathers relied on the Creator's strength to carry them through the most difficult hours in the battle for independence. But despite the clear role of prayer and faith in our nation, and despite the emphasis given to faith by our Founders, too many courts have tried to gag citizens who want to voluntarily express their beliefs," Byrd said.
   The proposal that Byrd has authored states simply that nothing in the Constitution prohibits voluntary school prayer. The First Amendment to the Constitution states: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; ..." Senator Byrd believes that court rulings have been significantly unbalanced - with far more weight being given to the first part of that clause ("Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion") than to the second part ("or prohibiting the free exercise thereof").
   A growing list of Senators have signed up in support of the Byrd plan, including Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., Thad Cochran, R-Miss., Trent Lott, R-Miss., Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., James Inhofe, R-Okla., and now Republican Senator Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina.
   "I am proud to have this group of Senators joining me in this effort," Byrd explained. "I believe that, in ruling after ruling, the U.S. courts have been moving perilously close to prohibiting the free exercise of religion in America. Americans don't want religious censorship. But neither do we want to force religion on anyone. Ours is a religious nation, and we have been so throughout our history."
   Byrd has discussed the issue with United States Chief Justice John Roberts, pointing out that the Constitution's Framers made their intent clear: while they wanted to keep the new government from endorsing or favoring one religion over another, the Framers had no thought of removing faith from the public domain.
   The West Virginia lawmaker's proposed Constitutional amendment is pending before the Senate Judiciary Committee.
 
 