SEN. BYRD SPEAKS ON TRUE MESSAGE OF EASTER HOLIDAY
  Before the Senate adjourned for its Easter Recess, Sen. Byrd delivered this speech to remind people of the true message of the Easter holiday. 
   Mr. President, this Sunday, April 9, is Palm Sunday. It marks the beginning of the Christian Holy Week and Easter. The Senate will recess today so that members might celebrate this holy week in the home churches, among their families, friends, and constituents. 
   Before we adjourn, I would like to give a little consideration to those world-shaping events of some 2,000 years ago. Whether one counts themselves a Christian of any denomination, or a follower of any other faith, one must admit that the man at the center of the Easter celebration was and is a figure of historical import, just as are the founding figures of the rest of the world's religions. There are today, by some estimates, approximately 2.1 billion Christians of all denominations, more than any other religious affiliation and almost twice as many as those who describe themselves as secular, non-religious, agnostic, or atheist (1.1 billion). That one man's example and teachings have affected so many people so deeply and for so many years is a testament to his faith.
   On Palm Sunday, a rabbi from Galilee whom we know best today as Jesus, made a public entrance into Jerusalem to celebrate the Jewish holiday of Passover. In doing so, Jesus surely knew what was in store for Him. He knew He was a wanted man, marked for arrest by the civil authorities who feared that He would incite a rebellion that would lead to Roman occupation and unprotected by religious authorities who feared His teachings and who could not countenance His refusal to deny being more than human. But still He came, and the people cheered and threw palm leaves, a symbol of triumph and the national symbol of an independent Palestine, before His path. What a remarkable act of faith, to come willingly to one's tragic end, seeing through the suffering to the miracle of resurrection. What a remarkable act of courage, to remain silent and smiling at the people He knew would not or could not aid Him in His final hours.
   Some 2,000 years later, those 2.1 billion Christians around the world commemorate Jesus' final entry into Jerusalem by making crosses out of palm fronds, combining the triumphant entrance with the lasting image of Christ on the cross.
   By Thursday, called Maundy Thursday or Holy Thursday, Jesus' freedom ended after His last meal, when He was arrested and imprisoned, betrayed by Judas for 30 pieces of silver. Foreknowledge could not have made those fateful moments any easier to bear. On Good Friday, Christians will solemnly remember His suffering and death upon the cross. Candles and lights will be extinguished in memory of His final hours. Good Friday remains a sad, dark day despite the knowledge of His resurrection to leaven the terrible suffering He endured.
   Holy Saturday is a day of vigil, as Christians figuratively keep watch over Christ's tomb and await the glorious resurrection to come. And Easter Sunday, or Resurrection Sunday, is a joyful, glorious day of reaffirmed faith, of promises kept, of hope restored. I read now from Matthew 28th Chapter the 1st through 7th verses, the King James version, the Holy Bible:
   For the next 40 days, Christ proved to his followers that He had, indeed, risen from the dead. Then, He ascended into Heaven, fulfilling the final promise of His wondrous life. 
   As John 3:16 so beautifully summed up the central promise of the Christian faith, "For God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life." In Jesus' resurrection and ascencion, God offers the greatest and only proof of His love and His promise that in death, there is life in faith. That, not chocolate bunnies and colorful eggs, is the great gift of Easter. Its comfort and solace linger on in the soul even longer than chocolate does on the hips. It warms us even more during sad times than does the spring sun after a cold and cheerless winter.
   It is because of this great gift, this promise of everlasting life, and the heart-searing proof through sacrifice, that Christianity survived the passing of its founder. Nearly 2,000 years later, the words and example of the rabbi from Galilee motivate and support over 2 billion people around the world. Governments have tried to stamp Him out but still He endures in his devout followers. Technology has tried to distract us, but still His word beckons. I am sure that whatever trials and tribulations lie ahead, His teachings and faith will offer comfort and hope, no matter how bleak the 
  future might appear. In all the moments of our lives, large and small, 
  joyful and desolate, triumphant and abject, He is there at our side with support and hope. I do feel for those 1.2 billion people who do not have faith to sustain them and give them strength. It is a deep well of support and nourishment for the weary soul.
   I close with the words of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, from his poem "Christus: A Mystery." In the poem, Prince Henry is speaking to Elsie as they cross the square:
   This is the day, when from the dead
  Our Lord arose; and everywhere,
  Out of their darkness and despair,
  Triumphant over fears and foes,
  The hearts of his disciples rose,
  When to the women, standing near,
  The Angel in shining vesture said,
  "The Lord is risen; he is not here!"
  And, mindful that the day is come,
  On all the hearths in Christendom
  The fires are quenched, to be again
  Rekindled from the sun, that high
  Is dancing in the cloudless sky.
  The churches are all decked with flowers, The salutations among men Are but the Angel's words divine, "Christ is arisen!" and the bells Catch the glad murmur, as it swells, And chant together in their towers.
  All hearts are glad; and free from care
  The faces of the people shine.
  See what a crowd is in the square,
  Gayly and gallantly arrayed!
   Mr. President, may we all enjoy and share the blessings and comfort of Easter.
 
 