BUSH BUDGET BREAKS PROMISES TO VETERANS
  President Bush has sent to Congress a plan that requires veterans to dig much deeper into their pockets to pay for a doctor's visit at their local Veterans Administration (VA) medical clinic, and many will have to pay a $250 annual fee just for the privilege of using VA facilities, U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Monday.
   "We have more than 150,000 men and women in battle in Iraq. Today's soldiers are tomorrow's veterans. When those men and women get home, they'll have the thanks of a grateful nation. And they'll have a bigger bill for their medical care," Byrd said. "The Bush Administration ought to stick up for veterans instead of sticking them with a bigger health care bill." 
   The President on Monday sent to Congress his federal budget for the coming fiscal year. Included in that budget is a doubling of the copayment for monthly prescriptions and a $250 "user fee" for veterans whom the Administration classifies in "lower-priority categories." In January 2003, the Bush Administration made the decision to start turning away hundreds of thousands of these "lower-priority" veterans from service at VA hospitals. Now the White House seeks to increase fees on some of those veterans who have so far avoided the Administration's budget axe.
   "Veterans who receive their health care from the VA Medical Centers in West Virginia are not immune from these significant hikes in fees and copayments," Byrd explained, noting that there are more than 190,000 Mountain State veterans.
   "Veterans paid for their health care at Iwo Jima, at the Mekong Delta, at the Chosin Reservoir, and at Fallujah. They shouldn't be expected to pay yet again for the benefits which they were promised and that they earned," Byrd stated. "But, time and time again, when choosing between budget-busting tax cuts or funding veterans programs, the Bush Administration has cut taxes for America's super-wealthy instead of taking care of our veterans."
   Included in the President's budget is a proposal to make permanent the tax cuts he championed for the richest Americans while slashing funds for veterans, students, and the poor.
   "The President's budget sacrifices the needs of the nation over the long haul in exchange for the White House's political priority of the day," Byrd said.
   The nation's three largest veterans organizations - the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Disabled American Veterans organizations - have continually warned the Bush Administration about the human cost of underfunding veterans medical care. They noted recently that millions of veterans have made the VA their first choice for health care because of the quality of the care they receive. And for many others, the VA is their only health care lifeline. The cumulative effects of insufficient health care funding have resulted in the rationing of medical care, the organizations reported.
   "VA health care is an ongoing cost of war. Every veteran answered the nation's call to arms without reservation. As wartime veterans, Legionnaires understand the importance of the VA health care system. Short-changing VA health care is short-changing every military veteran from Bunker Hill to Baghdad. America's veterans are not expendable and should never be treated as such," said American Legion National Commander Thomas P. Cadmus.
   "Especially during this time of war, fully providing for the needs of this nation's past, present and future defenders is more than a mere contract between this government and its people, it is a moral obligation. No veteran must ever be denied VA health care or benefits for want of federal funding," said VFW Commander-in-Chief John Furgess.
 
 