SEN. BYRD ASKS WHY WOUNDED WEST VIRGINIA SOLDIER PAID FOR BODY ARMOR
  In a Senate hearing Tuesday, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., asked the Pentagon's top brass why a soldier from Charleston was forced to pay for body armor that was damaged when he was wounded in Iraq. 
   "How can it be that the Army is charging wounded soldiers for replacing damaged body armor? Is this standard practice?" Byrd asked, referencing the story of 1st Lt. William "Eddie" Rebrook IV, who reportedly had to pay $700 for his unrecovered body armor before being medically discharged from the Army.
   "That is a very unusual story," said General Peter Schoomaker, Chief of Staff of the Army. "I don't deny that it's in the newspaper. We'll be glad to follow up. I have no idea why we would ever do something like that. We have issued body armor, the very best that exists in the world. Every soldier has it. We certainly have procedures that account for battle loss, and I just find it a highly unusual story. But we'll certainly follow up and correct it if there's any truth to it."
   The exchange took place at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on the Department of Defense budget for Fiscal Year 2007. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Peter Pace, and General Schoomaker testified before the committee.
   "I stand second to no one in my support of, and gratitude to, America's military forces. Our soldiers, sailors, Marines, and airmen are the finest in the world. All Americans owe them a debt of gratitude for their service to our country. But we also owe them something more," Byrd said at the hearing.
   "We owe them not only mega-million dollar missiles and tanks and airplanes but also basic body armor and detection devices to protect them from the deadly nickel-and-dime improvised explosive devices (IEDs) of the Iraqi insurgency. And we owe them a military health care system and a veterans benefits program that serve them as well as they have served the nation," Byrd stated. 
   The President's 2007 budget request for the Defense Department is $439.3 billion. That figure does not include $50 billion for an emergency "bridge fund" tacked onto the budget for the Iraq war for next year, or an estimated $70 billion in supplemental funding that the President intends to request for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. When those costs are included, the defense budget balloons to nearly $560 billion - well over half a trillion dollars. 
   "This is a mind-boggling sum of money for defense, and the American taxpayers deserve to know whether this is, in fact, money well spent. Amid all the buzzwords like the "long war," military transformation, and "capabilities-based planning," this budget falls short of the mark of making the needed investments in the people who serve in our armed forces. We can never afford to lose sight of the fact that our military is made up of people," the Senator stated.
   "The war on terror may well turn out to be a long war, but that does not mean that we should settle for a policy of continuing to tread water indefinitely in Iraq and Afghanistan, at a cost that may well be unsustainable," Byrd said.
 
 