TEAMING TO IMPROVE RURAL HEALTH CARE
  America's Armed Forces and veterans deserve the highest quality medical care available. The same cutting-edge services that help to keep soldiers in top form also can reap benefits for civilian patients. That is why I have worked to ensure that West Virginians have access to a health care tool which previously was used only at the country's leading military hospital. 
   The experts at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C., have developed an innovative program called HEALTHeFORCES. In their doctors' waiting rooms, patients use small computerized devices to answer questions about their illnesses and any health-related problems affecting their daily lives. This information helps doctors to better treat patients based on their full medical histories, rather than one particular symptom or illness. 
   Thanks to a collaborative effort I helped to initiate between Walter Reed, Marshall University, and the National Technology Transfer Center (NTTC), diabetic patients in Southern West Virginia are better managing their disease and enhancing their quality of life. Marshall's Byrd Center for Rural Health has adapted the HEALTHeFORCES program and launched HEALTHeWV at Marshall University Medical Center and other rural clinics in Southern West Virginia. The NTTC, in turn, will lay the groundwork for the program's implementation at other sites in the state and nation. HEALTHeWV is a shining example of linking national advancements with local expertise to meet West Virginia's health care needs.
   While the HEALTHeWV program will likely address other chronic illnesses including heart and lung disease, diabetes patients were the logical first participants. Diabetics who participated in the military's HEALTHeFORCES program were far more likely to have appropriate testing and better test results. West Virginia's incidence of diabetes is 41 percent above the national average, impacting rural families and health care providers more than any other disease. Coordinating the multiple care components of this complex disease can be extremely difficult for rural physicians. I hope that HEALTHeWV's ability to document and track treatment plans will make doctors' jobs easier and patient care more effective.
   For far too long, rural health care has meant inferior health care. I have worked throughout my years of public service to improve health care in all areas of the state. Programs such as HEALTHeWV allow patients to take an active role in their care, thereby helping to further the goal of health care equality. I look forward to the day when this latest technology allows chronically ill patients throughout West Virginia to receive better treatment and live better lives.
 
 