LONDON EXPLOSIONS SHOULD SPARK ACTION IN AMERICA
  In light of the train and bus explosions in London on Thursday, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., renewed his call for more investment in rail and transit security. 
   "For too long, the United States government has put its head in the sand where Amtrak and commuter rail and mass transit security are concerned," Byrd said.
   "The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) is responsible for protecting all of America's transportation network - airplanes, trains, ships, trucks. Despite this broad mandate, the TSA budget still devotes more than 95 percent of its budget to airplane security," Byrd said. "Instead of looking ahead and guarding against the threats that we face today and in the days ahead, the TSA is still focused on preventing the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001. It's time to wake up and smell the coffee. America's total transportation network needs more protection," Byrd said.
   The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service reports that passenger rail systems in the United States carry about five times as many passengers each day as do airlines. Yet, Byrd argues, the security at railroads remains lax if not non-existent. According to the Rand Corporation, between 1998 and 2003, there were approximately 181 terrorist attacks on rail targets worldwide. 
   Byrd, the leading Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Homeland Security panel, has consistently pressed the Department of Homeland Security to invest significant funds to close the gap in security protections here at home. Byrd has offered six different amendments to fund rail and transit security since 2001 - all of which were opposed by the Administration and defeated in the Senate. 
   "Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of the London bombing. For all of us, the pictures were all-too-graphic reminders of how quickly disaster can strike. London's tragedy ought to serve as a call to action for our government to take steps now to protect our citizens from future attack," Byrd said.
 
 