SEN. BYRD FIGHTS TO PROTECT WEST VIRGINIA'S MEDICARE, MEDICAID BENEFICIARIES
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., is urging Congressional leaders to protect access to hospital care for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.  
   "The Bush Administration is pushing cuts in payments to hospitals that would jeopardize the medical care for hundreds of thousands of West Virginians," Byrd said. "Our state's full-service community hospitals are the health care safety net for our most vulnerable citizens. But these hospitals face growing cost pressures. Cutting Medicare and Medicaid payments while requiring these facilities to continue to treat patients would put these hospitals in a financial hole so deep that they might not be able to recover."
   In its budget proposal, the Bush Administration outlined funding cuts for West Virginia hospitals totaling more than $236 million in Medicare and Medicaid funding. The House and Senate Budget Committees have the President's plan under consideration.
   "I will fight these cuts and work to give West Virginia hospitals the resources that they need to provide care to those people who need it the most," Byrd stated.
   Rising numbers of uninsured, new and costly pharmaceuticals and technologies, labor shortages, and preparing for possible public health crises such as flu epidemics and terrorist attacks - these are just some of the many pressures hospitals face and that communities expect hospitals to address. Byrd noted that funding for hospitals is not keeping pace with the costs of responding to these challenges. 
   "Our state's health care industry employs more than 36,000 men and women. They provide the health care safety net for the entire state. It makes no sense, from the standpoint of our state's economy or the health of our citizens, for these cuts ever to make it into law," Byrd said.
   The nonpartisan Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) reported that Medicare payments are falling further and further below the minimal costs of care for our seniors. MedPAC estimates that 2007 will produce the lowest Medicare margins ever recorded. 
   Forty Senators joined Byrd in writing to Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad, D-N.D., and the committee's top Republican, Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire to oppose the Bush Administration's proposed cuts.
 
 