WEST VIRGINIA DELEGATION STARTS FINAL PUSH TO SAVE 130TH NATIONAL GUARD AIRLIFT WING
  The West Virginia Congressional Delegation has launched a final push to save the state's 130th National Guard Airlift Wing.
   In letters to Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission Chairman Anthony Principi and the eight other members of the panel, the five members of the Congressional Delegation urged that the 130th be expanded, not dismantled. 
   "There would be several benefits to increasing the number of aircraft in the 130th Airlift Wing. The additional C-130 aircraft would be used by a unit with an outstanding record of performance and efficiency. The 130th Airlift Wing is manned at more than 103 percent of its authorized strength, has a personnel retention rate of 94.9 percent, has the lowest cost per flying hour of any Air National Guard unit that would gain aircraft under recommendations of the Secretary of Defense, and the lowest operations and maintenance costs of comparable Air National Guard units," the Delegation wrote.
   Each member of the Delegation has been actively lobbying the BRAC Commission, traveling to Charleston and to Charlotte, N.C., for meetings with commissioners, including a visit by Chairman Principi to Charleston in June.
   Principi and the other members of the BRAC Commission hold the fate of the 130th Airlift Wing in their hands. In May, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld released his plan to cease flying operations at the Charleston-based 130th Airlift Wing, and instead locate the unit's fleet of eight C-130 planes at Pope Air Force Base/Fort Bragg in North Carolina. The BRAC Commission has the authority to change the Secretary's plan. 
   As part of the changes it considers, the West Virginia Congressional Delegation hopes that the 130th will grow and not disappear.
   "The expansion of the 130th Airlift Wing would be a tremendous boost to the readiness and capability of the National Guard to carry out homeland security missions. The West Virginia National Guard is unique in that it has two highly trained units that focus specifically on executing rapid response to the use of weapons of mass destruction (WMD). The 35th Civil Support Team is a joint West Virginia Army and Air National Guard unit that is trained to respond to a WMD event within one and a half hours," the Mountain State's Members of Congress told the BRAC Commission.
   They pointed out that Charleston is home to one of the nation's twelve Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, High Explosive Enhanced Response Force Package (CERF-P) teams. The West Virginia unit is the only one in the nation that is fully certified.
   "This important capability is essential to homeland security missions not only in West Virginia, but also the National Capital Region, as evidenced by the fact that it was the only CERF-P team on call during the 2005 Presidential Inauguration. Providing additional aircraft to the 130th Airlift Wing would support these important homeland security missions," the Congressional Delegation explained.
   The five Members of Congress also urged Chairman Principi and the other Commissioners to follow the legal guidance of the BRAC Commission's Office of General Counsel. In July, that office released an opinion that raised significant questions about the process that Secretary Rumsfeld followed as he crafted his closure and realignment recommendations.
   Specifically, the Commission's lawyers questioned the ability of the Secretary of Defense to shut down a National Guard base without the approval of the governor of the state where that unit is based. The BRAC Office of General Counsel pointed to this and other legal problems that could result in the BRAC Commission rejecting Rumsfeld's Air National Guard closure and realignment proposal.
   "The Pentagon consulted with governors in a mutually satisfactory manner with respect to BRAC recommendations related to the Army National Guard. Unfortunately, the same process did not take place for recommendations relating to the Air National Guard. We urge you to support a BRAC process that reflects a consensus agreement among the Department of Defense and affected governors, and to avoid an outcome that would sow divisions between the states and the Federal government," the West Virginia Delegation explained.
   A copy of the letter to Chairman Principi and the BRAC Commissioners is available at Senator Byrd's Internet site: http://byrd.senate.gov/brac.all.commissioners.pdf
   Later this week, the BRAC Commission will meet again to focus on the potential closures of Air National Guard bases in West Virginia and across the country. The Commission will not vote on the Defense Department recommendations at this meeting, but will gather information for later deliberations by the Commission. A vote on the fate of the 130th is expected later this month.
 
 