SEN. BYRD COMMENTS ON REPORT BY NATIONAL COMMISSION ON ENERGY POLICY
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Wednesday that a just-released report by the National Commission on Energy Policy should serve as a catalyst for legislative action on energy policy. Byrd, who has long advocated America's energy independence and the deployment of technologies that reduce pollution while increasing efficiency, hopes that this report will help to break down traditional barriers to progress to a national energy policy. Sen. Byrd's statement is below.  
   This report represents a unique opportunity for the future of the United States. The National Commission on Energy Policy set aside partisan agenda and personal bias in favor of a realistic assessment of the state of the nation's energy policy today and its direction for tomorrow. The results should be seriously examined and should serve as a major spark for legislative progress when Congress returns in January.
   Energy policy is about far more than how we best utilize our natural resources. It is also about how we lower our dependence on foreign sources of oil. When we reduce America's reliance on foreign oil, we reduce the need for an American military presence in the Middle East. By shrinking our military presence in the Middle East, we address the concerns of those who are opposed to American forces near Islamic holy sites and take away a major reason for terrorist attacks. That is why this debate is so central to our future. America's energy policy is intrinsically linked to America's national security. 
   It is also time for our energy and environmental goals to crafted together, instead of considered separately. I believe that energy and environmental goals are two sides of the same coin, and this report recognizes that truth. I represent a coal-producing state. Coal is our nation's most affordable, abundant natural resource. It is a key underpinning of our economy. But coal is also a major contributor of polluting emissions. It is a fact that cannot be ignored, but rather must be addressed, just as America's heavy reliance on foreign oil must be addressed, and just as emissions that contribute to climate change must be addressed. We must be prepared to make changes now, rather than wait for the situation to reach a crisis where changes will demand more drastic action down the road.
   Many of the policies and approaches advocated in the recommendations of the National Commission on Energy Policy can breathe new life into coal. The Commission recognizes that coal can be at the center stage of our efforts to secure our energy future. This report specifically recommends an accelerated effort for the early deployment of coal gasification and carbon sequestration technologies which will allow us to produce a variety of options from coal for power generation, liquid fuels, and chemicals while significantly reducing the emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury, and carbon dioxide. The effort cannot be limited to building a single power plant, but rather must promote a fleet of new plants outfitted with the best technology available.
   We cannot afford to see the energy debate as a debate between Northeast states versus Midwest states or renewable fuels versus fossil fuels. Those types of divisions only lead to further stalemate. We need to build on national consensus and fuel diversity. It is time to see energy through new lenses. 
   Using the work of the National Commission on Energy Policy as a starting point, it is time for Congress and the Bush Administration to work with industry, labor, academic, environmental, and community interests to find common ground. Commonsense market-based and regulatory approaches, emerging technology platforms, the more rapid deployment of advanced technologies in the U.S. and developing nations - in short - new policy perspectives can bring these divergent groups together. By doing so, we can champion a new energy and environmental legacy that will benefit all the world's citizens.
 
 