SEN. BYRD: MOUNTAIN STATE READY TO LEAD NEW ENERGY FUTURE
  West Virginia's brain power and coal reserves can lead the way to America's energy independence, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said at an Energy Forum in Charleston on Thursday. 
   "If the United States is to remain competitive and keep pace with our own growing energy demands, then we must take stock of our energy security, economic growth, and environmental concerns, and make these issues top national priorities," Senator Byrd explained at the Energy Forum. "By encouraging the cleaner, more efficient use of coal in power plants and other facilities, we help to ensure jobs in West Virginia's coal communities for many years to come."
   "The United States still is not fully capitalizing on our treasure trove of stored energy, because we have never made it U.S. policy to robustly invest in the full potential of coal. We must seriously invest in all of the energy resources that we have here at home, and coal should be at the center of that effort. Let us take coal-based technologies and demonstrate their efficiency," Byrd said.
   That attention to an energy infrastructure that frees the United States from foreign oil dependence, Byrd pointed out, will help to transform America's domestic and foreign policies.
   "I see a future where our foreign policy decisions are not driven by oil, and we do not have to garrison troops around the globe to protect oil pipelines. I see the United States better able to play the role of honest broker in trouble spots around the globe because our motives are not in question. I see new coal-based technologies powering trucks and cars, and providing all kinds of energy benefits for the consumer and our country. I see a stronger military because it can depend on a domestic energy supply," Byrd said. 
   Byrd joined West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin and representatives of the state's energy industry, labor, research, and higher education sectors at the forum. The Senator pointed out that the revolution needed in the energy industry is akin to the "Space Race" of the 1960s.
   "Just as President John F. Kennedy did when he sent this nation on a mission to put a man on the moon, this government can begin an intense national clean coal technology research and development program similar to the space program of the 1960's," Byrd explained. "Like the research done for the space programs, such energy research will produce spin-offs that create jobs, improve life, secure our energy future, and bolster our national security. Not even with the best crystal ball can we fully know what fantastic gains can be made. But, I say let us begin now, and let us begin to do this critical work in coal states like West Virginia."
 
 