BUSH ELIMINATES ALL FUNDING FOR AMTRAK
  The President's new budget puts the country's passenger rail service on track for bankruptcy, U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Tuesday. 
   "In his budget, the President refuses to provide a single dollar for Amtrak service. No funding means no service for 24 million passengers and no jobs for 22,000 employees," Byrd said.
   "Amtrak carries people between our biggest cities and our smallest communities. Without Amtrak, many regions of rural America would return to isolation. Yet, inexplicably, the President seems prepared to derail Amtrak and force a return to that isolation," Byrd said.
   Since President Bush took office, Byrd has had to battle Administration efforts to close the passenger rail service. For the current year, because of Byrd's efforts, Congress provided Amtrak with funding totaling $1.2 billion, beating back a proposed 26 percent cut sought by the President that would have resulted in Amtrak's bankruptcy. This year's funding fight may be the toughest yet.
   "This is the first time that President Bush has sought to completely eliminate Amtrak funding. Starting from zero is going to make it extremely difficult to adequately fund Amtrak in the Congressional budget and appropriations process," Byrd said.
   Amtrak provides commuter services in some of the nation's most congested urban corridors while also serving as a critical link between rural and urban areas of the country. The rail system has more than 500 stations in 46 states, including West Virginia's White Sulphur Springs, Montgomery, Charleston, Huntington, and Martinsburg.
   In a letter to Amtrak employees, the railroad's president, David Gunn, highlighted the challenges posed by the White House plan.
   "Obviously, the proposal is irresponsible and a surprising disappointment," Gunn wrote. "It doesn't acknowledge all the hard work [Amtrak has] done over the past two years to run a tighter and better ship."
   After years of deferred maintenance and investment that diminished operating reliability and on-time performance, Amtrak in 2003 launched a capital improvement plan supported by federal, state, and other sources. The railroad also implemented management reforms that returned the company to a traditional railroad organizational structure, eliminated duplicate layers of management, and reduced total number of employees. These changes have enabled Amtrak to better control its costs.
   At a Capitol Hill news conference Tuesday, Edward Wytkind, President of the AFL-CIO Transportation Trades Department, echoed the concerns of Byrd and Gunn.
   "The Bush Shut-Down Amtrak plan is nothing more than a slap in the face to the 22,000 workers who have done everything possible to keep this carrier going. If adopted, this plan would send 22,000 more American workers to already crowded unemployment lines," Wytkind said.
 
 