PRESIDENT UNDERCUTS FAIR TRADE EFFORTS
  Just days after a strong bipartisan group of Senators testified in support of strengthening fair trade enforcement tools, President Bush called on Congress to repeal the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act (CDSOA). 
   More commonly called the Byrd Amendment, the five-year-old law gives U.S. companies injured by foreign trade the chance to invest in their factories and workers with funds collected by the Customs Service on unfairly traded imports. 
   "This law is on the books and should stay on the books," Byrd said. "The Congress has expressed its widespread support for American workers, and it is time for the White House to do the same."
   "The people of West Virginia helped to elect President Bush, and this is how he says thank you. He cuts funding for veterans and schools, while undercutting steel and manufacturing jobs," Byrd stated.
   The CDSOA has come under attack from the White House, which, in its budget submitted to Congress on Monday, wants the complete repeal of the law. The Administration move comes after several rulings by the World Trade Organization (WTO) that have essentially directed the United States to repeal CDSOA and rewrite the country's trade laws so that waves of dumped and unfairly subsidized goods from China and elsewhere can flood American markets.
   "The United States is a sovereign nation. It cannot be forced to comply with yet another wrong-headed WTO decision. American companies in nearly every state are currently entitled to distributions under the Byrd Amendment, and these companies deserve to continue to receive these funds so long as foreign traders keep dumping. If our trading partners want to eliminate distributions under the law, I have two simple words of advice: stop dumping!" Byrd said.
   "West Virginia productivity and commitment to excellence have always resulted in high-quality products. But when foreign competitors ignore trade agreements, pay workers shabbily, and shun environmental standards, the ground is no longer level," Byrd explained. "The Byrd Amendment is a classic carrot-and-stick approach to fixing broken trade policies. The goal is to ensure compliance with the law. Through the Byrd Amendment, we say to our foreign trade partners that if you abide by trade laws, then you do not have to pay a penalty. That's the carrot. But if our foreign trade partners break the trade laws, then they have to pay the penalty. That's the stick."
   In West Virginia, a number of companies and organizations have received funding through the Byrd Amendment grant program. Those include: Ames True Temper, with operations in Wood County; DuPont, with operations in Kanawha, Wood, and Berkeley counties; Weirton Steel, which is now part of International Steel Group, with operations in Hancock County; Warwood Tool, with operations in Ohio County; Northwest Pipe, with operations in Wood County; and both Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel and the United Steelworkers of America, each of Ohio County. 
   In legislation signed into law last December, the Senate and the House of Representatives directed the Bush Administration to undertake negotiations in the WTO to resolve the CDSOA dispute, not seek to repeal the American law.
 
 