SENS. BYRD, ROCKEFELLER, LOCAL GROUP WORK TO PROTECT 130TH AIRLIFT WING
  The Secretary of Defense based a decision to strip the West Virginia National Guard's 130th Airlift Wing on bad information, and West Virginia needs to set the record straight, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., said Wednesday. 
   Byrd and U.S. Senator Jay Rockefeller, also D-W.Va., met in Byrd's Capitol office late Wednesday with a group of Kanawha County residents and officials to discuss the best ways to share that truth with the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission, beginning with the Monday visit to Charleston of BRAC Commissioner Harold W. Gehman, Jr., a retired Navy admiral.
   After the visit by Commissioner Gehman, a presentation will be made to the rest of the BRAC Commission on June 28 in Charlotte, N.C. 
   "The case that Secretary Rumsfeld has made to take the planes from the 130th Airlift Wing is just plain wrong. He either ignored the facts or was given bad information. But we plan to make sure that the BRAC Commission knows the value of the 130th to our state and our nation," Byrd said.
   "Secretary Rumsfeld has it in for the National Guard. He doesn't understand the value of the Guard to national security, homeland security, and our overall force structure. Our maintenance crews are committed to these airplanes. Our pilots are top notch. They have extensive experience. They know these planes personally. We've got to continue to fight to keep these planes, and these Guardsmen, in West Virginia," Senator Rockefeller said at the Wednesday meeting.
   Byrd pointed to one major hole in the Secretary's closure and realignment plan.
   Currently, the 130th Airlift Wing has a fleet of eight aircraft, and the Secretary has stated that the base cannot support any more. However, Byrd and others believe that the Secretary is wrong. The two hangars at the 130th Airlift Wing, along with the wing's fire suppression system, the fuel depot, and other auxiliary facilities already at the base, can support a fleet of as many as 16 C-130 aircraft.
   "We really need to show that this base is more than what is reflected in the Secretary's report," retired National Guard Colonel Bill Peters, the past commander of the 130th Airlift Wing and the leader of the grassroots "Keep 'Em Flying" organization, told Byrd and Rockefeller.
   "On this and so many other basic facts, the Secretary of Defense got his story wrong. It's up to us to set the record straight," Byrd said.
   Byrd and Rockefeller discussed the situation facing the 130th with Colonel Peters; Rick Atkinson, Director of the Yeager Airport Authority; Mike Plante, also of the local "Keep 'Em Flying" coalition, and others.
   "We're up against the White House and the Defense Department in this fight. This won't be easy," Rockefeller said.
   "We have said, all along, that this won't be easy. West Virginia faces an enormous challenge. But all of us - the Congressional Delegation, the Governor, the Mayor, the County Commission, the National Guard - are united. We are committed to this fight," Byrd stated.
   Last month, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld included the 130th Airlift Wing on his base realignment and closure recommendations. The Defense Department wants to remove the eight C-130H planes housed at the 130th Airlift Wing and relocate them to Pope Air Force Base in North Carolina. The BRAC Commission has the authority to stop the Secretary's plan for the 130th Airlift Wing.
 
 