SEN. BYRD, FBI DIRECTOR MUELLER WORK TO MEET NEW SECURITY GOALS
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., believes that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is prepared to handle greater responsibilities in the comprehensive effort to protect the nation from another terrorist attack.
   "Our law enforcement agencies - from the FBI to our local police departments - need the tools and the training to stop another terrorist attack before it happens. Unfortunately, the men and women who are tasked with protecting us are forced to do so with paltry budgets and precious few new resources. We must not be so short-sighted that we force our law enforcement agencies to operate with one hand tied behind their backs," Byrd said. "They need manpower. They need money. And they need the tools to get the job done." 
   The West Virginia lawmaker met in his Capitol office with FBI Director Robert Mueller to discuss the national security challenges facing the FBI. The Director also updated Senator Byrd on the expanding mission of the FBI's Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Division, based at Clarksburg, to help coordinate efforts to stop terrorist attacks. CJIS has taken on significantly more responsibilities since September 11, 2001. 
   For instance, the FBI has linked the fingerprint information at Clarksburg to the 136 border patrol stations along both the U.S.-Canada and the U.S.-Mexico borders. In 2006, the Clarksburg fingerprint system returned "hits" on more than 150,000 criminal subjects who were trying to enter the U.S. illegally, according to Customs and Border Protection officials. Experts say that the link between the FBI and the Border Patrol is resulting in the identification of individuals with criminal backgrounds that the Border Patrol could never have identified before. These include people with histories of murder, rape, kidnaping, and drug trafficking. Without the information provided by the Clarksburg facility, these individuals may have entered the U.S. undetected.
   "Clarksburg is some 1,500 miles from the U.S.-Mexico border. The expertise in West Virginia is making a major contribution to border security. But this collaboration with the Border Patrol is just the beginning. We need to find new and innovative ways to keep America safe from attack," Byrd stated.
   Director Mueller, while praising the work at the Clarksburg FBI Complex, explained that the Bureau cannot be satisfied with what it has accomplished. 
   "We must continue to adapt to the challenges that groups like al Qaeda pose. We must stay alert and stay innovative," Mueller said.
   Byrd, who, in 1989, worked with then-FBI Director William Sessions to replace the antiquated system of fingerprint identification cards with a high-tech, automated electronic database of fingerprints and other identifying characteristics, pledged to continue to work with Mueller and the FBI to not only protect against terrorist attacks but also to reduce the rising rates of violent crime in America.
   "The statistics are alarming. Violent crime is on the rise, and law enforcement is having a difficult time keeping pace. The FBI needs more agents and resources to meet its goals," Byrd explained. "Clarksburg is one of the best tools that the Bureau has in its fight against criminals and terrorists, and I hope that we can find new ways to strengthen the FBI and expand the role of the CJIS Division for the benefit of all Americans."
   Currently, the CJIS Division employs more than 2,500 men and women in West Virginia, with an annual budget of more than $600 million.
 
 