CONGRESS CLEARS LEGISLATION TO BUILD NEST EGG FOR BALD EAGLE
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., announced Thursday that the Congress has cleared legislation celebrating the recovery of the American Bald Eagle from near extinction and creating a dedicated pool of money to ensure the long-term growth of the eagle population. 
   "The American Bald Eagle is a noble symbol of this country, but it has had to endure significant challenges just to survive. I am extremely proud to cosponsor legislation to ensure that, as the eagle moves off of the endangered species list, there are resources in place to help guarantee that the eagle survives for generations to come," Byrd said.
   The American Bald Eagle is set to be removed from the Endangered Species List in the next few weeks. While the bald eagle would still be protected under the under existing federal and state regulations, at the moment there is little state or federal funding available for that purpose.
   Under the Endangered Species Act, species that are delisted must be administratively monitored for five years. This will require substantial funding.
   That is why Byrd cosponsored legislation, authored by Senator Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., authorizing the United States Mint to create and market a special three-coin set (in denominations of $5, $1, and 50 cents) that will commemorate the recovery and revival of the American eagle. The money generated from the coin set sales will be placed in the American Eagle Fund, and interest from that fund will be distributed annually as grants to support ongoing private, state, and federal eagle care, as well as the monitoring and protection programs established by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. "The bald eagle is a proud symbol of our Republic," Byrd said. "It is my pleasure to commemorate its recovery and work to keep its population healthy for decades to come."
   The American Bald Eagle Recovery and National Emblem Commemorative Coin Act won final Congressional approval from the Senate Wednesday evening. The legislation now goes to the President to be signed into law.
 
 