SEN. BYRD: PORT SECURITY NOT FIXED BY DP WORLD DEAL
  Sen. Byrd on Thursday said that he hoped that the decision to halt the planned operations of six major American seaports by the state-owned Dubai Ports (DP) World, based in the United Arab Emirates, would lead to tougher security at American ports and borders. 
   "Our ports are basically wide open. Anyone can penetrate them, and any product can slip through," Byrd said. "Stopping this deal is a first step, but there is so much more to do to improve our port security and the safety of our homeland."
   "The outcry from the American people over this proposed deal with the United Arab Emirates and DP World should wake this Congress up to the weakness of our security network," Byrd said. "There is no excuse for the fact that less than five percent of the cargo coming into our ports is inspected. There is no excuse for the fact that there are more than 12 million illegal aliens hiding out in the United States today."
   "The lesson learned from this dilemma ought to be that the Bush Administration, having so cavalierly approved this deal with DP World in the first place, has no real plan to strengthen security at our ports, nor does the White House really have a dependable plan to tighten security at our borders," Byrd explained.
   Byrd has worked in the Senate to bolster port and border security, but, at almost every turn, his efforts have been blocked by the White House and the Republican Congressional Leadership. The one exception was last year's successful effort by Byrd and Republican Senator Larry Craig of Idaho to inject critical new dollars into border security. Their work has led to the hiring and training of 500 new border patrol agents,
   50 criminal investigators, and more than 160 immigration enforcement agents and deportation officers.
   "We've got to do more. We should put the security of our critical infrastructure in the hands of American companies, and ensure that the resources are in place to protect the people from another 9/11 attack," Byrd said.
   In its budget request for the Department of Homeland Security for the coming year, the White House completely eliminates the federal port security grant initiative. This is the second year in a row that the Bush Administration has worked to erase port security dollars. The Congress rejected that effort to kill port security funding last fall, but the White House is now dragging its feet on getting the funds to the ports. 
   "Five months ago, the Congress approved $173 million for port security grants, yet the Department of Homeland Security has not even seen fit to announce how ports can apply for the funds. I do not understand why this Administration allows port security dollars to collect dust at the Treasury in Washington," Byrd said.
   "Waiting to make major investments in homeland security only places the American people at greater risk," Byrd stated.
 
 