SEN. BYRD BLASTS FIRING OF AMTRAK PRESIDENT
  Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., urged the Bush Administration to reconsider Wednesday's firing of Amtrak President and CEO David Gunn, and pressed the White House to work with Congress to strengthen Amtrak's future. 
   "It is unconscionable that the Board of Directors would engineer such a step [firing President Gunn] at the same time when the railroad is making substantial progress," Byrd wrote in a letter to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta, one of four members of the Amtrak Board of Directors.
   "The reasons to applaud President Gunn are myriad. Under his leadership, he has restored the confidence of the American people in Amtrak, as evidenced by the millions more who ride the rails each year since Mr. Gunn took the lead at the railroad. He has put Amtrak on track to financial stability. He has streamlined the management and employee systems. He has worked with the Congress and the Administration to build a brighter future for Amtrak. The bipartisan Congressional support for Amtrak has grown under Mr. Gunn's time at the railroad. Yet, the Amtrak Board of Directors saw fit to fire him," Byrd said.
   The West Virginia Democrat has worked to forge bipartisan support for new investments in Amtrak, guiding legislation containing $1.45 billion for the nation's passenger railroad through the Senate for operations in this new fiscal year. The White House, in its budget, proposed no funding for Amtrak, and has threatened to veto the Senate-passed bill if the Amtrak funding remains in the legislation.
   Byrd also pointed out that the Senate last week, by a vote of 96-3, approved legislation written by Republican Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi to strengthen Amtrak's future.
   "With all of these actions, and now including the firing of President Gunn, one truth is evident: The Bush Administration wants to derail Amtrak, and does not care what the cost may be to the country's transportation network," Byrd told Mineta.
   Senator Byrd has worked hard to ensure that rural states, like West Virginia, are not cut off from the nation's rail network. Amtrak serves as a critical link between rural and urban areas of the country. The rail system has more than 500 stations in 46 states, including West Virginia's White Sulphur Springs, Montgomery, Charleston, Huntington, and Martinsburg. 
   "Amtrak carries people between our biggest cities and our smallest communities. Without Amtrak, many regions of rural America would return to isolation. Yet, inexplicably, the Bush Administration seems prepared to derail Amtrak and force a return to that isolation," Byrd said.
 
 