SEN. BYRD BROKERS DEAL TO SAVE AMTRAK SERVICE, REJECT BANKRUPT WHITE HOUSE PLAN FOR RAILROAD
 Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., Thursday found a way to keep the nation's passenger rail service from falling into imminent bankruptcy - despite objections from the Bush White House. 
   "Amtrak is a critical transportation link for people in all corners of this country," Byrd said. "Each day, millions of people ride the rails to get to and from work, to visit family and friends living many miles away, or to travel on vacation. We must not simply derail Amtrak because of a President's political agenda." 
   "National passenger rail service should be truly national. It should include big cities and small communities," Byrd stated. "For many rural communities, Amtrak is the primary transportation link to the rest of the nation. The funding in this bill will make critical investments in Amtrak and ensure that this transportation link is not severed."
   In his budget request, President George W. Bush proposed cutting Amtrak by more than $300 million - 26 percent lower than current federal funding. arlier this year, Amtrak President David Gunn told Byrd that the President's budget "is a shutdown number" and would force an end to the railroad's service from coast to coast.
   The Senate Appropriations Committee's transportation panel approved legislation Thursday, engineered by Byrd, that would direct more than $1.2 billion to Amtrak and reject the White House's bankrupt Amtrak funding plan. The full Senate is expected to consider the legislation in the next few weeks.
   Each of the Bush Administration's four budget requests has targeted Amtrak funding at levels that would have rendered the system inoperable. Each year, Byrd and Washington Senator Patty Murray, D-Wash., have found ways to ensure that the railroad stays on track. Byrd is the top Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee; Murray leads the Democrats on the Appropriations transportation subcommittee.
   "For too long, Congress and presidential administrations have set nrealistically high standards for Amtrak while providing terribly low funding. Amtrak is showing the wear and tear of its more than three decades of operation and is suffering the effects of a beleaguered national economy. That is why I have worked with such determination to ensure that Amtrak has funding to keep on track," Byrd stated.
   "President Bush has proposed to cut Amtrak by 26 percent and force the ailroad into bankruptcy for the coming year," Senator Murray explained. "I want to publicly thank Senator Byrd for his tireless efforts on behalf of Amtrak. I appreciate that Amtrak officials will make a persuasive case that they need considerably more resources. But I am pleased that we will at least avoid that near-term bankruptcy crisis that would have resulted had we accepted the President's request."
   After years of deferred maintenance and investment that diminished operating reliability and on-time performance, Amtrak in 2003 launched a five-year, $4.5 billion capital plan supported by federal, state, and other sources.
   In the first year of that plan, Amtrak rebuilt or overhauled 124 locomotives and passenger cars, installed nearly 200,000 ties, converted or upgraded 36 bridges, replaced 33 miles of signal cable and renewed catenary (electric power lines) hardware along 37 miles of line.
   Since taking charge at Amtrak in 2002, President David Gunn has also instituted management reforms that returned the company to a traditional railroad organizational structure, eliminated duplicate layers of management, and reduced total number of employees by 3,417, from 23,393 in May 2002 to 19,976 at the end of 2003. These reforms have enabled Amtrak to better control its costs.
 
 