SEN. BYRD SAYS BUSH WHITE HOUSE RECKLESS WITH HOMELAND SECURITY
  As the U.S. Senate debated legislation Thursday to fund the Department of Homeland Security, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., charged that the Bush White House has ignored obvious vulnerabilities here at home - vulnerabilities that would be easy to exploit by terrorists. 
   "The President has said he would do 'whatever it takes' to defend America. But he fails to fund the most obvious of homeland security priorities," Byrd said. "We cannot make America safer with empty promises. We cannot America safer with duct tape. My amendment funds the bricks and mortar of a strong homeland defense. It could save countless lives and it offers real security not just empty rhetoric."
   "The fact is that limits placed on homeland security funding by the Bush White House constrain our ability to address known threats to the safety of the American people," Byrd said during debate.
   Byrd offered an amendment that would direct $2 billion to address critical gaps in homeland security. The amendment would provide funds to vital community services, such as grants to assist police and fire departments to purchase communications equipment that operates on the same frequencies.
   The amendment would take immediate steps to counter the risk posed to America's mass transit systems, to protect against a Madrid-style bombing. Despite the threat and the warnings, the White House has not budgeted any new dollars for rail security.
   The amendment would put funding in place to allow airports to install technologies to detect whether passengers are carrying explosives - technologies which are not in place today despite the fact that Richard Reid was successful in carrying explosives onto an airliner more than two years ago and despite the fact that, last month in Russia, two jetliners were destroyed and lives lost when terrorists apparently used explosives to blow massive holes in the planes.
   Overall, the amendment would address many of the highest homeland security priorities that the Bush White House has decided to push off for another day. According to Senator Byrd, homeland security cannot wait.
   "This amendment meets critical needs. It addresses vulnerabilities that we all know exist. And let there be no doubt, if we know that these gaps exist, so do the terrorists," Byrd said.
   "In response to the danger of terror attacks so often invoked by the President, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the FBI Director, it is hard to believe that the President would not request new dollars to secure our mass transit systems, to screen airline passengers for explosives, to inspect more containers coming into our ports, to increase inspections of air cargo, or to expand the number of Federal Air Marshals," Byrd said. "President Bush has asked Congress for an anemic two-percent proposed increase for the Department of Homeland Security? Why in Heaven's name? Why is this Administration satisfied with a go-slow, business-as-usual approach to homeland security?"
   Byrd noted that the White House has delayed spending millions of dollars that Congress approved for port security, bus security, and hazardous materials grants eleven months ago. Additionally, millions of dollars that Congress approved in February 2003 for the purchase of additional emergency equipment for the 28 Urban Search and Rescue teams have not been spent.
   "Having this money sit in Washington, D.C., does not make American citizens any safer," Byrd said.
   Despite the clear need, the Senate voted against Byrd's amendment on a party-line vote, with every Republican Senator voting no.
 
 