SEN. MURKOWSKI: ?OPERATION HERO MILES' PASSES CONGRESS, SOON TO BECOME LAW
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today welcomed final passage on Saturday of legislation that she co-sponsored with Sen. Jim Talent, R-Mo., and Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger, D-MD, that will allow military personnel and their families to receive donated frequent flyer/travelers miles to cover military-connected travel.  
   The three on June 3 added the provision to the Defense Authorization bill for FY '05. On Saturday the conference report on the bill (H.R. 4200) passed both houses of Congress, sending the measure to the President for signature. The measure allows Americans to donate their miles to our men and women in uniform and their families. 
   "The amendment will justly allow the families of wounded service personnel to visit their loved ones in a military hospital at no personal expense for airfare. It also will permit soldiers who must return home from overseas to do so at no cost by utilizing the air miles donated by Americans. This program allows Americans to show in a tangible way their support for our troops and it will help members of the military avoid the very real financial hardship caused when they need to purchase commercial airfares on short notice. It is the least we can do for our troops who are protecting us overseas," said Sen. Murkowski. 
   "I applaud Sen. Murkowski for her leadership on this legislation. She worked hard on behalf of her constituents, and all of the men and women serving in our country, for this legislation. She recognizes the unique financial hardship that service members from Alaska could face when they return home from overseas while on emergency leave," said Sen. Talent. 
   The legislation makes Operation Hero Miles a permanent Department of Defense (DOD) program, giving DOD the authority to accept the donation of frequent traveler miles, credits and tickets by the general public in order to give free, last-minute plane tickets to servicemen and women on leave to handle an urgent family situation, convalescent leave or other unexpected emergencies. 
   The legislation also gives DOD the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops traveling to visit their injured loved ones at military hospitals around the world. Under special circumstances, the DOD is also authorized to allow a non-family member, such as clergy or a close mentor, use of the donated miles to reunite with a wounded or ill service member. 
   The Department is to designate a single office to administer the Operation Hero Miles program, to establish rules and procedures for eligibility and disbursement of miles and to promote participation in the program and donation of miles by airlines, organizations and the public.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 