SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS APPROVAL FOR $50 MILLION IN ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR FIREFIGHTERS ASSISTANCE
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski, arguing that firefighters as first responders are part of the backbone of our response to emergencies or terrorist attacks, this morning succeeded in winning an additional $50 million for firefighter assistance funding during debate on a Homeland Security appropriations bill continuing in the U.S. Senate. 
   Murkowski on Thursday had proposed an amendment to provide additional funding for grants for equipment, training and safety improvements for the nation's firefighters. The amendment was approved this morning on the Senate floor and added to the Homeland Security appropriations bill (H.R. 4567) for FY' 05 that the Senate should finish early next week.
   "As we approach the third anniversary of the Sept. 11th terrorist attacks, we can't help but be reminded of the risks that our nation's firefighters take daily to keep us safe in time of emergency. We must do all that we can to make sure that we provide firefighters all the resources necessary to help them fight fires and to help them remain safe as they perform their dangerous, but vital work for this nation. These grants provide assistance to local fire fighters to protect the health and safety of the public and of firefighting personnel, including volunteers and emergency medical service workers," said Murkowski Thursday prior to adoption of her amendment to another provision in the $33.1 billion Homeland Security spending bill.
   The $50 million addition (Second Degree Amdt. 3616 to Amdt. 3578) brings to $750 million the amount of funding available for firefighter assistance grants for the coming year, a slight increase in funding over this year. Murkowski was joined in the amendment by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist and by several other senators.
   In the 2003-2004 funding cycle, 44 Alaska fire departments earned $4,532,039 in fire grants to purchase fire apparatus, equipment and training. Another $710,000 was awarded to Alaska Village Initiatives to place fire apparatus custom designed to meet the needs of rural Alaska in the villages. Alaska departments have submitted 67 applications seeking $11.9 million in fire grants in the current funding cycle. Murkowski said the additional funds are critically needed for Alaska. The National Fire Protection Association of Quincy, Massachusetts reported in June 2004 that nearly two-thirds of fire engines in Alaska are over 15 years old, approximately 42 percent of firefighters on a shift lack portable radios and self-contained breathing apparatus, and nearly a quarter of Alaska firefighters lack personal protective clothing.
   "It has truly been a long, hot summer for Alaska's firefighters who have been helping battle the wildfires, while still protecting all Alaskans from normal fire dangers. These additional funds should help Alaska firefighters continue to succeed in the nationwide competition for fire grants," said Murkowski.
   The full amendment includes an additional $50 million for Immigration and Customs Enforcement and added funding for the federal air marshal program, $50 million in additional funding for grants to protect high-risk terrorist targets, and $20 million for emergency management performance grants.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 