SEN. MURKOWSKI SECURES WIN FOR GASLINE INCENTIVES
  Saying getting Alaska's natural gas to market is vital for the nation's economic health, Sen. Lisa Murkowski today argued strongly for Senate passage of tax incentives to help speed construction of an Alaska gas pipeline project and praised passage of the provisions, following the bill's final passage in the Senate. 
   During debate after the Senate defeated a filibuster against the jobs bill, 90-8, and proceeded to the measure, Murkowski argued that the incentives are vital to increase natural gas production to meet the nation's growing energy shortfall. She noted that estimates are the country will be 10 to up to 20 billion cubic feet of gas short of meeting its needs by the next century.
   "At a time when natural gas is trading at over $6.10 (per thousand cubic feet) and the spot price is double that, the incentives in this bill will help get Alaska natural gas to starved gas consumers in the Lower 48. It will help stabilize natural gas markets," said Murkowski in her prepared remarks, who added the incentives deserve to be in the jobs bill since an Alaska gas line also will generate hundreds of thousands of jobs nationwide.
   Murkowski, who for weeks has been pushing for passage of financial incentives for an Alaska gas line, today argued successfully against an amendment that would have removed all $13 billion of energy tax provisions from the jobs bill including all of the Alaska gas line incentives. The amendment was to the jobs bill, also called the Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income (FSC/ETI) bill (S. 1637). The bill then passed the Senate on a 92-5 vote, heading to the House of Representatives for its consideration.
   The Alaska gas line tax provisions in the bill include:
   * A tax credit - an enhanced oil recovery credit - that will reduce the cost of building a needed North Slope gas conditioning plant.
   * A tax deduction, allowing for accelerated depreciation over seven instead of 15 years for sections of a pipeline project built in Alaska.
   * And a marginal well credit that will protect pipeline investors from steep drops in the price of natural gas if they occur in the future. The credit is capped at a maximum of 52 cents and will trigger only if the price of natural gas falls below $1.35 on the North Slope - an unlikely occurrence.
   "Given the price of natural gas, some think we don't need to have the incentives that are included, but there is a necessity for passage of these incentives. We need these provisions for construction of this pipeline to go forward," said Murkowski.
   "In essence, this is a futures contract with the American people. We provide the incentives to build the pipeline and you receive all the benefits that the gas pipeline has to offer," said Murkowski who noted that besides jobs the gas line will provide an abundance of clean-burning environmentally friendly fuel, provide critical feedstock at a reasonable price for the chemical and agricultural sectors and provide a secure domestic supply of energy.
   "The Alaska natural gas pipeline is one of those really rare examples of a project that is a winner from every perspective. It helps us achieve our environmental goals, it helps the economy by creating a great number of good paying jobs and it enhances our national security. But if the energy tax provisions are stripped from the bill the relief that Alaska natural gas can provide remains stuck in the ground. We need to pass these provisions," said Murkowski on the Senate floor.
   Sen. Ted Stevens also praised passage of the Jobs bill. "The JOBS bill provides Alaska with just that - jobs. The gas pipeline provisions in this bill are what the producers and industry need to move forward on the Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline and the hundreds of thousands of jobs the project will create. Developing America's natural resources is key to creating American jobs," said Sen. Stevens.
   With passage of the jobs bill, which will now go to the House for its consideration, all of the tax provisions of pending national energy legislation have now again passed the Senate, clearing a major hurdle for final passage. The Senator said she will continue to press for final passage of the authorizing provisions of comprehensive energy legislation that will include the loan guarantee for the pipeline and a series of procedural and regulatory changes to speed pipeline construction. Those provisions also include leasing aid for oil development in the National Petroleum Reserve Alaska and a host of rural energy assistance.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 