SEN. MURKOWSKI HIRES, PROMOTES NEW LEGISLATIVE STAFF
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski has announced the hiring and promotion of new legislative staff for health care and energy issues.  
   Chuck Kleeschulte has been promoted to Legislative Assistant for the environment, energy, oil and gas issues and is currently coordinating the Senator's efforts to open ANWR to oil and gas leasing. Kleeschulte previously served as Sen. Murkowski's Communications Director and Press Secretary, and as Press Secretary for former Sen. Frank Murkowski (R-AK). Prior to his time on Capitol Hill, Kleeschulte lived in Juneau and in Anchorage where he was a reporter for the Juneau Empire and the Anchorage Daily News. 
   Margaret Elehwany has been hired as the Senator's Legislative Assistant for health care. Elehwany comes to the Senator's office from the American Medical Association, where she was the Assistant Director of Congressional Affairs. Elehwany is a graduate of Oregon State University and of University of Oregon Law School and is a member of both the Washington State Bar and the U.S. Supreme Court State Bar. After practicing criminal law in Washington State, Elehwany moved to Washington D.C., where she served as legislative counsel to former Senators Bob Packwood (R-OR) and Frank Murkowski (R-AK). 
   Kevin Sweeney has been hired as a Legislative Correspondent for energy issues. Sweeney has lived throughout Alaska and has extensive experience in a variety of Alaska issues. Most recently Sweeney has worked in the Alaska State Legislature as the legislative liaison for the State of Alaska Department of Education and Early Development. Sweeney has also worked as the Special Assistant to the President of the Alaska Federation of Natives, served as the communications manager for Natchiq Inc, a subsidiary of the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, and done work for the ANWR lobbying group Arctic Power. Sweeney has a Bachelor of Science Degree from Cornell University and just moved to Washington, D.C. from Barrow, AK.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 