SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS PASSAGE OF ?RED RIBBON' WEEK TO EDUCATE, ADVOCATE AGAINST DRUG, MARIJUANA USE
  Saying drug usage destroys lives, damages families and harms society, Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski Sunday night won Senate approval of a resolution declaring the week of Oct. 23-31 as 'Red Ribbon Week' to call attention to the need for education and advocacy to prevent drug usage in society among all ages.  
   Murkowski welcomed Senate passage of the resolution she sponsored that will guide states, Parent Teacher Associations, Boys and Girls Clubs of America and Governors and Attorneys General nationwide in partnering in an effort to call attention to the dangers of drug usage. This year's Red Ribbon Week, the 17th annual resolution commemorating anti-drug efforts, will kickoff in Alaska with anti-drug events starting on Oct. 22 in Anchorage. 
   "Illicit drugs, the abuse of drugs, and the business of illegal drugs are not a private matter. Drugs harm children. Drugs harm our communities. Illegal drugs only facilitate dependency, addiction and the breakdown of the family. Alaska has the highest rates of domestic violence in the nation and one of the highest rates of sexual assault. According to the Anchorage Police Department alcohol and drugs were contributing factors in 80 percent of those crimes. 
   "We must encourage our children to make better choices by making the same commitment in our own lives. We as parents and leaders must set good examples. We must stop sending confusing and mixed signals and clearly encourage our children not to make the wrong decision - not to experiment or use drugs," said Senator Murkowski following passage of the resolution. 
   Red Ribbon Week, first proposed in 1988 to honor former DEA Special Agent Enrique "Kiki" Camerena who was kidnapped, tortured and murdered by drug traffickers in 1985, annually involves millions of teens in drug prevention efforts, educational seminars and community events. The week encourages children and teens "to choose to live a drug-free life," and encourage everyone "to promote drug-free communities and to participate in drug prevention activities to show support for healthy, productive, drug-free lifestyles." 
   Murkowski is slated to appear at the Anchorage kickoff event on Oct. 22, one being held in conjunction with the Alaska Federation of Natives, the Alaska National Guard, the Alaska State Troopers, the Boys and Girls Clubs of Alaska, many PTA groups and the Mayor of Anchorage, among others.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260. 
 
 