SEN. MURKOWSKI ANNOUCES FEDERAL GRANT FOR FAIRBANKS FIRE DEPARTMENT
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today joined Fairbanks Fire Department Chief Warren Cummings in announcing a $675,000 federal grant to help cover the cost of a new aerial ladder. The National Fire Protection Association recommends that departments replace apparatus built prior to 1979 in order to help address fire fighter capabilities and safety. The Fairbanks Fire Department is currently using an aerial ladder that was built in 1977.  
   The grant announced today was awarded through the 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The Fairbanks Fire Department was one of 19 departments in Alaska to receive funds through the program. Since 2003, Fairbanks has received $1.2 million in federal fire grants. 
   "Fire grants are awarded solely on the basis of merit in a nationwide competition, so when a department wins a fire grant, it is indeed something to be proud of," said Senator Murkowski. "It is vitally important that our fire fighters have equipment available to them to help meet their "all hazards" mission safely and effectively. I applaud Chief Cummings for his successful effort to secure this funding for your new ladder and thank all of Fairbanks fire fighters for the extraordinary job they do each and every day." 
   "The new aerial platform will not only benefit the City of Fairbanks, but all of the Interior Emergency Service Organizations under our area wide mutual aid agreement," said Chief Cummings. "Currently the City of Fairbanks is the only fire department with this type of emergency equipment in the interior. The grant funding received will help ensure we have a safe and reliable aerial platform on continuous bases." 
   It is anticipated that the order for the new ladder will be placed next week through Quality Equipment Sales and Services of Anchorage and that it will be delivered in the Spring of 2007.
   Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 