SEN. MURKOWSKI DISCUSSES WAYS TO COMBAT METH USE AMONG YOUNG PEOPLE DURING TRAVEL TO NORTHWEST ARCTIC REGION
  Concerned about the rampant increase of methamphetamine usage among Alaska's youth, Sen. Lisa Murkowski has been highlighting the issue and speaking about ways to combat this emerging problem during her travel to the Northwest Arctic Borough. During community visits to Deering, Buckland, Noorvik and Selawik, Sen. Murkowski had the opportunity to discuss this serious issue directly with high school students and community leaders.  
   "The startling increase in meth use among Alaska's youth is of grave concern not only to those of us who are parents of teenagers, but also to those who are committed to ensuring a prosperous future for our children," said Senator Murkowski. "In communities large and small throughout our state, we are learning that more and more children are experimenting with meth - and unfortunately this trend shows no sign of slowing down. Leaders throughout Alaska must work together to take decisive steps to effectively combat this alarming trend. We owe no less to our children." 
   At the national level, efforts are underway to make critical federal funding available to states. The Combat Meth Act, which Senator Murkowski co-sponsored in the U.S. Senate, is modeled after the successful Oklahoma law that resulted in an immediate 80% drop in meth labs seized and restricts the sale of the ingredients needed to make methamphetamine. The goal of the law is to impose tougher penalties for meth production and trafficking, while allowing legitimate consumers access to the medicines they need without a prescription. The law also provides law enforcement with an additional $99 million per year for the next five years to train state and local law enforcement to fight meth offenders. Those funds can also be used for equipment, prosecution or environmental clean-up of meth lab sites. Of equal importance, the law provides $20 million in grant funding in 2006 and 2007 to promote collaboration among federal, state, and local agencies to assist and educate children that have been harmed by the production of methamphetamine.
   Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 