SEN. MURKOWSKI ASKS CANADA TO HALT BLACK COD FARMING EFFORTS UNTIL ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES ARE CONDUCTED, FINISHED
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski Wednesday urged Canada to prevent the start of sablefish (black cod) fish farming off British Columbia's coast until environmental studies are not only started, but completed. 
   Murkowski, in a letter to the Canadian Ambassador to the United States, Michael Kergin, asked that the Canadian Government stop a proposed transfer of 30,000 juvenile black cod to Canadian off-shore fish farms this summer and delay any future sales of juvenile black cod to British Columbia fish farms pending more scientific studies.
   "North America's sablefish industry is one of the best managed fisheries on the continent. Stocks are healthy due in part to rigorous assessments paid for by the industry. I strongly believe that until the potential dangers from farming this species are better understood, wild fish stocks in both Canada and the United States may suffer irreparable damage (should you proceed)," wrote Murkowski in her letter to Kergin.
   Murkowski's comments come after an Ottawa judge recently ruled that Sablefin Hatcheries may go forward with its planned sale of juvenile black cod to British Columbia fish farms, allowing the farms which up until now only raised Atlantic Salmon to diversify into black cod stocks. Murkowski, who months ago first expressed environmental concerns about the potential new fish farming operations, said the recent escape of another 2,500 Atlantic salmon from a British Columbia fish farm in Broughton Archipelago once again reinforces Alaskan concerns that the release of farm-raised fish could hurt Alaska's wild fish stocks.
   The effort to farm black cod "comes in spite of the fact that Canada has not completed an environmental assessment of raising sablefish in ocean net pens. It is my understanding that the criteria to do an environmental assessment for sablefish have not even been developed yet. With reports of a link between open-water fish farm pens and increases in the amount of sea-lice and other parasites present in British Columbia's waters, there is considerable concern about the health risks posed to wild sablefish in both Canada and Alaska, not to mention the potential transfer of parasites between salmon and sablefish," said Murkowski.
   Besides the issue of the potential increase in sea-lice and other parasites from fish farming, the Senator previously had questioned the potential for genetic damage to wild stocks from the accidental release of pen-reared stocks - especially as it relates to salmon farming in British Columbia and its affects on Alaska's salmon stocks.
   Murkowski urged Canada to halt the start of black cod farming, at least, until scientific studies are completed.
   Alaska fishermen in 2002 landed 3.25 million pounds of sablefish, which at an average price of $3.35 a pound, had an ex-vessel value of $10.89 million. The vast bulk of the state's catch was harvested in Southeast waters, which stand to be most impacted on environmental grounds by British Columbia fish farming efforts.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 