SEN. MURKOWSKI ANNOUNCES COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS FOR 110TH CONGRESS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced her committee assignments for the 110th Congress. When the Senate reconvenes in January, Sen. Murkowski will serve on the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP); the Foreign Relations Committee; the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources; and Indian Affairs. Sen. Murkowski's tenure on the HELP committee will mark the first time an Alaskan will serve on the prestigious committee.  
   Selected by U.S. Senate Republican Leader-Elect Mitch McConnell, Senator Murkowski's committee assignments are subject to ratification by the full Republican Conference, as stipulated under Republican Conference rules. 
   Senator Murkowski offered the following comments regarding her committee assignments: 
   "Many important issues and challenges facing our nation and state will need to be addressed in the 110th Congress. My committee assignments for the next Congress will offer a unique opportunity to not only help shape legislation on a national scale, but also will provide vital platforms for me to continue to advocate our Alaskan priorities. 
   "On the HELP Committee, I look forward to being a part of the effort to reauthorize, and fix where needed, the legislation for No Child Left Behind, while working to identify ways to address some of the critical health care needs of our state. 
   "On the Energy Committee, I will continue to look for ways to secure our nation's energy independence and to increase domestic production, while advocating the potential Alaska has to be a leader in alternative energy development." 
   "Next year, the reauthorization of the Indian Healthcare Improvement Act will be a top priority for me on the Indian Affairs Committee. I look forward to working with our Native communities to identify areas that need to be reworked and how we can best strengthen this act. 
   "On the Foreign Relations Committee, where I hope to continue to serve on the subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs, I will remain actively engaged in monitoring the situation with North Korea, while identifying economic opportunities for our state in Asian markets. 
   "I am honored to have the opportunity to represent Alaska's interests on these important committees in the next Congress."
   Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 