SEN. MURKOWSKI PLEASED BY QUICK SIGNING OF GAS PIPELINE LOAN GUARANTEE, REGULATORY PROVISIONS
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today praised President George Bush for quickly signing legislation into law granting a loan guarantee and making vital regulatory changes to enable construction of an Alaska natural gas pipeline to proceed.  
   The President also welcomed the President's signature of her land bill for the City of Craig in Southeast that will aid economic development on Prince of Wales Island. 
   The President this morning signed the $10 billion military construction appropriation bill for FY '05 (H.R. 4837) into law. The Delegation over the weekend had won approval in the bill for an $18 billion loan guarantee to back construction of an Alaska natural gas project. It also had won vital regulatory and administrative changes in the bill, including streamlined permitting and expedited court review, the selection of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as the lead agency for a single environmental review that must be finished within 18 months, and a $20 million job training program, including $3 million for a training center in Fairbanks, to guarantee that Alaskans get jobs from construction of the gas line. 
   "It is wonderful news that the loan guarantee and the regulatory changes needed are now law. The changes should allow the largest construction project in the nation's history to proceed thanks to the fast action by President Bush. After working on these changes for the past two years, it is just wonderful news that Alaskans now know that the federal pieces of the pipeline puzzle are definitely in place," said Senator Murkowski after the President signed the bill. 
   The bill also includes a ban on a northern route for a pipeline, allows for the creation of the Office of Federal Coordinator for a gas pipeline, allows Alaska to control in-state use of the gas to facilitate use for heating of for a petrochemical industry in the state, and contains provisions to guarantee that current and future gas producers in Alaska will be able to compete to get their gas through the pipeline, plus provisions promoting local hire on the $20 billion project. 
   The military construction bill also funds $203.96 million in new military construction in Alaska including $60.7 million for a new barracks complex at Fort Wainwright in Fairbanks, $9 million for the next phase in the replacement of the Basset Army Hospital at the post; $28 million for a new large airframe hanger at Elmendorf AFB in Anchorage and $11.95 million for a new fitness center at the base. 
   With the signing in coming days of a major corporate tax bill, the FSC/ETI Jobs bill, that includes two additional gas line tax incentives, an accelerated depreciation provision and a credit to defray the cost of a North Slope gas conditioning plant, all of the federal incentives for a gas line will be in place. 
   Murkowski also thanked the President for signing another of her bills into law, this measure allowing the City of Craig to acquire the site for the former Wards Cove Packing Co. fish processing plant in downtown Craig as an industrial/economic development site in return for exchanging the Sunnahae property and trail in Craig to the U.S. Forest Service. By the deal the Forest Service is gaining a site for an expanded Craig ranger district. 
   The bill (S. 1776) helps the Forest Service buy 349 acres of trail, trailhead and parking areas for public use, while Craig will use the federal funding it is receiving to acquire the former cannery site - the prime area for economic development on central Prince of Wales Island. 
   "With the slowdown in the timber industry on the island and the rough patchy that the fishing industry has been facing, residents have been struggling with how to both improve and diversify their economy. This trade opens the way for Craig to progress with efforts to help the town expand its economic base," said Murkowski.
   Contact: Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260, 907/271-3735.
 
 