SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS AMENDMENT ASKING HOMELAND SECURITY TO HIRE MORE ALASKA NATIVES, INDIANS TO WORK ON DISASTER RELIEF
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, in an effort to improve employment opportunities for Alaska Natives, Tuesday night won an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill encouraging the government to hire more Alaska and Hawaiian Natives and American Indians to help provide relief following national disasters.  
   The amendment, approved unanimously before the Senate approved its Homeland Security spending bill for FY '05, encourages the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to provide more employment opportunities for Natives to gain the temporary jobs that FEMA offers to provide relief assistance to those affected by hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, fires and earthquakes. 
   "This amendment encourages the Secretary of Homeland Security to make a greater effort to improve the representation of American Indians, Alaska Natives and Native Hawaiians in the disaster relief cadres by actively recruiting in our Native communities. The goal is to encourage FEMA to be proactive in identifying opportunities to reduce unemployment among our qualified and motivated Native workforce," said Murkowski. 
   She noted that FEMA relies on some 4,000 part-time, temporary workers to fill disaster assistance jobs, jobs providing aid and helping with federal loans following disasters, such as the recent hurricane-caused damage in Florida. 
   "The federal government transports these disaster reservists from their homes to the disaster site, houses them, pays a federal civil service wage for their services and returns them home at federal expense when their services are no longer needed. Given the unacceptably high unemployment rates in rural Alaska and on some reservations in the Lower 48, the government should do more to fill its employment needs from these workers. Natives who live in rural villages would find the opportunity for intermittent employment with FEMA desirable and such workers will do a wonderful job of helping their fellow Americans in time of need," said Murkowski. 
   She joined with Sen. Ted Stevens and Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, in proposing and passing the amendment. The Senate late Tuesday completed action on the $33.1 billion homeland security bill sending it to a conference with the House to iron out differences on the measure.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 