SEN. MURKOWSKI INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO STOP U.S. PERMITS FOR OFFSHORE FISH FARMS
  Citing the serious disadvantages and threats of fish raised in fish farming operations compared to naturally healthy wild fish species, Sen. Lisa Murkowski today re-introduced legislation to prohibit the development of any new offshore aquaculture operations in federal waters.  
   The bill, called the Natural Stock Conservation Act, (S.796) would prohibit the development of new offshore aquaculture operations until Congress acts to ensure that every federal agency involved does the necessary analyses in areas such as disease control, engineering, pollution prevention, biological and genetic impacts, economic and social effects, and other critical issues. None of these are specifically required under existing law. 
   The bill also requires that federal agencies consult with the governor of any state near the aquaculture site, and that permits be approved by the regional fishery management council with jurisdiction in the region. 
   "Scientists, the media and the public are awakening to the serious disadvantages of fish raised in fish farming operations compared to naturally healthy wild fish species, such as Alaska salmon, halibut, sablefish, crab and many other species," said Murkowski. "We cannot afford a rush to judgment on this issue - it is far too dangerous if we make a mistake. This issue deserves the same level of scrutiny by Congress as the recommendations of the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy for other sweeping changes in ocean governance." 
   Murkowski also voiced concerns over reports that the Administration is in the final stages of preparing a draft bill to allow offshore aquaculture development to occur. "We have only rumors about what may be in that draft bill," said Murkowski. "The administration has had meetings on the general topic of aquaculture, but has done little or nothing to work with those of us who represent fishing constituencies in the development of the specifics that will appear in the draft bill." 
   In closing Murkowski said, "We all want to make sure we enjoy abundant supplies of healthy foods in the future, but not if it means unnecessary and avoidable damage to wild species, to the environment generally, and to the economies of America's coastal fishing communities."
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 