SEN. MURKOWSKI ANNOUNCES SCHEDULE FOR PRESIDENT'S DAY RECESS
  Senator Lisa Murkowski today announced her public schedule for the upcoming President's Day Recess. During her travel, the Senator will hold a Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee field hearing, participate in community events, local roundtables, school tours and meetings with local leaders in the Kenai Peninsula, Anchorage, Eagle River, Juneau, and Ketchikan. 
   Senator Murkowski will hold press availabilities on: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday.  
   The following is a list of Senator Murkowski's public events. 
   Monday, February 19: 
   In Kenai, Senator Murkowski will hold a press availability with local media from 9:30-10:15 AM at the Kenai Congressional Delegation Office-110 Trading Bay Road, Suite 105. 
   The Senator will discuss government and leadership with students of the Kenai Middle School 8th Grade Leadership class at 12:20 PM. 
   The Senator will receive an update on the Kenai River Flood and its impact on the borough at 2:30 PM. Afterwards she will take a windshield tour of the damage. 
   Senator Murkowski will also speak at the Kenai Lincoln Day Dinner at 6:30 PM. The dinner, entitled "A Time to Heal the Nation," will be held at the Kenai Visitors Center. 
   Tuesday, February 20: 
   Senator Murkowski will hold a Health, Education, Labor, Pensions (HELP) Committee field hearing to investigate the shortage of primary care physicians throughout the state, with a focus on rural communities. The hearing will be held in the Assembly Chambers of the Loussac Library and will begin at 9:00 AM. A press availability will immediately follow. 
   Senator Murkowski will discuss healthcare costs at the Commonwealth North Healthcare Roundtable at 12:30 PM in the Hotel Captain Cook's Fore Deck. 
   Wednesday, February 21: 
   In Anchorage, from 7:45-8:00 AM, Senator Murkowski will participate in a live interview with Rick Rydell on 650 AM KENI. 
   The Senator will visit Ursa Major Elementary School at 9:00 AM. Senator Murkowski will tour Eagle River High School at 10:45 AM and will address students in a government class. 
   The Senator will also address the Chugiak/Eagle River Chamber of Commerce at 12:00 PM at the North Slope Restaurant. 
   Senator Murkowski will travel to Fort Richardson to meet with the Family Readiness Group Leaders and Fort Richardson families. 
   Thursday, February 22: 
   During a joint session of the State Legislature, the Senator will address elected officials in the House Chambers at 11:00 AM in Juneau. A press availability will immediately follow in the Speaker's Chambers. 
   Senator Murkowski will tour the Juneau Alliance for Mental Health, Inc. facilities at 3:00 PM. 
   The Senator will also tour the Juneau Youth Services' new residential facility at 4:00 PM. 
   Senator Murkowski will speak at a Republican Party event at the Hangar Ballroom at 5:30 PM. 
   Friday, February 23: 
   In Ketchikan, the Senator will meet with administrators of the Ketchikan General Hospital and tour the facilities at 8:45 AM. 
   Senator Murkowski will hold a press availability at 10:00 AM at the Ketchikan Delegation Office-540 Water Street, Suite 101 
   Senator Murkowski will tour Schoenbar Middle School and join the teachers for a brown bag lunch at 11:30 AM. 
   The Senator will speak about Medicare and prescription drug benefits with AARP members at their monthly meeting at 1:00 PM. 
   The Senator will also, address the Ketchikan Visitors Bureau at their 30th Anniversary celebration and awards presentation at 6:30 at the Ted Ferry Civic Center.
   Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 