SEN. MURKOWSKI CHALLENGES EPA OVER PROPOSED BUDGET CUTS TO ALASKA VILLAGE SAFE WATER
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today expressed grave concerns regarding the Administration's proposed Fiscal Year 2007 budget cuts in the EPA program that addresses the basic drinking water and sewer needs of Alaskan villages.  
   Murkowski's comments came during a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing to address the proposed EPA budget. 
   "The proposed reduction in the President's budget unfairly punishes Alaska Natives and other rural Alaska residents for shortcomings that both the State of Alaska and EPA are working to address," Murkowski told EPA Administrator Steve Johnson at the hearing. "I want your commitment to help ensure that OMB recognizes the work underway to improve this critically important program." 
   The Administration is proposing a 75 percent reduction in funding to the State of Alaska's Village Safe Water Program, which provides matching funds and works with non-profit and other federal agencies to ensure that this funding gets to the communities that truly need it. The Village Safe Water Program receives funding from two federal agencies: the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Agriculture's Rural Development Administration. The Administration has proposed a 57 percent reduction to the EPA program and an elimination of funding to the Department of Agriculture's program. 
   At Murkowski's request, made during last year's EPA budget hearing, Administration officials traveled to Alaska to visit rural Alaska Native communities. "I am pleased that Claude Allen, the President's former top domestic policy advisor, and the Administrator were able to visit the villages of Kasigluk, Atmautluak, and Nunapitchuk, among other Alaska communities, last August," said Murkowski. "As they saw during their visit, the water and sewer conditions in these communities often rival the conditions in third-world countries." 
   The lack of sanitation in rural villages has a startling effect on the health of the residents of these communities. According to the Centers for Disease Control, infants in villages with less than 10 percent of homes with water service are 11 times more likely to be hospitalized for pneumonia and five times more likely to be hospitalized for lower respiratory tract infections.
   Contact: Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 