SEN. MURKOWSKI VISITS NEW ORLEANS, SURROUNDING REGION
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today traveled to Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana to speak at a ceremony to dedicate the arrival and installation of a 16-ton marine travel lift donated by the City of Valdez.  
   "All of us who witnessed, from afar, the devastation that occurred from the hurricanes were motivated to help," said Senator Murkowski. "That is why when I asked the Alaska fishing industry to lend a hand we had no trouble finding willing volunteers and contributions for our effort." 
   Senator Murkowski was joined by Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, who said, "The people of Louisiana are grateful to Senator Murkowski and all our friends in Alaska who have given us so much more than a travel lift for our fisheries. They have also given us comfort knowing we are not alone in our rebuilding efforts following the greatest disaster in our nation's history. I look forward to working with all my colleagues in the Senate to provide new tools and initiatives as we rebuild Louisiana and the entire Gulf Coast together." 
   Within days of Hurricane Katrina, Senator Murkowski helped form the Alaska Fishing Industry Relief Mission (AFIRM). The organization represents the fishing, processing, financial, transportation and logistics sectors of the Alaska fishing industry. AFIRM, which helped coordinate the delivery and logistics for the donation, exists solely to help Gulf Coast fishing communities continue operations as quickly as possible. 
   Today, with the arrival of the massive marine travel lift, Alaska's efforts are paying off for the fishing community of Plaquemines Parish. "Hundreds of fishing boats were forced onto dry land or sunk by the powerful hurricanes," Plaquemines Parish President Benny Rousselle explained. "We've experienced great devastation. Out of all the economic sectors affected, the commercial fishing community has been the hardest hit. Many of these fishermen have nothing left but their boats. The value of this donation is beyond words." 
   Federal, state and local governments have been hauling boats out of bayous, backyards and parking lots and stockpiling them on dry land. But there has been no way to put the boats back into the water. The boatyard lost its launching equipment in the storms, and new equipment could not be obtained quickly. The travel lift, which served the City of Valdez for years, is capable of lifting a 60-ton fishing boat and replacing it gently in the water. 
   In addition to visiting Plaquemines Parish, Senator Murkowski and Senator Landrieu also toured New Orleans to witness and assess rebuilding efforts. Additionally, the Senators toured energy facilities in Port Fourchon, the largest oil port in the Gulf.
   Contact: Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 