SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES FEDERAL FIRE RESTORATION FUNDING
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski this morning welcomed the announcement by Secretary of the Interior Gail Norton that Alaska will receive $8.6 million to pay for restoration efforts on much of the 6.4 million acres of Alaska burned in wildfires this summer.  
   Murkowski since the fires has been seeking funding from the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture to stabilize the burned areas, to prevent erosion that could harm watersheds, and where necessary, to fund reseeding to speed regeneration of trees in the Interior areas racked by Alaska's worst fire season. 
   "I'm pleased that the Departments cooperatively have committed the funds to help speed our recovery from the devastating fires. We have work that needs to be done both this winter and important follow-up work that will be needed in the spring. Having adequate funding is the key to avoiding additional damage and helping the Interior's forests recover more rapidly from the fires," said Murkowski, who met with Secretary Norton for a series of announcements in Anchorage on Friday. 
   Murkowski noted that the $8.6 million in aid comes on top of $500,000 in immediate assistance provided late this summer by the Agriculture Department to rural communities, Native villages and corporations for stabilization efforts in community watersheds. Murkowski said she may well be seeking even more assistance for the state and private land owners since the $8.6 million by law can't be spent on state and private lands. 
   "My personal goal will be to also secure more funding to assist those areas burned on state and private lands. Fire knows no boundaries and the results from this fire season indicate that 32 percent of the land that burned was state-owned land, while 12 percent was Native-owned lands," said Murkowski. 
   She also said she supports a complete review of the fire suppression zones and management structure outlined in the Alaska Interagency Fire Management Plan before next summer's fire season arrives. "I have concerns regarding the suppression zone classifications in the state and want the public to understand this process and why response times for fighting fires differ in different parts of the state. 
   "Alaskans clearly have concerns about these suppression zone categories. This is a statewide issue that needs to be addressed this winter before another fire season is upon us," said Murkowski, noting the concerns of some Tok residents about why fires in parts of their area were allowed to burn unchecked - the fires then threatening homes and buildings. 
   Murkowski joined Norton for the presentation of awards to federal and state officials who worked on a Cannery Creek fish passage project. She also participated in the signing of a renewal of an Alaska Native hire utilization agreement between the Department and the Alyeska Pipeline Service Co, owner of the Trans-Alaska (oil) Pipeline System(TAPS). The pipeline companies back in 1972 agreed to hire Alaska Natives for operation and maintenance of the pipeline. The ceremony marked Alyeska fully meeting the "Title 29" hiring goals of having more than 20 percent Native employees working on pipeline operations. The signing marked a renewal of the agreement for future years.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260, 907/271-3735.
 
 