SEN. MURKOWSKI ENCOURAGES STRONG RELATIONS WITH INDONESIA
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today urged the United States to maintain and strengthen its relationship with Indonesia during a hearing of her Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs.  
   "As Congressman Jim Leach noted a few years ago, there is no country in the world of such vital importance that is less understood than Indonesia," Murkowski said during the hearing to examine the American-Indonesian relationship. "Shortly before our August break, I met with some members of the Australian Parliament and they urged me, and the U.S. as a whole, to pay more attention to Indonesia - and for good reason." 
   Murkowski noted that Indonesia can be an increasingly important American partner on issues ranging from global energy supplies to the War on Terror. "Indonesia is the home to the largest Muslim population of any nation and provides a moderating influence among Islamic states. If we want to improve our standing with the Muslim community outside of the United States, Indonesia is an appropriate starting point," Murkowski said. 
   Murkowski addressed the United States' continued cooperation with Indonesia in helping the country eradicate the avian influenza epidemic in the Southeast Asian region. Congress appropriated $25 million in the Iraq/Tsunami Supplemental Appropriations bill in May to help contain and prevent the spread of the bird flu. "The impacts of the bird flu aren't limited to just the health of the people, but the health of the economy as well. In the past year, Indonesia's rate of inflation was 7.84 percent, in part because the destruction of chickens due to the avian influenza led to an increase in the price of eggs and poultry. Continued cooperation on this issue is a win for relations between our two countries and for the people of both nations," Murkowski said. 
   Also discussed at the hearing was Indonesia's continued policy of heavy domestic energy subsidization. The policy is having a substantial impact on Indonesia's economy - subsidies are expected to cost $13-$14 billion this year and are severely devaluing Indonesia's currency. "In a world that is more and more dependent on global oil supplies, we need to be encouraging greater energy efficiencies, not just here at home, but overseas as well," Murkowski said. 
   Throughout the hearing, Sen. Murkowski expressed appreciation and gratitude to the people and the Government of Indonesia for their generous offers of assistance in the Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts. "This offer is even more impressive, given that Indonesia is itself still recovering from the devastating December tsunami," Murkowski said.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Krisitn Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 