SENATE PASSES SEN. MURKOWSKI'S NATIVE ALLOTMENT SUBDIVISION BILL
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today guided her bill to help resolve a problem affecting Alaska Natives who wish to subdivide their land holdings through the Senate.  
   The Senate unanimously approved her Native Allotment Subdivision Act (S. 1421). The bill now heads to the House of Representatives for its review. 
   The bill solves a problem faced by Native landowners, who acquired lands under the Native Allotment Act of 1906. Those owners do not now have the ability to subdivide their lands or to dedicate rights-of-way across their lands for public access or for utility purposes. The issue threatens the ability of Natives, who own more than 11,000 Native allotment parcels in the state, to freely subdivide their private property like all other Alaskans. 
   "I'm glad the Senate has approved this to fix the quirk in Federal law where Alaska Natives may not be able to use their land as freely as other private property owners. This bill allows Natives to fully exert their private property rights for subdivision and easement purposes," said Murkowski, of the measure that cleared the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee this spring. 
   "This is a strange problem in that for years everyone assumed that Native landowners could subdivide their own property like all other private land owners. But only a few years ago that right came into question when it was pointed out that there is currently no statutory authorization that allows individual Alaskan Natives to subdivide their allotments, or to dedicate rights-of-way across those lands for public access," she said. 
   She noted that the problem arose in 2000 when a new owner questioned the authority of the Bristol Bay Borough in Alaska to place a utility line across a subdivided Native allotment. The new owner's concern brought to light the fact that there was no statute that allowed Native allotment owners to subdivide their lands, much less dedicate easements across them. 
   "The lack of this explicit statutory authorization calls into question the validity of hundreds of parcels that already have been subdivided and lands that likely could be subdivided in the future. This bill solves that problem. The bill doesn't force Native land owners to do anything, but it may well help them to sell or dispose of their lands and gain the same value for their land that all other Alaskans enjoy," said Murkowski. 
   Under the measure previous subdivisions would be retroactively approved and Native land owners will be able to create new subdivisions if they so choose. 
   Murkowski noted that the legislation is supported by the federal government, by the State of Alaska, by local governments in Alaska and by Native groups. Murkowski noted that without the bill's passage, the titles to hundreds of parcels that have been subdivided and sold could be questioned in the future, as could the hundreds of utility easements and platted rights-of-way that have been placed across Native allotment tracts 
   She said she is very hopeful the House will approve the bill and send it to the President before the close of the 108th Congress this fall.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 