SEN. MURKOWSKI APPLAUDS PRESIDENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF BRAC RECOMMENDATIONS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski this afternoon gave the following statement regarding the President's acceptance of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission's Recommendations.  
 Congress now has 45 days to reject the BRAC recommendations without alteration. If it does not act, the recommendations will be implemented. 
   "The President's decision to accept the recommendations of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) is a sound one. I am gratified that the BRAC Commission diligently scrutinized each of the Defense Department's recommendations and independently determined which should stand and which should fall. Its determinations were thoughtful and principled. The President kept his word to accept the independent recommendations of the Commission, even though they deviated from those of the Secretary of Defense. 
   "In accepting the BRAC Commission's recommendation the President rejected the Defense Department's recommendation that Eielson Air Force Base lose all of its active duty elements and revert to a warm status. This is a testament to the high military value and strategic location of Eielson and the hard work of the Fairbanks and North Pole communities. 
   "The President has also accepted the BRAC Commission's recommendation that Kulis Air National Guard Station and Galena Forward Operating Location close. For Kulis, this recommendation is conditioned upon the availability of sufficient funds to relocate the Kulis mission to Elmendorf Air Force Base. Implementing the recommendation will make Kulis' valuable land and infrastructure adjacent to Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport available for economic development. Galena is among the strongest and most innovative of our rural villages and Alaska's Delegation will work to ensure that necessary Federal funds are available for the proper environmental clean-up and economic revitalization."
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Krisitn Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 