SENS. MURKOWSKI, TALENT, REP. RUPPERSBERGER PUSH OPERATION HERO MILES LEGISLATION; BILL ALLOWS DONATION OF MILES TO MILITARY-FAMILIES
  Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Jim Talent, R-Mo., and Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger, D-MD., today held a news conference on Capitol Hill to promote Operation Hero Miles, a legislative initiative that would allow Americans to donate their frequent flyer miles to military men and women and their families. Sens. Talent and Murkowski successfully offered the legislation in the Senate as an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill (S. 2400) on June 3.  
   "Our legislation will allow the families of wounded service personnel to visit their loved one in a military hospital at no personal expense for the airfare," said Sen. Talent. "It will also permit soldiers who must return home from overseas while on emergency leave to do so at no cost by using donated frequent flyer miles. A service member who has to return home would face real financial hardship if they had to purchase commercial airfare on a moment's notice. This legislation will allow Americans to directly support and assist our service men and women and their families by donating frequent flyer miles." 
   "The amendment will justly allow the families of wounded service personnel to visit their loved ones in a military hospital at no personal expense for airfare. It also will permit soldiers who must return home from overseas to do so at no cost by utilizing the air miles donated by Americans. This program allows Americans to show in a tangible way their support for our troops and it will help the military avoid the very real financial hardship caused when they need to purchase commercial airfares on short notice. It is the least we can do for our troops who are protecting us overseas," said Sen. Murkowski. 
   "Our men and women in uniform are risking their lives for our country in Iraq, Afghanistan, and in other locations around the world. Their service is to be commended. I believe making 'Operation Hero Miles' permanent is the least we can do to make their personal lives a little easier. We believe this legislation will make a big difference in the lives of our military families in the years come," said Congressman Ruppersberger (D-MD). 
   The legislation makes Operation Hero Miles a permanent Department of Defense (DOD) program, giving DOD the authority to accept the donation of frequent traveler miles, credits and tickets by the general public in order to give free, last minute plane tickets to servicemen and women on leave to handle an urgent family situation, convalescent leave or other unexpected emergencies. 
   The legislation also gives DOD the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops traveling to visit their injured loved ones at military hospitals around the world. Under special circumstances, the DOD is also authorized to allow a non-family member, such as clergy or a close mentor, use of the donated miles to reunite with a wounded or ill servicemember. The Department is to designate a single office to administer the Operation Hero Miles program, to establish rules and procedures for eligibility and disbursement of miles and to promote participation in the program and donation of miles by airlines, organizations and the public.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 