SEN. MURKOWSKI INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HONOR NATIVE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS
  In a continuing effort to provide long overdue recognition to two Alaska Native leaders of the civil rights movement - Elizabeth Wanamaker Peratrovich and her husband Roy Peratrovich - Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today reintroduced legislation to posthumously grant a Congressional gold medal to honor their contributions to the nation's civil rights effort.  
   "Today, Senator Stevens and I are pleased to announce that we are reintroducing this legislation in the 109th Congress and I would invite all of our colleagues to join us in honoring these important figures in Native history," said Murkowski. Last year, during the opening ceremonies of the National Museum of the American Indian, Senators Murkowski and Stevens introduced legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously to the Peratrovich's. 
   "Elizabeth and Roy Peratrovich were model Alaskans and model Americans. Their dedication to ensuring Alaska Native civil right is to be commended, and it is my hope that Alaskans learn from their experience and example," said Stevens. "The tireless work of two people to bring honor to many has not gone unnoticed or unappreciated; it is long overdue for them to be recognized for their work in making Alaska the great state it is." 
   "Elizabeth Peratrovich is to the Native people in my State what Dr. Martin Luther King is to America - a giant in the battle for civil rights and equality under the law," said Murkowski. She stressed the importance of the legislation authorizing the President to have the U.S. Mint design and strike a gold medal in honor of the Southeast civil rights leaders. The Mint by the law would also be authorized to produce and sell bronze duplicates of the medal to honor their accomplishments on behalf of all Alaskans. 
   On February 8, 1945, Elizabeth Peratrovich, a Tlingit woman stood before the Alaska Territorial Legislature to ask why it was that Native people suffered discrimination in a land that was once theirs alone. "Everyone was aware of this discrimination and many criticized it, but it was Elizabeth's powerful testimony before the Alaska Territorial Legislature that tugged at the conscience of Alaskans and caused it to end," Murkowski added. 
   Eight days after Elizabeth spoke to the Legislature, on February 16, 1945, one of America's first laws prohibiting discrimination in public accommodations was signed into law. And that is why the State of Alaska observes February 16 of each year as Elizabeth Peratrovich Day. 
   The State of Alaska observed Elizabeth Peratrovich Day on Wednesday, February 16. Commemorative observances continue through Saturday, Feb. 19, when the Alaska Native Heritage center will host a day long celebration of the Peratrovich's legacy.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 