SEN. MURKOWSKI'S SCHEDULE FOR PRESIDENT'S DAY RECESS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced her public schedule for the upcoming President's Day Recess. During her travel, the Senator will participate in community events, local roundtables, school tours and meetings with local leaders in Juneau, Hoonah, Anchorage, Kenai and MatSu.  
   The following is a list of Senator Murkowski's public events. 
   Monday, February 20: Senator Murkowski will be attending the United Fisherman of Alaska's Reception for the Gulf of Mexico Fishing Industry in Juneau at 4:30 PM at the Hangar on the Wharf. At the event the Senator will receive the organization's "Person of the Year in Alaska Politics" award. 
   Tuesday, February 21: 
   During a session of the State Legislature, the Senator will address elected officials in the House Chambers at 2:00 PM in Juneau. A press availability will immediately follow in the Speaker's Chambers. 
   Wednesday, February 22: 
   In Kenai, the Senator will be live on KSRM's "Sound Off" program from 10:30-11:00 AM. 
   The Chamber of Commerce in Kenai will feature Senator Murkowski as its keynote speaker at noon at Paradiso's Restaurant. 
   The Senator will participate in a ribbon cutting for the City of Soldotna's Maintenance Facility from 3:45 - 4:15 PM at 340 Arbor Avenue. 
   Senator Murkowski will also speak at the Kenai Lincoln Day Dinner at 6:30 PM. The dinner, entitled "Stay the Course: A Tribute to our Troops," will be held at the Kenai Visitors Center. 
   Thursday, February 23: 
   The Senator will discuss international trade and her recent trip to Asia, as well as regional economic and security issues during remarks to members of the World Trade Center at the Hilton Anchorage Hotel at noon. A press availability will follow immediately. 
   Senator Murkowski will discuss the health of the State's energy sector, as seen from Capitol Hill, during a speech to PACCOM at the Sullivan Arena at 2:00 PM. 
   Friday, February 24: 
   Senator Murkowski will participate in a live interview on KMBQ in Anchorage from 1:30 - 2 PM. 
   The Senator will take part in a Salute to the Military at the Sheraton in Anchorage. The event begins at 6:00 PM.
   Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 