ALASKA DELEGATION NAMES HEAD OF BETHEL OFFICE
  Sens. Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski and Rep. Don Young today announced that Robert E. Herron will head the Delegation's Bethel office.  
   Herron, an Alaska resident since 1968, has a long career of professional management both in the private sector in Alaska and in the Alaska State legislature. 
   For the last seven years, Herron has served as the Bethel City Manager, overseeing municipal operations for the city of Bethel and supervising nearly 100 employees. Beginning in 1992, Herron began his tenure with Bethel Drilling and Welding, as owner and manager of operations. Prior to that, Herron was owner and manager of North Star Gas - distributing propane and gasoline throughout Western Alaska. Herron has also served as a legislative aide and chief of staff to State Senator Lyman Hoffman. 
   "Robert's past government and private sector service will be of great benefit to the people of Western Alaska. It is very important to the Alaska Congressional Delegation and to all Alaskans that the local contact have an understanding of the community. Robert has that understanding; we look forward to his working in the Bethel office," Stevens said. 
   "I am pleased to have Mr. Herron on board. As former City Manager of Bethel, I'm sure he is aware of the challenges in that area. He is also familiar with the people of Bethel and the surrounding villages. We welcome him to the team as he will be the point man in Bethel representing the delegation in our efforts to continue serving the great State of Alaska," said Young. 
   Herron's community service in the Kuskokwim area is extensive. He has served in such positions as chairman of the Lower Kuskokwim School Board, as the board chairman of Alaska Public Entities Insurance, Inc., as board President of the Yuut Elitnaurviat People's Learning Center, and as Post Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post #10041. Herron is a graduate of Lathrop High School in Fairbanks and served in the Lower 48 and overseas as a member of the United States Marine Corp. 
   "Robert will be a tremendous asset to the Delegation," Murkowski said. "His extensive connections throughout the region as well as his personal dedication to the people of Western Alaska will be a vital link for our efforts in the area. With over 6,000 people now living in the Bethel area it is incredibly important that we have someone of Robert's caliber to represent Ted, Don and I." 
   Herron is taking over the Bethel office from Geri Sumpter, who now works in Sen. Murkowski's Anchorage office, and will begin in March.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 