SEN. MURKOWSKI APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF 'RED RIBBON WEEK' RESOLUTION
  Senator Murkowski yesterday won passage of a resolution dedicating the week of October 23-31 as "Red Ribbon Week." The resolution, sponsored by Senator Murkowski, commemorates anti-drug efforts and will guide states, Parent Teacher Associations, Boys and Girls Clubs of America and Governors and Attorneys General nationwide in partnering in an effort to call attention to the dangers of drug usage.  
   "I encourage all Americans to wear the Red Ribbon next week as a symbol of zero tolerance for illegal drug use and of our commitment to help people, especially children, make the right life-decisions," said Senator Murkowski. 
   Red Ribbon Week is a national, week-long event commemorating the life of Drug Enforcement Agency Special Agent Enrique Camarena, who was killed in the line of duty in 1985. Shortly after his death, his friends launched "Camarena Clubs" in his hometown. In his honor, club members wore red ribbons and pledged to live drug-free lives. The campaign quickly gained national prominence and in 1988 Congress proclaimed the first National Red Ribbon Week. President and Mrs. Reagan chaired the event. 
   "Nineteen years later Red Ribbon Week is as strong as ever - with over 80 million people participating in related events. Wearing the Red Ribbon proclaims your commitment to yourself, your family and your friends to remain drug free," said Senator Murkowski. "It is a symbol of the success we as a community - be it an Elementary School, a city, a State, or an entire country - can achieve when we join together to fight illegal drug use." 
   On October 22, the Municipality of Anchorage, in conjunction with the Alaska Red Ribbon Coalition and the Boys and Girls Clubs of Alaska, will host a Red Ribbon Week kickoff at Sand Lake Elementary. The Red Ribbon Coalition is comprised of the Anchorage School District, the Alaska State Troopers, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, and the U.S. Department of Justice.
 
 