SEN. MURKOWSKI BACKS MENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE PARITY REQUIREMENT
  Saying that health insurance policies should provide better coverage for mental health ailments, Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski this week backed legislation to require that insurance generally provide the same coverage benefits for mental health as for medical-surgical treatments.  
   Murkowski this week co-sponsored the Wellstone Mental Health Act, sponsored by Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., and named after former Minnesota Democratic Senator Paul Wellstone. The bill (S. 486) would require health insurance companies to provide the same level of coverage for mental health treatments as for medical-surgical plans. 
   "Proper mental health coverage is a major issue for Alaskans. Suicide mortality is twice as high in Alaska as the national average - 300 percent higher among Alaska Natives - an estimated 90 percent of state suicides suffering some form of mental illness. Given that more than 43,000 Alaskans are suffering from some form of mental illness and that most Alaskan insurance plans provide only limited or no coverage for mental health services, it is clear that this is an important issue for my state," said Murkowski in supporting the measure. 
   The bill will require comparable coverages for mental health and surgical-medical plans. It does exempt some small employers from having to provide insurance that meets the requirements and in the case of group health plans that offer participants two or more benefit package options, it allows for the coverage requirements to be applied separately with respect to each option. The bill also allows plans that provide in-network mental health benefits, to offer lesser benefits for out-of-network treatment, as long as the benefits are at parity with the medical-surgical benefits offered for other out-of-network providers. 
   The measure will also require the General Accounting Office to study the requirement's effects on health insurance costs, access and quality and develop a cost estimation of extending such requirements to the treatment of substance abuse and chemical dependency. Preliminary estimates are that requiring better mental health coverage could cause an 88-cent monthly increase in total health insurance premium costs. 
   The bill this year is already supported by 361 groups including the Alaska State Medical Association, the National Association for Rural Mental Health and the National Mental Health Association. 
   The bill is pending in the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. 
   Murkowski earlier this summer also supported the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act (S. 2634) to support through grants and other means, the planning, implementation and evaluation of activities to prevent youth suicide including the creation of intervention and prevention strategies. The bill would set up a federal Suicide Technical Assistance Center and provide funds for campus mental and behavioral health service centers. That bill has passed the Senate and is pending review in the House.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 