SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS BATTLE TO GAIN ALASKA TERRITORIAL GUARD MEMBERS THEIR PROPER HONORS
  After months of effort, Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced that the U.S. Army has agreed to recognize the service of Alaska's Territorial Guard during World War II, finally granting living guard members formal military discharge certificates that will entitle the guard members to proper veterans benefits.  
   Murkowski announced that she has been notified by R.L. Brownlee, the Acting Secretary of the Army, that the surviving members of the guard whose application paperwork has already been processed will gain their formal discharge certificates within two weeks, while the Army's Human Resources Command will speed up processing for all future applications. The Army is saying that all certificates should be processed by year's end. 
   "This news is long overdue and extremely welcome. For years, bureaucracy and paperwork requirements that appeared impossible to meet have prevented Alaska's World War II veterans from receiving the honors they so truly deserve. Now the logjam has finally been broken. Unfortunately it happened too late for many thousands of our guard members to benefit," said Senator Murkowski at the announcement ceremony in her office. 
   The Senator was joined by Major General Craig Campbell, Adjutant General of Commissioner of the Alaska Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, and by former Col. Bob Goodman, who has been working for years to gain the guardsmen their benefits. 
   During WWII, some 6,600 Alaskans, mostly Natives, were recruited to serve as guides and scouts in efforts to defend Alaska from Japanese attack. The Alaska Territorial Guard served during the attacks on Kiska and Attu Islands and throughout the war before being disbanded. In 1998 an effort was made to win proper military benefits for territorial guardsmen but the effort was slowed in 1999 when the Department of Defense Civilian/Military Review Board turned down benefits saying the law did not permit benefits to be granted to territorial troops. 
   In 2000 Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens introduced and Congress passed a law change to make ATG service be classified as active military service. But during the following three years no guard members received their formal discharge certificates (DD 214s) because territorial paperwork relating to guard duty was so sketchy that the Department of Defense did not feel it met military standards. 
   This Spring Sen. Murkowski intervened and urged the Department of Defense to make allowances for the sometimes spotty paperwork for those who were recruited to the territorial guard. "Given the sixty years since WWII, service records are, at best, sketchy. It is nearly impossible to gather the information the DOD seems to be expecting. ... Please don't let the remaining guard members pass on without our government formally recognizing their patriotic service during WWII," Murkowski wrote to the Secretary of the Army. 
   Both Senators Murkowski and Stevens were notified recently that the certificates for the first 23 guardsmen will be processed quickly. Certificates for any other of the guard that apply will be processed shortly thereafter. Currently it is believed that about 300 guard members are still living out of the 6,600 that once served. Formal certificates for the first 23 members could be presented as soon as next week during the annual Alaska Federation of Natives convention in Anchorage. 
   Issuance of the discharge certificates will permit guard members to gain benefits such as a headstone, a U.S. flag and burial in a national cemetery, as well as other veterans' benefits, Murkowski said.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260, 907/271-3735.
 
 