SEN. MURKOWSKI CONGRATULATES ALASKANS ON PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTMENTS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today congratulated Alaskans Mead Treadwell and Vera Metcalfe on their presidential appointments to the United States Arctic Research Commission. Treadwell, who has been a commissioner since 2001, has been elevated to the Chairman position, while Metcalfe has been appointed to serve as the indigenous representative through 2009. President Bush announced the nominations July 17.  
   Of Treadwell Senator Murkowski said, "I am delighted that President Bush has recognized Mead's dedication to Arctic research and policy. I have known Mead for most of his professional career. His knowledge of the Arctic will help the United States continue its work with other Arctic nations to establish policies and goals that will advance the entire circumpolar region. As chairman of this very important commission, Mead will bring energy and dedication to its efforts." 
   Of Metcalfe Senator Murkowski said, "Vera will bring local knowledge and perspective to the organization. I am proud that she will be representing Alaska Natives on the Commission." The United States Arctic Research Commission was established by the Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 (as amended, Public Law 101-609). The Commission's principal duties are (1) to establish the national policy, priorities, and goals necessary to construct a federal program plan for basic and applied scientific research with respect to the Arctic, including natural resources and materials, physical, biological and health sciences, and social and behavioral sciences; (2) to promote Arctic research, to recommend Arctic research policy, and to communicate our research and policy recommendations to the President and the Congress; (3) to work with the National Science Foundation as the lead agency responsible for implementing the Arctic research policy and to support cooperation and collaboration throughout the Federal Government; (4) to give guidance to the Interagency Arctic Research Policy Committee (IARPC) to develop national Arctic research projects and a five-year plan to implement those projects; and (5) to interact with Arctic residents, international Arctic research programs and organizations and local institutions including regional governments in order to obtain the broadest possible view of Arctic research needs. More information on the Arctic research Commission is available at http://www.arctic.gov Biographical information on Mead Treadwell is available at http://www.arctic.gov/mtreadwell.htm
   Contact: Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 