SENATE DESIGNATES JUNE NATIONAL INTERNET SAFETY MONTH
  Noting that with children having increased access to the Internet there is a simultaneous need for increased awareness about online security and threats, Sen. Lisa Murkowski said that she was pleased that the Senate adopted her resolution to designate June as Internet Safety Month.  
   "The Internet has become one of the most significant advances in the twentieth century and, as a result, it affects people's lives in a positive manner each day," Senator Murkowski said. "However, this technology presents dangers that need to be brought to the attention of all Americans." 
   Murkowski's resolution recognizes that National Internet Safety Month will provide an opportunity to educate people of the United States on the dangers of the Internet and the importance of being safe and responsible online. Further, a designated month will offer an opportunity to commend and recognize national and community organizations for their work in promoting awareness of the dangers of the Internet and for providing information and training that develops the critical thinking and decision making skills young people need to be safe online. 
   Murkowski noted that 39 percent of youths in grades 5 through 12 in the United States admit giving out their personal information, such as their name, age and gender over the Internet. Additionally, 11.5 percent of students in this age group have actually met face to face with a stranger they met on the Internet. 
   "In 1996, the Federal Bureau of Investigation was involved in 113 cases involving Internet crimes against children. In 2001, the FBI opened 1,541 cases against people suspected of using the Internet to commit crimes involving child pornography or abuse. The U.S. Customs Service now places the number of Web sites offering child pornography at more than 100,000. Now is the time for America to focus its attention on supporting Internet safety," Sen. Murkowski said.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 