SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS PASSAGE OF 'RED RIBBON WEEK' RESOLUTION
  Saying more education and advocacy are needed to prevent drug use in society among all ages, Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski won Senate approval of a resolution declaring the week of Oct. 23-31 as "Red Ribbon Week."  
   The Red Ribbon Week Senate Resolution (S. Res. 277), sponsored by Sen. Murkowski, the 18th annual resolution commemorating anti-drug efforts, will guide states, Parent Teacher Associations, Boys and Girls Clubs of America and Governors and Attorneys General nationwide in partnering in an effort to call attention to the dangers of drug usage. 
   "By gathering together in special events and wearing a red ribbon during the last week in October, Alaskans and Americans from all walks of life demonstrate their opposition to drugs and help to promote a healthy drug-free lifestyle," said Murkowski. 
   Red Ribbon Week was established by Congress in 1988 to commemorate the work of Enrique "Kiki" Camarena, a Drug Enforcement Administration agent, who was murdered in the line of duty. The Red Ribbon campaign promotes the belief that one person can make a difference in the fight against drugs while encouraging a drug-free lifestyle and involvement in drug prevention efforts. 
   "We as parents and leaders must set good examples. We must encourage our children to make better choices by making the same commitment in our own lives. We must stop sending confusing and mixed signals and clearly encourage our children not to make the wrong decision - not to experiment or use drugs," said Murkowski. 
   This year's Red Ribbon Week will kick off in Alaska with anti-drug events starting on Oct. 24 in Anchorage. The City of Anchorage will celebrate with a series of Red Ribbon events coordinated with the Anchorage School District, the Alaska National Guard, the Alaska State Troopers, the Mayor of Anchorage, the Boys & Girls Clubs of Alaska, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the local U.S. Attorney's Office, many PTA groups and many others throughout the community.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 