SEN. MURKOWSKI GAINS INTERIOR SECRETARY'S ASSURANCE THAT FIGHTING ALASKA FIRES IS ?TOP PRIORITY' FOR FEDERAL WILDLAND FIRE RESOURCES
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today won the assurances of U.S. Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton that the federal government will do everything it can to battle wildfires in Alaska, including the Boundary fire northeast of Fairbanks that is threatening communities near the state's second largest population center. 
   Murkowski called Norton this morning to urge the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management to make every effort to fight all of the wildfires in Alaska's Interior, led at the moment by the Boundary fire that is threatening Chatanika, Haystack and other communities and subdivisions along the Steese and Elliott Highways, northeast of Fairbanks.
   "The Secretary assured me that battling that fire is the government's number one priority nationwide today; that the Department will use all of its resources to protect life and property in the Fairbanks area," said Murkowski after the telephone call.
   Murkowski spoke after the Federal Emergency Management Agency at the state's and her request had declared a fire management assistance declaration for the fire, making federal aid available to pay state costs in battling the roughly 117,000-acre wildfire. The Senator said the Secretary said she was fully briefed on the extent of the fire and Interior weather conditions on Wednesday and that the Department was focusing its resources on the fire.
   Murkowski said Norton told her that a federal Type 1 Incident Management Team is being dispatched from Denver to help plot strategy against the fire - the team expecting to arrive in Fairbanks this evening.
   Senator Murkowski said she is continuing to monitor fire fighting efforts statewide and will remain in close contact with federal officials. Concerning fire fighting tanker planes, Murkowski as recently as June 2 had urged the government to set up an expedited system to inspect the safety of the nation's aging fire fighting tanker fleet to get more planes back into service faster. Murkowski said officials expect to be able to announce on Friday whether the first of the 33 planes that have undergone the expedited inspections are safe to return to fire fighting duties.
   The Departments of Interior and Agriculture had cancelled its contracts for the planes - reducing the number of such planes in Alaska from four to two - after a National Transportation Safety Board investigation into two plane crashes questioned the safety of the aging planes, many of which are more than 60 years old.
   While efforts to fight the fire from the air using airplanes contracted by the state are hampered by the thick smoke from the existing fires, Murkowski said recertification of more of the planes could prove helpful in battling the existing fires should the winds change or future fires in the state.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 