SEN. MURKOWSKI THANKS SEN. SMITH FOR INTRODUCING AMENDMENT TO GAIN APPROVAL OF ALASKA GASLINE PROVISIONS IN JOBS BILL
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today publicly thanked Sen. Gordon Smith, R-Ore., for Thursday introducing at her request an amendment to add all three Alaska gas line financing/tax provisions to a major Jobs bills during a House-Senate conference on the measure. The action means that the conference members early next week will decide formally on whether to approve the tax provisions to aid construction of an Alaska gas line project.  
   Murkowski both last year and earlier this year won Senate approval of the three main financial incentives to improve chances of construction of a project to bring Alaska North Slope natural gas to market. The three tax provisions include provisions to allow gas owners to amortize the cost of all Alaska-built segments of a pipeline from their taxes, a provision to allow a tax credit for the cost of a needed gas conditioning plant on the North Slope of Alaska to process gas before it goes into a line, and a marginal well head credit that would provide a tax credit of up to 52 cents per thousand cubic feet of gas, should the price of gas at the wellhead fall to extremely low levels (roughly below $1.35 ttcf). 
   The last provision, while unlikely to ever be used given current and prospective gas prices, is intended to reduce the risk to financial markets and make it cheaper to obtain bond financing for the potentially $20 billion project - the largest private construction project in the nation's history. 
   "I can't thank Gordon Smith, a member of the conference committee, enough for taking up Alaska's banner at the request of the Alaska Delegation and offering the amendment to add all of the gas line provisions into the main bill. While all three were contained in the Senate-passed version of the Jobs bill (the Foreign Sales Corp./Extraterritorial Income [FSC/ETI] bill (S. 1637) because of the conference procedures they had to be offered as an amendment to the House-passed version of the bill yesterday by a member of the conference. Senator Smith did so and that allows us to work this weekend to gain support for adding the gas line aid to this bill before its likely adoption next week," said Sen. Murkowski. 
   Murkowski, who has been meeting this week with conferees, said she is very hopeful that she and the entire Alaska Delegation will be successful in making the case that it is vital for Congress this year to approve these financial incentives to guarantee that an Alaska gas line is built. 
   "This country is still looking at a daily shortfall of up to 20 billion cubic feet of gas in the next decade. The high prices consumers will be paying this fall to heat their homes will only get worse unless we bring more natural gas to market. Alaska has huge reserves and we have two projects, either of which will bring up to 4.5 billion cubic feet of gas a day to the Lower 48 - to markets that will be starved for domestic gas in the years ahead. 
   "Two of the three incentives are similar to what we already offer American energy companies. The third will likely never be utilized, but its presence should reduce the cost of financing this huge project. The three are helpful to get this project built - a project that will deliver badly needed gas to America, while producing hundreds of thousands of direct and indirect jobs nationwide and billions of dollars of revenue to the U.S. and state treasuries," said Sen. Murkowski. 
   "There is nothing this Congress can do that will be more important for the nation's economy and prosperity in the future than approving these incentives quickly so that an Alaska gas project can proceed. Guaranteeing that new supplies of gas will reach American consumers is vital if we are going to stop the escalation in the price of natural gas that is harming America's economic recovery," said Murkowski.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 