SEN. MURKOWSKI ANNOUNCES FEDERAL AID TO NATIVE VILLAGES TO SPEED RECOVERY FROM SUMMER'S WILDFIRES
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture is providing a $500,000 grant to Alaska entities to help wildfire recovery efforts in Alaska - fires that are affecting rural communities and Alaska Native villages. 
   Murkowski said she was informed by Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman this morning that the Department is providing the funds through the Natural Resources Conservation Service's Emergency Watershed Protection Program. The money will be available to assist local, state and federal agencies and to address restoration efforts on private lands, including Native village lands and Alaska Native corporation lands. The money will fund erosion control measures to protect watersheds and village water supplies in the wake of this summer's wildfires that have burned more than 6 million acres in Alaska - a new record for annual wildfire losses in the state.
   "It is wonderful that the Department is moving, even before the fires are out to provide federal aid so rural water resources can be protected. This grant is proof that the Administration understands how devastating the fires have been and how significant the long-term impacts could be in the future," said Senator Murkowski.
   She said the money is aimed at protecting water resources by reseeding burned areas, placing sediment traps on slopes, constructing trash racks to trap large rocks and boulders and enlarging existing debris basins to increase capacity.
   "This Administration remains committed to long-term watershed recovery and prevention efforts in communities impacted by devastating wildfires," said Secretary Veneman. "These funds will provide assistance to help heal the watershed and protect the threatened water resources of Alaska Native villages," the Secretary said.
   Murkowski said more information on the Emergency Watershed Protection Program (EWP) can be obtained from the web at: http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/EWP (.)
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 