SEN. MURKOWSKI URGES ALASKANS TO COMMENT ON PROPOSED DOCUMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL TRAVEL TO AND FROM UNITED STATES
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski is urging Alaskans to submit comments regarding proposed regulations that will require all U.S. citizens, as well as Citizens of Canada and Mexico, to have a passport or other accepted secure documentation that establishes the bearer's identity and nationality to enter or re-enter the United States by January 1, 2008.  
   The new regulations, the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, were submitted this week for public comment by the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security. The Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 mandated that the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, develop and implement a plan to require U.S. citizens and foreign nationals to present a passport, or other secure document when entering the United States. 
   "When this proposal was first discussed in April, many Alaskan's voiced concern," Sen. Murkowski said. "Now that the formal comment period has begun, I urge all Alaskans who are concerned about these regulations to submit their opinion. While we recognize the need for increased border security, I remain apprehensive about the burden that will be placed on Alaskans without passports and on Alaska commerce. With many in the state frequently traveling between Alaska and Canada, we must ensure that any new requirements for identification do not hinder our ability to travel and do not create unnecessary burdens. Alaska's Delegation will continue to work closely with the Departments of State and Homeland Security to make sure that our views are recognized before any new regulations go into affect." 
   In the proposed plan, the new travel regulations will be rolled out in phases. The proposed timeline follows: 
   * December 31, 2006 - Requirement applied to all air and sea travel to or from Canada, Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, and Bermuda. ? December 31, 2007 - Requirement extended to all land border crossings as well as air and sea travel. 
   While under the proposal a passport will be the preferred document for travel within the Western Hemisphere, other documents such as a Border Crossing Cards are anticipated to be accepted as well. 
   Those wishing to comment on the proposal should go to http://www.regulations.gov and follow the instructions for submitting comments. 
   For more information, visit www.dhs.gov or www.travel.state.gov
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 