SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES DISMISSAL OF ETHICS COMPLAINT
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today welcomed a decision by the Senate Ethics Committee to dismiss a complaint filed against her based on a personal email sent by her former Chief of Staff Justin Stiefel, the committee saying that the complaint "lacked substantial merit." 
   The committee today notified Theodore "Chip" Thoma of Juneau who filed the complaint last month that its review found that the complaint was based solely on the mere allegation or conjecture of a problem with no evidence or information to support the claim.
   "Based upon a review of your letter of complaint, and in view of the Committee's prior decisions respecting such matters, it appears that your complaint lacks substantial merit and that no further action is appropriate with respect to the matter, which is hereby dismissed," wrote Robert L. Walker, chief counsel and staff director of the Senate Ethics Committee, to Thoma.
   "My staff has bent over backwards throughout this election year to avoid using Senate resources in any way for political purposes. The quick dismissal of the complaint is a result of my staff's efforts to avoid even the appearance of improper conduct in this election season," said Senator Murkowski.
   Thoma on June 29 publicly complained that Stiefel, who resigned as the Senator's Chief of Staff in early January 2004, might have improperly used a Senate computer in November 2003 to send an email with political content since the email was sent during what he thought was Senate working hours. Stiefel publicly explained in a press account that he sent the email from his home computer using a non-Senate account when he was off work. Thoma argued that since the email was sent during Senate office hours that it was "likely that official Senate computer facilities were used."
   The committee, however, found that there was no evidence to support the claim and it was dismissed. The committee is comprised of three Republicans and three Democrats. It is chaired by Sen. George Voinovich, R-Ohio. The minority ranking member is Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nevada.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 