SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES NEW JUNEAU FISHERY CENTER
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, while welcoming the groundbreaking for the new National Marine Fisheries Service research center at Juneau's Lena Point, said she'll welcome even more the research that the center will generate when its doors open in 2007.  
   "It is clear today that we are in the process of entering a new 'age of the ocean.' We are finally beginning to realize - after centuries in which the oceans have seemed inexhaustible - how fragile this critical environment can be. Yet we must confess that we are almost entirely ignorant of how the ocean really works," said Sen. Murkowski at the ceremony marking the start of construction on the new $50.8 million lab facility. 
   "We have barely broken the surface with all our science - and our ignorance is inexcusable. No part of the world is more vital to our continued existence. Life began in the oceans, but we don't always recognize that the oceans continue to nurture it - that the health of the oceans translates directly into the health of all life on earth. 
   "The Lena Point NOAA facility is destined to become one of the nation's premier research sites, aided immeasurably by its proximity to the University of Alaska and the close relationship that exists between NOAA's scientists and the fishery and marine mammal scientists of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. 
   "For Alaskans dependent on fisheries for their livelihoods and for the welfare of their families, the scientific exploration of how the ocean's resources interact, how they respond to stresses - and how they can be helped to flourish - is more than just another intellectual exercise. We know the value of fishery knowledge. We know how important this facility will be to all of us in the future," said Murkowski, who welcomed even more that she had the honor of announcing that the new center will be named the Ted Stevens Marine Research Institute after her colleague, Alaska's senior Sen. Ted Stevens. 
   Murkowski and Alaska Congressman Don Young this summer asked Commerce Secretary Don Evans to name the facility after Stevens, in honor of his three decades of support for marine/fisheries research. The Secretary recently agreed with the request. 
   Murkowski joined Stevens and Young in summer 2003 in convincing the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration to proceed with construction of the center when the agency was considering scraping the building when cost estimates reached $78 million - more than $28 million above available funding levels. 
   Since, the building has been redesigned twice and NOAA has moved to hiring single construction manager-contractor to help guarantee that the project will be built within budget. The facility, being built on 23 acres at Auke Cape will include marine facilities of the University of Alaska Fairbanks, which has already advanced $1.7 million of the project's costs to pay for shared systems, such as seawater, waste treatment and the site work that is already underway. Construction is now set to start in May 2005 and be completed by February 2007.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 