SEN. MURKOWSKI VOTES TO PROVIDE PRESCRIPTION DRUGS TO ALL MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE VETERANS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski Tuesday supported a proposal by the chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee to provide lower-cost prescription drugs from the Veterans Affairs system to Medicare-eligible veterans. 
   The expansion, which will be especially helpful in Alaska where many veterans see private physicians and are not treated at the VA outpatient clinics in the Railbelt, will allow Medicare-eligible veterans merely to have to apply for the benefit of gaining their prescriptions through the VA system rather than having a VA physician treat the patient and actually write the medical prescription.
   The change, which will not affect service-disabled veterans who already have access to the VA prescription drug program, will allow current lower priority veterans - mainly non-service disabled, poor veterans and non-priority veterans who are also eligible for Medicare - to obtain prescription drugs from the VA in a more efficient manner.
   "With only a limited number of VA-operated facilities in the entire State of Alaska, this bill will provide Alaska's Medicare eligible veterans with access to prescription medications at VA's tremendously discounted prices without forcing those elderly veterans to first visit a VA-operated facility. In Alaska where a trip to see a VA doctor can take two days, it is a tremendous benefit if our Medicare eligible veterans can see their local doctors and still have access to VA prescription prices. That is why I voted for this bill to reduce veterans' drug costs," said Murkowski.
   She noted that the provision, as currently drafted, will require lesser-priority veterans once a year to elect whether to gain the VA prescription drugs through the VA or from their current Medicare providers. The election will likely free up spots on the VA patient waiting list so that more veterans can more quickly get appointments at the Railbelt outpatient clinics. The measure was supported by the national veterans group AMVETS. But she said she will be working with the Committee's Chairman, Arlen Specter, R-Pa., to revamp the requirement before final Senate passage of the measure (S. 1153), if veterans groups seek such a change.
   "This bill doesn't reduce by a nickel any benefit that any veteran currently enjoys. What the bill does is allow for the first time thousands of Alaska's 70,000 veterans to obtain their VA prescription drugs through their Medicare provider at VA prices. In addition, by allowing veterans to obtain their VA prescription drugs through their Medicare provider, it will free up slots at VA facilities across Alaska and the nation for more veterans to gain access to VA care and obtain that care in a timelier manner. It represents a significant improvement for many vets in Alaska," said Murkowski.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 