SEN. MURKOWSKI APPLAUDS FDA PROVISION OF OMEGA-3 CONTENT CLAIMS FOR ALASKA SEAFOOD
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today applauded a decision of the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA) permitting nutrient content claims for foods containing specific omega-3 fatty acids - DHA, EPA, and ALA. 
   "Acceptance of these claims by the Food and Drug Administration will allow our seafood processors and sellers, especially our salmon fisheries, to highlight for consumers products that contain high levels of DHA and EPA, which help reduce the risk of coronary heart disease," said Sen. Murkowski.
   "There is great consumer interest in omega-3 fatty acids, as well as growing awareness that not all omega-3s provide the same nutritional benefit. A substantial body of scientific evidence demonstrates that DHA and EPA, which are found in fish, especially salmon, can reduce the risk of coronary heart disease. This decision is great news for the Alaska seafood industry and for health-conscious consumers," she said.
   The FDA's decision to not object to a notification filed by three Northwest salmon purveyors, will permit claims such as "excellent source of DHA omega-3" or "rich in EPA (an omega-3)."
   Senator Murkowski recognized FDA's action as furthering its Consumer Health Information for Better Nutrition Initiative, one intended to help consumers select foods with clear and demonstrated health benefits. The Senator also praised FDA's handling of the notification under the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act, enacted in 1997, designed to streamline the procedure for providing nutrient and health information to the public.
   "FDA's responsible handling of this notification allows consumers to receive information that promises to improve public health," she said. Murkowski early this year encouraged the FDA to grant the content claim as a means of aiding health conscious consumers and the Alaska seafood industry better market Alaska's wild salmon.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 