SEN. MURKOWSKI INTRODUCES RURAL TEACHER HOUSING ACT
  To help improve the quality of life for educators in rural Alaska, Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced introduction of the Rural Teacher Housing Act of 2005 (S.1980).  
   Similar to legislation Murkowski introduced in 2003, the Act would use funds from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to provide good quality housing for teachers, administrators, and other school staff in rural areas of Alaska. Through the Rural Teacher Housing Act, the Alaska Housing Finance Corporation, using funding from HUD, would be able to provide grants and loans to school districts to either construct, rehabilitate, or purchase housing for educators. 
   "In order to attract the best qualified teachers to our schools throughout the State, we must ensure that they will have good housing and a place to call their own outside of the classroom," Murkowski said. "Inadequate housing for our educators exists throughout Alaska and is a top concern of our communities." 
   Murkowski noted that in 2003, she traveled through rural Alaska with then-Education Secretary Rod Paige and encountered many examples of educators in inadequate living situations, including teachers sleeping in school broom closets and on classroom floors because of a lack of available housing. 
   Factors such as geography, isolation and inadequate housing often create challenges in attracting educators to rural Alaska. In a single year the Lower Kuskokwim School District in western Alaska hired one teacher for every six qualified applicants who decided not to accept job offers. Half of the applicants who did not accept a teaching position in that district indicated that their decision was related to the lack of housing. Inadequate housing also has lead to problems in retaining teachers. Turnover rates can be as high as 30 percent each year in some rural areas, with housing being a major factor. A 2004 survey by the Teacher Housing Working Group found that 57 percent of Alaska rural school districts experienced challenges in recruiting and retaining teachers and that 46 percent of schools had "moderate" or "high" needs for new housing units. 
   "The issue of adequate housing must be addressed to ensure that children in rural Alaska are receiving the highest possible quality education," Murkowski said. "It is imperative that we address this important issue." 
   The bill was introduced last week and has been referred to the Senate Indian Affairs Committee, of which Sen. Murkowski is a member.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 