SEN. MURKOWSKI CONDUCTS HEALTHCARE ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSIONS WITH SERVICE PROVIDERS, PHARMACISTS
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today met with physicians and hospital administrators in Kenai. In a roundtable discussion, Murkowski solicited ideas on overcoming Alaska's physician shortage. Similar meetings took place in Juneau yesterday and in Fairbanks on February 4. In Fairbanks, Murkowski also talked with pharmacists about their concerns with the implementation of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit.  
   "The goal of the meetings is to hash out how federal programs can best meet the healthcare needs of Alaskans. I value these face-to-face meetings with Alaska's health service providers because they give me a firsthand perspective on the challenges of delivering healthcare in our State," said Murkowski. 
   With Alaska's aging population, Medicare physician reimbursement rates are a primary concern of Murkowski. Alaskan physicians and health care providers face greater payment challenges than their counterparts in the Lower 48 due to the high cost of transportation, the isolation of many communities, and a general shortage of doctors. The cost of providing medical care in Alaska can be as much as 70 percent higher than other states. Many physicians and other health care providers can no longer afford to accept new Medicare patients because of these payment disparities, creating severe access problems for Alaska's elderly. 
   In 2004 Senators Stevens and Murkowski achieved a significant increase in Medicare reimbursement rates for Alaska's physicians. The increase expired in January 2006 and Murkowski said that she and Senator Stevens are actively working to extend this increase again. "The goal is to ensure that Alaskan physicians receive fair Medicare reimbursements that reflect the higher costs of providing care in Alaska." 
   Murkowski also laid out other strategies to address Alaska's physician shortage. First, she plans on introducing legislation to allow primary health service providers a tax credit of $1,000 for each month those providers provide primary health services in medically underserved areas, covering most of Alaska. "The goal is to recruit physicians to those areas that are most in need of health services," said Murkowski. Second, Murkowski is working to expand the Alaska Physician Family Residency Program to train more physicians in Alaska's rural settings. "Training future physicians in rural Alaska," she said, "is the most effective way to encourage them to maintain a practice in rural Alaska." 
   During the Fairbanks meeting, pharmacists talked with Murkowski about the implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit plan and problems they encountered. The most severe problems occurred with dual eligible Alaskans - those who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid. In some cases, dual eligibles were not able to easily access needed medication. "It is unacceptable that some of the poorest, sickest beneficiaries are having the most trouble; that is not what Congress intended," noted Murkowski. 
   Murkowski pointed to the efforts by the State to provide relief to pharmacists. "I am proud that the Alaska Legislature and the Governor's office are working to provide relief to the pharmacists. Congress must now make sure that Alaska, and other states that have provided this relief, be fully compensated. I will work to make sure that happens," assured Murkowski. 
   Murkowski plans to continue to have open dialogue with health care providers, users and administrators on ways to best serve Alaskans.
   Contact: Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 