SEN. MURKOWSKI THANKS SBA FOR GRANTING SMALL BUSINESS DISASTER DECLARATION TO AID INTERIOR FIRMS AFFECTED BY WILDFIRES
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced that the federal Small Business Administration granted a request by the State of Alaska and the Senator to declare the state's Interior an Economic Injury Disaster area because of the wildfires in the region, enabling small businesses in the area affected by the fires to receive federal assistance. 
   Murkowski for weeks has been working with the State of Alaska to aid the state in completing its formal small business disaster aid request. The State submitted its request for a disaster declaration July 21. Murkowski then asked the SBA to expedite its review process and approve the aid request quickly. This afternoon the SBA approved the request, allowing small businesses that have been affected by the wildfires to qualify for low-interest federal loans.
   "Getting federal assistance and financial aid to the people and businesses as quickly as possible is critical. The impacts of the fires have been felt statewide. Many of the impacted businesses depend on summer-related activity and tourism to make sufficient money to get through the rest of the year. Due to the fires this will not occur.
   "In addition, due to the short building season, the time for recovery and rebuilding before winter is short. Therefore it is imperative that the government makes business aid available quickly," said Murkowski July 21 in her letter to SBA Administrator Hector Baretto, Jr.
   The SBA requires that at least five businesses be affected before it can issue an Economic Injury Disaster Declaration that opens the way for affected firms to obtain loan assistance. A number of businesses from Tok to the Fairbanks area are cited in the state's formal request submitted yesterday by Community and Economic Development Commissioner Edgar Blatchford.
   Businesses can apply for Economic Injury Disaster Loans that will provide up to $1.5 million in disaster assistance to a business - money that can be repaid over 30 years at interest rates no higher than 4 percent. The declaration does not preclude a later additional declaration of a physical disaster or a Presidential disaster declaration - both of which could trigger additional federal aid - if conditions warrant, said Murkowski.
   Nearly 4 million acres of Alaska have been affected by the wildfires that started in June affecting a variety of businesses in the state, generally in the Interior.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/22409306, 301/292-2260
 
 