SEN. MURKOWSKI ORGANIZES EFFORT TO KEEP ALASKA MILK PRODUCERS FREE OF FEDERAL ?MILK TAX'
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski this week organized an effort by Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rican lawmakers to prevent the federal government from making Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rican milk producers pay the domestic dairy promotion assessment, the so-called federal "milk tax."  
   Murkowski, in a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick and Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman, urged that the federal government not extend a mandatory 15-cent per hundred weight dairy promotion assessment to the two states and the commonwealth, since all three do not produce enough milk for their citizens, continuing to rely on milk shipments from outside their boundaries to meet consumer needs. 
   "Imposition of the milk tax on Alaskan, Hawaiian and Puerto Rico milk producers would harm their ability to produce milk at competitive prices and would result in price hikes for consumers of milk products including children, low-income families, Alaska Natives, bakeries and other small businesses. It simply doesn't make any sense," said Senator Murkowski.
   Murkowski was joined in the letters by Sen. Ted Stevens and Congressman Don Young and by Hawaii Sens. Daniel Inouye and Daniel Akaka, Hawaii Reps. Neil Abercrombie and Ed Case and by Anibal Acevedo-Vila, who represents Puerto Rico in Congress. They noted that when the Dairy Production and Stabilization Act was passed in 1983 to require milk producers to donate to the federal fund to promote dairy product sales, Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico were exempted because their dairy producers were unable to produce enough milk for in-state consumption. That continues to be the case today.
   Recently some have been arguing that World Trade Organization (WTO) rules require that the assessment be levied on all domestic producers, regardless of location, in order for the U.S. to treat foreign dairy importers equitably. Assessing Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico would allow the USDA to assess U.S. dairy importers.
   Murkowski, however, argued there is no reason yet to impose the "milk tax" on Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rican producers and consumers, especially since foreign imports are unlikely to play any significant role in their dairy markets given shipping costs to the jurisdictions. Also paying into the dairy promotion effort, which funds the ":Got Milk?" campaign and the "Ah, the power of Cheese" ads, won't help Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico since all three cannot produce enough milk to satisfy in-state demand in their respect areas.
   "There is no reason for Alaskan dairy farmers and families to pay more for milk now simply so the U.S. can meet a potential WTO ruling. The milk tax will hurt families and we'll oppose its implementation," she said.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 