SEN. MURKOWSKI: KEY GAS LINE TAX INCENTIVES SIGNED BY PRESIDENT
  Calling it the completion of the biggest milestone to date in the state's efforts to win construction of a nearly $20 billion natural gas pipeline project, Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today thanked President George W. Bush for quickly signing legislation into law containing two key financial incentives to allow construction of a gas project to proceed.  
   The President this morning in Pennsylvania signed a major corporate tax/jobs bill into law. The bill contains two provisions that will save producers of an Alaska natural gas project nearly three-quarters of a billion dollars, helping make the project economically viable. 
   "Given what I've heard from the gas owners, these tax incentives along with the loan guarantee and the regulatory and permitting changes should fulfill all that we need to do from the federal side to get the biggest project in the state's history up and running. This is the day when Alaskans can finally breathe a sigh of relief and know that construction of a gas project is now a real possibility - that the future for the gas line now is truly in the hands of Alaskans," said Senator Murkowski after the bill's signing. 
   The President today signed two tax provisions: one allowing gas owners to amortize the cost of all Alaska-built segments of a pipeline from their taxes over seven years instead of 15 years, a change that will save line owners an estimated $441 million over the life of the line, $150 million in the first 10 years, according to final estimates from the Senate Joint Tax Committee; and another allowing an enhanced oil recovery tax credit for the cost of a needed gas conditioning plant on the North Slope of Alaska to process gas before it goes into a line. That provision should save the companies $295 million more in taxes in the first decade of the project. 
   The President earlier in the month had signed the first part of the needed gas line legislation package into law, approving an $18 billion loan guarantee, streamlined permitting and expedited court review, creation of the Office of the Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects to be responsible for speeding construction of an Alaska gas line, a $20 million worker training program and other provisions to help the state benefit from development of the project to deliver Alaska's 35 trillion cubic feet of known gas supplies to market. 
   "These tax incentives are the key piece that will allow gas producers, pipeline companies and the state to proceed with the final negotiations needed to get Alaska's gas to market. The puzzle isn't finished, but the federal outline is in place. We're closer than ever before to seeing this pipeline underway," said Murkowski after the President signed the bill. 
   With the President's signature of the corporate tax bill (H.R. 4520), two other Alaska-related tax provisions went into effect. 
   Income Averaging: One provides Alaska fishermen with the ability to average their income over a rolling three-year period in determining their federal taxes - a provision that should save fishermen from $3 to $10 million a year collectively in federal taxes, according to estimates from the Joint Tax Committee. 
   Whaling Captains Tax Deduction: The second provision gives up to a $10,000 a year itemized tax deduction to North Slope Alaska Eskimo whaling captains to help them pay for maintaining the annual subsistence bowhead whale harvests for North Slope villagers. 
   Murkowski said signing of both gas line-related measures gives the companies and State the assurances needed to proceed with talks under the state's Stranded Gas Act to nail down the details on final tax and royalty issues.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 