SEN. MURKOWSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON INCENTIVES FOR OCEAN ENERGY
  As the Senate heads toward final passage of H.R. 6, the Senate Energy Bill, Sen. Lisa Murkowski made the following statement on the Senate Floor to advocate for her amendment allowing energy generated by oceans to be eligible for renewable energy production incentives.  
   The Energy Bill now includes Murkowski's amendment. 
   "Mr. President, we have had some great discussion here on the floor of the Senate as we debate the merits of the Energy bill, and we have talked about conservation and about new production. We have talked a lot about renewables and alternatives. 
   "One of those areas that we have not heard a lot of discussion on, in terms of the renewables, is the area of ocean energy. When we look at our globe and at all those colors, we recognize that we have a heck of a lot of ocean to deal with, and there is great potential there. 
   "The Energy bill currently provides production incentives and Federal purchase requirement assistance to many forms of renewable energy: wind, solar, geothermal, and closed-loop biomass, but oddly enough, it doesn't provide such aid to this type of power that I am talking about-power that can benefit all 25 coastal States, and that is the area of ocean energy. This is a relatively new type of renewable power. It comes from harnessing the endless power of the ocean either by building the wave energy converters that transfer the power of waves into current; or the tidal and current systems that use tidal or current flows to spin underwater turbines; or the newest type, which is ocean thermal energy technology, and this generates electricity from the temperature differential of surface and deeper waters. 
   "Ocean electric projects are relatively new in this country, but not necessarily overseas. Currently, there are operating projects in plants off the coast of Scotland, the Azores, Australia, and Portugal. 
   "In America, we have some projects proposed off Hawaii, in Makah Bay in Washington State, in the East River off of New York City, and also for installation at Port Judith in Rhode Island. 
   "The amendment that the Senate will be considering is one I am proposing that will simply try to level the playing field to see if the technology can be improved to bring down the cost of ocean power so it can be competitive with other forms of renewable energy. When wind energy first started, when we started getting into this technology in 1978, it was costing about 25 cents a kilowatt hour. Ocean energy is already starting at about half that cost, even before economies of scale, and years of technology testing and improvement have had a chance to reduce those costs. 
   "In my State, we certainly care a lot about developing different sources of renewable energy. 
   "Now, in Alaska, we have about 5.6 million megawatts of power that Alaskans use a year; 1.36 million megawatts come from lake taps or small hydropower. That is about 24 percent of Alaska's electricity, which is currently coming from hydro. 
   "We also produce 3,600 megawatts of power from wind turbines, which are working great. They are out in the Kotzebue area and St. Paul Island in the Pribilofs and in other southwestern Alaskan communities. Alaska gains 6,000 to nearly 10,000 megawatts of power from burning fish oil. I have had people say: Wait a minute, did I hear you right, that you burn fish oil to generate power? That is correct. Given the health of Alaska's seafood industry, this is a renewable energy source that has great potential. There are new wind and landfill renewable projects proposed for near Bethel, at Fire Island near Anchorage, and a number of other projects proposed in rural communities. Alaska, in the efforts that we are making currently, might gain 286,000 megawatts of power or 5 percent of our needs. 
   "I mention this to simply indicate that while we are committed to using renewables whenever possible, we have to acknowledge how far we can get with the technologies that we have and what is available to us. When you consider that in the State of Alaska we have about 125 villages and towns either on our coastline or near the mouths of coastal rivers and bays that could benefit from ocean current generation, it becomes very easy to see why we want to encourage ocean energy resources. 
   "But ocean energy could also help hundreds of towns around Hawaii and all along our coastal communities in the lower 48. We have 23 lower 48 ocean States. If we provide enough assistance to help with this technology, to look through the research, this can become an economic venture. 
   "Ocean current is environmentally friendly, completely clean. Already the plants in operation are able to be installed for $500 to $1,000 per kilowatt hour-costs that are very competitive to the roughly $1,200-per-kilowatt capital cost of nuclear power. 
   "The Alaska delegation is also seeking an amendment to the tax title to extend ocean energy so that it qualifies for the existing energy production tax credit-currently 1.9 cents per kilowatt hour for wind. The additional cost of these two provisions is insignificant. But they could greatly diversify the Nation's energy portfolio in future decades. We recognize that the ocean is an energy source that is truly renewable. I am looking, through my amendment, to help aid Americans to harness that energy from our 12,000 miles of coastline. It is something that we need to look to as a positive reality and give the encouragement where necessary."
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 