SEN. MURKOWSKI SEEKS CAREER MOBILITY FOR ANILCA LOCAL HIRES; BILL NAMED FOR BRISTOL BAY RANGER
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski has introduced legislation to permit Alaskans employed by federal land management agencies under the local hire provisions of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) to earn career status and compete for promotions and transfers on the same basis as career federal employees after completing a year of satisfactory federal service. 
   Murkowski introduced the legislation to end the two decades' old employment policy where workers hired under the ANILCA local hire provisions are effectively locked into their initial federal positions and are denied access to promotion and transfer opportunities afforded to federal employees with career competitive status.
   Murkowski cited the case of Alaskan National Park Service Ranger and Pilot Thomas P. O'Hara, of Naknek, who had been assigned to the Katmai National Park. O'Hara died in the line of duty in a plane crash in December 2002. He had been hired under a special hiring authority established by ANILCA that permits land management agencies to hire Alaskans on a non-competitive basis to utilize their special knowledge or expertise concerning natural or cultural resources of public lands in Alaska. "In spite of this exemplary service, O'Hara did not enjoy the same career mobility as his peers, many of whom transferred to Alaska from the Lower 48," said Murkowski.
   As a lasting memorial to Mr. O'Hara, Sen. Murkowski Thursday introduced legislation to extend additional employment benefits to the Alaskan workers and named the act the "Thomas P. O'Hara Public Land Career Opportunity Act of 2004." By the bill the ANILCA employees will receive competitive status and "enjoy the same rights, privileges and benefits of employees holding competitive status... including the benefits related to promotion and transfer."
   "It is my sincere hope that this legislation will encourage other Alaskans, particularly Alaska Natives, to follow in Tom O'Hara's footsteps and seek lifelong careers with federal land management agencies," said Murkowski in introducing the measure.
   The bill, (S.2768), was referred to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee for further consideration.
   Murkowski last year sponsored and passed legislation to help the family of Mr. O'Hara obtain moving benefits following his death - passage of the so-called Lucy's Law in honor of his widow - to rectify that ANILCA special hire employees until last year also did not quality for federal employee death benefits. Those benefits were granted to families whose family members die while on federal duty in the state.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 