SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES FINAL SENATE APPROVAL OF HER COMMERCE-JUSTICE-RELATED SPENDING REQUESTS
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today said Alaska faired well in the final Commerce, Justice and State Appropriations spending bill for FY '05 that passed the Senate late on Nov. 20.  
   Murkowski, commenting on just one of the nine parts of the final $388 billion Omnibus Appropriations bill (H.R. 4818), said the measure met a number of Alaska's needs. 
   Concerning the Department of Justice budget, the Senator won $1.5 million for infrastructure for the Land Mobile Radio system to improve public safety communication in Anchorage. She also won another $1 million for purchase of similar radio equipment for the Kenai Peninsula Borough. 
   The senator, in a joint effort with Sen. Stevens, also won $2.5 million for construction of a statewide Land Mobile Radio network -- the network being important to further homeland security in Alaska. Working with Sen. Stevens, she also won $2 million for a training program for the state's Village Public Safety Officers program, including money for acquisition of emergency response and search and rescue equipment for rural communities. 
   The Senator also won $1 million for Wasilla so that mobile computers can be installed in Wasilla city police squad cars, the money also funding a computer link to the town's police station. She also gained $225,000 to fund enhanced crime scene examinations by the State and $200,000 for a South Central Alaska Search and Rescue Training project to be developed by the Anchorage Police Department. 
   The Senator also worked with Sen. Stevens to gain $1.1 million from the Bureau of Justice Assistance Discretionary Grant program for a program to help alcohol interdiction efforts, including efforts to investigate and prosecute bootlegging crimes as part of a statewide effort to reduce Fetal Alcohol Syndrome problems in Alaska. The money is intended to go to the Alaska State Troopers and is important since 80 percent of all crime in the state is committed by those under the influence of alcohol. 
   The Senator, jointly with Sen. Stevens, sought and won approval for $950,000 for a domestic violence prosecution unit to enforce zero tolerance policies against domestic violence. 
   The Senator also won $750,000 to fund the Sexual Assault Response Team of the Municipality of Anchorage. She won $2.7 million in funding for a sexual assault, domestic violence prosecution unit for the State of Alaska. She won $2.4 million for funding for an Anchorage Domestic Violence Prevention Project and $750,000 for a Victims of Justice program designed to help victims of violent crime. 
   Murkowski sought much of the funding as an outgrowth of a Domestic Violence Summit that she sponsored in Anchorage this summer, which indicated the need for more effort to combat domestic violence in Alaska. 
   The Senator sought and won $1 million to fund an expansion of Youth Courts in Alaska. The courts offer alternative adjudication and sentencing procedures for first-time youth offenders who are offered mentoring and family counseling services. And she sought and won $602,000 for a child support enforcement effort in the state. 
   She won $1 million for a new Alaska Court System Information Network, funding for the state's court system to develop a computer network to allow remote access to court records. 
   Small Business Administration: 
   * She sought and won $1 million for the Small Business Administration to fund the Technology Venture Center/Tech Ranch in Montana and the InvestNet Partnership program in Alaska. The money should help these organizations develop innovative programs to promote economic alliances between Alaska and Montana service providers, entrepreneurs, investors and Native Americans. The money will be split between the Alaska and Montana programs. * She sought and won $150,000 for the Alaska Procurement Technical Assistance Center. * She also won a language change in the SBA HUBzone contracting program. The change will effectively permit Ketchikan, the Denali Borough and the Wrangell-Petersburg areas to benefit from the HUBzone program. * She also won a change in definition for Tribal HUBzones so that businesses owed by tribes can employ 35 percent of the employees from any HUBzone area. Previously, employees had to come from reservations or surrounding counties, which made the program less effective in Alaska. * And she supported language that was approved to allow firms already certified in the SBA 8(a) certification/contracting program to not have to reapply for certification under state programs for federal funded projects. 
   NOAA: 
   * She sought and won $2 million to fund the Alaska Ocean Observing system. The system's mission is to improve the ability to rapidly detect changes in marine ecosystems and living resources and to predict future changes. When finished, the network will deliver both real-time information and long-term trends about Alaska's ocean conditions and marine life. * She sought and won $1.2 million to fund a cleanup of trash and marine debris along coastal Alaska. ? She sought and won $1 million for new rockfish research in the Gulf of Alaska, Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands. The basic biological research is designed to prevent a depletion of stocks that could then affect other stock harvests. * She won some $10.2 million for both the Oscar Dyson and the Fairweather vessels to pay for fishery enhancement equipment on the Fairweather and the homeporting costs of the Oscar Dyson in Alaska. * She sought some $8 million to fully fund implementation of the Pacific Salmon Treaty next year. Murkowski earlier this year had convinced the U.S. State Department to transfer money to fund salmon treaty habitat efforts following a funding shortfall. This funding level should guarantee full funding for the administrative duties of the commission. * She sought and won $3,368,000 to fund fish hatchery facilities in Fairbanks using waste heated water from facilities in town. The hatchery should produce more fish on the Chena and Tanana Rivers for Interior fishermen.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 