SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES FINAL SENATE APPROVAL OF HER INTERIOR-RELATED SPENDING REQUESTS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today said Alaska faired exceptionally well in the final Interior Appropriations spending bill for FY '05 that passed the Senate late Nov. 20. 
   Murkowski, commenting on just one of the nine divisions of the final $388 billion Omnibus Appropriations bill (H.R. 4818), said the measure met a number of Alaska's needs.  
   Murkowski, who won legislation co-sponsored by Sen. Ted Stevens to speed the conveyance of state and Native corporation land conveyances, said she welcomed a proposed $9.5 million increase in funding for surveying and land conveyance efforts in the Bureau of Land Management budget. The extra funding will be needed to meet the goal of the Murkowski bill to complete conveyance of the remaining 89 million acres of state and Native land conveyances prior to the 50th anniversary of Alaska's Statehood in 2009. 
   "With passage of the land conveyance bill, this funding is vital to put the act into effect to help speed up the conveyance process so Alaskans can more conveniently manage our land entitlement - making it easier to benefit from the natural resource potential of those lands," said Murkowski, who supported the funding increase jointly with Sen. Stevens. 
   Murkowski also thanked the panel for approving $750,000 to fund a marketing plan to encourage tourism to the state's 15 national parks. Murkowski, in her annual speech to the Alaska Legislature last winter, proposed that federal funding pay for a marketing effort to try to increase tourism to the state and its national parks in summer 2005. 
   "Polling shows that one of the leading attractions for tourists to our state is its national parks. More tourism to all of our parks, not just Denali, Glacier Bay and Katmai, can help spread the economic benefits of tourism more widely around the state helping all of Alaska's economy," said Murkowski. 
   Murkowski also joined Senator Stevens in seeking an increase in national funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program that provides funds to local jurisdictions to offset the cost of providing services to federal land holdings inside a state. The Senators won a $5 million increase in PILT funding, bringing to $230 million the funds the government will share with local jurisdictions. 
   Alaska communities this year are receiving more than $16 million in PILT payments, funding likely nearing $17 million because of the increase. Murkowski serves on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and this winter urged an increase in PILT payments before the panel made its budget recommendations to the appropriations committees. 
   Other items included in the Interior bill at Murkowski's request include: 
   U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service: 
   * The Senator and Sen. Stevens jointly sought and won $3.38 million to fund implementation of a previous treaty governing Yukon River fisheries. Both Murkowski and Stevens last year helped win $3.4 million for the first year of treaty implementation. The goal is to improve salmon harvests on the river system. * $1 million to fund new marine mammal stocks surveys in Alaska. The money, sought jointly by Senators Stevens and Murkowski is vital to fund surveys that are important to prevent stock variations from affecting fishery harvests. * $1 million for Geographic Information Systems mapping of the national wildlife refuges in Alaska. 
   National Park Service: 
   * Besides the parks planning money, the Senator, jointly with Sen. Stevens, won $6 million to fund construction of the Morris Thompson Cultural and Visitors Center in Fairbanks. This money continues the effort between the City of Fairbanks, the Tanana Chiefs Conference and federal agencies to build the center along the Chena River in downtown Fairbanks. The first $2.25 million for the center was appropriated by Congress last year. 
   United States Geological Survey: 
   * $1 million to continue an Alaska mapping project. The money, sought jointly with Sen. Stevens, will be split with half of the funds going to map the Arctic coast, while the other half will go for projects elsewhere in the state. * $1.15 million to fund the survey's share of the Alaska Mineral Resources Assessment program. This money, sought jointly with Sen. Stevens, will fund geologic mapping of potential oil, gas and other mineral deposits on public lands. * $100,000 for a new Geological Materials Center project analysis to support energy and minerals exploration in the state. 
   U.S. Forest Service: 
   * $500,000 for construction of a multi-agency Forest Service-National Park Service visitors information center in Valdez. * $1.5 million to remove dead and dying timber and for reforestation efforts in the Anchorage area. This is part of $6.5 million, jointly sought with Sen. Stevens, for urban wildfire mitigation and prevention efforts. $2.1 million of the funding is going to the Kenai Peninsula Borough, $300,000 to the Cook Inlet Tribal Council and $1.6 million to the Mat-Su Borough. * Another $1 million for a Russian River Visitors Center that will be managed by CIRI, the Forest Service and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. *$1.6 million for Chugach National Forest Backcountry facilities. This will fund construction of whistle stop stations for passengers to experience the backcountry along the route of the Alaska Railroad. It will fund construction of boardwalk platforms, shelters, toilets and information kiosks. 
   Bureau of Indian Affairs: 
   * $1 million to the Denali Commission to promote economic development. 
   Indian Health Service: 
   * $2 million to construct a new hospital in Barrow. * And a portion of $33 million to fund staff for a new health clinic in Metlakatla, money that was sought jointly with Sen. Stevens. 
   All of the items - except defense, military construction and homeland security spending - are subject to a 0.83 percent across-the-board rescission to hold spending within targeted levels. Interior-specific projects are also subject to a 0.594 rescission.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 