SEN. MURKOWSKI TO HOST DOMESTIC VIOLENCE SUMMIT, MEET WITH SECRETARIES SNOW, MINETA, CHAO; VISIT 6 TOWNS NEXT WEEK
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski has a busy official Senate schedule during the Senate's Fourth of July holiday recess, including visits to a half dozen towns, a number of speeches including to the Juneau Chamber of Commerce and the Chugiak-Eagle River Chamber of Commerce, while also escorting a number of Cabinet Secretaries to events, attending a two-day hearing on coastal erosion in Alaska and hosting a three-day Domestic Violence Summit in Anchorage. Underlined events are clearly open to the press.  
   The Senator will kick off her appearances on Friday, June 25 with a series of events in Fairbanks.
   On Saturday, June 26, the Senator will travel to Juneau where at 9:30 a.m. she will speak to the Juneau Chamber of Commerce at the Aspen Hotel. Immediately following her speech at roughly 10:30 a.m. she will hold a press availability at the hotel - all Juneau press are welcome to attend both the speech and the follow up availability.
   At 11:30 a.m. she will attend Juneau's annual Gold Rush Days celebration at Dimond Park in the Mendenhall Valley before attending the Quick Draw Auction at 1:30 p.m. at Marine Park Plaza downtown. At 4 p.m. she also will tour the Juneau Family Birth Center, at 3225 Hospital Drive, Suite 106, near Bartlett Memorial Hospital.
   On Sunday, June 27, the Senator will be in Anchorage where she will attend the Arctic Thunder Air Show at Elmendorf AFB in the afternoon before being a speaker at Commonwealth North's Tribute to Alaska Congressman Don Young that is being held in the new Concourse "C" of Anchorage Ted Stevens International Airport starting at 6:30 p.m. Young will be receiving the Walter J. Hickel Award for Distinguished Public Policy Leadership during the session. 
   On Monday, June 28, the Senator will speak at the start of the Alaska Federation of Natives Leadership Forum being held at the Hotel Captain Cook downtown. The Senator is scheduled to speak at about 9:15 a.m., preceding comments by Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snow. After their comments, the Senator will escort the Treasury Secretary on a tour of Alaska small businesses, visiting Arctic Paws factory, 1210 E. 70th Ave. in the Dowling Industrial Park between 10:30 and 11:30 a.m. Press are welcome to accompany the Senator and Secretary on this tour. 
   After the tour the Senator will accompany Secretary Snow to the noon Anchorage Chamber of Commerce Forum at the William A. Egan Center downtown where Snow will discuss economic policy and Alaska issues. Both the Senator and Secretary Snow will be available for brief press questions immediately following the Secretary's speech at roughly 1 p.m. at the Egan Center. 
   On Tuesday, June 29, the Senator will join Sen. Ted Stevens and other members of the Senate at the first day of a two-day Senate Appropriations Committee hearing into the need for coastal erosion control in Alaska. The hearing is being held starting at 8:30 a.m. at the Anchorage Assembly Chambers located in the Loussac Library in midtown Anchorage. 
   At 10:30 a.m., Senator Murkowski will leave the hearing to escort U.S. Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta on a tour of the Port of Anchorage. The tour, scheduled for 11 to 11:45 a.m., will focus on needed improvements at the port and its importance to Alaska's economy. The tour and briefing will be open to the press who will need to call the Port of Anchorage for access instructions. 
   Later at 2 p.m. the Senator will attend the formal dedication of the new "C" Concourse at Ted Stevens International Airport. 
   On Wednesday, June 30, the Senator will return for the second day of the Appropriations Committee's hearing into coastal erosion problems, the hearing resuming at 8:30 a.m. at the Loussac Library's Anchorage Assembly Chambers. 
   At 10 a.m. the Senator will speak at the opening of a Statewide Summit on Domestic Violence that is being sponsored by the Senator and hosted by the U.S. Justice Department. The summit is being held at the Hotel Captain Cook. Besides her opening remarks, the Senator will be introducing U.S. Secretary of Labor Elaine L. Chao who will make keynote remarks at the summit to the 200 experts and staff who will be in attendance to try to develop means to reduce violence against women in Alaska.
   Later in the morning the Senator will leave the summit and at 11:30 a.m. meet with the Chugiak-Eagle River Chamber and speak to them during their weekly lunch starting at noon at the North Slope Restaurant in Eagle River. The Senator will take press questions following her speech at roughly 1 p.m. at the restaurant for any interested media. 
   On Thursday, July 1, the Senator will head to Kenai where she will participate in the Kenai Classic Community Dinner that will be held starting at 5 p.m. at the Soldotna Sports Center. 
   On Friday, July 2, the Senator will be back in Anchorage to attend the wrap up of the Alaska Summit on Violence Against Women that will start at 8:30 a.m. at the Captain Cook Hotel. U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Dole, R- N.C., will speak at 11 a.m. after being introduced by the Senator. Senator Murkowski will then conclude the summit at around 11:30 a.m. Immediately following, at 11:45 a.m. Senator Dole and Sen. Murkowski will be available to take press questions at the hotel on a variety of topics. 
   On Saturday, July 3-Sunday, July 4, the Senator will travel to Ketchikan for an announcement and media interviews. She will march in the town's annual Fourth of July Parade on Sunday, July 4. The Senator will then return to Washington for congressional action on July 6.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 