SENATE PASSES SEN. MURKOWSKI'S RESOLUTION DECLARING FETAL ALCOHOL SPECTRUM DISORDERS DAY, WINS NOFAS LEADERSHIP AWARD
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski Wednesday won passage of a resolution in the U.S. Senate declaring Sept. 9th as Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Spectrum Disorders Day to call attention to the severe problems that consumption of alcohol during pregnancy causes children. 
   Murkowski that day also won a Leadership Award from the National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome for her work to combat the devastating ailment that affects so many children in Alaska and nationwide. 
   Murkowski Wednesday was joined by Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle in sponsoring the FAS resolution (S. Res. 390) that calls attention to the 100 percent preventable ailment that is now the leading cause of mental retardation in the United States. Murkowski in Senate floor remarks praised Bonnie Buxton and Brian Philcox of Toronto, Canada and Teresa Kellerman of Tucson, Ariz., for originating the idea of having the nation pause at 9:09 a.m. each Sept. 9th to reflect on the need for women during their nine months of pregnancy not to consume alcohol.
   "Women must know that consumption of alcohol during pregnancy is the single largest contributor to mental retardation of a child. They need to know that all of the Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders are completely preventable, if a woman consumes no alcohol during the nine months of pregnancy. I am proud that my state of Alaska strongly supports the observance of FASDAY and has published a kit of materials to help communities plan their local observances. Hopefully this federal recognition will help spread the word more widely that this epidemic must be stopped," said Murkowski in remarks prepared for the Senate floor.
   FAS is estimated to affect one out of every 500 live births, while its related disorders affect one out of every 100. Murkowski said the economic impact on the nation last year reached $5.4 billion a year, as each FAS child will cost society between $1.5 and $3 million over their lifetime in support and medical costs or lost productivity.
   On Wednesday night Murkowski was honored, along with Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, and Congressmen Frank Pallone, D-N.J., and Jim Ramstad, R-Minn., for their commitment to the prevention of alcohol-related birth defects.
   Murkowski last night said while she was honored to receive the award that the true "award belongs to Bonnie, to Brian and Teresa. It belongs to all of the FAS parents and grassroots volunteers who will make FAS Day 2004 better than the last. And it belongs to the real champions - all of the women who make the right choice not to consume alcohol during the nine months of pregnancy," said Sen. Murkowski.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 