BRAC COMMISSION REJECTS DOD'S PLANNED REALIGNMENT OF EIELSON AIR FORCE BASE
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski tonight said she was pleased with the Base Realignment and Closure Commission's (BRAC) decision that Eielson Air Force Base in Fairbanks not be reduced to warm status as had been recommended by the Department of Defense.  
   "This is a true win for Alaska," Sen. Murkowski said. "Eielson proved its value to the BRAC Commissioners. It provides the best training air space in the country and its strategic importance can't be overstated. Aircraft stationed at Eielson can reach targets nearly anywhere in the world quicker than they can from any Lower 48 bases. 
   "The BRAC Commissioners clearly listened to the compelling evidence submitted by the communities of Fairbanks and North Pole demonstrating-with the backing of the Government Accountability Office-that the Air Force vastly overstated the financial savings to be obtained from the proposed realignment. We proved that maintaining a warm base in a cold climate is not practical and could be detrimental to our nation's security." 
   Rather than accept DOD's recommendation to reduce Eielson to a 'warm status,' the Commission adopted an amendment that will allow the Air Force to move Eielson's A-10 aircraft to Moody Air Force Base in Georgia, Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana, and into reserve while leaving the F-16s and other aircraft in Fairbanks. "While I would rather never see aircraft relocated from Eielson, when considering the drastic economic loss to the Fairbanks and North Pole Communities that a complete realignment would have caused, this result is in Alaska's favor. 
   "I want to express my gratitude to the Fairbanks and North Pole communities for being so strong and resilient. We are blessed to have strong leadership teams in place in local government, in the business community and in the non-profit sector. This was well demonstrated when the community came together in its presentation to the BRAC Commission last June. Alaska has always had a strong and mutually beneficial relationship with the military and we showed our true colors when our base was in need." 
   Earlier Thursday, the BRAC commission did vote to close Galena Forward Operational Location, and transfer its functions to Eielson. Following this announcement, Murkowski said that her thoughts were with the people of Galena and the Middle Yukon Villages. 
   "Galena is among the strongest and most innovative of our rural villages as witnessed by its recent efforts to lower the cost of electricity through new and innovative nuclear power generation technology," Murkowski said. "The creativity and resilience of the city leaders, working in conjunction with the Loudon Tribal Council, will serve the community well as it sets out to determine its future. I will work with the Defense Department to make certain that Galena has access to all available federal resources to assist in its transition. The Loudon Tribal Council has expressed concern about the remediation of formerly used defense sites in their subsistence area. It is of my highest priorities that the Defense Department step up to the plate and remediate any hazardous materials that they have left behind and I hope that the BRAC Commission's decision today will make funds available to expedite this process." 
   Murkowski added that she was heartened that the Commission added report language to ensure that the closure not be implemented immediately to allow all agencies that use the airport to work toward a smooth transition.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 