SEN. MURKOWSKI COMMENTS ON KULIS/ELMENDORF BRAC COMMISSION DECISIONS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski made the following comments on the Base Realignment and Closure Commission's (BRAC) decisions that will affect Elmendorf Air Force Base and the Kulis Air National Guard Base.  
   "Congress charged the BRAC Commission to determine which of the nation's military installations can be closed or realigned without compromising military value or the economies of a local community. The Secretary of Defense recommended that Kulis National Air Guard Station be closed because its functions could be relocated to Elmendorf Air Force Base, several miles away, without significant adverse impact to the local economy. This afternoon, the BRAC Commission confirmed this judgment. 
   "The BRAC Commission made the right move. Kulis National Air Guard Station occupies prime real estate at the south end of Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport and the land presently owned by the federal government can be put to more productive economic use once it is transferred out of military hands. 
   "There will be no mission loss to the Alaska Air National Guard. Its C-130, CH-130 and HH-60 helicopter missions will move to Elmendorf. I applaud the BRAC Commission for adopting the recommendations of the Governor and the Adjutant General to make the closure of Kulis contingent on the availability of adequate federal funding to relocate the Air National Guard mission to Elmendorf. When this is accomplished Anchorage gets valuable land and economic growth and the Air National Guard gets to work closer with their colleagues in the active air force. 
   "The BRAC Commission's support of the Defense Department recommendations to relocate some its F-15 aircraft to bases in the Lower 48 is reasonable. Initially I was disappointed that Elmendorf would loss some their F-15's, but after understanding the long range plan for Elmendorf Air Force Base to receive the newest generation of fighters, the F/A 22 Raptors, in the coming years, it is appropriate that the base focus its attention on preparing for this important new mission. To maintain air superiority, 18 of the F-15 C/D aircraft will remain at Elmendorf for the foreseeable future." 
   The BRAC commission intends to finish its deliberations tonight. By Sept. 8, the commission will forward its recommendations to President Bush. Congress can then vote to accept or reject the list as a whole; it is barred from making changes by the law that created the commission.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 