SEN. MURKOWSKI SPEAKS IN SUPPORT OF JUDGE ALITO HIGH COURT NOMINATION
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today said that U.S. Supreme Court nominee Samuel A. Alito has the "intellect, temperament and reverence for the law required for service on the nation's highest court."  
   Murkowski during a speech on the Senate floor during debate over Judge Alito's nomination, today confirmed that she will be voting for the judge's appointment to the High Court when Democrats allow such a vote, perhaps not until next week. She said she learned nothing during the five-day Senate Judiciary Committee hearings into the judge's nomination that changed her opinion formed from private talks with Alito that he is fully qualified to be on the court. 
   "Judge Alito, after three long days of responding to more than 700 questions, emerged from the nomination hearings as the same person many of us who met with him understood him to be: a seasoned jurist who has the intellect, temperament and reverence for the law requires for service on the nation's highest court. ... Judge Alito's credentials are exemplary. No President should be denied the prerogative of appointing a person who is as qualified as Judge Alito to the court," said Murkowski. 
   Murkowski, who cited testimonials by other judges on the circuit in support of Alito's nomination, said he has the proven ability to fill the shoes of retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor because of his great "fairness" and willingness to base decisions on precedent, not on any ideological agenda. 
   "In his opening statement, Judge Alito recalled the oath he made at the time he was sworn in as a Judge of the Court of Appeals. He stated he would 'administer justice equally, both to the rich and the poor' and that he would 'carry out the laws and the Constitution' to the very best of his ability. Samuel Alito has done just that as a federal judge. He deserves our vote in support of his nomination," said Murkowski. 
   The full text of the Senator's statement appears below. 
   FLOOR STATEMENT Nomination of Samuel A. Alito to Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court 
   "Mr. President, I rise in support of the nomination of Samuel A. Alito to the position of Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Judge Alito's credentials are exemplary. No President should be denied the prerogative of appointing a person who is as qualified as Judge Alito to the Court. 
   Judge Alito, after three long days of responding to over 700 questions, emerged from the nomination hearings as the same person many of us who met with him understood him to be: a seasoned jurist who has the intellect, temperament and reverence for the law required for service on the nation's highest court. Not surprisingly, Judge Alito has received the American Bar Association's highest rating for any nominee, a unanimous "Well Qualified" rating. 
   Samuel Alito has a moving and very American personal story. Born to immigrant parents, Judge Alito is the first to say that the person he admires most is his father, who battled barriers of prejudice until he became both a teacher and the first Director of the New Jersey Office of Legislative Services. Judge Alito excelled at his studies and received his degrees from two Ivy League institutions. I sense, however, that Judge Alito is not one to forget his modest roots. His testimony was unassuming and unpretentious. He thoughtfully listened and sincerely responded to the Committee's questions. 
   By all accounts, including those of many Democrats who have served with him, Alito scrupulously lets the facts and the law, not politics dictate his decisions. What struck me during the nomination hearings was the testimony of so very many of his colleagues - - self-proclaimed liberals and conservatives alike - - who acclaimed Judge Alito. The testimony of the Third Circuit Court's Senior Judge, Ruggero Aldisert, had this to say: 
   "We who have heard his probing questions during oral arguments, of being privy to his wise insightful comments in our private conferences; we who have observed at first hand his impartial approach to decision-making and his thoughtful judicial temperament and know his carefully crafted opinions; we - - who are his colleagues - - are convinced that he will also be a great Justice." 
   Judge Edward Becker, his colleague on the Third Circuit, who has sat with Judge Alito on over 1,000 cases, described the judge as, "Brilliant...highly analytical, and meticulous and careful...The Sam Alito that I have sat with for fifteen years is not an ideologue. He is not a movement person. He is a real judge, deciding each case on the facts and the law, not on his personal views whatever they may be. He scrupulously adheres to precedent." 
   Still another colleague, Judge Leonard Garth, described him as "an intellectually gifted and morally principled judge...he will always vote in accordance with the Constitution and laws as enacted by Congress." 
   Mr. President, I believe those qualities are critical. For when Judge Alito is confirmed - - and I'm confident this body will confirm him - - he will have giant shoes to fill. The legacy that Sandra Day O'Connor will leave is one of fair-mindedness, open-mindedness and a lack of an ideological agenda. Justice O'Connor once described her approach to cases in this way: 
   "It cannot be too often stated that the greatest threats to our constitutional freedoms come in times of crisis...The only way for judges to mediate these conflicting impulses is to do what they should do anyway: stay close to the record in each case that appears before them, and make their judgments based on that alone." 
   Based on my conversations with Judge Alito, his testimony, and the statements of so many of his colleagues who know his work best, I am confident that Judge Alito will have that open and fair-mindedness. He told the Judiciary Committee that: "Good judges are always open to the possibility of changing their minds...Result-oriented jurisprudence is never justified because it is not our job as judges to try to produce particular results." 
   In his opening statement, Judge Alito recalled the oath he made at the time he was sworn in as a judge of the Court of Appeals. He stated he would "administer justice equally, both to the rich and the poor" and that he would "carry out the laws and the Constitution" to the very best of his ability. Samuel Alito has done just that for nearly two decades as a federal judge. Samuel Alito deserves our vote in support of his nomination to the Supreme Court. I urge my colleagues to vote in support of the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito."
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 202/253-9964.
 
 