SEN. MURKOWSKI ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR SUMMER INTERNS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski is encouraging Alaska High School seniors interested in working in the nation's Capital and learning about the operations of Congress to apply for her summer intern program. Murkowski is looking for 20 mature and independent graduating high school seniors who will take the initiative to make the most of their time in Washington, D.C.  
   Under the program, interns perform a variety of administrative and legislative duties in the senator's Washington office. Interns also "shadow" the senator during her daily schedule and participate in tours and social events. 
   "This is a wonderful opportunity for young Alaskans to see first hand the workings of Congress," said Sen. Murkowski. "I know how much I learned about Congress and American government during my time in Washington during college. An internship in Washington allows students to take with them a better understanding of how our laws are made. These experiences can truly help them in their future careers," she said. 
   Graduates can attend either of two sessions: June 3 to July 1 or July 8 to August 5, 2006 (special arrangements can be made for seniors who will be graduating on or after June 3). Interns will be housed in the dorms of George Washington University in Northwest D.C., a short subway ride from the office. 
   Students can get applications from their high school guidance counselors or principals. They also can contact any of the senator's offices in Anchorage, Fairbanks, Juneau, Ketchikan, Kenai, Wasilla, Bethel or Washington, DC. Applications are also available at on the web at: http//murkowski.senate.gov/intership.html. 
   The application deadline is April 1, so students are encouraged to apply quickly. Due to increased security screening of Senate mail, general mail delivery has slowed significantly. Applicants are encouraged to fax a copy of their application, in addition to mailing it. The fax number is (202) 224-5301, while the address for mailing of completed applications is: Senator Lisa Murkowski, Attn: Bridget Wolgemuth, 709 Hart Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510-0203. 
   Successful applicants will be notified of their selection by May 1. For questions about the intern program, applicants may call Miss Wolgemuth, Intern coordinator, in Washington, D.C. at (202) 224-6665.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 202/253-9964.
 
 