SEN. MURKOWSKI ANNOUNCES DRUG-FREE COMMUNITY GRANT TO FAIRBANKS NORTH STAR BOROUGH
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced a $100,000 Drug-Free Communities matching grant for the United Way of the Tanana Valley, money that will go to the Fairbanks North Star Borough Compass II Coalition to fund a substance abuse prevention program. 
   The grant was one of 226 new grants totaling $21.9 million awarded today to community anti-drug coalitions across the country by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA).
   "This grant is great news for the anti-drug efforts in the Fairbanks area," said Sen. Murkowski. "Drug prevention works. The Drug-Free Communities Program and other drug prevention efforts are the most cost-effective approach to the drug problem, sparing society the future costs that treatment, rehabilitation, lost productivity and other social problems related to drugs incur. The Compass II Coalition is doing crucial drug prevention work in our state and this additional infusion of federal money will help them expand their efforts and reach more children," said Sen. Murkowski.
   John Walters, director of National Drug Control Policy and President Bush's Drug Czar, said: "The grants bring critical resources to expand community prevention in Fairbanks and across America. Drugs affect every community in this nation. Preventing drug use before it starts spares families and communities across America the anguish of watching their children slip into the grasp of addiction. If we can prevent young people from using drugs through the age of 18, the chance of their using drugs as adults is very small. Prevention is the most effective way to protect our communities from the heartache, addiction and crime associated with illegal drug use," he said.
   The Fairbanks program intends to use the money to develop a social marketing campaign targeting youth substance abuse, including alcohol use besides drug use. The group also intends to support an increase in law enforcement efforts to reduce underage use of alcohol and other drugs, continue school prevention education programs, conduct efforts to reduce family violence, and plan a community center.
   The Drug-Free Communities Program provides grants of up to $100,000 to community organizations that serve as catalysts for citizens' participation in local drug prevention efforts. The program, started in 1997, will provide $399 million for such efforts through FY 07.
   Senator Murkowski is sponsoring the Senator resolution to mark the observance of Red Ribbon Week nationally. Her resolution will declare the Week of Oct. 24-30 as National Red Ribbon Week to call attention to anti-drug efforts nationwide. Pre kickoff activities are already scheduled in Alaska for Oct. 22.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9036, 301/292-2260.
 
 