SEN. MURKOWSKI RECEIVES FRIEND OF SHAREHOLDER AWARD FOR 2004
  The American Shareholders Association (ASA) today awarded Sen. Lisa Murkowski with its annual Friend of the Shareholder Award for siding with investors on important shareholder and economic issues in the second session of the 108th Congress. The award was given to Sen. Murkowski during a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol. 
   "2004 legislative votes reflected Congress' intention to eliminate inefficiencies in the economy that were reducing shareholder value," said ASA Executive Director Daniel Clifton. "The Friend of the Shareholder Award demonstrates Sen. Murkowski stood on the side of investors during this critical time by voting for pro-growth, pro-investor legislation, which has boosted investor confidence and shareholder value for shareholders," said Clifton.
   U.S. Senators receive the award for scoring 80 and higher, out of a possible 100, on ASA's annual congressional scorecard, which measures a senator's record on important investor and economic issues. Sen. Murkowski score 90 on the scorecard. In total 212 representatives and 49 senators received the friend of the Shareholder Award for this year.
   Votes in this year's rating included opening up new trade opportunities, tort reform, international tax reform, tax free Internet, and preserving investor tax cuts. All 10 of the measures seek to increase shareholder value and allow for more workers to become investors.
   "Last year's tax cut, aimed directly at the growing investor class in America, reflects the changing demographics of America's economy and electorate," continued Clifton. "With more than 50 percent of households and nearly two-thirds of American voters invested in the market, the new investor majority continues to play a greater role in the public policy decisions facing Congress. Sen. Murkowski's voting record demonstrates an avid commitment to protecting shareholders and enhancing economic growth in America," he said. This is the second time the Senator has received the award, she winning it in 2003.
   For more information contact Daniel Clifton at 202/549-7803 or at email: dclifton@americanshareholders.com.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 