SEN. MURKOWSKI: BUSH SIGNS COMPLETE AID FIX FOR AMCHITKA/NUCLEAR WORKERS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today thanked President Bush for signing a series of major changes to the federal legislation designed to compensate employees who became ill while and after working on federal nuclear energy programs, such as the workers in Alaska who worked on the three Amchitka Island nuclear bomb tests three decades ago.  
   Murkowski was a key participant in the successful effort to craft an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill designed to solve several major problems with the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Act of 2000. The defense bill was signed today by the President making the Amchitka worker fixes effective immediately. 
   "With the President's signature, we will finally as a nation pay the debt that we owe these workers. Congress tried to do this four years ago. I am so happy that through persistence we were able to remedy the problems that cropped up in the previous legislation so we finally will pay the debt of gratitude that we owe all the workers and families who labored on our nuclear program. It is well past time that we provide Alaskans and other Americans the compensation they have earned in service to our country. The workers and their survivors deserve no less," said Murkowski in welcoming the signing of the changes in the EEOICPA. 
   The changes will speed up the processing of worker compensation claims by taking most processing duties away from the U.S. Department of Energy - the DOE so far having processed just over 3 percent of its claims - and giving the processing duties to the U.S. Department of Labor that so far has processed more than 95 percent of its pending worker compensation claims. 
   The changes also solve the second key problem of finding a "willing" payor to actually pay compensation by requiring the federal government to directly pay compensation benefits with mandatory - automatically appropriated - funds from the Department of Labor. This means that workers are guaranteed to finally get paid. 
   The changes also create a new avenue for compensation, Subtitle E that will guarantee compensation not only to contract workers, but also to their survivors. People filing for claims under the new Subtitle E of the program, who have already qualified another part of the act (Subtitle B), will automatically be eligible for compensation. 
   Under the existing program Alaskans, who worked on the Amchitka project (and thus already approved for aid under Subtitle B of the law) and who sought additional compensation under the former Subtitle D of the program, had to unexpectedly prove that their illnesses were caused as the direct result of radiation exposure. The reform legislation allows Alaskans to avoid the lengthy and costly process of proving causation - eliminating the major problem Alaskans experienced with the original program. Now it will be assumed that their illnesses were caused by radiation exposure. 
   The new changes also make it clear that benefits under the new subtitle E program can't be reduced based upon aid that a worker or survivor might receive under another part of the compensation program (subtitle B), and that the medical benefits will not be affected by co-payment or deductible requirements. 
   Murkowski for months has worked with the Amchitka Resource Center and with fellow senators to hammer out the changes to the 2000 law - co-sponsoring an amendment with Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, this spring to the Senate budget resolution proposing a blueprint for the changes that were finally adopted. 
   She argued during a summer Senate hearing that the Department of Energy had proven it was incapable of rapidly processing worker claims. Even after four years and more than $90 million in administrative funding, DOE had processed just 3 percent of its claims, 80 percent "languishing in the DOE system at the very earliest stages of development or with no work begun on them at all," she said. 
   "The record of the Senate hearings unequivocally reflects both DOE's dismal claims processing record and its failure to develop any plan to provide funds to a significant percentage of nuclear workers found eligible for compensation. It was clearly past time that we solved this problem," said Murkowski. 
   In Alaska, the compensation plan is open to about 2,000 workers who helped with site preparation for the Amchitka nuclear weapons tests from 1965 to 1971. About 300 of the workers still live in Alaska. So far, about 100 of those have been determined eligible to receive compensation, but none have yet received their money. That should change quickly as a result of the new law.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 