SEN. MURKOWSKI MOVES TO STOP PERMITS FOR U.S. OFFSHORE FISH FARMS UNTIL COMPLETE SCIENTIFIC REVIEWS ARE ASSURED
  Saying that fish farms in the 3 to 200 mile exclusive economic zone may increase disease, threaten natural fish stocks and even produce fish that aren't as healthful for consumers as natural fish, Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today introduced legislation to prohibit the development of any new offshore aquaculture operations in federal waters until Congress has acted to ensure every federal agency involved does the necessary analyses in a host of areas to ensure the safety of fish farming.  
   Murkowski today introduced the Natural Stock Conservation Act (S. 2859). The bill would prohibit any planning or approvals for fish farming in the United States until agencies study disease control, engineering, pollution prevention, the biological and genetic impacts and a number of other issues which may not be as comprehensively studied under existing law. 
   The bill also required that federal agencies consult with the governor of any State near the aquaculture site, and that permits be approved by the regional fishery management council with jurisdiction in the region. 
   "It is a fact that scientists, the media and the public are gradually awakening to the serious disadvantages of fish raised in fish farming operations compared to naturally healthy wild fish species, such as Alaska salmon, halibut, sablefish, crab and many other species. There is abundant evidence that fish farming practices are deeply problematic, but still there is a small cadre of federal bureaucrats that continue to push hard for legislation to encourage the development of huge new fish farms off our coasts. 
   "These same people have been pushing the idea for a number of years and are closer than ever to presenting draft legislation that would vastly expand fish farming by encouraging the development of new fish farms in the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone from 3 to 200 miles offshore. It is now time to rein in such efforts until the true impacts of fish farming are known. Creating such farms is an area where we can't afford a rush to judgment. It is far too dangerous, if we make a mistake," said Murkowski in introducing the bill. 
   Murkowski said she knows that it is too late in this session for this measure to pass in the last days of the 108th Congress. But she said by introducing the measure now she serves notice that fish farming is far too controversial and complex to be endorsed by federal officials without a full airing by Congress. "This bill should stimulate further debate this year and next, as Congress begins serious work on the future of our ocean programs in response to the U.S. Ocean Commission report. We all want to make sure we enjoy abundant supplies of healthy foods in the future, but not if it means unnecessary and avoidable damage to wild species, to the environment and to the economics of America's coastal fishing communities," said Murkowski. 
   Murkowski introduced the bill in light of continuing reports that officials in the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration's National Marine Fisheries Service are pushing to consider permitting open-water pen-rearing of fish stocks in federal coastal waters. 
   Murkowski, who has been urging Canadians to stop the expansion of fish farms in British Columbia waters until further environmental and biological studies are performed, has said she is concerned that farmed fish operations in that area can: 
   * Cause serious pollution problems because of the concentration of fish feces and uneaten food in confined areas. 
   * Cause increased disease concerns by concentrating fish in confined areas - fish that can then escape and transmit any diseases, threatening wild stocks. 
   * Cause genetic problems for wild stocks as a result of fish escapes/interbreeding. 
   * And that fish farming can have a devastating effect on communities dependent on traditional fisheries. 
   "News reports are now common that cite not only the general health advantages of eating fish at least once or twice a week, but the specific advantages of fish such as wild salmon, which contains essential Omega-3 fatty acids that may help reduce the risk of heart disease and possibly have similar beneficial effects on other diseases. But educated and watchful consumers have also seen recent stories citing research demonstrating that farmed salmon fed vegetable-based foods do not have the same beneficial impact on cardio-vascular health, and that demand for non-vegetable-based food for fish farms may be decimating populations of other key fish species. 
   "It just makes sense that all of these issues be examined carefully before offshore fish farms are allowed to develop in this country," said Murkowski.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 