SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS APPROVAL OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AWARENESS MONTH RESOLUTION TO HELP STOP VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
  In an effort to call attention to the problem of domestic violence in both the United States and Alaska, Sen. Lisa Murkowski Tuesday night won Senate approval of a Senate Resolution declaring October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month.  
   Murkowski, who had hosted an Alaska Summit on Violence Against Women this summer, said the resolution should help to highlight the problem of continuing violence against women. She said the resolution is especially important as the nation celebrates the tenth anniversary of passage of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 - the landmark legislation that has provided funding and legislative authority to combat domestic violence, stalking and sexual assault. 
   "The incidence of both domestic violence and sexual assault in Alaska continues at epidemic proportions. Alaskan women are more than twice as likely to be raped as other American women and reports indicate that a woman in Alaska is raped every 18 hours. Worse is that for every reported crime of violence against women, around ten more occur and remain secret. 
   "We must do everything possible to raise awareness of the problem of domestic violence. This resolution seeks to do that and to honor the tireless efforts of those who work to end domestic violence and aid those who have been the victims of abuse," said Murkowski after passage of the resolution (S Res. 438). 
   The resolution recounts the problems that domestic violence causes in America: where on average more than three women are murdered by their husbands or boyfriends daily, where 324,000 pregnant women are battered by the men in their lives annually, where a woman is sexually assaulted every two minutes somewhere in the country and where 25 percent of women, according to surveys, have been raped or physically assaults by a spouse or boyfriend at some point in their lives. 
   Murkowski noted that the government estimates that domestic violence incidents, including rape, physical assault and stalking, costs the nation more than $5.8 billion annually - $4.1 billion just for direct medical and mental health care. 
   Murkowski noted that in Alaska in 2003, 786 adults were the victims of sexual assault, while 728 children sought services from victim programs following cases sexual abuse/domestic violence. 
   The Senator said the resolution will be highlighted at a kick off event for Domestic Violence Awareness Month slated for Anchorage on Oct. 1.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 