SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS SUPPORT FOR NATIVE CORPORATION STOCK FOR DESCENDANTS; BEAVER TRESPASS PROBLEM AS PART OF NATIVE TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS ACT
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski this morning won Senate Indian Affairs Committee approval for two of her proposals which were incorporated in a major Native American Technical Corrections bill (S.2843) - the first provision allows Alaska Native corporations to more easily issue stock to descendants of their original shareholders - those born after 1971 - while the second amendment will solve a problem in Beaver where homes have been encroaching on state airport lands. The bill was cleared for Senate floor consideration today.  
   The first amendment, requested by the Alaska Federation of Natives, would make it easier for the shareholders of Alaska Native Corporations to consider issuing new corporate stock to the descendants of original shareholders who were born after Dec. 18, 1971. The amendment would allow corporations to issue new stock with the approval of a majority of shareholders present and voting at a duly constituted meeting of shareholders. 
   Currently providing stock to so-called "afterborns" requires a majority vote of the corporation's total outstanding voting stock, which has prevented some corporations from bringing the question before shareholders. In these corporations descendants of the original shareholders can only acquire stock through inheritance or through a gift from a relative. 
   The amendment would also change the shareholder vote required for Native corporations to make additional shares available as a gift to their elders and allow the corporations to enroll individuals who were eligible to receive stock under the original act, but simply failed to enroll. This would make it easier for corporations to make stock available to Native people who may have missed enrollment because they were serving in the military during the enrollment period. The shareholder vote required to issue the stock to these classes of individuals would also be majority of shareholders present and voting at a duly constituted corporate meeting. 
   Murkowski noted that in 1987, as part of the so-called "1991" amendments to ANCSA, Congress permitted the corporations to issue new stock to new generations of Natives. But since 1987 she noted that less than a handful of the 13 corporations have put the question of enrolling new shareholders to their membership. That has been in many cases because the supermajority for approval of the stock issuance has been hard to obtain. In order for a corporation to obtain an affirmative vote of a majority of its outstanding shares, usually 80 percent of the shareholders need to participate in the decision - to offset those shareholders who forget or decide not to participate in corporation balloting and those who oppose the proposal.. 
   Murkowski noted for corporations with large shareholder populations, like Sealaska which had 15,700 original shareholders, the quorum requirement for issuing new stock is extremely hard to meet. 
   "Whether any corporation issues new stock is not up to anyone but the shareholders of the corporation. Still Congress owes it to the next generation of Alaska Natives to offer a level playing field when it comes to participation by Natives in their corporations," said Murkowski in a statement to the Indian Affairs panel. 
   The second amendment by Murkowski will resolve a 30-year-old trespass problem in the Gwich'in village of Beaver in Interior Alaska. For three decades homes in Beaver have been encroaching on land at the outskirts of the state's airport for the village. The land for the airport was acquired from the Department of the Interior with the proviso that it be used solely for airport uses. 
   The amendment will allow the State of Alaska to resolve the longstanding trespass by transferring 33 acres to the Beaver village corporation without triggering a reverter clause requiring that the land go back to the federal government if not used exclusively for the airport.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 