SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF RURAL TEACHER HOUSING AUTHORIZATION
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today won Senate Indian Affairs Committee approval of legislation she sponsored that will provide annual loans and grants to rural school districts in Alaska to build better housing for rural school teachers.  
   The committee this morning unanimously cleared Murkowski's bill (S. 1905), paving the way for Senate floor consideration. The bill authorizes the Department of Agriculture to provide teacher housing funds to the Alaska Housing Finance Corp. that would in turn provide grant and loan funds to rural school districts to fund teacher housing projects. 
   "In rural areas of Alaska that are without connections to a road network, school districts face the challenge of recruiting and retaining teachers, administrators and other school staff due to the lack of housing in rural communities, as well as the condition of such housing, if it is available ... How can we expect our children to receive a quality education when teachers don't stay? 
   "Clearly, the lack of teacher housing in rural Alaska is an issue that must be addressed in order to ensure that children in rural Alaska receive the same level of education as their peers in more urban settings," said Murkowski in remarks prepared for delivery at the hearing. 
   Murkowski, who introduced the legislation last year, noted a survey this year by the multi-agency Teacher Housing Working Group that found that 57 percent of Alaska rural school districts experienced challenges in recruiting and retaining teachers and 33 percent noted that the condition or lack of housing was a factor impacting teachers' decisions to resign. The survey found that 53 percent of rural districts have "limited" needs for teacher housing, 29 percent "moderate" need and 17 percent "high" needs for new units. 
   The survey found that 65 percent of the housing units owned by the "high need" districts either need major repairs or replacement. The survey estimates that those districts need to repair 230 rural housing units at a cost of $5.9 million. The survey also estimates that 498 other housing units need to be replaced. The total cost of replacing those units is estimated at $100.5 million. 
   The new estimates come after the Senator had gained anecdotal evidence of the need for new teacher housing during a tour of rural Alaska in spring 2003. Then, she escorted U.S. Secretary of Education Rod Paige on a tour of schools in Bethel, Tuntutuliak, Savoonga, with a visit to McGrath. 
   "At the village school in Savoonga, the principal slept in a broom closet in the school due to the lack of housing in that village. The special education teacher at the same school slept in her classroom, bringing a mattress out each evening to sleep on the floor. The other teachers shared housing in a single home. Needless to say, there was not enough room for the teachers' spouses," said Murkowski. 
   Murkowski said the federal aid is important to help deal with the high cost of building or renovating housing in rural areas of Alaska. She noted that construction is especially expensive there since construction equipment and building supplies have to be delivered by aircraft or barge during the state's short construction season. 
   While the Senator did win $10 million in special funding for rural teacher housing last year in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill, passage of this measure would authorize "such sums as are necessary." Murkowski had held a field hearing on the bill in Anchorage in March. 
   She said with unanimous committee approval, she is hopeful the bill will pass sometime before the close of the 108th Congress, either next month or during another session later this fall. 
   "With this bill, the lack and quality of teacher housing in rural Alaska is addressed. That should help school districts to attract and retain more educators and their families. Such stability will greatly benefit districts by helping improve the academic achievement levels of rural Alaska Native children," said Murkowski.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 