SEN. MURKOWSKI REACTS TO BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Tonight, in reaction to the President's State of the Union Address, Sen. Lisa Murkowski issued the following statement: 
   "Tonight, President Bush re-committed this country to the goal of supporting freedom and Democracy in every corner of the world and laid out an important domestic and international agenda for the Congress and the American people. I agree with the President that it is our responsibility to future generations to leave them an America that is safe from danger, and protected by peace. The elections in Iraq and Afghanistan are a perfect example of the good work we can do to help people better themselves across the globe."  
   "We were reminded that this is a President that understands Alaska and Alaskan issues and is committed to strengthening our national energy security through decreasing our dependence on foreign sources of energy and increasing domestic production. I am especially pleased that the President's call for ending dependence on foreign sources of energy was met with bi-partisan applause. As the President said, we need reliable supplies of affordable, environmentally responsible, energy to keep our economy growing - something Alaska can provide. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress in the coming months as we take up legislation to allow leasing in ANWR and craft a national energy policy." 
   "Probably most anticipated going into tonight's speech was how the President would address social security reform. I agree with the President that the time is now to begin the discussion surrounding the future of Social Security. We must discuss how we can reform this important program and we must examine all options. It is important to move the discussion forward and to give younger Americans retirement security." 
   "What we realize again tonight is that our priorities in Alaska, providing reliable, affordable energy, expanding economic and educational opportunities, increasing jobs and training, and ensuring access to affordable healthcare, are this President's priorities as well."
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 