ANWR IS MATTER OF ENERGY SECURITY, ECONOMIC SECURITY, NATIONAL SECURITY
  Arguing against an effort to remove ANWR authorizing language from the FY06 budget reconciliation bill, Sen. Lisa Murkowski today said that opening ANWR to limited oil and gas exploration is a national priority.  
   Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) led today's anti-ANWR effort by offering an amendment to the budget bill that would strike the ANWR language. Votes on Sen. Cantwell's amendment and on final Senate passage of the budget reconciliation bill are expected tomorrow. 
   Highlights of Sen. Murkowski's floor speech follow: 
   "The national priorities that are at stake here with ANWR are priorities of energy security, of economic security and national security. These are the priorities that we as a body should be about and ANWR can meet these priorities for our nation. ANWR will not only help us meet the challenges of our reliance on foreign sources of oil, it can also help us generate jobs and a stronger economy. 
   "When we talk about the reliance we have as a nation on foreign sources of oil, it's not just talk. This dependence hits our economy and impacts the nation in an incredibly significant way. Right now, we're about 56 percent dependent on foreign oil. This dependency is expected to pass the two-thirds mark within the next 20 years. It will continue to threaten our national security and our economy unless we do something to impact it. 
   "One quarter of this nation's trade deficit relates to what we pay other countries for our oil. Last year we paid $166 billion to buy oil from overseas. We're going to pay even more than that this year. We've got to do something to address this negative balance of trade. ANWR oil will help stabilize not only our national energy prices but it should generate more than $30 billion in federal revenues within 15 years of production - reducing our balance of payments deficit. 
   "The jobs that will be generated go far beyond those that are just drilling and exploration jobs in Alaska. Jobs will be created all over the country - an estimated twelve thousand jobs in Washington State, eighty thousand in California, forty thousand in New York State. ANWR means increased commerce and increased economic activity all over the country. 
   "When we talk about the amount of oil that is available in the Arctic, we hear all kinds of numbers floating around. Most often, people say ANWR will amount to only a six month supply of oil for this country. The fact of the matter is, according to United State Geological Survey estimates, the Coastal Plain has a 50-50 chance of containing the second largest oil field in North America. 
   "What we anticipate to be able to get out of ANWR would be the equivalent of the Texas oil fields. No one would suggest that Texas is insignificant in terms of its energy contribution. We estimate that ANWR will generate the equivalent of what we have imported from Saudi Arabia for the past twenty-five years - hardly an insignificant source of oil. And, what we estimate we will be able to extract from ANWR would be enough to offset the oil that we lost when production in the Gulf of Mexico was shut down due to this year's hurricanes. We want to be given the chance to demonstrate that we can actively do something on the Coastal Plain of ANWR to improve this country's energy outlook."
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-9301, 202/224-4513.
 
 