SEN. MURKOWSKI TO SPEARHEAD ALASKA FISHING INDUSTRY RELIEF FOR KATRINA VICTIMS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) announced today that she is working with the Alaska seafood industry to develop a private relief effort aimed specifically at helping fishermen and fishing communities along the storm-ravaged Gulf Coast.  
   "We are still in the preliminary stages but have received a strong response from Alaska fishermen's groups and seafood processors, said Murkowski. "Alaskans know how difficult it is to recover from a devastating natural disaster, and sincerely want to help." 
   The Senator said there are several steps under consideration, among them the immediate shipment of supplemental food supplies and a longer term effort to collect and distribute essential fishing and processing equipment. 
   Former Alaska Fisheries Development Foundation executive director Marc Jones, an experienced emergency response administrator and retired senior U.S. Naval Special Operations Officer has agreed to manage and coordinate the effort, Murkowski said. 
   "I expect to have more to report in a few days. At this point we are still working with our industry to determine what we can do, and with fishing industry and State officials on the Gulf Coast to see what is needed, estimate key time frames, and review transportation and distribution options. We anticipate this will occur in conjunction with the work of national relief organizations and government agencies," said the Senator. "Recovering from Katrina will take a significant amount of time for all involved, and it will be important to re-start key local industries as soon as possible. As with Alaskan fishermen, Gulf Coast fishermen provide a vital part of America's seafood. It is vital that all Americans have access to this source of safe, healthy food. The Alaskan fishing industry wants to help however it can." 
   Specific details on the fishing relief effort will be released as soon as possible.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9301.
 
 