SEN. MURKOWSKI PRAISES HOMER'S PRATT MUSEUM FOR WINNING 2005 NATIONAL MUSEUM-LIBRARY SERVICE AWARD
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today praised officials at Homer's Pratt Museum for all their hard work and fine services, which resulted in the museum's winning of the 2005 National Award for Museum and Library Service which was presented this morning during a White House ceremony by First Lady Laura Bush.  
   Murkowski and Sen. Ted Stevens were at the White House to help honor the staff of the Pratt Museum, which won the award for the Pratt Museum's "commitment to building strong community partnerships, especially with Native villages around Kachemak Bay." 
   "The awarding of the National Award for Museum Service to the Pratt Museum is recognition of the depth of the museum's mission and the hard work and dedication of its employees and volunteers," said Murkowski. "It is a model for other museums to follow and I congratulate all involved on this award." 
   "The Pratt Museum creates innovative exhibits and programs that give voice to local homesteaders, fishermen and Native Alaskans," said Mary Chute, director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services that is associated with the Department of Health and Human Services. "At the same time, the museum celebrates and interprets for summer visitors the area's rich traditions, cultures and ecological diversity," she said. 
   Permeating its many programs and exhibits is an effort by the Pratt Museum to make connections between worlds - human and nonhuman, land and sea, Native and non-native, scientific and spiritual. The museum asks its visitors to stop, listen, reflect and think in new ways and be moved to fully participate in community life, said Chute, of the Institute of Museum and Library Services. 
   Those at the White House for the award included: Philip Alderfer, board president of the Pratt Museum; Ms. Heather Beggs, museum director; Ms. Gale Parsons, exhibits director and cultural liaison of the museum; Commander Charles Cashin of the U.S. Coast Guard, Mrs. Elizabeth "Betsy" Webb, curator of collections at the museum, and Nick Tanape, the community representative of the museum. 
   The group also visited the Senator at her office on Capital Hill. After the visit the Senator answered press inquiries on a number of topics. She said she hoped that President Bush in his State of the Union Address Tuesday night would emphasize the need for a national energy policy that also focuses on new domestic oil production. "I really hope the president will stress the need for an energy policy that will get us to a level of energy independence. I also hope that the President will mention how oil development in ANWR can help us achieve that goal," said Murkowski. 
   She added that she also hopes the President will propose tax incentives to help the nation's uninsured afford medical coverage. "We can't forget that there are 44 million Americans who are uninsured. We need to provide for better access and greater coverage for more Americans," said Murkowski, who also answered questions during the press availability on the status of an Alaska gas line proposal. 
   MEDIA NOTE: There will be a satellite feed of her meeting with Homer residents from the Pratt Museum in her office and of her comments about the President's State of the Union Address. The feed will include comments by Museum Director Heather Beggs and Board President Philip Alderfer. The feed will be from 1:30 to 1:45 p.m. AST this afternoon on IA 5 (formerly Telestar 5), transponder 7V, channel 7, downlink 3840. Audio will be available by calling the Republican conference code-a-phone at 1-800-545-1267 then pressing 322. The audio should also be posted on the web at: http://www.murkowski.senate.gov.press/html (.)
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 202/253-9964.
 
 