SEN. MURKOWSKI MONITORING INTERIOR WILDFIRES
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski tonight is urging the federal government to make all necessary assistance available to help the State of Alaska combat the rash of wildfires plaguing the Interior. 
   All day Wednesday, the Senator's Washington staff was in touch with officials from the BLM Alaska Fire Service, the State of Alaska Division of Forestry, the Alaska Division of Emergency Management and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, while staff members from the Senator's Fairbanks office were fielding calls from concerned residents of Interior Alaska. On Wednesday evening, Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Director John Pennington assured Senator Murkowski that his agency is working closely with the State of Alaska and will expedite a state request for federal financial assistance to help fund fire suppression efforts. Murkowski's office has also asked FEMA Director Michael D. Brown to stay on top of the situation.
   On Thursday morning, Senator Murkowski will call Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton to ask that "she personally sees to it that the Interior Department pulls out all of the stops and makes sure that Alaska has all of the resources it needs to address the critical fire situation." The Bureau of Land Management's Alaska Fire Service is responsible for combating wildfires in the northern portion of the state.
   Senator Murkowski urged Interior residents to pay close attention to the advice of public safety officials and to contact the Fire Information Center at Fort Wainwright at (907) 356-5511 for the latest fire information.
   "Our thoughts and prayers are with the firefighting crews working night and day to protect lives and property. We must never forget that firefighting is dangerous work and we hope that all of our brave wildland firefighters will return home safely," said Murkowski.
   She made special note of the people of Fort Yukon and other Yukon Flats villages who are assisting the people of Venetie fight the Pingo fire that is burning less than a mile from that Interior Alaska village and of the citizens near Chatanika, northeast of Fairbanks, who are fighting the Boundary Fire.
   Senator Murkowski's team in Washington and Alaska will continue to monitor the fire around the clock.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 