SEN. MURKOWSKI PRESENTS EDUCATION GRANTS TO FAIRBANKS INTERIOR EDUCATORS; UAF TEACHER TRAINING PROJECTS
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today during a visit to Lathrop High School awarded two grants to Fairbanks education groups from the U.S. Department of Education to improve teacher professional development, both the result of the No Child Left Behind educational reform act. 
   Murkowski today announced that the University of Alaska, Fairbanks is receiving a grant for $969,385 (over three years) to fund two projects for 20 participants. The first project will focus on training the state's most capable teacher aides as elementary teachers, while the second project will establish a viable option for training high school-level teachers in rural Alaska through a partnership with Western Governors University.
   The second grant that the Senator announced is for $989,682 (over three years) to go to the Association of Interior Native Educators (AINE) in Fairbanks to help up to 15 Alaska Natives attain certification as new teachers in state schools in the future, some in the Fairbanks area.
   In the first grant, UAF will receive assistance to help up to 17 teacher aides, who have completed some coursework to become teachers, to receive financial support to allow them to become fully certified teachers within two years. The second grant to the University will allow it to partner with Western Governors University to provide certification training for Native secondary math, science and social science teachers. The supplemental services will be provided by the University of Alaska Fairbanks and its rural campuses.
   The grant to AINE will help increase the number of Alaska Native educators in the Fairbanks North Star Borough school district and in the Yukon Flats and Yukon-Koyukuk school districts. The University will provide the core education classes leading to the teacher certificates, while AINE adds supplemental services designed to "enhance the project and guide participants through the admissions process, classes and workshops in learning styles and Native-themed curricula," said the U.S. Department of Education.
   "The federal No Child Left Behind Act requires that local districts do all they can to improve the quality of their teachers so that children are getting the best education possible. If we want high quality educators in our classrooms, we must start with high quality teacher training - these grants should help to improve the training of teachers and district personnel throughout the Interior," said Murkowski.
   Murkowski during her visit to the Fairbanks school also spoke of the progress of the No Child Left Behind Act and about ways to make the act work even better for Alaska students statewide.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 