SEN. MURKOWSKI'S SCHEDULE FOR INDEPENDENCE DAY RECESS
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced her public schedule for the upcoming Independence Day Congressional Recess. During her travel, the Senator will participate in community events and meetings with local leaders in Fairbanks, Anchorage, Kenai and Palmer.  
   The following is a list of Senator Murkowski's public events. 
   Wednesday, July 5: 
   Senator Murkowski will join Big Brothers Big Sisters - Greater Fairbanks Area to help highlight its "Going the Distance for Kids" campaign. This effort is designed to further encourage individuals, families, teams and kids to walk, hike, run and bike on a regular basis. As the Honorary Chairperson, and an active participant in the campaign, the Senator will ride her bike to the Big Brothers Big Sisters facility and will participate in a tour. Media are encouraged to join Senator Murkowski at 1:30 PM at Golden Heart Park. 
   Thursday, July 6: 
   In Anchorage, the Senator will speak at the Alaska Federation of Natives Leadership Forum at 9:00 AM at the Hotel Captain Cook. This marketplace of ideas is titled Fostering Innovation, Economic Growth & Shared Prosperity and will explore how the investment climate in Alaska can be changed to create conditions which allow Alaskan Natives - and all Alaskans - to enjoy the greater life opportunities of a strong, growing vibrant economy. The Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto will be among the speakers. 
   The Senator will volunteer at the Wheelchair Games at 11:00 AM at the Park Strip. 
   Friday, July 7: 
   Senator Murkowski will attend the Kenai Classic Awards Banquet at 5:30 PM at the Soldotna Sports Center. 
   Saturday, July 8: 
   In Anchorage, the Senator will attend events at the Wheelchair Games. She will also join participants at the Closing Ceremonies and Awards Banquet at 7:00 PM at the Sullivan Arena. 
   Sunday, July 9: 
   Senator Murkowski will join local leaders in Palmer at a dedication ceremony for the Alaska Veterans and Pioneers Home at 2:00 PM.
   Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 