SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES $3.5 MILLION GRANT TO FAIRBANKS FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE, MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today welcomed a decision by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to provide two grants totaling $3.5 million to the Fairbanks Native Association to fund treatment efforts in Fairbanks.  
   "It is wonderful that the federal Administrator could personally come to Fairbanks to present these grants that could well continue in future years. Homelessness and substance abuse among women are major problems in Alaska and this federal aid will help fund treatment programs to combat both of them," said Sen. Murkowski following the presentation of the grants to the association by Charles Curie, SAMHSA Administrator. 
   The first grant, totaling $2 million over five years, is being awarded to the Fairbanks Native Association's Long House. It will be used to provide treatment for homeless persons in Interior Alaska with co-occurring addiction and mental illness. Long House's treatment model was demonstrated to be effective for the Interior Alaskan homeless population and will include traditional substance abuse treatment, mental health care and cultural reintegration services. 
   The second award, totaling $1,499,986 over three years, is being awarded to the Fairbanks Native Association's Women and Children's Center for Inner Healing (WCCIH). It will be used to expand the availability of residential substance abuse treatment services for pregnant and postpartum women and their children. 
   WCCIH will expand services through its Healthy Women - Healthy Children project to provide medical and substance abuse treatment services, including residential services to women with their children, to low-income pregnant postpartum and parenting women in Alaska. In addition, WCCIH will partner with Tanana Chiefs Conference and provide education, screening and other medical services to pregnant and postpartum women in rural villages and in Fairbanks. 
   Both grants will continue annually depending on the availability of funds and performance. The money comes from an agency inside the Department of Health and Human Services that is responsible for improving the accountability, capacity and effectiveness of the nation's substance abuse prevention, addictions treatment and mental health service delivery systems. 
   The Senator also announced that the U.S. Treasury Department's Community Development Financial Institutions Fund today announced that it is making a $51,000 grant to the Tanana Chief s Conference based in Fairbanks to be used for future economic development efforts. 
   The grant, part of $57.8 million in grants being awarded to 176 community-based organizations on this last day of the federal fiscal year, is designed to help the Tanana Chiefs by funding staff training and paying for computer hardware and software so the association can apply to become a Community Development Financial Institution - such institutions receiving federal financial help to develop capital, credit and financial services for Alaska Natives.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 