SEN. MURKOWSKI ANNOUNCES ACADEMY NOMINATIONS FOR 2007
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced 2007 nominations to the U.S. service academies. 
   Murkowski nominated 10 Alaskans for openings to each of the service academies - the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. 
   For each academy at least one nominee will receive an appointment. Final selections, based on merit, should be announced in late spring. Appointees will begin their studies at the academies in June 2007.  
   "We received many appointment requests from talented and gifted Alaskan students. It is unfortunate that we are unable to accommodate all of the nominees that have the makings of successful service men and women," said Senator Murkowski. "These young men and women are well-balanced candidates. I have the utmost confidence that those selected for appointment by the academies will represent Alaska with dignity and honor and enjoy outstanding careers in our Armed Forces." 
   Those nominated, listed under primary nomination, include: 
   U.S. Air Force Academy: * Andrew M. Campbell of South Anchorage High School, the son of Edward A. and Marlenny M. Campbell. * Zachary M. Chuckran a home-school student, the son of Kirk M. and Veronica A. Chuckran of Anchorage. * Frances J. Lynch of Wasilla High School, the daughter of Jay Allen and Karla Rae Lynch. * Malina K. Simmers of Anchorage Christian Schools, the daughter of Jeffrey and Sheldonia Simmers. * Evan J. Snyder of Colony High School, the son of Craig and Heidi Snyder of Palmer. He also was nominated by the Senator to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. * Ian J. Snyder of Colony High School, the son of Craig and Heidi Snyder of Palmer. Mr. Snyder also was nominated by the Senator to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. * Mitchell E. Young of Northern High School in Maryland, the son of Michael and Sandra Young of Eagle River. * Landon R. Grover of Palmer High School, the son of Sterling Grover and Michelle Warner. * Tyler M. Stuart of North Pole High School near Fairbanks, the son of Andrew and Penny Stuart. * Alexander T. Rodgers of Skyview High School in Soldotna, the son of Ronald W. and Joanne F. Rodgers. 
   U.S. Military Academy: 
   * Caleb M. Reilly of Palmer High School, the son of David and Cynthia Reilly. * Randolph R. Rotte III of North Stafford High School in Virginia, the son of LTC Randy Rotte and Lisa Rotte of Fort Wainwright. * Richard J. Manrique of Palmer High School, the son of Rick Manrique and Sandra Erwin of Palmer. * James M. Crawford Jr. of Chugiak High School, the son of Jim and Terri Crawford of Anchorage. Mr. Crawford also was nominated by the Senator to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. * Andrew J. Faulkner of Phillips Academy in Massachusetts, the son of * Jonathan and Sara Faulkner of Homer. * Gavin G. Graham of South Anchorage High School, the son of Timothy and Teresa Graham. * Tyler R. White of Naples American High School in Italy, the son of Terry and Philomena White of Anchorage. The Senator also has nominated Mr. White for appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. * Andrew J. Alutius of Anchorage Christian Schools, Embry-Riddle Aeronautic University, and the University of Alaska Anchorage, the son of David and Deborah Alutius of Eagle River. * Melissa M. Moxlow of Dimond High School, the daughter of William and Antonia Moxlow. * Rafael Bortnick of Steller Secondary School in Anchorage, the son of Alex and Irene Bortnick. 
   U.S. Naval Academy: 
   * Karin L. Voetberg of Ketchikan High School, the daughter of James Voetberg and Ingrid Jones. * Jake L. Green of South Anchorage High School, the son of Rick Green and Shawn Barrows. * Chelsea R.C. Burr of Grace Christian School in Anchorage, the daughter of Bruce and Connie Burr. The Senator also has nominated Miss Burr for appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point. * Colin Zimmerman of West Anchorage High School and the University of Hawaii Hilo, the son of Joseph and Linda Zimmerman of Anchorage. * Jonathan Coreson of Soldotna High School, the son of Robert and Kim Coreson. * Kathryn P. McCarron of Homer High School, the daughter of James and Julie McCarron. Miss McCarron also was nominated by the Senator to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. * Andrew D. DeVore of South River High School in Maryland, the son of Jon and Michele DeVore of Anchorage. * Matthew P. Roberts of Dimond High School in Anchorage and Montana State University, the son of Paul Roberts (deceased) and Paulette Roberts. The Senator also has nominated Mr. Roberts to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. * Renaldo A. Wright of the Naval Academy Prep School in Rhode Island, the son of Kenneth and Juanita Wright of Wasilla. * Sabrina Burch of Dimond High School in Anchorage, the daughter of Joseph C. Burch and Jamie L. Jones-Burch.
   Contact: Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 