SEN. MURKOWSKI PLEASED THAT STATE CAN USE AIR TANKERS TO FIGHT FIRES, STILL WANTS SAFETY INSPECTIONS TO GET FIRE PLANES FLYING
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today said she was encouraged by a federal decision that will allow the State of Alaska to continue to use air tankers from Canada to fight forest fires on lands that it is responsible for protecting. But the Senator said she continues to ask federal officials to work to develop a safety inspection process that will allow more air tanker aircraft to resume flights to battle wildfires nationwide, including in Alaska. 
   Murkowski said she had been informed last Friday that states can continue to contract with air tanker operators for aircraft that can be used to fight fires on both state and federal lands - if the state is responsible for fire protection on those lands. The decision means Alaska can continue to use two Canadian air tankers this season for fire fighting duties on state, federal and private lands that the state is already committed to protect.
   "The decision, plus the related news that the Alaska Fire Service (a joint effort of the U.S. Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management) has just received a new single-engine plane and has ordered two air tanker 'scoopers,' (water-bucket aircraft) means that Alaska has some tools to fight wildfires this summer. These are a good start. But if the weather turns hot and dry, Alaska still could face significant problems without use of the larger air tankers."
   "For that reason I still hope that the government will set up an accelerated safety inspection process so that we can get more of the larger air tankers to fly again this fire season," said Murkowski, following a Senate Commerce Committee hearing into the air tanker issue.
   Murkowski, noting the recent grounding of 33 large American fire fighting air tankers because of safety concerns, last month had urged the Administration to set up a process to quickly inspect and recertify the planes to resume fire fighting efforts.
   Murkowski, in letters to Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman and Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton, urged the U.S. Forest Service and the Department of the Interior to reverse its termination of contracts for use of air tankers to spread fire retardant to battle wildfires in the American West. 
   The letters stemmed from the government's decision in early May to terminate contracts for American large fire fighting air tankers after a National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) investigation questioned whether it is possible to assure the safety of the aircraft given their age. The NTSB report came following the crashes of several of the planes in recent years. 
   Murkowski continues to acknowledge the safety issues raised by the NTSB report, but said that in the event that this fire season turns bad in Alaska, the aircraft that have been lined up so far to fight fires could well prove insufficient. For that reason she continues to ask the government to set up an inspection process to permit resumed usage of the air tankers. 
   Murkowski noted that since Canada's aviation reviewing agency, Transport Canada, continues to certify the airworthiness of similar retardant tankers in Canada, why shouldn't the United States also permit careful use of the craft after they pass inspections, especially if there is no practicable alternative to their use until replacement aircraft (large air tankers) can be flown again given the potentially great distances to wildfires in Alaska. 
   Murkowski said she continues to be concerned by the grounding of the air tankers because the state continues to face an increased threat of wildfires because of the destruction of more than 5 million acres of spruce in Southcentral Alaska from spruce bark beetle kill.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 