SEN. MURKOWSKI HONORS STEVENS ON SENATE FLOOR FOR WWII SERVICE
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski, during a tribute to members of the Senate who served their country during World War II, today honored senior Alaska Sen. Ted Stevens for his military service.  
   Murkowski, just four days before the 60th anniversary of the D-Day invasion of Normandy, offered a tribute and praised Stevens for his service in the Pacific Theater during the war. The senator's full statement follows: 
   "I rise today to pay tribute and honor to our World War II colleagues here in the Senate: Senator Inouye, Senator Akaka, Senator Warner, Senator Hollings, Senator Lautenberg? and, specifically, I rise to share my heartfelt appreciation to my friend and the Senior Senator from the State of Alaska, Ted Stevens. 
   "I know that words alone could never accurately reflect the tenacious spirit of our friend and decorated World War II veteran. Like many veterans of the war, Senator Stevens downplays his role. He will tell you he did what was expected. Yet, it is something that must be told time and time again just to realize how much this one humble servant has done and continues to do both for our country and for Alaska. 
   "Prior to the war, Senator Stevens made a promise to his aunt, whom he was living with at the time, that he would not enlist until he could do so without her consent. He stayed in college (Oregon State) until he was 19, and then immediately put the wheels in motion to enlist. But Senator Stevens did not pass his first flight physical. I think my colleagues in this chamber are well aware, especially those who play tennis against him, that this setback was not going to keep Senator Stevens down. He was determined to fulfill his commitment. He did eye exercises for two months and passed his next flight physical. 
   "During World War II, Senator Stevens flew C-46s and C-47s in the China-Burma-India theater, supporting the Flying Tigers of the 14th Air Force. He received two Distinguished Flying Crosses, two Air Medals, and the Yuan Hai medal awarded by the Republic of China - a truly honorable and amazing tour of duty. 
   "But this was not enough action for Senator Stevens. It was on his way home from China that Senator Stevens gained an interest in politics. During the war he did his job. He flew every mission that was requested of him and volunteered for more. He volunteered to drive the Burma Road with a convoy of trucks because they needed officers to do that. 
   "But afterwards, the interest in the politics of why the United States was involved in this war kicked in. And Alaska and the Nation have benefited ever since. He finished his undergraduate education at UCLA, earned his JD from Harvard and served in a number of government and elected positions before coming to the Senate. 
   "Senators Stevens, Inouye, Akaka, Warner, Hollings, and Lautenberg; I join with my colleagues in thanking you for your distinguished service to our country and this legislative body. Not only because you helped to protect and defend our freedoms, but also because you continue to support those who now serve to protect and defend our beloved America. You are the living history of the greatest generation," said Sen. Murkowski today.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 