SEN. MURKOWSKI, USDA OFFICIAL PRESENT CHECK FOR WATER-SEWER FOR NEW MAT-SU VALLEY HOSPITAL
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today welcomed the speed at which the U.S. Department of Agriculture has conveyed the first payment for construction of water and sewer lines to the new Mat-Su Valley Medical Center. 
   Murkowski today joined Hilda Legg, the administrator of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Utilities Service, at the Palmer Chamber of Commerce when Ms. Legg presented a check for $2.4 million to Palmer Mayor Jim Cooper. The check is the down payment for the federal share of the estimated $8.22 million cost of installing water and sewer lines from Palmer to the new medical center.
   "Given the size of this grant it will have to be funded over two federal fiscal years. But given how critical that water and sewer service is to the construction of the hospital, it is wonderful that the government has moved so quickly to get the first payment into local hands," said Murkowski, who proposed funding for the project in the FY 04 Agriculture Appropriations bill that passed Congress this winter. Federal aid is capped at 75 percent of the cost of the lines. Murkowski said the rest of the estimated $3.765 million for the line will need to be paid in the new federal fiscal year that starts Oct. 1.
   "The new medical center will certainly be an economic boon for the Mat-Su Borough. More importantly, with the borough's population expected to double in the next 10 years, this will fulfill the clear need for a new, larger hospital in the valley to provide quality health care to the citizens of the valley," said Murkowski.
   She noted that the hospital is expected to generate 680 full- and part-time construction jobs, 1,200 to 1,800 new permanent jobs once the hospital is open, pump $22.8 million in construction income into the valley, while the facility should pay $1.3 million in local property taxes and produce another $2.08 million in local and state revenues during construction and another $3.84 million a year once hospital operations begin.
   Murkowski was in Palmer after earlier in the day touring the Mat-Su port development.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 