LABOR DEPARTMENT TO HOLD TOWN HALL MEETING IN ANCHORAGE TO EXPLAIN NEW ENERGY WORKERS COMPENSATION PROGRAM
  U.S. Labor Department (DOL) officials will host a town meeting in Anchorage on August 10 to explain the interim final regulations and other issues related to the implementation of Part E under the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA).  
   Sen. Murkowski, who was a key participant in the successful effort last year to craft an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill to solve several major problems with the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Act of 2000, said the Labor Department wants to provide assistance to any worker seeking compensation. 
   "It has been a really long road for so many workers affected by radiation. Finally there is movement toward getting workers the help they need and certainly deserve after laboring on government nuclear projects," said Murkowski. 
   Recent EEOICPA amendments abolished Part D and created Part E to provide compensation for certain Department of Energy (DOE) contractor or subcontractor employees who became ill as a result of exposure to toxic substances at specified DOE locations such as Amchitka Island. The new law also provides additional compensation for uranium workers covered by the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA) and certain survivors of covered employees. 
   Congress mandated that DOL issue regulations governing implementation of Part E. To speed up the start up of the new program prior to issuing those regulations, DOL identified survivors payable under preliminary procedures issued in December 2004. To date, more than $70 million has been paid to over 560 recipients under the new program. With the May 26 release of interim final regulations, DOL is now able to undertake benefit analysis for complex claims, including wage loss and impairment evaluations. 
   Murkowski said any workers or survivors of workers who need assistance filling out claim forms may schedule appointments following the town hall meeting or may call toll-free, 1-888-908-4070. 
   Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act Town Hall Meeting in Anchorage 
   DATE: August 10 at 7 p.m. 
   LOCATION: Laborers Union Hall 
  2501 Commercial Drive 
  Anchorage, AK
   Contact: Kristin Pugh, 202/224-9301.
 
 