SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES PROVISION ALLOWING DONATIONS OF FREQUENT FLYER MILES TO MILITARY PERSONNEL, FAMILIES
  Saying members of the Armed Forces and their families deserve special travel assistance, Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski Thursday successfully co-sponsored a provision to allow the Department of Defense to collect donations of frequent traveler miles from the public and then to give service members and their families the mileage to pay for their travel during authorized leave.  
   Murkowski joined Sen. James Talent, R-Mo., to win adoption of the amendment (SA 3236) to the pending Defense Authorization Act. It will permit the Secretary of Defense to accept donations of frequent traveler/flyer miles and then to use them to obtain tickets to facilitate member or family travel for rest and recuperative leave visits, emergency leave, convalescent leave or any other form of leave authorized by the Armed Services. The amendment, called Operation Hero Miles, passed unanimously as part of the Defense bill (S. 2400) that remains under debate in the Senate.
   "The amendment will allow the families of wounded service personnel to visit their loved one in a military hospital at no personal expense for airfare. It also will permit soldieries who must return home from overseas while on emergency leave to do so at no cost by utilizing the donated frequent flyer miles. This program will allow Americans to directly support our service men and women, helping the military avoid real financial hardship when they have to purchase commercial airfares on short notice," said Sen. Murkowski. 
   The legislation gives the Defense Department the authority to give free plane tickets to family members of wounded troops. Under special circumstances the Department is also authorized to allow a non-family member, such as clergy or a close mentor, to also use the donated miles to reunite with a non-family member service man or woman. The Department is to designate a single office to administer the Operation Hero miles program. A similar proposal has been introduced in the House by Rep. C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger of Maryland.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 