SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES SENATE PASSAGE OF ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR BOYS & GIRLS CLUB CONSTRUCTION, EXPANSION
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today welcomed Senate action Thursday evening that authorized up to $100 million a year within six years to increase the number of Boys and Girls Clubs nationwide.  
   The Senate June 3 unanimously approved legislation to boost the authorization for federal funding for Boys and Girls Clubs to $80 million for FY 05 and up to $100 million a year by FY '10. The federal government is providing $40 million for club construction or expansion and renovation nationwide this year - Alaska receiving about $5 million of that amount. 
   Murkowski, co-sponsor of the legislation (S. 2363), said the measure was important to provide educational and recreational activities for the nation's youth. 
   "When you consider that 28 percent of U.S. children live with a single working parent or two working parents producing some 15 million 'latchkey children,' it is clear why it is vital that we build more Boys and Girls Clubs to give children a safe, drug-free environment for after school recreation and learning. 
   "The clubs not only provide recreational programming, but they offer professional instructors and counselors that help children in many ways, from building self-confidence and self-esteem to developing leadership skills and handling the peer pressures that can lead to juvenile crime. When you consider that juvenile crime triples in the five hours after school lets out and peaks between 3 and 4 p.m. weekdays, it's clear that anything that increases after-school supervision of our youth is money that is well spent, indeed," said Murkowski of the higher authorization. 
   Murkowski said the goal of this funding is to help increase the number of clubs nationwide to 5,000 from the current 3,500, so that the clubs can serve an additional million children within a decade, bringing to 5 million youths a day the number that can be served by the clubs nationwide. The bill now heads to the House of Representatives for its review.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 