SEN. MURKOWSKI WELCOMES FINAL HOUSE PASSAGE OF NATIVE ALLOTMENT SUBDIVISION BILL; MEASURE TO PRESIDENT FOR SIGNING
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today thanked Rep. Don Young for guiding her bill to help resolve a problem affecting Alaska Natives who wish to subdivide their land holdings through the House of Representatives. Given that the Senate had passed the measure on Sept. 15, it now heads to the President for signature.  
   The Native Allotment Subdivision Act (S. 1421), which today passed in the House unanimously, solves a problem faced by Native landowners, who acquired lands under the Native Allotment Act of 1906. Those owners do not now have the ability to subdivide their lands or to dedicate rights-of-way across their lands for public access or for utility purposes. The issue threatens the ability of Natives, who own more than 11,000 Native allotment parcels in the state, to freely subdivide their private property like all other Alaskans. 
   "I'm glad that both Houses of Congress have now approved this legislation to fix the quirk in Federal law where Alaska Natives were not able to use their land as freely as other private property owners. This bill allows Natives to fully exert their private property rights for subdivision and easement purposes," said Murkowski. 
   "For years everyone assumed that Native landowners could subdivide their own property like all other private land owners. But only a few years ago that right came into question when it was pointed out that there is currently no statutory authorization that allows individual Alaskan Natives to subdivide their allotments, or to dedicate rights-of-way across those lands for public access," she said. 
   She noted that the problem arose in 2000 when a new owner questioned the authority of the Bristol Bay Borough in Alaska to place a utility line across a subdivided Native allotment. The new owner's concern brought to light the fact that there was no statute that allowed Native allotment owners to subdivide their lands, much less dedicate easements across them. 
   "The lack of this explicit statutory authorization calls into question the validity of hundreds of parcels that already have been subdivided and lands that likely could be subdivided in the future. This bill solves that problem. The bill doesn't force Native land owners to do anything, but it may well help them to sell or dispose of their lands and gain the same value for their land that all other Alaskans enjoy," said Murkowski. 
   Under the measure previous subdivisions would be retroactively approved and Native land owners will be able to create new subdivisions if they so choose. 
   Murkowski noted that the legislation was supported by the federal government, by the State of Alaska, by local governments in Alaska and by Native groups. Murkowski noted that without the bill's passage, the titles to hundreds of parcels that have been subdivided and sold could have been questioned in the future, as could the hundreds of utility easements and platted rights-of-way that have been placed across Native allotment tracts.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 