SEN. MURKOWSKI, REP. YOUNG WIN CHAIRMAN SUPPORT FOR ESKIMO WHALING CAPTAINS TAX CREDIT TO PROTECT FUTURE OF SUBSISTENCE IN ALASKA
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski and Alaska Rep. Don Young tonight succeeded in winning support from the chairman of a House-Senate conference committee for a tax credit to help continue Eskimo whaling on the North Coast of Alaska.  
   The chairman of the conference committee considering a major jobs-stimulus tax bill, Rep. Bill Thomas, R-Calif., chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, tonight included the whaling tax credit in his draft of a jobs tax measure. The measure was recently proposed by Murkowski last year (S. 293). The credit will allow Native Alaskan whaling captains to claim up to a $10,000 per year charitable tax deduction to offset their equipment and fuel costs for the annual subsistence whale hunts in northern Alaska. 
   Murkowski last year had succeeded in having the tax credit added to a charitable tax bill, the bill was stopped by Democrats from passing. The Senator and Congressman then pressed for the provision to be included in this tax measure - passage of the tax aid important to help maintain the traditional whale hunts in Alaska. 
   "I am very pleased that the conferees understood the need for this assistance to help Alaska North Slope residents continue their traditional subsistence whaling hunts. Subsistence whaling is vital to the survival of several North Slope communities, both culturally and economically. 
   The tax change was first proposed in 1997 because of an IRS ruling that prevented North Slope whaling captains from deducting any portion of the costs of the traditional whale hunts from their taxes. The Senator noted that traditionally the captain of the hunt makes all provisions for the meals, wages and equipment associated with the hunt. In return the Captain is repaid in whale meat/ muktuk. 
   "As part of the tradition, the captain donates a substantial portion of the whale to his village in order to help the community survive the harsh winter," Murkowski said. She noted that if the captain was engaged in a business he could deduct his costs from his taxes, or if he donated the whale meat to a formal charitable organization, he could deduct the costs from his taxes as a charitable donation. She said the tax law change is only fair, especially since whale meat has no commercial market because of the International Whaling Commercial ban on the sale of whale meat. 
   The change, likely to cost the government less than three-quarters of a million dollars over the next decade, will make a huge difference as to the financial viability of the traditional Eskimo hunts. Murkowski and Young, however, noted that the tax break will not hurt bowhead whale populations, since the harvest is fully regulated and carefully limited by the Alaska Whaling Commission. The amendment still has to adopted by the full conference committee and the conference report then adopted by both the House and Senate.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 