SEN. MURKOWSKI: GASLINE INCENTIVES INCLUDED IN HOUSE-SENATE CONFERENCE BILL, MAJOR STEP CLOSER TO FINAL PASSAGE
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski this evening announced that the chairman of the House-Senate Conference Committee on a major jobs bill has accepted gas line financing amendments, a major step that moves the provisions closer to final approval by Congress, possibly by week's end.  
   The decision of House conference chairman Bill Thomas, R-Calif., chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, to include the main financial incentives needed to guarantee construction of an Alaska gas line project as part of the chairman's mark means they are nearly assured to be included when the jobs bill (the Foreign Sales Corp./Extraterritorial Income [FSC/ETI] bill) is reported from conference and is presented to the full House and Senate for final approval, likely later this week. 
   "It is wonderful news for Alaskans that the key financial incentives are in the preferred draft for the conference report of this bill - the so-called chairman's mark - and likely will be approved by the conference within a day or two and sent to the full House and Senate for final passage," said Senator Murkowski. 
   She commented after the conference panel took up the chairman's mark that includes the two key tax incentives needed to bring Alaska gas to market. The tax provisions include provisions to allow gas owners to amortize the cost of all Alaska-built segments of a pipeline from their taxes over seven instead of 15 years, a change that will save line owners an estimated $441 million over the first 10 years, and a provision to allow an enhanced oil recovery tax credit for the cost of a needed gas conditioning plant on the North Slope of Alaska to process gas before it goes into a line. That provision should save the companies nearly $300 million more in taxes in the first decade of the project. 
   Murkowski had met with Chairman Thomas and spoken with other conferees in recent weeks urging inclusion of the gas line financial incentives in the pending tax bill. 
   Murkowski noted that the Energy Information Administration estimates natural gas demand in America will rise by more than 50 percent by 2025, leaving the nation utterly dependent on imported liquefied natural gas, unless the Alaska project is built - Alaska being able to supply the nation with 4.5 billion cubic feet of gas a day from the state's reserves of at least 36 trillion cubic feet of natural gas located at Prudhoe Bay. The gas project will fuel thousands of jobs in Alaska and supply the state with between hundreds and millions and nearly $1 billion a year in revenues in the future through direct and indirect economic spinoffs. 
   Murkowski said she was withholding further comment until the conference debates additional provisions later in the week.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 