SEN. MURKOWSKI VOTES TO PROTECT ALASKA WORKERS FROM FACING CUTS IN OVERTIME PAY
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski, in an effort to fully protect Alaska workers from cuts in future overtime pay, while expanding pay protections to more low-wage workers in the state, voted today for two amendments that protect the pay of Alaska cooks, nurses, oil field workers and a host of special trades from teachers to plumbers. 
   Murkowski voted for an amendment by Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., that ensures that the U.S. Department of Labor rules or regulations do not weaken overtime worker's eligibility for overtime or reduce employee protections for a host of occupations - workers who feared that a Bush Administration proposed change in work rules could result in overtime pay eligibility reductions.
   The Senator also voted for a modified amendment by Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, that allowed overtime pay to be expanded to additional low-wage workers, but prevented the rules from reducing overtime protections for any other workers. The Harkin amendment passed 52-47 with Murkowski voting in favor. The Gregg amendment passed 99-0 with Murkowski in favor.
   Under the Gregg amendment, the government can not change current rules that require overtime be paid to nearly five dozen classes of workers. The groups include all workers paid on an hourly basis, blue collar workers, workers provided overtime under a collective bargaining agreement and a host of specific job classes such as team leaders, nurses, nursery school teachers, oil and gas pipeline and field workers, cooks, firefighters and construction and maintenance workers, besides craftsmen such as plumbers and mechanics.
   Identifying these groups will help resolve numerous lawsuits over work pay classifications providing a benefit to businesses, as well.
   "Last year I opposed the Administration's proposed work rule changes because they could have hurt some Alaska workers such as North Slope oil field workers and some skilled crafts from nurses to cooks. The Administration has worked very hard to solve Alaska's concerns and the Gregg amendment provided even more protection for Alaska workers. Still there were some workers in the state who could have fallen through the cracks. Now all Alaskans are fully protected while the work rule changes should still help state employers," said Murkowski.
   She said the new rules overall provide overtime for 57 million hourly and salaried workers who earn between $23,660 and $100,000 a year-an increase of about 4.1 million workers gaining overtime eligibility. The Harkin amendment's adoption also removes any uncertainty about the pay fate for about 2 million workers who arguably might have been affected by the rule changes.
   "With these amendments the Administration's overtime rules now fully protect Alaska workers who currently have somewhat higher wages to offset the state's higher cost of living. The rules should help Alaska workers without disadvantaging any other state's workers. The rules should be welcomed by organized labor and also by management because the rule changes have other helpful benefits for employers," said Murkowski.
   The amendments came as part of Senate consideration of a major federal jobs bill. Debate on the jobs will, which currently include incentives for an Alaska gas line, continues on the Senate floor this week.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 