SENS. MURKOWSKI-STEVENS APPLAUD WORK TO RESOLVE POGO MINE CONFLICT
  Sens. Lisa Murkowski and Ted Stevens today applauded the work of the State of Alaska's Department of Natural Resources, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and Teck-Cominco negotiators to convince the Northern Alaska Environmental Center to withdraw their administrative appeal of an EPA permit for the Pogo gold mine. This decision comes after days of mediated discussions between the Center, State of Alaska Department of Natural Resources officials, the EPA and Teck-Cominco, Pogo's owner. 
   "I'm glad the voice of reason has prevailed. This is great news for Fairbanks and all of Alaska. It is good that Alaskans can go back to work on developing one of the premier mines in the state. These high-value jobs were just too important to be disrupted when there clearly were good ways to solve the environmental concerns expressed by some," said Senator Murkowski this afternoon.
   "This decision by the Northern Alaska Environmental Center to withdraw their appeal is the right one," said Senator Stevens. "The Center and representatives from the EPA, the Department of Natural Resources and Teck-Cominco have worked hard to resolve their differences to ensure that Pogo will move forward, bringing significant jobs and development opportunities to the Interior," he said.
   The Pogo Mine, about 40 miles northeast of Delta Junction, is expected to produce an average of 400,000 ounces of gold a year over an 11-year life span. The mine is a joint venture between operator Teck-Cominco, Ltd. and Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. The mine is estimated to be worth $2.2 billion and will employ 350 people full-time.
   Construction on Pogo Mine was halted when the Northern Alaska Environmental Center unexpectedly filed an administrative appeal to a water discharge permit that the EPA issued for the mine. The appeal caused Teck-Cominco, Ltd. to halt construction of the mine and to begin laying off the 500 construction employees on site.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/283-4149.
 
 