SENS. MURKOWSKI, HARKIN INTRODUCE CHILD NUTRITION PROMOTION, SCHOOL LUNCH PROTECTION ACT
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) today joined Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA) in introducing the Child Nutrition Promotion and School Lunch Protection Act. With childhood obesity rates continuing to climb at an alarming rate, this legislation is designed to update the definition of "foods of minimal nutritional value" and to ensure that all foods that are sold in schools - whether in the cafeteria or in a vending machine - will meet the new nutritional standards. In fact, a study released as recently as this week found that a third of children and teens in the United States are either overweight or close to becoming so. Related legislation was also introduced today in the House by Reps. Christopher Shays (R-CT) and Lynn Woolsey (D-CA). 
   The Act has earned the endorsement of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, the national Parent Teacher Association, the School Nutrition Association and 85 member organizations of the National Alliance for Nutrition and Activity.  
   In announcing the introduction of this legislation at a bipartisan, bicameral press conference, Senator Murkowski offered the following comments: 
   "As a parent of school-age children, I know first-hand of the poor dietary temptations that are readily available to children each day at school. 
   "We all know the problem, and we all know that eating the right amount of healthy foods and getting enough exercise are the answers to preventing overweight, obesity and all the related serious health problems and costs. 
   "Complications from being overweight and obese are already taking a substantial toll on the health and economy of the United States and Alaska ? Based on recent estimates, obesity kills nearly 500 Alaskans each year ? Five hundred! 
   "Our children learn in health class to eat five fruits or vegetables a day ? but then they go to the cafeteria where they are able to buy soda, potato chips and a candy bar for lunch ? not exactly a 'well balanced' meal. 
   "Currently, the federal school meal programs will reimburse schools for ice cream, but not popsicles; candy bars, but not seltzer water. Schools can also be reimbursed for potato chips, snack cakes and donuts served in the cafeteria. 
   "It just doesn't make much sense. 
   "Of note, our legislation will require the Secretary of Agriculture to update the definition of 'foods of minimal nutritional value' based on the recommendations from scientific and nutritional experts. And all foods that are sold in school will need to meet the new nutritional standards. 
   "Now, this doesn't mean that mom cannot bring in a birthday cake to celebrate her son's birthday - or that the school band or chess club cannot hold a fundraiser with baked treats ? 
   "What it does is ensure that our kids are receiving a consistent, simple message - they should be eating healthy foods ? foods that they can find in their schools. 
   "I know that there are many school districts across the country that have already begun to take unhealthy foods out of their schools. The Mat-Su School District in Alaska is one of those and I applaud them for their efforts on this front. 
   "But there are many schools that have not ? and while I wholeheartedly believe in local control, I also believe that the federal government shouldn't be paying to put high-fat, high-sugar foods in schools ? and then pay for the medical costs incurred from treating obesity related diseases, such as diabetes and high blood pressure. 
   "As parents, we want our children to be healthy and to grow up with healthy habits. Part of our responsibility to them is to help them make good nutritional decisions - decisions today that can impact them throughout their lives. I believe our bill takes an important step forward by promoting good eating habits in schools - a vital piece of legislation that will combat the overweight and obesity epidemic that is afflicting so many of our children."
   Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 