SEN. MURKOWSKI SAYS NEW FAIRBANKS TAXIWAY PROJECT WILL PAVE WAY FOR AIRPORT'S FUTURE
  Saying the reconstruction-paving is vital for the future of the airport, Sen. Lisa Murkowski today welcomed news that the Department of Transportation today announced its commitment to the full repaving of the taxiway at Fairbanks International Airport, clearing the way for completion of the $26 million project over the next two summers. 
   Murkowski today joined U.S. Department of Transportation Deputy Chief of Staff Martin Whitmer at a ceremony at the airport confirming funding for the second phase of reconstruction of the Alpha taxiway at the airport. The reconstruction/paving project's first phase costing nearly $13 million is underway this summer. The second phase, which will occur in 2005 and 2006 also at a cost of nearly $13 million, will allow the taxiway to function as the main runway for the airport in 2006 and 2007 when the main runway itself will be closed for improvement and repaving.
   "Fairbanks International is vital for the economy of the region and these runway improvements are vital for the future of the airport. While taxiway repairs may seem mundane, this project is the first step in a multi-year project to meet the airport's real needs so that it cane xpand its cargo operations. Without aprin relocations and runway resurfacing, the airport would start to lose flights and that would be a loss to the entire community.
   "This project should really help the airport's freight business to continue to soar in the years ahead," said Murkowski during the Taxiway Alpha funding announcement held at the airport.
   Murkowski said the project will involve realigning the taxiway to meet oday's safety design standards. The project includes new deicing pads to make it easier for glycol to be applied to planes in winter. It also will involve paving the extended taxiway and future apron projects to make cargo plane parking easier.
   Murkowski has been working with DOT to gain funding for the project this year.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 