SEN. MURKOWSKI: GASLINE INCENTIVES WIN FINAL HOUSE-SENATE CONFERENCE APPROVAL
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski late this afternoon welcomed completion of a House-Senate Conference Committee on a major corporate tax bill - the committee earlier having included key Alaska natural gas line financing amendments in the bill. Completion of conference work on the $18 billion tax-jobs bill is the major milestone toward passage of the measure, possibly by week's end.  
   "It is great news for Alaskans that the key federal financial incentives to help bring about construction of an Alaska natural gas line are now in the bill. All that is left is for the measure to pass the House and Senate. While there have been threats of a filibuster, failure to pass this bill would have devastating impacts on American export firms," said Senator Murkowski, noting that the measure also includes provisions to settle a tariff dispute that is causing the European Union to increase tariffs monthly on American products being sold in Europe. 
   "This marks the successful end of an 18-month effort to get the incentives that everyone: producers, pipeline companies, and the State say are needed to improve the economics and make it likely that a gas line will be built to bring Alaska's huge gas supplies to market. With this package, plus later authorizing provisions, we will have done our job at the federal level to make this project work," said Sen. Murkowski. 
   "With these incentives and the high prices for natural gas there is no reason Alaska won't be seeing the tens of thousands of jobs that a gas project will bring and the hundreds of millions of dollars of revenues from royalties from the state's one-eighth share of the gas and in severance and property taxes on the gas and pipeline facilities," said Murkowski. 
   She commented after the conference panel took up the chairman's mark that includes the two key tax incentives needed to bring Alaska gas to market. The tax provisions include provisions to allow gas owners to amortize the cost of all Alaska-built segments of a pipeline from their taxes over seven instead of 15 years, a change that will save line owners an estimated $441 million over the first 10 years, and a provision to allow an enhanced oil recovery tax credit for the cost of a needed gas conditioning plant on the North Slope of Alaska to process gas before it goes into a line. That provision should save the companies $295 million more in taxes in the first decade of the project. 
   These provisions - along with an 80 percent loan guarantee to protect financiers against the risk that the line won't be finished, and expedited permitting and streamlined court review of the project that should also be passed by Congress later this fall - should be sufficient so that private firms can finance and build the up to $20 billion project, said Murkowski. 
   Murkowski, who had met with Chairman Thomas and spoken with other conferees in recent weeks, said the way soon will be cleared at the federal level for a decision on line construction to be made. 
   She said the conferees for the time being decided not to include a third tax provision, a marginal well credit, that would have triggered a tax cut only in the event that gas prices collapsed. "Actually the loss of the credit should have no impact on the industry's decision to build the line. The credit was first proposed four years ago when the price of natural gas was barely above $3 per thousand cubic feet and was not predicted to rise much. Today the price of natural gas is consistently above $6 per thousand cubic feet and is unfortunately not expected to fall. 
   "The credit would have kicked in only if the price of gas had fallen below $1.35 per tcf at the wellhead and that was never likely to have happened. Now it's just totally unrealistic that it would ever be needed. The credit, simply, is no longer needed to assure financiers that an Alaska line is a good investment. The risk of this line declines every day that prices remain high and supplies don't improve. America clearly needs Alaska's huge supplies of gas," said Murkowski. 
   Murkowski noted that Energy Information Administration estimates are that natural gas demand in America will rise by more than 50 percent by 2025, leaving the nation utterly dependent on imported liquefied natural gas, unless the Alaska project is built - Alaska able to supply the nation with 4.5 billion cubic feet of gas a day from the state's reserves of at least 36 trillion cubic feet of natural gas located at Prudhoe Bay. The gas project will fuel thousands of jobs in Alaska and supply the state with between hundreds and millions and nearly $1 billion a year in revenues in the future through direct and indirect economic spinoffs. 
   The conference report also includes other provisions for Alaska such as a tax deduction to encourage continued Native subsistence whaling and a provision to allow fishermen to average their incomes over three years for tax purposes.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 