SEN. MURKOWSKI WINS 2003 TRADE ASSISTANCE FOR ALASKA SALMON FISHERMEN; APPLICATION PERIOD TO OPEN OCT. 15
  Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski today announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has recertified a petition granting Alaska salmon fishermen continued assistance to help offset the lower prices received for their salmon catches during 2003 because of competition from foreign pen-reared salmon.  
   The Department announced this morning that Alaska fishermen will qualify for continuing Trade Adjustment Assistance benefits because the average price for salmon in 2003 was more than 20 percent lower - actually 35.2 percent lower in 2003 - than during the previous five years, 1997-2001. Under the TAA program, USDA will provide both technical assistance and cash if increasing imports of a directly competitive commodity contributes to a significant decline in producer prices and results in a loss of net fishing income during the year. The program was originally designed for farmers. Fishermen were added at Senator Murkowski's request last year for the first time. 
   "It is not good news that Alaska fishermen continued last year to be impacted by competition from farmed salmon from other countries. Still it is good news that the government for a second year will help offset lost income to Alaska salmon fishermen," said Senator Murkowski. 
   "We also hope the process will go more smoothly and more fishermen will both apply and be found eligible for benefits this year. This year there will be a full application period and more notice to potential applicants, and both the Department of Agriculture offices in Alaska and the fishing industry are more familiar with the way the program operates and how to get the most from it," added the Senator. 
   Alaska salmon license and permit holders seeking the aid for 2003 will have to apply between Oct. 15 and Jan. 13, 2005 for the 2005 program assistance. Checks to qualified applicants should be issued late this winter, after the applications are certified. 
   According to USDA, Alaska fishermen may obtain an application for TAA benefits (Form FSA-229) by going on line at: http://forms.sc.egov.usda.gov/eforms/mainservlet or from their local Farm Service Agency (FSA) Service Center. The main Alaska office is located in Anchorage. Fishermen also can check their local phone listings for the closest service center or go to http://fas.usda.gov and click on "your local office" for contact information. General information on the TAA program is available at: http://www.fas.usda.gov/itp/taa.taaindex.htm (.) 
   Murkowski said besides the aid, up to $10,000 per fishermen per calendar year based on 50% of the price loss they faced per pound of fish harvested, the Marine Advisory Program of the University of Alaska Fairbanks will be offering qualifying salmon fishermen who apply for TAA benefits a variety of technical courses at no cost. 
   Murkowski said more fishermen are actually likely to qualify for aid for 2003 than 2002. Since the program requires an actual net loss of total income for fishermen to qualify for aid, many fishermen did not qualify last year because they had received other compensation or earned income from non-fish jobs that resulted in them not having a net income loss for the 2002 tax year. 
   Several million dollars was distributed to fishermen through the program last year. The average fisherman who received aid gained about $2,200 in assistance, with only about 100 fishermen gaining the program maximum of $10,000. 
   Murkowski said she continues to work with the Department to try to make the program work better for Alaska fishermen.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 