SEN. MURKOWSKI STRESSES NEED FOR MEDICAL LIABILITY REFORM
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today spoke on the floor of the U.S. Senate in support of S.22 and S.23 - legislation designed to help fix our nation's medical liability system. Her remarks, as prepared, follow. 
   Mr. President, across the nation, emergency departments are losing staff, critical services are being cut and even trauma units have closed. One in seven obstetricians has stopped delivering babies, and countless surgeons are no longer performing high-risk procedures. Why? Simply put, our nation's medical liability system is broken.  
   Skyrocketing medical liability rates are forcing thousands of doctors across the country to stop practicing medicine. And it is the millions of patients across the nation who suffer. 
   In my State of Alaska, where patients live throughout some 586,000 square miles, we face a chilling crisis -we have 25% to 30% fewer physicians than our population needs. In fact, Alaska has one of the smallest numbers of physicians per capita in the country. We need a minimum of 500 more doctors just to be at the national average of physicians per capita. An American Medical News article recently declared Alaska's precarious situation: "Alaska has long ranked among the worst states in terms of physician supply." 
   And, Mr. President, due to significant recent deployments of Alaska military physicians and health care providers, this month we are losing over 60 health care providers. The few civilian physicians in Alaska have been asked to absorb some 5,400 military and military families into their practices. 
   In certain physician specialties, the shortages are at crisis levels. For example: 
   * In Alaska - a state larger than Texas, California and Montana combined -we have lost half of all our internists. 
   * And in Alaska - a state that has the highest rate of traumatic brain injury in nation -we have only three - just three - neurosurgeons. 
   Many of these physicians were forced out of practice simply because they could no longer afford their medical liability premiums. Our physician shortage crisis was a key reason medical liability reform was so important to Alaska. It was just last May that our state legislature passed a medical liability reform bill. 
   Like the bills before the Senate, the Alaska bill fully compensates a patient for all quantifiable damages such as lost wages and all medical and future medical costs. And like the bills before us, the Alaska law places reasonable limitations on unquantifiable non-economic damages. 
   The American Academy of Actuaries has stated that placing limitations on unquantifiable non-economic damages is "imperative in stabilizing the physician professional liability insurance marketplace." Our hope is that the Alaska law will provide equitable and predictable settlements in medical injury cases, resulting in a more stable professional liability insurance marketplace and, most importantly, help us recruit physicians to help fill our chronic shortage of physicians. 
   Mr. President, I'm happy to say that it is already working. Ketchikan General Hospital, for the first time in years, has been able to recruit two new physicians -an internist and general surgeon. And, for the first time in years, its medical liability premiums have not increased. 
   Additionally, the Mat-Su Valley has been able to recruit a cardiologist and Anchorage finally has been able to recruit a reconstructive surgeon. Both of these physicians fled their states that were in "liability crisis" and moved to Alaska where reform has been enacted. 
   This is an issue, however, that has national implications. That is why we in Washington must act now. The bills before the Senate, S. 22 and S. 23, are based on a fair and common-sense approach that passed in the State of Texas. As a result of the Texas law, physicians are returning to the state, particularly in underserved specialties and counties. Insurance premiums to protect against frivolous lawsuits have declined dramatically, with the state's largest carrier reporting declines up to 22% and other carriers reducing premiums by an average of 13%. The number of lawsuits filed against doctors has been cut almost in half. 
   Mr. President, too many lives across the nation are threatened or lost because good quality physicians are forced out of practice. A majority of the American public supports medical liability reform and ending lawsuit abuse. It's time the Senate passed effective medical liability reform.
   Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 