SEN. STEVENS, MURKOWSKI COMMEMORATE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF ALASKA CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
  Today Alaska Sens. Ted Stevens and Lisa Murkowski commemorated the 50th anniversary of the convening of the Alaska Constitutional Convention by expressing their gratitude to the convention delegates for crafting what the National Municipal League has called "one of the best, if not the best, state constitution ever written."  
   On November 8, 1955, 55 elected representatives from across Alaska gathered in Fairbanks to begin the process of drafting the Alaska Constitution. These men and women came from all walks of life and all parts of Alaska. There are five surviving delegates to the convention: Dr. Victor Fischer; George Sundborg, Sr.; John B. "Jack" Coghill; Burke Riley; and Seaborn Buckalew. Several members of the Alaska Constitutional Convention staff joined these five delegates in Anchorage today to celebrate the 50th anniversary. They include Thomas Stewart, Secretary of the Convention; Katherine Hurley, Chief Clerk of the Convention; Doris Ann Bartlett, Librarian of the Convention; Dr. George Rogers, Temporary Secretary and Economics Consultant; Dr. Vincent Ostrum, Consultant to the Convention; and Dr. Ernest Bartley, Consultant to the Convention. 
   Alaska Territorial Governor Ernest Gruening once said that the constitution delegates had the opportunity to "to create in these far northern latitudes a shining and eternal example of what we want to call the American way of life, to make Alaska not merely a bulwark defense for the whole hemisphere, for the free world, but a spiritual citadel of the American idea. It can only be done by the application to Alaska of basic American principles, the most basic of which is government by consent of the governed." 
   In commemoration of the 50th anniversary, Senator Ted Stevens and Senator Lisa Murkowski spoke about the significant impact of the delegates' work in creating the Alaska Constitution. 
   "The 55 convention delegates were devoted public servants who became Alaska's Founding Mothers and Fathers. ...I have come to the floor today to thank these men and women whose hard work laid the foundation for the 49th state," said Stevens. Senator Stevens also quoted Bill Egan, the President of the Constitutional Convention who later served three terms as Alaska's governor. At the close of the convention's proceedings, Egan said, "I say to each and every Alaskan: If it had been your good fortune, as it has been mine, to have witnessed the abilities, the diligence, the devotion to duty, of these delegates ...you would say of their labors, 'Well done!'" Stevens remarked, "Bill Egan's words endure today. Well done, thank you, and God bless each of you!" 
   "The Alaska Constitution was the result of the hard work of the pioneers of the Last Frontier," said Murkowski. "I was not yet born at the time Alaska's Constitution was created, but that document continues to serve Alaska's leaders and as a roadmap to our state's future. Alaska's Constitutional Convention didn't just set the wheels in motion toward statehood, it has guided my generation and my children's generation, and it will guide future generations of Alaskans forward to be, as Governor Gruening put it, 'a shining and eternal example of what we want to call the American way of life.'"
   Contact: Elliot Bundy, 202/224-4513; Kristin Pugh, 202/224-9301.
 
 