SEN. MURKOWSKI APPLAUDS FOREST SERVICE FOR PROCEEDING WITH THREEMILE, GRAVINA TIMBER SALES IN TONGASS FOREST
  Noting the severe shortage of available timber for harvest in the Tongass National Forest, Sen. Lisa Murkowski today applauded the decision of the Forest Service to proceed with the Threemile and Gravina timber sales in the southern Tongass. 
   The Forest Service today signed the record of decision allowing the 665-acre Threemile sale on Kuiu Island, about 20 miles southwest of Kake, to proceed. The sale is intended to offer about 19.5 million board feet of timber for harvest. The Forest Service also announced today that it will be issuing the final Environmental Impact Statement and record of decision for a Gravina Island timber sale by mid August. That sale, which eventually will involve 1,800 acres offering up to 38 million board feet of timber, is located on Tongass Narrows, across from Ketchikan.
   "Given the serious shortage of available timber in the region because of environmental lawsuits that have tied the region's timber program into knots, it is wonderful news for the citizens of Southeast that the Forest Service has worked so hard to iron out the environmental concerns and is proceeding with both sales. I know the service has worked hard to limit the effects of the Threemile sale on Kuiu Island and has worked even harder to protect deer habitat for subsistence users in planning the Gravina project.
   "Both timber sales show that resource development can proceed without harming the forest environment in Southeast. The sales also prove that forest development to support the local and the state's economy are vital if Alaska is to have a balanced economy," said Murkowski, noting that the Threemile sale should produce up to 86 direct jobs, while the Gravina project should generate nearly 240 jobs in the future.
   Murkowski, while acknowledging that the sales are partially in areas once covered by the Clinton era "roadless" rule, said that 92 percent of the Tongass is protected in roadless, wild and undeveloped condition, while only 300,000 acres of the 9.6 million covered by the initial roadless rule will ever be affected. "The Tongass is not being over developed. All that is happening is that some harvesting is being allowed to permit family-run sawmills to keep operating and producing some jobs in the region," she said in supporting the decision.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 