SEN. MURKOWSKI HONORS FORMER PRESIDENT REAGAN ON SENATE FLOOR
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today offered her tribute to former President Ronald Reagan on the Senate floor. Murkowski honored and praised the 40th President, talking about his impacts on Alaska and his visits to the state.  
   The text of her statement follows:
   "Today I join with my colleagues in honoring our Nation's 40th President, Ronald Reagan. There have been numerous stories told over the past few days covering President Reagan's role in the Cold War, his undying sense of optimism for the country, or Reaganomics. And of course a host of personal stories that make President Reagan so unforgettable.
   Alaska certainly has its share of stories to tell.
   President Reagan's impact on Alaska began even before he entered office. In 1980, the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, putting over 100 million acres of land under federal control, was pending before Congress. 
   With Reagan's election, leaders in the House and Senate, both under Democratic control, knew that if they were going to get a bill signed into law, it would have to be then, before President Reagan was sworn in. The Act, for better or worse, was signed into law on December 2, 1980. 
   But President Reagan understood Alaska and Alaskans. In his book, Reagan, In His Own Hand, the President asked, "Will Alaska wind up as our biggest state, or will it be our smallest state surrounded by our biggest national park?" 
   He tried to ease the impact these land withdrawals had on Alaskans living in and around the new parks and refuges. He fought for access to these lands to provide for economic development. His Administration determined that oil drilling should be allowed in a small section of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
   And Alaska remembered, supporting President Reagan in both Presidential elections by overwhelming margins. President Reagan had the opportunity to visit Alaska several times, and he liked to talk about his ties to the state. He was a big fan of Robert Service, and apparently, one of his favorite poems was a poem entitled "The shooting of Dan McGrew." It is a poem about a particular ballroom brawl and most people may remember the beginning of it when a bunch of boys were whooping it up at the Malamute Saloon. It is a down and dirty, rough and tumble poem that I think personified what many wanted to believe about Alaska and the Last Frontier. But President Reagan was quite fond of that. I had an opportunity last night to pull out "The Shoot of Dan McGrew" and read it one more time and it bought a good smile to my face and I ask unanimous consent at this time to insert the full contents of the poem in the record." 
   And then there are the personal anecdotes. On May 1, 1984, the President and Nancy Reagan arrived in Fairbanks on their way back from a state visit to China. The next day, Pope John Paul II arrived on his way to Korea. They were able to meet at the Fairbanks International Airport. 
   During his stopover in Fairbanks, President Reagan spent most of his time at my parent's newly built home on the Chena River. They have an official plaque on the building saying "Reagan slept here." The community turned out to make sure the house had furniture and accessories. 
   And of course, being a new house, it had its share of problems to work out. You can imagine the Secret Service's surprise to find the President and Frank Murkowski walking around outside one evening with tools in hand looking to fix the hot water. Just his way of trying to be helpful and fix the problem. 
   And that was Ronald Reagan. A man who wanted to make things work. Cut through the red tape and bureaucracy. Reduce the size of government. 
   A man who was not afraid to stand up and promote his vision for America, but also knowing when it was time to compromise on the issues. 
   An individual who truly made America feel good about itself again. 
   Mr. President, I would like to close by reading a quote from Ronald Reagan during his speech to the 1992 National Republican Convention. I feel it is a fitting reminder of this man's legacy. 
   'My fellow citizens - those of you here in this hall and those of you at home - I want you to know that I have always had the highest respect for you, for your common sense and intelligence and for your decency. I have always believed in you and in what you could accomplish for yourselves and for others. 
   'And whatever else history may say about me when I'm gone, I hope it will record that I appealed to your best hopes, not your worst fears, to your confidence rather than your doubts. My dream is that you will travel the road ahead with liberty's lamp guiding your steps and opportunity's arm steadying your way. 
   'My fondest hope for each one of you - and especially for the young people here - is that you will love your country, not for her power or wealth, but for her selflessness and her idealism. May each of you have the heart to conceive, the understanding to direct, and the hand to execute works that will make the world a little better for your having been here. 
   'May all of you as Americans never forget your heroic origins, never fail to seek divine guidance, and never lose your natural, God-given optimism.' And finally, my fellow Americans, may every dawn be a great new beginning for America and every evening bring us closer to that shining city upon a hill," said Senator Murkowski.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 