SEN. MURKOWSKI COMMENDS PRESIDENT'S CALL TO OPEN ANWR
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski today commended President George Bush for his call to encourage domestic energy production and to open ANWR to gas and oil leasing.  
   "President Bush understands the need to increase domestic production and has long been an advocate of production on Alaska's coastal plain," Sen. Murkowski said. "This President understands Alaska and knows that the opening and development of ANWR is critical to increasing America's energy supply and America's energy security and that we produce our resources in Alaska with the utmost care for the environment." 
   Today, at an energy speech in Columbus, Ohio, the President said the following about ANWR and domestic production: 
   "To produce more energy at home, we need to open up new areas to environmentally responsible exploration for oil and natural gas, including the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge - that's called ANWR. The Department of Interior estimates that we could recover more than 10 billion barrels of oil from a small corner of ANWR that was reserved specifically for energy development. That's the same amount of new oil we could get from 41 states combined. Thanks to advances in technology...we can now reach all of ANWR's oil by drilling on just 2,000 acres. Two thousand acres is the size of the Columbus airport. By applying the most innovative environmental practices, we can carry out the project with almost no impact on land or local wildlife. 
   "You see, developing a small section of ANWR would not only create thousands of new jobs, but it would eventually reduce our dependence on foreign oil by up to a million barrels of oil a day. And that's important. Congress needs to look at the science and look at the facts and send me a bill that includes exploration in ANWR for the sake of our country." Last week, Sen. Murkowski hosted a congressional delegation led by Sen. Pete Domenici in ANWR. The delegation of five U.S. Senators and two Cabinet Secretaries toured the oil fields at Alpine and Prudhoe bay to examine the advances in current oil drilling technology and spoke with the Native Alaskans who live in ANWR about their support for development.
   Contact: Elliott Bundy and Kristin Pugh, 202/224-4513, 202/224-9306.
 
 