SEN. MURKOWSKI RECOGNIZES VETERANS DAY
Sen. Lisa Murkowski made the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day. 
 "Each Veterans Day, Alaskans take the time to honor those who wore the uniform. We pay our respects to those who have taken on the struggle for a future peace and for freedom in all corners of the world.  
 "Today we are at war. This brings with it another meaning to Veterans Day. It reminds us that it is not only a day to remember those who have served, but also to think about those who are serving and to help provide for their future when they return home. 
 "Alaska is home to more veterans on a per capita basis than any other state in the Nation, and they make up a close-knit community. Veterans groups provide camaraderie and support to fellow veterans and their families around the State. We will need that support more than ever in the coming months. 
 "Thousands of Alaskans are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan today. We have extensive deployments from our military bases in Fairbanks and Anchorage. Additionally, over 600 members of the Alaska National Guard's 3rd Battalion who hail from nearly every community in Alaska - Southeast to Barrow - are currently serving our nation. They've survived the summer heat at Camp Shelby in Mississippi. They will perform with valor in the Middle East. 
 "But they will have quite an adjustment ahead when they return home - many to remote places where veterans' services are hard to come by. They will be seeking the sympathetic ears of soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines who have been there and done that. I know Alaskans will provide that support and more. 
 "With the election behind us and leadership changes coming to the Department of Defense, questions about our role in Iraq and other areas will again be at the forefront. And while, debating the merits of the war is patriotic, to debate the merits of those men and women who fought the war is not patriotic. Every veteran deserves to be recognized as a hero. That's the way it's going to be - because Alaska's veterans will work to ensure that their sacrifices are not forgotten and I will stand with you. 
 "Today, let all Alaskans - and all Americans - pause to recognize the contributions of your sacrifices and to offer you a heartfelt 'thank you' for that which you have done to make our nation great."
 Contact: Danielle Holland, 202/224-9301; Kevin Sweeney, 202/224-4513.
 
 