SEN. MURKOWSKI URGES PREGNANT WOMEN TO ABSTAIN FROM ALCOHOL; NOTES EFFECTS OF FETAL ALCOHOL DISORDERS ON AWARENESS DAY
  Sen. Lisa Murkowski this morning had the U.S. Senate pause in silence for a moment of reflection in honor of the National Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders Awareness Day in the United States, which calls attention to the totally preventable ailment that is a significant cause of birth defects among children. 
   National Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders Awareness Day is being observed for the first time throughout the United States as a result of a Senate Resolution (S. Res. 390) introduced by Murkowski last June that declared the ninth day of the ninth month each year as Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Spectrum Disorders Day to call attention to the severe problems that consumption of any amount of alcohol during pregnancy causes children.
   Murkowski had been joined by Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle in sponsoring the FAS resolution to call attention to the 100 percent preventable ailment that is now the leading cause of mental retardation in the United States. Murkowski in Senate floor remarks this morning praised Bonnie Buxton and Brian Philcox of Toronto, Canada and Teresa Kellerman of Tucson, Ariz., for originating the idea of having the nation pause at 9:09 a.m. each Sept. 9th to reflect on the need for women during their nine months of pregnancy not to consume alcohol.
   "It is vitally important for all women to know that Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders are the number one preventable cause of mental retardation and birth defects. An individual with fetal alcohol syndrome can incur a lifetime health cost of more than $800,000. Children do not 'outgrow' fetal alcohol disorders. The physical and behavioral problems can last for a lifetime," said Murkowski on the Senate floor.
   FAS is estimated to affect one out of every 500 live births, while its related disorders affect one out of every 100. Murkowski said the economic impact on the nation last year reached $5.4 billion a year, as each FAS child will cost society between $1.5 and $3 million over their lifetime in support, medical costs and lost productivity.
   "The message here is simple. In pregnancy, no amount of alcohol - no matter how small - is safe. There is no safe time. No safe amount. No safe kind. If you are pregnant, don't drink," said Murkowski.
   She noted that President George W. Bush yesterday wrote a message to everyone observing National Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders Awareness Day. In the message the President noted that "children are a precious gift and a source of great hope for our future. To preserve their dreams and their health, we must continue to work together to increase awareness about the dangers of alcohol consumption by expectant mothers," said the President, who praised the awareness day declaration by the Senate as a means of helping "to educate the public about Fetal Alcohol Syndrome and its effects, such as learning disabilities and mental illness."
   Murkowski June 23 had won an award from the National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome for her leadership in efforts to combat the devastating ailment that affects so many children in Alaska and nationwide.
   Contact: Chuck Kleeschulte, 202/224-9306, 301/292-2260.
 
 