MISSISSIPPI MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION PRESENTS NATIONAL AWARD TO SEN. LOTT
  On December 9th, The Mississippi Manufacturers Association presented Sen.  
 Trent Lott with the National Association of Manufacturers Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence in recognition and appreciation of his consistent support of American manufacturers and their employees.
   This award is given to senators and representatives whose voting records on key legislation affecting the manufacturing community demonstrate an understanding of industry's pivotal role in the U.S. economy and support a pro-growth, pro-manufacturing, pro-worker legislative agenda. 
   The award was presented during a luncheon held in Jackson at the Clarion Hotel and Convention Center at the Coliseum. Senator Lott was introduced by MMA chairman of the board, Bobby Dews, vice president of C.L. Dews & Sons Foundry in Hattiesburg. Sam Moore, president of Double G Coatings in Jackson and former MMA chairman, presented the award on behalf of NAM and the more than 2,000 members of MMA. 
   Also participating in the event were MMA president Jay C. Moon and Tara Smith, NAM associate director of public affairs.
   Lott's award was based on his unwavering support for manufacturers and commitment to encouraging economic growth.
   Among the key bills affecting Mississippi manufacturers that Senator Lott supported were jobs, growth and tax relief; medical liability reform; class action reform; and the FSC/ETI: The JOBS Act.
   Senator Lott's top priorities for the state of Mississippi are its schools and its transportation system, keys to our state's continuing economic progress and expanded job opportunities. His focus on economic development and job creation was instrumental to Nissan Motor Company's selection of Canton, Miss., for its new $1 billion automotive manufacturing facility. Other companies recently expanding manufacturing operations in Mississippi include Northrop Grumman, Textron, and Lockheed-Martin.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 