CAMPAIGN FINANCE REBORN
  By Sen. Trent Lott 
   In recent years we've heard a lot from the media and political pundits about "soft money," basically the large dollar contributions made by individuals, corporations and unions to political parties, rather than to individual candidates. Up until a few years ago, the parties would then spend this money to influence the federal election process, creating a large loophole in our campaign finance system. We heard so much from its detractors about the perceived evils of this "soft money" system, that Congress passed the McCain-Feingold campaign finance bill to do away with soft money. 
   Through no fault of the sponsors, the legislative fix didn't work. Three years later it's apparent that McCain-Feingold has failed to extinguish soft money. More money was spent during this past election cycle than any other in history. Soft money has simply shifted across the street, from the established political parties to shadowy "527" groups, named for the section of the IRS code which provides them tax exempt status. Some of these organizations disguise themselves as "non-partisan," but they actually spend tens of millions of dollars trying to influence federal elections by attacking or advocating on behalf of individual candidates. The abuses of some 527 groups have become so pointed that Senator John McCain of Arizona, myself and a host of other Senators have introduced legislation to correct the original McCain-Feingold bill's unintended consequences.
   Our 527 reform bill would level the playing field for all participants in the federal election process. Right now, some 527s are permitted to raise unlimited soft money while others are not. Some 527s register with the Federal Election Commission and are subject to disclosure regulations while others do not. The list of inconsistencies is long.
   Our bill would ensure fairness by requiring every organization claiming a 527 exemption that wishes to influence a federal election to register with the FEC and report its activities, just like our national political parties do. Thus, 527s would be subject to the same regulations which govern soft money contributions to political parties.
   As many of you know, I was never a cheerleader for the original McCain-Feingold bill. I was one of 41 senators who voted against it because I believed it would lead to even bigger problems, and my worst fears have come true. Today without immediate reform, 527 groups are poised to have an exponentially negative effect on our federal election process. By 2008 they are expected to pump up to a billion dollars into unregulated political attack ads. We cannot allow these loosely-regulated groups to set the issue agenda for our nation. If anyone should be setting the agenda, it ought to be the candidates and the political parties they represent - not individual billionaires with their own pet 527s.
   Our 527 reform bill isn't perfect, but it's a start. In fact, I'd prefer we would enact a solution for campaign finance reform like the so-called "Virginia Plan" where there would be no limits on political contributions, but full and instantaneous disclosure for all to see. After all, the light of day really is the best disinfectant for campaign finance abuses. But, short of that, the 527 reform bill we've introduced is the best hope for curtailing 527 abuses and getting political power back into the hands of the people - ordinary folks who don't have enough money to start their own 527 group, but who want to support their candidate and their community through legitimate, fully-disclosed political activities. 
   In fact, as we lessen the improper influences of 527 organizations, I hope we look at strengthening America's political parties. The political parties have been part of American democracy for over 200 years, and they've continually evolved to represent the current ideology and enduring ideals of our candidates and most Americans. Some parties, like Republicans and Democrats, have endured. Some others, like Whigs and Bull Moose, have not, in a system where a political party's existence is dictated solely by whether its platforms have mass appeal to voters. That's the way it ought to be - a national agenda set by what voters as well as the parties (and candidates who represent them) decide, instead of what one individual with a lot of cash and a tax exemption can dictate.
 
 