SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $7 MILLION TO REPAIR AIRPORTS DAMAGED BY KATRINA
  Federal funding totaling almost $7 million will be awarded to both Biloxi/Gulfport International Airport and Stennis International Airport for repairs following Hurricane Katrina. The awards directly result from a bill authored by Sen. Lott and cosponsored by Sen. Cochran providing federal grants for the repair of hurricane-damaged airports. 
   Federal funding totaling almost $7 million will be awarded to both Biloxi/Gulfport International Airport and Stennis International Airport for repairs following Hurricane Katrina. The awards directly result from a bill authored by Senator Lott and cosponsored by Senator Cochran providing federal grants for the repair of hurricane-damaged airports. 
  "In many ways airports are the heartbeat of our local economies necessary to sustain existing jobs and to facilitate new economic investments," Senator Lott said. "So, it's critical that we get both of these hard-hit facilities back to full capability. It's worthy to note that this money is a 100 percent federal commitment requiring no local match. That will be a welcome relief for local officials tasked with rebuilding after such a devastating hurricane."
   Senator Cochran stated:
   "I am pleased these airports are getting the assistance they need for repairs. They are vital to the Gulf Coast." 
   At Gulfport/Biloxi International Airport, $4,650,000 in grant funding will be used to plan and design needed reconstruction and rehabilitation of buildings and other infrastructure, including the terminal.
   At Stennis International Airport, $2,130,000 in grant funding is slated to repair the terminal, reconstruct damaged taxiways and repair damaged fencing and lighting.
   Senator Lott's Airport Repair bill was passed by the Senate last month and signed shortly thereafter by President Bush. It gives the Secretary of Transportation authority to use millions of dollars in existing federal grant funds to make emergency airport repairs throughout the disaster zone.
   Senator Lott drafted the legislation in consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and it is applicable in Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama. The legislation further enabled grant funding to cover emergency operating costs incurred as a result of hurricanes Katrina or Rita.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 