AMERICAN DREAMS
  President Bush said something the other day that I think all Americans should ponder. He said "the purpose of government is to make it more possible for people to realize dreams." And I agree. 
   Our government is supposed to support the American people, to make it easier for us to achieve the American dream of working and living like we want. In doing so, our nation becomes stronger. When you think about it, government has only one way to penalize or promote dreams - taxes.  
   After the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the federal government embarked on a series of tax cuts. We knew a traumatic event like 9/11 had the potential to drag America into a recession. We also knew that keeping taxes low is a proven way to promote economic stability and growth. 
   It worked. Despite the fact that America's financial center itself became "Ground Zero," America's economy not only stayed stable, it began to grow, even amid war, the worst hurricane in our history and a variety of other challenges. 
   Despite 8.3 million new jobs added since 2003 and with this year's tax revenues expected to be $167 billion higher than last year's, liberals in Congress are relapsing into their tax and spend ways. In fact, they propose to spend a whopping $205 billion in added spending, according to their latest budget proposal. 
   Washington is forgetting that government didn't create the good economy we have today - you did. Armed with more of their own money, more Americans have been able to realize more dreams, and make more money, without having to pay excessive taxes. 
   This Democratic big spending could jeopardize America's growth. I understand some of that $205 billion is needed. But Washington's wish list must end where the taxpayer's begins, and that's at the point of paying more taxes. 
   Take the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), for example. This is a joint federal/state health insurance plan for kids. As the name suggests, it was originally intended to insure children in households earning too much money to be covered by Medicaid, yet not enough to afford private health insurance. 
   Big spenders in Congress want to take this program and expand it so much that you'll end up paying for it. They want to add adults to the program and actually take some kids off private insurance and move them to government insurance, as a prelude to government-run health care. 
   To do all this, they're proposing a huge new tax increase - one that President Bush has rightfully promised to veto. Think about it: How many ambitious Americans really dream of taking their kids off private health care and becoming dependent on federal bureaucrats? That's backwards, bureaucratic thinking. 
   In advance of its return to Washington in September, President Bush has called upon Congress to help make private insurance more affordable and available. He's also challenged us to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and make energy more affordable and available. 
   As we near the end of our fiscal year on September 30, the Senate has not completed 12 of the 13 annual appropriations bills. These are bills that fund the various federal agencies and keep them running. We've got a lot of work to do without considering tax increases, especially since our economy is doing just fine, thanks to tax cuts. 
   Folks in the Washington bubble should never forget that America's prosperity isn't a product of Washington. It is the sum of America's dreams, conceived by Americans throughout our country. No American dreams of paying more taxes, and no tax ever spawned a single American dream. (8/30/07) 
   Senator Lott welcomes any questions or comments about this column. Write to: U.S. Senator Trent Lott, 487 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510 (attn: Press Office)
 
 