SENATE PASSES GO ZONE EXTENSIONS, OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION MEASURES
The U.S. Senate early Saturday morning approved an offshore oil revenue sharing program and an extension of the Katrina-inspired Gulf Opportunity Zone business depreciation tax credits that will bring billions of dollars to Mississippi over the next decade, according to Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi.  
 Senator Lott, the incoming Senate Republican Whip and the author of the GO Zone law, was central in negotiating the language for both initiatives, culminating in the final 79 to 9 Senate vote. The bill now goes to President Bush who has promised to sign it.
 "These are two big wins for America and for Mississippi," Senator Lott said. "Hurricane recovery, energy independence, and environmental restoration - all these are national, bipartisan goals advanced dramatically by this legislation. It's an example of the kind of broadly-supported initiatives that the American people want to see Congress proposing and passing. This action sets a productive tone as we look forward to the new Congress in January."
 The oil and gas exploration provision opens up an area in the Gulf of Mexico approximately 100 miles offshore that is expected to contain at least 1.3 billion barrels of oil and six trillion cubic feet of natural gas. A portion of the revenues from the offshore energy leases will go to support critical coastal environmental restoration projects, Senator Lott said.
 "The GO Zone legislation will jumpstart economic recovery in Mississippi and other Gulf states recovering from Hurricane Katrina." Senator Lott said. "The Senate enacted the GO Zone tax credits last December, and because of this program, Mississippi businesses have been able to rebuild more quickly, and new jobs have been added by making Mississippi more attractive to top-notch industries."
 Senator Lott said that other provisions critical to Mississippi in the bill about to be signed by the President include: a two-year extension of the Research and Development Tax Credit; a two-year extension of the above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses, up to $4,000; a two-year extension of the $250 above-the-line deduction for out-of-pocket classroom expenses; tax credits for military combat pay; and a one-year extension of New Markets Tax Credits to help draw investment to Mississippi through December 2008.
 Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 