SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $9 MILLION FOR MISSISSIPPI AIRPORTS
  Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran of Mississippi announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation is awarding more than $9 million in federal grants to 23 Mississippi airports. 
   Senator Lott, the ranking Republican member and past Chairman of the Senate's Aviation Subcommittee, called the unusual lump sum awards "recognition of the impact of Mississippi's air transportation system to the state and national economies."  
   "Almost every airport in the state is receiving needed dollars to improve their infrastructure and increase their capacity to serve individual and business flyers and to accommodate job-creating businesses already in the state or looking to locate here," Senator Lott said. 
   "The Federal Aviation Administration's decision to aid in the improvement of airports throughout Mississippi is welcome news," Senator Cochran said. "These facilities are vital to all types of commerce in our state, and we must continue to invest in aviation infrastructure throughout Mississippi to ensure our businesses and industries remain competitive in an economy increasingly dependent on air travel." 
   Gulfport-Biloxi International will receive more than $2.1 million to expand the terminal building - including the passenger screening area - install a new gate and jet bridge, and fund a pavement condition study. 
   Key Field in Meridian will receive more than $1.3 million to relocate its parallel taxiway so that prime airport property can be developed on land now locked between the existing taxiway and Highway 11. 
   John Bell Williams Airport in Raymond will receive more than $1.2 million for the phased extension and widening of the existing runway to 100 feet. 
   Fletcher Field in Clarksdale will receive almost $596,000 to construct a new taxiway with new lighting. 
   Ruleville-Drew Airport will receive almost $136,000 to rehabilitate the runway and install new runway markings. 
   Paul Pittman Memorial Airport in Tylertown will receive almost $178,000 to construct a new hangar and taxiway access. The grant also will fund the installation of a new fuel pump which will allow pilots the convenience of 24 hour access to fuel. 
   Mid Delta Regional Airport in Greenville will receive more than $61,000 for aircraft rescue and fighting equipment. 
    Trent Lott International Airport in Pascagoula will receive $75,000 to install a runway vertical visual guidance system to handle the increased number and size of aircraft at its facility. 
   Okolona Municipal-Richard Stovall Field in Okolona will receive almost $170,000 to rehabilitate its aging runway, taxiway and apron pavements. 
   Water Valley Municipal Airport in Water Valley will receive $142,500 to rehabilitate it runway lighting system. 
   Bruce Campbell Field in Madison will receive $150,000 to install perimeter fencing to prevent unauthorized access to the airport operational area and to enhance safety by keeping wildlife off the runway. 
   Magee Municipal Airport in Magee will receive more than $58,000 to reseal the existing apron and install a runway vertical visual guidance system, a navigational aid to enhance airport safety. 
   Roscoe Turner Airport in Corinth will receive $44,000 for a runway end study to assess the need for vertical navigational aids. 
   Macon Municipal Airport in Macon will receive more than $158,000 to construct a perimeter fence around the airport. 
   Richton-Perry County Airport in Richton will receive more than $121,000 to fund grading and tree removal on the south end of the runway. 
   Clarke County Airport in Quitman will receive more than $410,000 for three projects: to grade the runway safety area, install a game fence around the airport and construct a small terminal building to accommodate pilots and passengers awaiting flights. 
   Golden Triangle Regional Airport in Lowndes County will receive $1 million to rehabilitate the 36-year-old air carrier apron and to conduct a wildlife study aimed at finding solutions for controlling wildlife on the airfield. 
   Eupora Airport in Eupora will receive more than $182,000 to improve the runway safety area and install a navigational guidance system. 
   Kosciusko-Attala County Airport will receive more than $189,000 to improve the runway safety area. 
   Louisville Winston County Airport in Louisville will receive $150,000 to acquire land needed for the airport to meet Federal Aviation Administration runway safety design standards. 
   Holly Springs-Marshall County Airport will receive almost $139,000 to update the airport's layout plan - looking to future planned development - and to complete the airport's perimeter fencing. 
   Picayune Municipal Airport will receive $199,500 to construct four helipads for public use, needed because of the airport's rapid growth in helicopter operations. Additional parking spaces will be added, and the grant will fund an updated airport layout plan. 
   Yazoo County Airport will receive $142,500 to install perimeter fencing around the facility.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 