SEN. LOTT PRAISES $200 MILLION DDG-51 SUPPORT CONTRACT AWARD TO NORTHROP-GRUMMAN
 Today Sen. Trent Lott praised the U.S. Navy's decision to award additional support work for DDG-51 destroyers to Northrop Grumman Ship Systems Ingalls Operations in Pascagoula, Mississippi. The contract will be shared jointly by Northrop Grumman and General Dynamics' Bath Iron Works, of Bath, Maine - the only two companies in the world specializing in design and construction of DDG-51 Aegis destroyers. 
   "This is good news for the men and women of Northrop Grumman Ship Systems Ingalls Operations, and a logical choice by the Navy," Senator Lott said. "The skilled workers at both Ingalls and Bath are the world leaders in destroyer design, manufacture and service and support for these ships."
   Just last week, Senator Lott and a bipartisan group of Senators sent a letter to President Bush, asking that he reconsider a plan being advanced by Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, to make Northrop-Grumman Ingalls and General Dynamics' Bath compete for construction of the DDX destroyers, which will eventually replace the DDG-51 class.
   Senator Lott believes that with only two yards capable of building advanced naval destroyers such as DDG and DDX, the work must be shared, as originally planned, to preserve skilled American shipbuilding jobs and to preserve the nation's own shipbuilding capacity. Today's contract is consistent with this effort.
   "We've got to retain our shipbuilding industry, " Senator Lott continued. "If we fail to support our shipyards, we could be soon relying on foreign ship workers to fulfill America's maritime security needs. We should continue having Americans build America's ships, as well as perform all the support service and maintenance required throughout a ship's life-cycle."
   The contract is not to exceed more than $200 million. Specifically, it represents the last time the contractors will perform inspection of destroyers which are less than a year old, and are about to join the fleet - a process called post shakedown availability (PSA). PSA is akin to the final act of dealer-prep for a car. The ships have been undergoing their test drive, or trials by the Navy for less than 12 months, and are about to officially join the U.S. naval fleet. PSA is a final inspection and service before the ships begin their service.
   The work will be performed on all such DDG-51s to be home ported in Norfolk, Virginia until 2010. Contract funds will be obligated at the time of delivery order award.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 