SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES FUNDS FOR MISSISSIPPI UNIVERSITY FOR WOMEN
  Additional federal funding totaling $1,820,641 is approved for use by the Mississippi University for Women (MUW) to repair the institution's Fine Arts Center, damaged by a tornado in 2002.  
   "I worked directly with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to secure these additional funds following MUW's request for more assistance," Senator Lott said. "This has been a priority project for MUW and our delegation for several years, and I'm glad we have found a way to provide the fullest federal support for this important initiative." 
   Senator Cochran stated: 
   "The Mississippi University for Women has a strong tradition in fine arts. The university has waited years to receive the federal assistance it needs to repair damages to the school's Fine Arts Building. I hope that these funds from FEMA will provide the resources necessary to restore and improve its facilities and augment the growth of the fine arts program." 
   A tornado struck the MUW campus in November 2002, causing major damage to various buildings on the historic campus. 
   Initially federal funding was to replace the roof and top floor of the three-story Fine Arts Building, and repair water damage only. 
   However, today's package increases federal commitment to include repairing mold damage and damage to the facility's mechanical, plumbing and electrical systems that were undiscovered at the time of initial damage assessments. 
   "MUW officials have worked hard to recover from the impact of the tornado," Congressman Roger Wicker said. "This funding will aid that effort by helping get the Fine Arts Building back to full capacity in serving MUW students and the community." 
   The addition also adjusts for increased construction costs. 
   Total cost of the project will be slightly more than $3.3 million, with a federal share of $2.4 million, administered though FEMA's 75/25 matching program.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 