PROTECTING AMERICA, REBUILDING MISSISSIPPI'S ECONOMY
  Getting people back to work is the best way to help families recover from Hurricane Katrina. And on the coast in particular, getting workers back on the job means getting our defense contractors back online. That's why I was pleased to make two announcements that not only will protect America but will help rebuild Mississippi. One is the Navy's decision to build their next generation of destroyers at Mississippi's Northrop Grumman Ingalls shipyard in Pascagoula. The other is a defense bill full of initiatives impacting Mississippi's military bases and contractors.  
   The DD(X): The DD(X) isn't just any ship. It's a stealthy, high-tech vessel that will revolutionize surface combat ships in much the same way the stealth bomber revolutionized combat aircraft. It will set the standard for shipbuilding well into the new century, ensuring that America remains the world's top naval power for generations. 
   The Navy decided last week to move forward with the next phase of DD(X) without a costly contract rebid. Some number crunchers in Washington had suggested that the Navy deviate from its original plan and rebid the DD(X) contract. But I and many others pointed out that a rebid would delay the program for more than a year, increasing long-term costs. In wartime that delay didn't sound appealing, and clearly this $53 million contract for DD(X)'s next phase as originally scheduled indicates the Navy's agreement.
   Northrop Grumman's actions after the Katrina disaster have been a great example of good corporate citizenship. The shipyard, our state's largest private employer, is working hard to get all 12,000 of its employees back on the payroll. 
   I visited the shipyard just days after Katrina struck. Even with little power, no communications other than spotty satellite phones and being forced to operate out of a docked ship, the men and women of Ingalls were well on their way to reestablishing production within a couple of weeks. That's amazing when you think of the damage Katrina wrought, and it's yet another example of Mississippi's dedicated workforce.
   The Defense Bill: A very significant piece of legislation bill that will get Mississippians throughout our state back to work is the defense appropriations bill, now working it way through Congress.
   It, too, provides funds for programs at Northrop Grumman Ingalls, including $1.1 billion for DD(X) engineering and another $2 billion for other ongoing shipbuilding programs there. But it also contains funds for other defense contractors and bases throughout the state. 
   For example, it includes almost $100 million to build the Fire Scout unmanned aerial vehicle at Northrop Grumman's new unmanned systems center in Jackson County; $30 million to build a 300-room student dorm at Keesler Air Force Base in Biloxi, which was heavily damaged by Katrina; almost $50 million to construct a new generation of lightweight howitzers at BAE Systems in Hattiesburg; $54 million to build military radios and radars at Raytheon's Forest, Mississippi, plant; more than $4 billion for C-130 and F-22 aircraft construction impacting Meridian's Lockheed Martin facility and more than $150 million for defense programs being carried at ATK's facility at Iuka. And that's only a fraction of the work Mississippians will perform to build America's next generation of defense.
   I'm proud to work the political process to support these projects. In fact, the political will to build up our defenses protects this nation. A report this week in London's Financial Times illustrates this. In it, two NATO generals - one American the other German - reveal that Western European political leaders have shortchanged their militaries for so long that, unless something changes, these nations will be unable to combat terrorism or nuclear weapons proliferation, coordinate with U.S. forces, or even fulfill basic humanitarian missions. That's disconcerting, given the threats to democracy today. It's even more reason for America to robustly invest in our defense. And I can't think of better folks to entrust with that national investment than the workers of Mississippi who stand ready to protect America and rebuild our local communities.
 
 