EMERGENCY HIGHWAY AID HEADED FOR MISSISSIPPI
  Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran today praised the Bush Administration's decision to make $5 million in emergency highway repair funding available for Mississippi road and bridge reconstruction.  
   "This is the first step toward rebuilding our transportation system," Senator Lott said. "Obviously it will take much more money than this to offset Katrina's wrath, but with Senator Cochran on the Appropriations Committee and my position as chair of the Surface Transportation Committee, Mississippi is well positioned to acquire the federal resources needed to rebuild Mississippi's transportation infrastructure."
   Senator Cochran stated:
   "This funding is immediately needed to repair roads and bridges that were damaged by Hurricane Katrina. Repairing and replacing the highway infrastructure in south Mississippi is vitally important to the economic recovery of the region and our entire state."
   The funding will be administered through the U.S. Department of Transportation as a down payment for Katrina- related repairs. U.S. Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta announced the package during his tour of the storm-struck Mississippi Gulf Coast today.
   The emergency relief will be used toward repair or reconstruction of federally-supported roadways.
   Federal Highway Administration officials briefed Senator Lott this morning regarding efforts to fully restore east-west routes along the coast.
   The secretary says a $5 million contract was signed last week to repair portions of I-10, and on Friday repairs began to restore U.S. 90's two-way traffic.
   "We'll continue working with the Mississippi Department of Transportation (MDOT) and the Federal Highway Administration to secure more funding needed for Mississippi's recovery effort," Senator Lott concluded. "We must rebuild several key bridges and roads almost from scratch, but Mississippi has a strong background in this area, and we'll continue to emphasize the need for good transportation assets which improve public safety and help create jobs."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 