SEN. LOTT DISCUSSES NEED FOR AMT REPEAL
  Below are remarks made by Senate Republican Whip Trent Lott of Mississippi at today's press conference with Senators McConnell, Kyl, Grassley and Smith regarding the need for a repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax.
   LOTT: Let me begin by thanking Senator Grassley for his comments and for his consistency on this issue of the alternative minimum tax. He's been critical of it for years. He has maintained for years what we really ought to do is repeal this bad idea, the alternative minimum tax, and not try to offset it. 
   I've learned that this Democrat-speak in Washington, PAYGO means pay tax and go spend. But Senator Grassley has always been very clear that this alternative minimum tax has been used and abused in ways it was never intended.
   Just a little history - this tax goes back to 1969. It was put in place to make sure that super wealthy would pay this alternative minimum tax, and at the time, was really designed to ensnare around 150 people.
   Over the years, because it was not indexed, it's been creeping up and creeping up. It doesn't just affect wealthy people now; it affects a lot of middle-income Americans. These many millions that are fixing to be affected by it are just the latest iteration.
   Now, what has the Congress done? Year after year, during the '90s - during the Republican Congresses - we kept it from going into effect for one or two years.
   In 1999, it was actually repealed. The Congress voted to repeal the alternative minimum tax. President Clinton vetoed it.
   So here we are again. Everybody in this city knows that this tax is not going to be allowed eventually to kick in. But now we have a technical problem. With this broken Congress, we can't even come to terms with a solution to avoid a tax from kicking in, and the forms being sent by IRS would do that, and then next year probably they would get a delayed refund.
   I don't understand it.
   The latest we've gone in this century is May 11 in fixing the so-called alternative minimum tax with a one-year patch.
   Now, what could be done about it? It's really not that complicated. We could do it for one year. We could do it for two years. Or we could do what we ought to do and repeal this insanity that has been nothing but a problem ever since it was started.
   And we don't need offsets, because why do you want an offset to pay for something that you know you're not ever going to get in the first place?
   This is a one-year change that could affect millions of others by raising taxes in another way. This makes no sense. And for the life of me, I can't understand why Democrats have not acted and don't know how or when they're going to act.
   If you want a better example of how this Congress has become dysfunctional, take a look at this. Plus, take a look at the (Senate) floor. Can't get any farm amendments offered by Republicans because we've been blocked from offering amendments. And now we see the House acting on funds - emergency funds for our troops that they know is not going to be signed into law that way.
   Why is this? Is it for political points? Well, if it is, it's not working, because their numbers are going into the ditch.
   The American people want us to do our job, quit playing politics, and do what needs to be done. And the alternative minimum tax, we ought to get rid of it.
   In terms of emergency funds for our troops, we should do it. We should pass this bridge fund that'll get us over into next year that Senator McConnell has introduced. We should do it right away.
   Thank you.
   Contact: Nick Simpson, 202/224-4239.
 
 