SEN. LOTT SENDS MESSAGE TO OIL COMPANIES
  Two extremes are causing high fuel prices today - one an historic environmentalist opposition to almost any type of energy exploration and production, resulting in our becoming dangerously dependent on foreign oil. Quite candidly the other is an oil and gas industry that's proven itself to be hell-bent on racking up record profits at the worst possible time. Neither extreme, nor their respective lobbyists, are serving America 's greater good.  
   Here are the two basic problems and the solutions I think we need to lower gas prices, raise your account balance and preserve America's future: 
   Problem #1: We need more energy production. America demands 21 million barrels of oil per day, but we only produce 17 million. Many on the far left don't want to hear it, but that means we must build more refineries. Almost half America's refining capacity is located around the Gulf of Mexico, and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita knocked out nine refineries, including the nation's second largest one in Pascagoula . Millions of people in Katrina's wake waited in long gas lines, drove miles to find fuel, and even stowed canisters of fuel in homes and vehicle trunks - all because America 's refining capacity was brought to its knees by two storms. That's what happens when a nation goes 30 years without building a single refinery. 
   Solution: Make it easier to find, refine and transport oil. For too long, the environmental far left has stifled energy exploration, refining and transport. The Senate is considering legislation to ease energy exploration, refinery building and pipeline construction. It will pave the way for our first significant refining investment since 1976 by giving states, at the request of their governors, the opportunity to use reformed refinery locating procedures. It also allows the President to designate refinery sites on federal lands - including closed military installations - that are appropriate for building refineries. It contains similar provisions for the placement of new pipelines, and it enhances our strategic oil reserve. 
   Problem #2: Oil companies must taper their record profits. Yes, Americans should try to conserve energy, as the administration suggests. Yes, auto manufacturers should continually strive for more efficient vehicles, and we should move forward with alternative fuels. But all those things together won't solve our energy problem. Besides refining more domestic oil and gas, the most immediate way to get the American people relief is for oil companies to curtail their exorbitant pump profits. In times of need, it's incumbent upon these executives to help, not just their corporations, but also their country, and in case they haven't noticed, post-Katrina Mississippi is a very needy place. 
   Solution: Voluntary or mandatory profit controls. Yes, you read right - and I can tell you that many of my colleagues on the political right and in the Bush Administration won't like to hear that. But the reality is that either the oil companies must take steps to help America, or America will do it for them. 
   Will the federal government enact the smartest or the "correct" solution? Probably it will not, at least in the minds of many absolutists. But tractors, trucks and cars don't run on economic theory, do they? President Nixon recognized this. He first used price controls extensively to respond to our first energy glut in the early 1970s. Some look back and say controls were good; others still decry them as wrongheaded. I've debated it. So did Nixon. Years later he said that even though he was philosophically opposed to price controls, he was "convinced that the objective reality of the economic situation forced me to impose them." 
   Regardless of anyone's opinion or philosophy, as in Nixon's day, objective reality again will take precedence. If this situation continues unchecked, the federal government will act dramatically and forcefully. 
   If not Nixonian price controls, I'm ready to consider oil company profit controls. I'm ready to consider freezes on natural gas and other fuel prices, too. A message to oil company executives is clear: When an individual fills up their tractor with diesel one week, and the next week the price has jumped 50 cents a gallon, something has to give. 
   We can't stop at simply encouraging refinery construction and energy conservation while pointing to restrictive environmental policies. We must do more. The oil and gas industry supplies the life blood of our economy, but its responsibility is to the American people as well as itself. It would seem that after the most costly natural disaster in our nation's history, this is a time to replace oil company greed with some generosity. Americans certainly deserve it.
 
 