IMPROVING TAX LAW
 The Senate has passed a business tax restructuring bill that will have a direct impact on major Mississippi industries, including shipbuilding, auto manufacturing, timber, railroads, energy production and small businesses. Business tax restructuring is the best way to secure and create new jobs. That's why I'm proud to have helped lead passage of this bill which will not cost taxpayers a dime, nor increase the deficit, because the bill's expenses are offset by eliminating several tax loopholes.  
   Let's look first at what it does for railroads. Railroads are a critical component of economic development efforts. Often entire projects - like the auto manufacturing plants that have sprung up across the South - depend on good, reliable rail service. Rail access can either make or break a community's chances of luring new jobs. 
   This bill repeals the 4.3 cent-per-gallon diesel fuel tax that railroads and barge operators have had to pay. Other industries like trucking were either released from this tax or had it invested in infrastructure trust funds years ago. 
   The repeal for the rail and barge industries was a fairness issue. When this tax is phased out, rail and barge service costs can be reduced, which will help stimulate new jobs for rail and barge-served communities. In addition, the bill will provide Mississippi's smaller, short-line railroads with tax incentives to improve or repair their tracks, which will help those industries in small communities served by feeder railroads.
   With regard to shipbuilding, this bill allows shipbuilders - such as Mississippi's largest private employer, Northrop Grumman Ship Systems' Ingalls Operations of Pascagoula - to pay incremental taxes on the Navy ships they build. To date, shipbuilding companies have been required to pay tax on the entire amount of a ship even though they don't collect all their contract dollars until years down the road. This new incremental shipbuilding tax structure will go a long way toward preserving good manufacturing jobs at our nation's shipyards. We only have a handful of shipyards left in this country, and we need to make sure those jobs remain here.
   Mississippi's many timber jobs will be directly impacted by this bill's tax incentives to encourage tree planting and responsible harvesting. As far as individuals are concerned, the bill clears the way for timber growth to be treated just like any other investment in terms of capital gains taxes. That's good news for thousands of Mississippians whose retirements, educations and other major expenses are dependent on a stand of timber, or whose jobs depend on our timber industry as a whole.
   Foreign companies with domestic operations such as Canton's Nissan Motor Company will have more reason to create jobs, thanks to this bill. The legislation corrects an earlier provision by which foreign-owned companies with American operations were taxed at a higher rate than domestic companies. Companies like Nissan may be based overseas, but they employ thousands of Americans nationwide. and not just in assembly jobs, either. We must remember, Nissan's new trucks and SUVs produced at Canton are designed, sourced and built by Americans in America. From the engineer's computer monitor to the end of an assembly line, Americans create these products. Our tax system should treat these companies and their American staff with the same regard as our domestically-headquartered firms.
   There are other tax provisions in this bill impacting farmers, fishermen, small business owners, and more incentives, too. In fact, the bill's provisions on energy production are estimated to bring an additional $70 million to Mississippi for road construction and improvement during the next six years. And, the bill's tax credits for small refineries trying to meet new EPA fuel standards will save dozens of Mississippi jobs. You get the idea. 
   The tax savings included in this bill were paid for by closing corporate tax loopholes and eliminating obsolete corporate tax breaks. The business tax restructuring bill is probably the Senate's most substantial legislative achievement this year, and I'm glad to report that the President has pledged to sign it into law. A lot of liberal thinkers bash and block tax breaks, even when they don't cost a dime, especially any dealing with businesses or corporations. But I can't think of a better way to create jobs than by encouraging those who can.
 
 