SEN. LOTT SPEAKS WITH FEDERAL STATE OFFICIALS UPON APPROACH OF HURRICANE IVAN, URGES MISSISSIPPIANS ALONG COAST TO PREPARE FOR STORM'S IMPACT
  In preparation for Hurricane Ivan's impending landfall, Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi is coordinating with Governor Haley Barbour and state and federal agencies to expedite a disaster assistance response to affected Mississippians as soon as initial damage assessments are made. 
   Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): 1-800-621-FEMA (3362)
  Red Cross: 1-866-GET-INFO (438-4636)
  SBA (Atlanta Regional Office): 1-800-359-2227
   "As a Pascagoula resident I know all too well the deadly and damaging effects of a hurricane, and it's apparent that Ivan poses one of the most troubling natural threats our state has seen since the catastrophic devastation of Hurricane Camille 35 years ago," Senator Lott said. "I have spoken with Governor Barbour and the appropriate state and federal agencies including the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency (MEMA), the Small Business Administration (SBA), the Mississippi Department of Transportation (MDOT) and the Red Cross. They are preparing for the storm's impact and anticipating a need for disaster assistance in the storm's aftermath. I will work hand-in-hand with Governor Barbour and the rest of our state's Congressional delegation to ensure Mississippi's recovery needs are met and that people impacted by the storm can access thorough recovery information and assistance."
   Senator Lott has also contacted Mississippi Power in anticipation of the potential power outages and plans to cope with interrupted service. Hurricane Ivan is expected to make landfall late Wednesday or early Thursday. Senator Lott urges all residents within the storm's track to evacuate as has been instructed by local and state agencies using all available designated hurricane evacuation routes.
   "The evacuation traffic is slow at times, but thus far it is smooth," Senator Lott continued. "I ask both evacuees and local residents to the north of our coast to be patient as people move away from this serious storm, and we thank so many Mississippians for their hospitality and sheltering of evacuees. My own home has withstood several major hurricanes, but I'm not taking any chances with my family, and I hope all Gulf Coast residents will leave Ivan's projected or potential path. Mississippi and our state and federal agencies are braced and prepared for Ivan, and now we pray that damage to people and property will be minimal."
   Here is a link to the FEMA website http://www.fema.gov/.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 