SEN. LOTT SAYS MISSISSIPPI WILL GET $61 MILLION FOR COASTAL RESTORATION PROJECTS
  Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Mississippi will receive more than $61.8 million in Coastal Impact Assistance Program (CIAP) funding for Fiscal Years 2007 and 2008, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today.  
   The award is made possible by language in the act, included by Senator Lott, enabling coastal states that host offshore energy production to obtain a portion of Federal oil and gas royalties. 
   Part of those royalties is marked for the CIAP program, which may be used for a variety of initiatives designed to protect the area's environment, or mitigate any adverse impact energy exploration may have in the local community. 
   "Communities in our coastal areas make this energy production possible, taking any risks associated with it," Senator Lott said. "Making these funds available to areas closest to this activity makes sense. It's fitting that this funding be available for local use, instead of staying in Washington." 
   The CIAP allocation is distributed among six coastal states -- Alaska, California, Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas -- through the U.S. Department of Interior, determined by a formula administered by the Minerals Management Service (MMS). 
   "I am pleased the Minerals Management Service has released funding to aid communities along the Coast as energy exploration and production continue to play a vital role in the Gulf economy," Senator Cochran said. "This allocation will allow South Mississippi's citizens, resources, and wildlife to remain vibrant as energy diversification and domestic production grow increasingly integral to our nation's supply." 
   This announcement sets the same CIAP award amounts for both Fiscal Year 2007 and 2008. These annual amounts include: $20.1 million direct to the State of Mississippi and another $10.8 million directly to the Coastal Political Subdivisions (CPS), which, in Mississippi, includes Jackson, Harrison and Hancock counties. The three counties will share the local allotment, roughly 40/40/20 percent respectively, based on their populations and lengths of their coastlines. 
   Soon, the State of Mississippi will submit a CIAP State Plan and -- pending its approval through MMS -- the state and the three eligible counties may submit grant applications for individual projects. The Mississippi Department of Marine Resources is coordinating CIAP for Mississippi. 
   "I encourage our state and local communities to submit any requests which may be reasonably funded through this program," Senator Lott concluded. "Coastal impact assistance funding will provide very good opportunities to improve Mississippi's coastal communities, and it will be especially helpful as we continue the ongoing Hurricane Katrina recovery and renewal effort."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 