SENATE PASSES SEN. LOTT'S $6 BILLION KATRINA TAX INCENTIVE BILL
  The U.S. Senate Friday morning by unanimous consent passed a tax bill which includes almost $6 billion in tax cuts and incentives for Katrina-impacted counties, including at least 40 in Mississippi, according to Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi, a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee who wrote most of the bill's provisions. 
   To secure the bill's immediate passage, Senator Lott brokered a compromise agreement between the Senate and House. In the face of stiff House resistance to gaming establishments being eligible for Katrina tax incentives, Senator Lott authored language allowing tax bonus depreciation incentives for the gaming complex - including buildings, hotels, restaurants and entertainment facilities - but not gaming equipment or gaming room construction.
   "This will help get cash back into the pockets of businesses and individuals who're trying to rebuild their lives and communities," Senator Lott said. "By significantly lowering the cost of capital for small, medium, and large businesses alike, the provisions in this legislation will spur business investment on the Gulf Coast, increase the supply of affordable housing, and put dislocated employees back to work."
   "We've been at this for several months now, and Mississippians have been patient but deserve action now," Senator Lott said. "This is a vitally important bill. It is critical that we pass it today, and that it's sent to the president for his signature before Congress adjourns."
   The bill contains more than a dozen Katrina-related tax incentives for the Gulf Opportunity (GO) Zone, defined as that portion of the Katrina disaster area determined by President Bush to warrant individual assistance from the federal government under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.
   The legislation will allow businesses temporary relief from some taxation and regulations to re-establish their places of employment. "By significantly lowering the cost of capital for small, medium, and large businesses alike, these provisions will spur business investment on the Mississippi coast," Lott said. "For instance, businesses would be permitted to expense 50 percent of the cost of new equipment, in addition to some commercial and residential rental real estate expenditures."
   Lott said one provision in particular focuses on helping small businesses in the disaster zone. Small businesses could deduct up to $200,000 of the cost of property used in their enterprises and increase their level of investment, allowing more small businesses to use this benefit in rebuilding.
   Add One - Lott on Katrina Tax Cuts
   Friday, December 16, 2005
   The Katrina tax cut package increases by $4.8 billion the amount of tax exempt bonds Mississippi can allocate in the GO Zone through 2010,and allows an additional advanced refunding for all bonds issued prior to 2007 within the GO Zone by the State of Mississippi and by all local bond issuers. "This provision effectively allows cash-strapped localities to restructure their debt, delaying payments on principal and interest while their tax base is reestablished," Senator Lott said.
   He said the bill provides $1 billion in New Markets Tax Credits for companies investing in Mississippi businesses and construction. To infuse businesses that have lost revenue with cash, it allows out a net operating loss carryback for businesses, public utilities and small timber growers in the GO Zone for new investment and repair, business casualty losses, and moving and temporary housing expenses.
   Under the proposal, 50 percent of demolition and cleanup costs would be deductible by businesses. The bill would double reforestation expensing to $20,000.
   Senator Lott said the bill provides a 40 percent employee retention credit for wages paid up to $6,000 after August 28, 2005, and before December 31, 2005. That provision incentivizes businesses, that have had to close temporarily, to continue to employ Mississippians until they reopen. The credit, which already applies to small employers, would cover all employers, he added.
   Finally, the legislation includes significant incentives to ensure an adequate housing supply. Under one provision, funding for low income housing would be increased by allowing Mississippi to allocate volumes of additional housing credit amounts, three times the normal allocation, with respect to population for the years 2006 to 2009. 
   The legislation also provides Mississippians greater access to mortgage revenue bonds which are tax-exempt bonds that state and local governments generally issue through housing finance agencies. The proceeds from the bonds are used to fund below-market interest rate mortgages for certain first-time homebuyers who meet income and purchase price restrictions. 
   The bill lifts the first-time homeowner requirement and allows up to $150,000 in mortgage revenue bond proceeds to be used for repairs through December 31, 2010. The proposal also would relax the income and purchase price restrictions with respect to mortgage revenue bonds funded with the proposal's Katrina GO Zone bonds.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 