SENATE TAKES BIG STEP FORWARD WITH PASSASGE OF SEN. LOTT'S KATRINA TAX INCENTIVE MEASURE
  Just as the Congress was adjourning for the year, I brokered a deal to enable final passage of a tax cut and incentive bill targeted specifically toward getting people back home and back to work in 40 Mississippi counties devastated by Hurricane Katrina. In fact, it provides $6 billion in total tax incentives for the Gulf Coast designed to help businesses rebuild, local governments restore services, and individuals to find decent housing.  
   For Businesses: This package is primarily weighted toward businesses because the best way to help people rebuild their lives and homes is by creating job opportunities. To get jobs, there has to be a healthy business environment. 
   To obtain that good business climate, we have established a unique zone throughout the hurricane-stricken Gulf, appropriately called the "Gulf Opportunity Zone" or "GO Zone." In this region - which basically includes the bottom half of Mississippi and southern portions of our neighboring states - businesses can take advantage of unique tax incentives exclusive to our area. 
   By significantly lowering the cost of capital for businesses of all sizes, businesses will be encouraged to reinvest in the Mississippi Gulf Coast. For example, GO Zone businesses will be permitted to expense 50 percent of the cost of new equipment. In addition, the bill allows businesses to deduct up to $200,000 of the cost of property used in their enterprises. This, too, can help with the cost of rebuilding businesses.
   This legislation further encourages new businesses to consider the coast and South Mississippi. It provides $1 billion in New Markets Tax Credits for companies investing in Mississippi businesses and construction. It stipulates that 50 percent of demolition and cleanup costs would be deductible by businesses. And, for folks in the Pine Belt, it doubles reforestation expensing deductions to $20,000. In addition, small timber owners may elect a five-year carryback of net operating losses occurring after August 27, 2005, and before 2007. 
   This Katrina relief initiative provides a 40 percent employee retention credit for wages paid up to $6,000 after August 28, 2005, and through December 31, 2005. This provision encourages businesses that have had to close temporarily to continue employing Mississippians until they can reopen. This credit already applied to a number of small employers. Now it applies too all businesses.
   For Local Governments: The bill also applies to cash-strapped state and local governments struggling to stay afloat in Katrina's wake. This package increases the amount of tax-exempt bonds which Mississippi can allocate to the GO Zone by almost $5 billion through 2010. 
   It also allows advanced refunding of all bonds which will be issued prior to 2007 within the GO Zone. Bottom line: Local cities will be able to restructure their debt, delaying payments on principal and interest until people return and their tax base is re-established. 
   To Build the Housing Supply: Finally, this legislation includes incentives to ensure an adequate housing supply is re-established. Between 2006 and 2009, Mississippi will be allowed to allocate volumes of additional housing credits - three times the normal application for low-income housing with respect to population.
   The bill also provides Mississippians with greater access to mortgage revenue bonds, tax-exempt bonds which state and local governments generally issue through housing finance agencies. The proceeds from these bonds are used to fund below-market, interest rate mortgages for certain qualifying first-time home buyers. The bill also lifts the first-time homeowner requirements and allows up to $150,000 in mortgage revenue bond proceeds to be used for repairs through December 31, 2010.
   This legislation marks a big step in the right direction for our Katrina recovery needs. It will go a long way toward getting people back to work, getting city services back on line and putting Mississippians back into good, decent housing. When we meet these three challenges, we will be well on our way to full, complete recovery. (12/16/05)
 
 