I'LL BE BACK
  Because the Senate would not vote to even debate it, the death tax lives on - for now. Those who favor taxing Americans at death think this issue will eventually go away, but it will be back - until this unfair tax is either modified, moderated or repealed. 
  Why does the federal government tax some Americans when they die? That's a great question, but I must confess it's one I've never been able to satisfactorily answer during my 34 years in Washington . Taxing the belongings of those who have passed away really makes no sense, especially after they've already paid a lifetime of taxes.  
   Of course, liberals don't call it the death tax. They prefer the say "estate" tax. They know that word conjures up thoughts of gated driveways, manicured lawns and limos. But the reality is much different, even in a so-called "poor" state like Mississippi . 
   Some time ago, I was at Liberty Drug Store in Liberty, Mississippi . Aside from being the hometown of the late, beloved comedian Jerry Clower, Liberty and Amite County is a fairly typical Mississippi community, a small and big-hearted place full of hard-working people of all income levels and backgrounds. 
   About 30 people gathered at the store for an informal town meeting. Some of them were small business owners; some were farmers. Represented were old, young, all races and all incomes. It was a good cross-section of Mississippi . 
   They gave me their opinion on a number of challenges facing our country. Finally, without establishing any predicate, I switched gears and asked them: "How many of you think the death tax is unfair?" Every hand went up. It was unanimous. Not one person there thought taxing a fellow American's assets upon death was fair, regardless of how much they have. No one stepped forward to justify the government's taking up to 55 percent of someone's life's work after their death. 
   Mississippians may be pocketbook poor compared to some, but most of us are rich in character, and have a clear understanding of right and wrong. We believe in hard work and the American dream. We cheer for the growing number among us who are rising from poor beginnings to successful ends. And when successful lives end, we know it's not right or fair for the state to confiscate homes and property already has been taxed. 
   A few years ago, we were able to modestly moderate this tax in order to boost our economy following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. But unless we address it again, the death tax within five years will revert back to its pre-2001 level. That means if you pass away after 2010, and your estate is valued at more than $1 million, the government could take over half your assets to satisfy your share of death tax. The uncertainty associated with the current now law makes it almost impossible and agonizingly expensive for folks to plan their estates. This is money which could be better spent in other ways, like growing a business and creating new jobs. 
   If you think $1 million is a lot of money for Mississippians, think again. It's not uncommon for Mississippians to own property and assets that have been in families for generations, even while having very little cash flow or predictable income. There are thousands of Mississippians with non-liquid assets like old home places, stands of planted timber or farm equipment that, given today's appreciating values, could soon knock on that $1 million threshold. Unless the Senate acts, many are going to be very surprised when dad passes away that Uncle Sam gets the lion's share of his legacy. 
   Truth be known, tax-loving liberals in Washington are just fine with that. They believe the more successful you are, the more you should pay Uncle Sam in tribute, for his giving you a country in which you could succeed. But Uncle Sam should be paying you tribute because government exists at your consent. You're the hard-working taxpayer that gives the country its purse and its power. The death tax is un-American, unfair and unpopular, a disincentive to the American dream. I'll be back again and again until it is finally dead.
 
 