SEN. LOTT: SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE TAKES IMPORTANT STEP FOR AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL MODERNIZATION
  The Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee reported out the Aviation Investment and Modernization Act of 2007 following the urging of Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi for action on this legislation prior to the current Federal Aviation Administration's September sunset.  
   The bill, introduced by Senator Lott, ranking member on the Aviation Operations, Safety and Security Subcommittee, and Subcommittee Chairman John Rockefeller of West Virginia, will modernize the nation's aging air traffic control systems using a $25 per flight surcharge specifically designated for modernization. This legislation will also fully fund modernization through 2011 and restore cuts made by the Administration to the Airport Improvement Program. The bill does not increase the proposed passenger facility charge. 
   "Previous FAA Reauthorizations did the job, but were only band-aids," Senator Lott said during the markup. "We've got to make the leap and look down the road to where we need to be five or 10 years from now. I've tried to keep in mind the small operators during the drafting of this bill and keep everything fair." 
   During the markup, Senator Lott clarified some common misconceptions regarding this important legislation. The proposed surcharge would only apply to commercial airlines and some turbo-prop aircrafts flying within controlled air space, effectively eliminating 90 percent of general aviation as well as training, medical and military flights. 
   "I honestly don't see what could be better than this - everyone will pay for what they use," Senator Lott said. "It isn't fair for passengers on commercial jets to bear the brunt of this needed modernization effort." 
   The Committee bill does not have jurisdiction over tax provisions in the reauthorization. 
   The next action for this legislation would be the merging of Commerce and Finance Committee bills for floor action.
   Contact: Nick Simpson and Susan Irby, 202/224-4239. 
 
 