SEN. LOTT LAUDS FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR IVAN RECOVERY, BEGINS COORDINATION WITH LOCAL OFFICIALS
  Sen. Trent Lott today thanked the Bush Administration for its quick approval of federal hurricane disaster assistance for individual residents in seven South Mississippi counties and for local governments in 23 South and East Central Mississippi counties. Sen. Lott is now contacting local officials in the impacted areas to determine further recovery needs. 
   "Thankfully, Mississippi fared Ivan better than we all anticipated, but nevertheless thousands of Mississippians from the Coast through East Central Mississippi are without power and have suffered significant damage from high winds," Senator Lott said. "Our prayers remain with our neighbors in Alabama and the Florida Panhandle who lost loved ones or who experienced damage to their home or other property. The Bush Administration has acted quickly upon the requests of the four states impacted by Ivan, and now we begin to assess the damage and determine the best way to help people hurt by Ivan's destructive path."
   The federal assistance includes both individual assistance for private citizens impacted by the storm in George, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Perry, Stone and Wayne counties. The declaration also includes public assistance primarily for state and local governments recovering from the storm. Counties eligible for public assistance include Clarke, Covington, Forrest, George, Greene, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Jefferson Davis, Jones, Kemper, Lamar, Lauderdale, Lowndes, Marion, Neshoba, Newton, Noxubee, Pearl River, Perry, Smith, Stone and Walthall for debris removal and emergency protective measures.
   The designation further includes hazard mitigation assistance to state and local governments for actions taken to prevent or reduce long-term risk to life and property from this storm. All Mississippi counties may apply for hazard mitigation assistance.
   Thursday morning Senator Lott called county supervisors and other public officials in several Mississippi counties hardest hit by Ivan. The storm continues a track through western Alabama still impacting counties in extreme portions of Eastern Mississippi.
   "In many cases the aftermath of a storm can be the most deadly, and certainly we know that its effects are not confined to the immediate coastal counties," Senator Lott said. "As Mississippians begin their recovery and return to their homes, I join Governor Barbour and other officials in urging patience and caution. Hazardous conditions remain in the affected areas as specialists work to clean up debris and restore utilities."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569
 
 