SEN. LOTT INTRODUCES FREIGHT RAIL INCENTIVES BILL
  Legislation addressing the crisis in freight transportation by providing incentives for railroads and shippers to expand their freight capacity was introduced in the U.S. Senate today by Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi.  
   The bill's introduction follows Senator Lott's address in February to a national freight transportation conference in Natchez, Mississippi, during which transportation officials, city planners and private sector shippers shared their concerns about diminished freight railroad capacity. 
   "With highways and airways becoming increasingly congested, pressure is on the railroads to accommodate the rising tide of freight," Senator Lott, immediate past Chairman of the Senate Surface Transportation Subcommittee, said. "Tax relief in the bill would help freight railroads and railroad shippers expand their operations - adding tracks, rail spurs and signals." 
   Senator Lott's bill, first introduced in the last Congress, would establish a 25 percent tax credit available to taxpayers making expenditures for new freight infrastructure. All qualifying rail infrastructure capital expenditures would be eligible for expensing which Senator Lott said provides an incentive for continued investment, even in periods where economic conditions are tight. 
   Eligibility for the capacity expansion credit and the expensing provision would be available to any taxpayer making a qualified expenditure. "A shipper, such as a Target or Home Depot, that builds a rail spur from a distribution center to a main line would be eligible for a credit," Senator Lott said. "A new truck-rail intermodal facility built by a trucking company also would be eligible. This is important because the future of our freight transportation system depends on creating an increasingly seamless integration of all modes - rail, trucking, waterway and air." 
   Qualifying expenditures would include track, grading, tunnels, signals, certain locomotives, bridges, yards, terminals and intermodal transfer and transload facilities. 
   "As our economy grows, our freight systems are under increasing strain," Senator Lott said. "The Department of Transportation and other experts project freight shipments to grow by about 70 percent between 2000 and 2020. At the same time, freight rail traffic is being pushed to its limits." 
   Freight rail is among the nation's most capital intensive industries, with capital expenditures averaging 17 percent of revenues from 1999 to 2003, compared to 3.4 percent for all manufacturing. What's more, Senator Lott said, freight rail is a network industry, and a relatively minor choke point or a slowdown in a remote area can lead to system-wide consequences. 
   Many factors today dampen freight rail investment, Senator Lott said. "Major rail infrastructure investments like tracks, bridges and tunnels, involve large fixed costs that have only one use and only in a particular place. An investment that does not earn an economic return cannot be converted to other purposes or moved to other locations."
   Contact: Susan Irby, 202/224-6253. 
 
 