SEN. LOTT: $3.7 MILLION SLATED FOR KATRINA RECOVERY IN WAVELAND, HATTIESBURG
  Federal funding totaling more than $3.7 million is approved for post-hurricane cleanup and repair efforts in the cities of Waveland and Hattiesburg, Sen. Trent Lott said today. The separate grants include funds to replace Waveland's gas distribution system and funds to cover costs associated with debris removal in Hattiesburg.  
   "We have a long way to go, but with each allocated grant our cities and counties etch a step closer to full recovery," Senator Lott said. "Both of these areas were hit very hard by Hurricane Katrina, but they continue to make steady progress thanks to the diligence of local residents and officials who are determined to restore these communities."
   Today's awards, which will be administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), include:
   * $2,639,167.56 - (FEMA Share) $2,375,250.80 City of Waveland - Hurricane Katrina generated a high storm surge and flooding throughout the city of Waveland, located in Hancock County, MS. The gas distribution system suffered irreversible damage from salt water corrosion and the uprooting of trees along gas lines. The damage was so extensive that the entire distribution system must be replaced. This $2,639,167.56 represents the estimated cost to design and replace the gas distribution system which includes over 250,000 linear feet of distribution lines and roughly 1000 meters. This funding is intended to restore the damaged facility to its pre-disaster design capacity and function-  
   * $1,089,500.17 - Hattiesburg - Hurricane Katrina damaged trees within the City of Hattiesburg located in Forrest County, MS. The city followed their normal procurement guidelines and awarded a contract for the removal of hanging limbs and branches which posed a threat to public health and safety. This $1,089,500.17 represents actual contract costs incurred to cut, collect, haul, and dispose of hanging limbs and branches, as well as remove trees that could only be accessed by mechanized equipment.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 