HIGHWAY BILL PASSES SENATE
  Today by a bipartisan 89 to 11 vote, the Senate passed a five-year highway bill, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act (SAFETEA). The reauthorization includes a number of important highway safety programs, and includes a provision to increase Mississippi's federal gasoline tax reimbursement from 90 percent to 95 percent. 
   "This could mean millions of additional dollars for our state's transportation needs," Senator Lott said. "Now the bill goes to conference, where I'll work hard to include funding for specific projects vital to Mississippi's safety and our economy. Our nation's highways and bridges need significant investment, with about 30 percent of both bridges and highways needing immediate attention. Congress clearly has a responsibility to reinvest in our nation's highways by completing this vital legislation this year before the peak spring and summer construction season ends."
   With the provisions, Mississippi's gasoline tax reimbursement from the federal government is expected to climb from 90 percent to 95 percent by the bill's expiration. Senator Lott has successfully led efforts in recent years to gradually increase the reimbursement for rural states which contribute more gas tax dollars than they get back.
   The highway bill also includes extensions of important safety programs - a section of the bill which Senator Lott authored as a member of the Senate' s Commerce Committee. This includes incentive grants to states to increase seat belt usage, provisions to reduce vehicle rollovers, measures to enhance truck safety, reauthorization for hazardous materials transport programs and boating safety provisions. It even includes protections for consumers who may be targeted by unscrupulous household moving scams.
   "This is one of the most important bills Congress will consider this year," Senator Lott concluded. "We need to complete the conference and pass this bill quickly. Americans and their economy depend on roads. Our highways must be the best they can be. Millions of lives and billions of dollars ride on them each day.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 