SEN. LOTT: NORTHROP GRUMMAN TO EXPAND JACKSON COUNTY UAV FACILITY
 Sen. Trent Lott, Jackson County's Economic Development Foundation and Northrop Grumman Corporation's Integrated Systems sector today announced a major expansion of the company's upcoming Jackson County unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) manufacturing facility, a move expected to provide from 100 to 160 jobs, depending on UAV rates of production in upcoming years. To the facility's scope of work, the expansion will add construction of sub-assembly manufacture of the company's RQ04 Global Hawk, used by the U.S. Air Force. 
   "This means more good-paying, high-tech jobs for Mississippians," Senator Lott said. "Global Hawk is an outstanding UAV that continues to prove its unmatched military value in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "I'm pleased that Northrop Grumman continues to increase its presence in Mississippi. Jackson County is quickly emerging as the UAV center of excellence for the military and our nation."
   Originally planned as a 40-employee assembly plant for the Fire Scout, UAV only, the expansion announced by Northrop Grumman, Jackson County officials and Senator Lott today requires the facility to grow from an originally planned 39,000 square-feet for Fire Scout to the required 100,000 square-feet needed to build both UAV systems. 
   "In just the past week we've seen major investments in our state by two world-renowned aerospace companies, Rolls-Royce and Northrop Grumman," Senator Lott continued. "While both of these companies have had a marine manufacturing presence here for some time, these coveted aerospace investments are a direct result of our state's aggressive pursuit of new jobs, and our commitment to providing a quality business environment and good facilities, all backed by cooperation of our local, state and federal leaders. I'm proud to call these two companies constituents, and I look forward to working in support of these facilities for years to come." 
   Northrop Grumman expects construction to begin later this month and be completed during November. A year ago, Northrop Grumman announced that Fire Scout would be assembled at a new facility to be built at Trent Lott International Airport in Jackson County. The Fire Scout is an unmanned helicopter, capable of both surveillance and attack. The Global Hawk is a high-altitude fixed-wing reconnaissance system designed for long-range missions.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 