SECURING SOCIAL SECURITY
  In his State of the Union Address President Bush said if we're going to secure the Social Security system for our children and grandchildren, then we've got to act now before a massive number of baby boomers begin retiring in just three years.
   Clearly if we put off addressing this issue, soon only two workers will be paying the benefits for every one Social Security recipient, down from about three right now and sixteen in the 1950s. When young Americans entering the work force today retire, the system will be paying out much more than it is taking in, and it will be on the way to going broke. The President proposes strengthening the program by giving younger workers access to Social Security personal retirement savings accounts, similar to the federal Thrift Savings Plan that federal workers already have. 
   Here's how it would work: If you are 55 or older, you'd see absolutely no change in your Social Security benefits. My 91-year-old mother will continue receiving the same Social Security benefits she has now. But, if you are younger than 55, you'd be offered a chance to participate in personal accounts - savings that can be invested in various funds and grow much faster than anything possible in the current system. Again, this would be voluntary. Those younger workers wishing to stay in the traditional Social Security system could do so.
   So, my 35-year-old daughter, if she chooses, could begin contributing to one of these personal accounts and then select from a variety of funds in which to invest and grow her retirement. Though she'd have more control over her money, it is not a privatized system as many people have suggested. Like the Thrift Savings Plan, these retirement funds still would be managed by the federal government. Because they would be publicly administered, participants could not withdraw the funds at any time or for anything they wish. Rather, it would be a dedicated fund for the sole purpose of cultivating a retirement. Few Members of Congress or their staffs have turned down their version of personal retirement savings, and I suspect most Americans would like the same opportunity.
   Now some folks in Washington are saying the Social Security system isn't in trouble, that it's no big deal, that we can just raise taxes to make up the Social Security shortfalls when they start. Well, that sounds like a really poor solution to me, and I suspect to most taxpaying Americans don't want to pay more taxes. Besides, simply raising taxes couldn't solve the problem anyway, because the costs of the current program are expected to grow much faster than the underlying tax base. Giving younger workers access to personal accounts and more control of their own money and retirement are the best ways to help solve Social Security's festering ills.
   Additionally, coupled with private accounts, we can protect the system even more by making sure benefits are reconciled with the cost of living. In doing this we can provide a more secure Social Security benefit. When he was in the White House, President Clinton and I often discussed the fairness of obtaining a more accurate cost-of-living formula as a means of alleviating many of Social Security's pressures.
   Now, I don't take Social Security reform lightly. In fact, I've worked to stop major Social Security changes before, back in the 1980s, but times have changed. People are living longer, and so-called "Baby Boomers" aren't babies anymore; they're about to be retirees. The challenges facing Social Security today are more formidable than anything its planners envisioned back in the 1930s. We've got to have a Social Security system that will be here in the 2030s and beyond. 
   Like many of your parents and grandparents, my elderly mother today cannot live on her meager Social Security income. She worked until she was 75, for a small return. It wasn't fair. But, if we fix the system now by implementing personal savings accounts and implementing accurate cost-of-living projections, our children and grandchildren can have a respectable Social Security benefit that is truly beneficial - one that can actually sustain a good retirement.
 
 