A FIVE YEAR 'INVENTORY'
  I'm not comfortable with calling the remembrance of national tragedies like 9/11 or Hurricane Katrina, "anniversaries." To most Americans an anniversary represents something good, something positive that's worth noting annually. But with the terrorist attacks of September 11 now five years behind us, we as a nation should carefully inventory the progress we've made toward making America more secure, and take action where more needs to be done.
   First, we should acknowledge that America is more secure. There has been no cataclysmic terrorist attack on American soil since that infamous day when Muslim extremists turned passenger planes into missiles. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I can assure you it's not because terrorists haven't tried. It's because our military, law enforcement and elected representatives working with the president have made some good, bipartisan decisions based solely on what's best for protecting America . We need to emphasize that more, recalling the spirit of national unity that led to landmark legislation like the Patriot Act and to new security measures in public buildings and in our transportation system, particularly aboard aircraft. 
   Second, we must actively seek places where we can do more, and one of those areas is port security. Each day thousands of overseas containers are shipped to our east, west and gulf coast ports. From there, these containers are distributed literally all over America by air, rail and tractor trailer.
   Just before Labor Day, I visited the west coast to see first hand what we're doing to ensure security with large volumes of international cargo. I went to Seattle and other west coast ports, not expecting to be impressed, but thinking our port security may be FEMA-like - hampered by bureaucratic red tape and inefficiency. But it was relatively good.
   In looking at how the ships come in and how the cargo is scanned, it was an incredible thing to see. We're clearly going in the right direction with port security, much of it thanks to another piece of post-9/11 bipartisan legislation called the Maritime Security Act of 2002, which established more sophisticated analysis of cargo shipment data and incorporated the use of more scanning and radiation equipment to detect threats. In fact, we can now detect something as small as a pistol among the packed contents of a huge container
   But we can do more, and that's why I've used my position on the Senate's Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee to support the Port Security Improvement Act of 2006. This legislation which passed the Senate on September 14 will mandate new port security plans for things like waterway salvage operations. It calls for unannounced inspection of ports to periodically verify their security procedures and establishes more training for port workers. It provides mechanisms to examine U.S.-bound containers while still in foreign ports, before they get here. And perhaps most important, it improves communication by establishing intra-agency operation centers to coordinate the security activities of all federal, state and local agencies with roles in port security. The bill further enables more information sharing between the private sector and the Department of Homeland Security.
   That last point is critical. I recall a situation years ago when authorities learned of an illegal drug shipment bound for Pascagoula . An argument erupted among the various agencies over who would take the lead in intercepting it - in other words: the credit. Well, most Americans have little patience with turf battles; they just want the job done.
   Perhaps that's the greatest lesson as we take inventory of 9/11 five years later, particularly in this political year - that we account for what we're doing right and take action where we need to improve, forsaking concerns about party and turf, remembering that we're here to secure America, to do what's best for protecting our citizens. It's not about competing for credit after successes, but about finding vulnerabilities, preventing failures before they happen, so that we don't have any more national tragedies with their own "anniversaries."
 
 