PROBLEMS THAT UNITE US
  There's a line in President John F. Kennedy's historic inaugural address where he implores the world to "explore what problems unite us instead of belaboring those problems which divide us." It reminds us that regardless of our differences, humanity faces com mon challenges - sometimes tragedies - which serve as unexpected opportunities to unite people and reaffirm our faith in humanity and move us forward in a better, more constructive way.
   That occurred to me recently when I surveyed the list of 27 nations contributing more than $7.7 million to help rebuild Mississippi colleges hardest hit by Hurricane Katrina. Some of these countries have vastly different political, social, cultural and philosophical views from Americans and from Mississippians, but they nevertheless gave generously to our hurricane recovery effort. 
   It's a list of rich and poor states whose people are Muslim, Shinto, Christian and Buddhist. There are both developed and undeveloped nations. The list includes China, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Japan, the Bahamas, Gabon, Bangladesh, Angola, Malta, Brunei, Afghanistan, United Arab Emirates, Nepal, Rwanda, Senegal, Taiwan, Lebanon, Yerevan, Bosnia Herzegovina, Nigeria, Ghana, Fiji, Palau, Botswana, Cyprus, South Korea and Djibouti - some of them places with which few Americans are familiar.
   It's noteworthy that folks in each of these nations made a specific contribution to Mississippi 's hurricane recovery effort. Much like the tsunami that struck Southeast Asia almost two years ago, people from throughout the world stopped and remembered that we all face com mon problems. We're all united by the com mon challenge of nature's fury, and we should all help each other in times like these.
   This $7.7 million for Mississippi was part of about $30 million given by these nations to rebuild our hardest hit educational facilities along the Gulf Coast . The money was received by the U.S. State Department and transferred to the U.S. Department of Education which determined allotments for each state and institution, according to a formula based on damage.
   I talked with Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice and Education Secretary Margaret Spellings to ensure Mississippi got our fair share of these funds. Their departments worked hard to make sure five Mississippi universities and colleges hardest hit by the storm will receive support from these much appreciated foreign donations. They include: the University of Southern Mississippi which will be allotted $4.3 million; William Carey College , $1.8 million; Mississippi Gulf Coast Community College , $968,000; Pearl River Community College , $524,000 and Jones County Junior College , $125,000. These institutions can use these funds for a variety of rebuilding and recovery needs.
   By com parison to the unprecedented amount of federal funding com ing to Mississippi for our recovery effort, $7.7 million may sound like a modest sum. But this gesture says a lot more about humanity than a cold mathematical tally ever could. It reminds me that though we often hear from critics how much America is "against the world" and that the world in turn "hates America," the world actually has more in com mon, more harmony, or the potential for it, than we acknowledge.
   Yes, there are a lot of bad actors in the world today. But when we Mississippians stop and consider all the help we've received in the last year from so many different parts of the world, it reminds us that there is still more good than bad on Earth. We realize that most people face com mon problems that actually can unite us and produce surprising results. As we've done in natural disasters like hurricanes and tsunamis, the global com munity also can unite, confront and resolve our other com mon problems - including terrorism, affordable energy, housing and hunger. When the vast majority of good people recognize the problems that unite us, solutions follow.
 
 