SEN. LOTT DETAILS MISSISSIPPI PROJECTS IN DEFENSE BILL
  Legislation unanimously passed by the U.S. Senate late Thursday to fund the Defense Department beginning October 1 provides about $10.6 billion for programs in Mississippi that directly impact jobs creation or continuity, Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi said today. He said the Mississippi total is about $450 million more than President Bush originally requested for Mississippi in the defense budget.
   Funding affecting Mississippi is for the operation and maintenance of the state's military bases, for weapons systems built here, for research and development performed by state universities and for youth-oriented programs such as the Naval Sea Cadets.
   Lott said the bill includes funds to build the Navy's DD(X) destroyers at Ingalls Shipbuilding of Pascagoula. Money also is appropriates for the LHA-6, a large deck ship also built at Ingalls which is designed to carry out amphibious operations and capable of supporting several helicopters - including the new V-22 Joint Strike Fighter - along with thousands of sailors and Marines. Lott said this class of ships eventually will replace the Navy's big deck amphibious fleet. 
   "As always, the defense bill is a critical one for Mississippi's defense installations and industries, bringing billions of dollars in new military programs, procurement dollars for Mississippi defense contractors, equipment, operations and maintenance to our bases and development funding for universities in our state," Lott said. "It speaks volumes about the importance of Mississippi 's role in providing for our national security."
   The Senate-passed defense bill appropriates a total of $453.5 billion in budget authority for the 2007 fiscal year. Differences with the House of Representatives-passed bill are expected to be ironed out in time for passage of a final bill by September 30. The major Mississippi projects in the bill include:
   DD(X) future Navy destroyer, $2.6 billion
   The Senate fully supported the continued development and construction of the Navy's next generation destroyer that is being designed by Northrop Grumman Ship Systems in Pascagoula .
   LHA(R) Navy amphibious helicopter carrier, $1.14 Billion
   The Senate supported the continued construction and final incremental funding of LHA-6.
   LPD-17 Class amphibious ship, $297 million
   The Senate bill fully supported the procurement of advanced material for the LPD-25 amphibious ship. The ship will be built at Ingalls Shipbuilding of Pascagoula.
   Fire Scout Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, $119 million
   The bill supported the Navy's procurement of Fire Scout air vehicles built at Northrop Grumman's Unmanned Systems Center in Pascagoula , including an increase above the President's Budget by $10 million to accelerate the fielding of Army aircraft.
   Lightweight 155 mm Howitzer, $29.2 million
   The Senate bill supported the purchase of 155 mm Lightweight Towed Howitzers. The Lightweight 155, also known as the Advanced Towed Cannon System, is produced by BAE in Hattiesburg .
   CVN (aircraft carrier) Propeller, $5 million
   The Senate bill added $5 million for the purchase of aircraft carrier propellers built by Rolls Royce in Pascagoula .
   F-15 Radar Upgrade, $87 million
   The Senate bill added $87million for a radar upgrade to the F-15 fighter. The radar is produced at the Raytheon plant in Forest .
   GaRDS Detection Trucks, $9.5 million
   The Senate bill adds $9.5 million for the purchase of additional GaRDS scanners built by Ferson located in Gautier. The GaRDS scanners are mounted on a truck and used to inspect and detect explosives. The scanner trucks are being used by the Armed Forces in Iraq as well as other locations.
   Naval Sea Cadet Corp, $2 million
   The Senate bill fully supported the President's budget and added an additional $300,000 for the Naval Sea Cadet Corp.
   C-17 aircraft, $2.3 billion
   The Senate provided $2.6 billion for the multi-year purchase of C-17 aircraft. Major hydraulic systems for the C-17 are produced by Eaton Aerospace in Jackson .
   C-130 Hercules Aircraft, $282 million
   The Senate bill provides funding for the procurement of C-130 aircraft for Air Force and Navy. The C-130 fuselage is built by Lockheed-Martin in Meridian .
   Arrow Missile System, $148.7 million
   The Senate bill increased funding by $73 million over the President's request, for the production and upgrades to Arrow Missile Interceptors and the Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense Research Program. ATK of Iuka builds the com posite body for the Arrow missile.
   Light Utility Helicopter, $91.2 million
   The Senate bill provided $91.2 million for the Army's Light Utility Helicopter program. The helicopter will be made by American Eurocopter in Columbus .
   Mississippi Colleges and Universities, $46 million
   The Senate bill added $46 million for defense-related research and development programs in areas such as Computational Design at Jackson State University , Military Vehicles at Mississippi State University , Acoustics at Ole Miss, and Polymer Coatings at the University of Southern Mississippi .
   Military Construction Projects, $51 million
   The Senate provided $51 million for military construction projects in Mississippi . The construction projects included a Fire Station at Naval Air Station Meridian; a Joint Use Simulation Center at Camp Shelby in Hattiesburg; and a Army aviation support facility in Tupelo .
   Armored Tractor Combat Vehicle Technology, $3 million
   The Senate bill increased funding by $3 million to build, test, and evaluate eight built armored tractors. The proposed vehicle is developed off the International 5900i Series truck designed to provide a secure environment for soldiers' performing transport duties, designed specifically for driver/passenger protection, increased performance characteristics over "add-on" solutions, and specifically for use in extreme environments. This work will be performed by Griffin Inc. in West Point .
   Personnel and Operations
   The Senate also provided for a 2.2 percent base salary increase for military personnel, as well as funding salary shortfalls for Naval Oceanographic Office personnel located in Stennis.
   Onboard Vehicle Power , $5.1 million
   The Senate bill provided $5.1 million for further development of the onboard vehicle power system, a small high-power converter that can be carried onboard the Army's M113 Armored Personnel Carrier. The research and production is being conducted at Diversified Technologies in Jackson .
   Navy Automatic Identification Engineering Center, $3.1 million
   The Senate bill provided $3.1 million that supports the establishment of a Navy Automatic Identification Technology (AIT) Engineering Support Center in Mississippi for Navy Acquisition Managers, Program Managers, and AIT users and developers. This initiative expands the Navy's capability for research and development, focused testing, and industrial testing. The program will be a joint venture between the Navy and Mississippi Valley State University in Starkville .
   SOCOM Craft Modifications, $8.2 million
   The Senate bill provides $8.2 million to support the modernization and upgrades for the Special Operations watercraft. The work will be performed at US Marine Inc. in Gulfport .
   TAGS Oceanographic Ship, $117 million
   The Senate added $117 million to accelerate the construction of the next generation oceanographic ship for the Navy. Halter Marine has built previous TAGS vessels.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 