SEN. LOTT: MISSISSIPPI COMPANY WINS IMPORTANT SECURITY SYSTEM CONTRACT
  Less than a month after Sen. Trent Lott and other local leaders helped officially open Rapiscan Systems' new Ocean Springs factory, the company has won a $9.1 million Department of Defense contract to manufacture 16 of the company's explosive detection systems. 
    "Rapiscan is providing the type of innovative research and development that our military and our transportation security professionals need to ensure explosives are found before they become deadly," said Senator Lott, who encouraged the company to locate in our state.. "We all know how important this technology is as we fight the War on Terror abroad, and guard against further terrorist attacks here at home. I am delighted Rapiscan invested in the Gulf Coast , and I'm confident Mississippi 's workforce will produce quality explosive detection units that will protect people from a variety of threats."
   Specifically the systems will be employed at several domestic and overseas U.S. Army bases. The contract calls for eight of the company's Gamma Radiographic Detection Systems (GaRDS) and another eight of the firm's Secure 1000 systems. The GaRDS detects hidden contraband including explosives and even weapons of mass destruction in cargo holds like containers and vehicles.
   The Secure 1000 system is a non-intrusive personnel screening system that can detect both metal and non-metal objects. It addition to metal, it can find threatening items made of plastic, ceramic, liquid and even organic material. It reduces the necessity of hands-on body searches by security personnel and was first deployed in civilian aviation last year at London's Heathrow Airport .
   "Cargo screening is very important, and it's an area where we're rapidly employing new technologies to lessen security threats which could come through international containers or from vehicles coming across our border," Senator Lott continued. "Just this week, the Senate passed the Port Security Improvement Act of 2006 which calls for more intense screening of U.S.-bound cargo and for better security measures at our ports. And, of course, we have new security screening guidelines at airports resulting from threats by terrorists trying to mask explosives as liquids or gels. Acquiring these two state-of-the-art systems is very timely and needed to meet and defeat new threats."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 