SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $10.8 MILLION FOR UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI RESEARCH PROGRAM
 Federal funding totaling $10.8 million has been approved for the University of Mississippi's Center for Research Excellence in Natural Products Neuroscience, Sen. Trent Lott said today. 
   "This funding will enhance the University of Mississippi's research capability, contributing to more resources for the University's students, faculty and to Mississippi's entire public health community," Senator Lott said. "I've worked to vastly increase the amount of federal research dollars for Mississippi's universities, and this latest federal grant is certainly a major step forward in this continuing effort."
   The funding will be administered through the National Institute of Health (NIH), specifically its National Center for Research Resources. UM's share is part of a national release totaling $117 million for 11 new and existing Centers of Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE), each concentrating on one area of expertise.
   The funding is part of the department's Institutional Development Award program, designed to improve the competitiveness of research within states that historically have not received significant levels of NIH research funding. The University's COBRE initiative is one of four new centers being established. The other new COBREs funded are at Louisiana State University, the University of Kansas Medical Center and the University of Vermont and will study obesity and diabetes, liver disease and infectious pathogens, respectively.
   "Mississippi's universities and their continued emphasis on advanced research are now being noticed nationally and internationally," Senator Lott said. "Our schools are becoming more competitive for projects that can bring new jobs to Mississippi and new opportunities for those seeking to specialize in some of the most advanced fields of science and technology."
   The National Center for Research Resources provides laboratory scientists and clinical researchers with the environment and tools they need to understand, detect, treat and prevent a wide range of diseases. The program also connects researchers with one another and with patients and communities nationwide, encouraging shared resources and multiplying opportunities to improve public health.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 