SEN. LOTT LEADS FIGHT TO KEEP SCHIP'S ORIGINAL MISSION OF COVERING CHILDREN
  The amendment, KidsFirst, will be a more than 33 percent expansion of the current SC HIP program. The proposed reauthorization currently before the Senate is a $60 billion expansion of the current program that uses budget gimmicks and altered language to continue enrolling new adults over the 10-year reauthorization, yet only allowing increased funding for the next five years. If passed, the Democratic expansion will enlarge the program 140 percent, more than doubling its original scope. 
   "The bill currently before us has tax increases in the $61 billion to $70 billion range," Senator Lott said Monday on the Senate floor. "One of my concerns about the program as it is now is that it also will actually be taking children now on private insurance off that coverage and putting them onto SCHIP. There are an estimated 2.1 million children who will be moved from private health insurance to the government-run health care program.
   "We have an alternative - KidsFirst - which reauthorizes the program and keeps it focused on the core mission of low-in come children. It increases funding generously by over 33 percent. It avoids the huge tax increase and unlike the Baucus bill the revenue that it brings in is real revenue rather than phantom revenue that will only decline over time causing children to get kicked off of
  SCHIP."
   Senator Lott's alternative - sponsored by Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, Senate Republican Conference Chair Jon Kyl, Senator Judd Gregg and others - will add over two million low-income children to SCHIP's rolls while ending the future enrollment of adults, without raising taxes. This will be accomplished by reducing administrative costs and standardizing the federal matching percentages.
   "It should also be noted that as is, the federal government, through SCHIP and Medicaid, already covers more people than the number of children in American living at 200 percent of poverty or below, the original target population for the program,"
   Senator Lott said. "The problem isn't that the program is too small. It's that the program has been allowed to reach populations that it was not designed to cover. KidsFirst was designed to reach the children who need health care, not pave the way to a previously-failed system of government-run health care."
   Contact: Nick Simpson, 202/224-4239.
 
 