SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $2.4 BILLION CONTRACT FOR MISSISSIPPI'S NORTHROP GRUMMAN SHIPYARD
 Today the U.S. Navy has awarded a $2.491 billion fixed-price contract for construction of LPD 22 and 23 and for materials and labor associated with LPD 24 to Northrop Grumman Ship Systems. Work will be partly performed at the company's Pascagoula, Mississippi facility with remaining work performed at NGSS's New Orleans, Louisiana yard.  
   "This is great news for shipyard workers in the battered Gulf Coast region who're recovering from Hurricane Katrina," Senator Lott said. "The prospect of good, steady employment will go a long way toward helping our region rebuild. Of course, as always, I am confident that Northrop Grumman Ship Systems will provide our Navy and Marine Corps with excellent vessels that will serve our defense needs for decades to come."
   LPDs, or landing platform docks, are amphibious assault ships that are used primarily by U.S. Marines for expeditionary warfare. They can accommodate helicopters, vertical take off aircraft and even air-cushion vehicles. The ships can house and transport troops and their equipment underneath the large flight deck.
   LPDs 22 and 23 were appropriated by Congress with Senator Lott's strong encouragement during fiscal years 2004 and 2005. The final construction contract for LPD 24, which was appropriated in fiscal year 2006, will be awarded following receipt of the Hurricane Supplemental Funding which is now pending in Congress.
   Senator Lott expects advanced procurement and construction contracts for LPD 25, similar to that now being awarded for LPD 24, to be awarded in fiscal years 2007 or 2008, subject to receipt of funds from Congress. 
   Senator Lott has been a strong advocate of advanced procurement and construction awards.
   "Without this forward thinking approach to shipbuilding, our replacement rate for Navy and Marine Corps vessels could get dangerously low and slow," Senator Lott concluded. " By enacting advanced procurement, we've ensured that America's vital and skilled shipyard workers have predictable employment, and we guarantee that our Navy and Marine Corps will have the resources needed to prosecute the War on Terror and any unforeseen threats."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 