SEN. LOTT INTRODUCES BILL TO ELIMINATE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX
  Senator Lott today introduced legislation that would eliminate the individual Alternative Minimum Tax, stopping it before it could further burden more than 23 million additional American families it was never intended to tax. 
   Senator Lott's bill, the Individual AMT Repeal Act, was introduced using a procedure provided for in Rule 14 of the Standing Rules of the Senate. This ensures that the bill will be placed directly on the Senate calendar and not buried in a Democratically-controlled committee as previous repeals have been.
   "The AMT was never meant to hit the millions of middle-class families it will tax without this overdue repeal," Senator Lott said. "We've heard a lot about offsets, but offsets aren't needed for taxes Congress never meant to impose. The time to eliminate this tax is long past due."
   Senator Lott's bill amends the Internal Revenue Service code for the year beginning January 1, 2007, to read that there will be no minimum tax - cancelling the AMT. In addition, the legislation would provide relief for those taxpayers who may have owed estimated AMT payments prior to last year's patch. There are millions of taxpayers who will be facing an AMT tax burden if Congress doesn't pass this AMT relief.
   "Just because Congress can't do its job doesn't mean the taxpayer should be punished," Senator Lott said.
   Introduced in 1969 by a Democratically-controlled Congress, the AMT was intended to target a narrow group of individuals who used budget gimmicks and tax loopholes to avoid paying taxes. It was never intended to burden middle income Americans as is now occurring because the AMT has not been adjusted for inflation. Without action by this Congress, the IRS in mid-November will begin printing the calendar year 2007 1040s and other filing forms which again will subject all taxpayers to the AMT.
   "Congress created the AMT because 155 people in 1967 played accounting games to avoid paying income taxes," Senator Lott said. "As a result of their actions, we are stuck with a tax originally meant for less than 200 people creeping into the pocketbooks of millions of hardworking Americans."
   In 1999, President Bill Clinton vetoed a permanent AMT repeal passed by the Republican Congress. Now, seven years later, Republicans are still fighting to protect Americans from taxes that impede the economic growth and security of American families, Senator Lott said.
   Senator Lott's bill is originally co-sponsored by every Republican member of the Finance Committee.
   Contact: Nick Simpson, 202/224-4239.
 
 