THINGS WE CAN BUILD ON
 April marks the completion of two key construction projects that will bring Mississippians a firmer foundation on which to build our economy and our future. 
   I was pleased to be in Greenville on April 13 for the completion ceremony of a new bridge across the Mississippi River, the river's first new span in three generations. And I was delighted to dedicate a new aerospace facility in Moss Point that will benefit our national security, our coastal economy and maybe even help secure our borders.
   Several years ago I secured more than $100 million to build a new U.S. Highway 82 bridge across the Mississippi River at Greenville. Folks thought that was a lot of money for one state project, but I told my Senate colleagues that if any area in any state deserved this kind of federal investment, it is Greenville and the Mississippi Delta. 
   Let's face it. As agriculture becomes less and less labor intensive, the Delta faces growing economic challenges. That's no secret. Mississippians know that if the Delta is going to realize its full potential, it needs new public and private investments, and the people in this region aren't shirking from new challenges. 
   As your Senator, my job is to advocate for Mississippi in the distribution of federal funding, and transportation is high on my priority list. Nowhere is the need for better transportation more apparent or its potential impact greater than in the Delta. As I like to point out to officials in Washington, more bridges cross the Potomac River in Washington, D.C., than span the Mississippi River for the entire length of our state. Mississippi is overdue for a new bridge. 
   In the case of the old U.S. Highway 82 bridge, Greenville's was an outdated, two-lane bridge built back in the late 1930s to carry Model A Fords about as wide as horse carts. Try going over that with a modern vehicle at today's highway speeds. It also was an impediment to bigger and rnodern barge traffic.
   Not only will the new, four-lane bridge be safer for those going over and below it, it is one component of a transportation improvement package that will re-fertilize the Delta's economy. The other part is a new interstate, I-69, for which I secured an additional $100 million in the last highway bill. Mississippi is the first state to begin construction on I-69 linking Canada, the U.S. and Mexico's industrial and agricultural heartlands. Think of the commerce and new opportunities that will be coming to the Delta when I-69 is done.
   Now to South Mississippi where we're celebrating completion of a new factory for Northrop Grumman's aerospace division that will assemble a new generation of unmanned aerial vehicles. 
   You've probably heard how the Global Hawk unmanned fixed-wing aircraft and the Firescout unmanned helicopter have helped in the War on Terror. These aircraft have saved the lives of pilots by taking out terrorist targets while being safely controlled thousands of miles away. 
   Without question these "drone" aircraft, capable of surveillance or attack, have nearly unlimited military potential. But they also have a growing role in law enforcement and border security. In inaccessible areas lacking border security, drones could help plug these holes, saving money and manpower at the same time. 
   Establishment of this facility marks another win for Mississippi in the competition for high-skilled, good-paying aerospace jobs. This project, along with the new Eurocopter assembly plant in Columbus, joins facilities at Jackson, Forest, Meridian and Stennis Space Center in manufacturing advanced systems for aerospace and military applications. 
   The Greenville bridge and the unmanned aerial vehicle plant are two very different projects, impacting two very different parts of our state. But both facilities provide Mississippi a firmer foundation to build a brighter future.
 
 