SENATE CONFIRMS DANIEL JORDAN TO SERVE ON U.S. DISTRICT COURT FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI
  By a voice vote Thursday, the U.S. Senate confirmed Daniel Jordan, of Jackson, to serve on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi, Sen. Trent Lott said.  
   "It was no surprise when President Bush nominated Dan Jordan to serve on the federal bench," Senator Lott said. "His education, experience, reputation and temperament earned his nomination bipartisan praise throughout Mississippi and in the United States Senate, too. I'm confident that Dan will excel as a fair, honest, measured and capable judge. And, I was proud to recommend him for this service." 
   Jordan currently practices law with Butler, Snow, O'Mara, Stevens & Cannada, the largest law firm based in Mississippi. He is a Cum Laude graduate of economics from the University of Mississippi where he was inducted into the University's Hall of Fame. In 1993, he received his law degree from the University of Virginia where was on the editorial board of the Journal of Law and Politics. Before attending law school, Jordan gained experience while working for the U.S. Department of Interior and later as a legislative aide. Jordan currently serves on the Executive Committee of the Mississippi Bar Association's General Litigation Practice Group. He is past-president of the Jackson Young Lawyers Association and he has served on the board of directors of both the Hinds County Bar Association and the Mississippi Young Lawyers Association.
   His community involvement includes working as a coordinator for the Jackson-based Stewpot Legal Clinic, which provides legal services to the homeless, work with Habitat for Humanity and he's served as chairman of Jackson's Metropolitan Crime Commission.
   Jordan, who's been named one of Mississippi's "Top 40 Under 40" by the Mississippi Business Journal and as one of "Jackson's Finest" by the Mississippi Multiple Sclerosis Foundation, is an active member of Christ United Methodist Church in Jackson He's married and the father of two children.
   Jordan will replace Judge Tom S. Lee, who is taking senior status.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 