A BETTER, SAFER PLACE
  As we approach Thanksgiving, we consider those things for which we should be thankful. They vary from person to person and family to family. But one thing all Americans should be thankful for this Thanksgiving is the diminishing violence in Iraq.
   The casualty rate among our soldiers and the acts of violence instigated by terrorists are down, and Iraq is becoming a better, safer place. Certainly parts of Iraq remain dangerous, but since General David Petraeus initiated a troop surge, Iraq has become more stable, saving both military and civilian lives. 
   Don't take my word for it. Look at the recent media reports.
  In the November 8th New York Times, we read that American forces have "routed" Al Qaeda from "every neighborhood" in Baghdad, enabling some surge soldiers to depart.
   Five days later, the Associated Press reported that an entire brigade of soldiers is headed home. Their area of responsibility can now be shouldered by remaining forces in Diyala province as that area becomes more secure.
   On November 13th USA Today said roadside bombs have "declined dramatically" during August and September, after the troop surge was initiated and thousands of caches of terrorist ammunition were discovered.
   That same day, The Washington Post reported that the Maliki government will end a nine-month-old curfew in Baghdad, thanks to increased security.
   In The Washington Post, we also heard that Iraq's air force now is "flying their own missions." U.S. efforts to train a post-Saddam Iraq air force are meeting success as its corps of trained pilots becomes larger and more skilled.
   Finally, on November 13th, the Associated Press said rocket and mortar attacks as well as civilian deaths have "dropped sharply since summer," down to the lowest level in two years. Life in Iraq is showing signs of normalcy as shoppers begin venturing out even in neighborhoods known for violence.
   Obviously these reports often are in conflict with what we see on newspaper opinion pages, but the fact is, the news pages are reporting things are getting better in Iraq, not worse. Iraq still remains a dangerous place, but we're going in the right direction.
   I'm still disappointed in the overall pace of progress there. I still can't express absolute confidence in the Iraqi government's ability, but I do have the utmost confidence in our troops.
   I believe all Americans - regardless of what we think about the Iraq war - should appreciate and be thankful for the progress our troops are making there. We should pray that this positive trend continues.
  While we're being thankful that the violence is down, we especially should be thankful every day for our men and women in uniform.
  Earlier this month on Veterans Day, we thanked vets who served in past wars and the current War on Terror. As we observe Thanksgiving, let's be thankful also for the individual men and women now serving in Iraq, Afghanistan and around the world. Let's also acknowledge that, unlike in previous conflicts, these men and women are volunteers - highly-motivated persons who freely signed up to protect our country and go wherever that mission takes them.
   Regardless of the past politics in America's decision to engage in Iraq, our troops are there today fighting a determined, deadly enemy committed to destroying liberty. To truly support America's troops, to truly be thankful for them, means giving them the tools they need to complete that mission as soon as possible and return safely.
   We did that with the surge, and even the most skeptical media report it is beginning to work. Let's be thankful for that and stay committed to the troops who are making Iraq and our world a better, safer place. (11/16/07)
 
 