SEN. LOTT: HURRICANE STATES TO RECIEVE $2.1 BILLION FOR 100 PERCENT MEDICAID REIMBURSEMENTS
  The U.S. Senate Wednesday morning, with the vote of Vice President Dick Cheney, passed a bill containing an agreement crafted by Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi with House and Senate leaders and the Bush Administration to provide the hurricane-stricken states of Mississippi and Louisiana with a 100 percent reimbursement for medicaid costs as well as reimbursement for uncompensated health care costs.  
   Lott said the agreement, contained in S. 1932, the Deficit Reduction Reconciliation Conference Report, will give the two states additional financial leverage in their Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts. The Senate vote Wednesday was a tie, 50-50, and the Vice President cast the deciding vote. The bill already has passed the House of Representatives.
   "This is not about expanding the medicaid program or changing its eligibility requirements, but it is about giving state officials more money from which to work and administer the hurricane recovery effort," Senator Lott said. "For instance, Mississippi taxpayers who have normally been paying about 22 cents for every medicaid benefit dollar now will pay zero. That will free up about $700 million more for our state at a time when this money is desperately needed for Mississippi's rebuilding and recovery."
   The medicaid program will continue to be administered by the states. The 100 percent federal cost share will proceed until the $2.1 billion federal earmark is expended.
   Senator Lott worked directly with the Bush Administration to move the medicaid provision through Congress as part of the larger budget reconciliation package. That provision initially passed the Senate as part of the Senate-passed budget reconciliation bill, and Senator Lott insisted that the medicaid provision, which he authored with Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley of Iowa, be included in the final bill. 
   The agreement also includes provisions ensuring that displaced persons on medicaid, or eligible for the program, are provided health care services, despite being temporarily located outside their home states. The State of Alabama also will receive some medicaid assistance.
   "The medicaid program's cost traditionally requires a considerable financial burden on our state government," Senator Lott said. "My provision gives Mississippi some additional room to breathe in the aftermath of this unprecedented disaster, and I am pleased that the Bush Administration and my congressional colleagues have acted decisively to support it."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 