AMERICA'S COURAGE
  This is my first weekly newspaper column of the new Congress, and although I've been busy helping to plan President Bush's inaugural ceremonies and dealing with cabinet confirmations in the Senate, I feel it's important to use this column to address the most important issue today facing Mississippians, Americans and the entire world - the War on Terror, specifically our efforts to create a free and democratic Iraq. 
   First, I'm confident in the capability of our armed forces and the dedication of our men and women in uniform. I know their mission is a noble and necessary one. Iraq under Saddam Hussein was an awful place. Some can harp all they want about whether Saddam had weapons of mass destruction (WMD) when the war began, but no one can dispute the fact that this dangerous dictator had weapons of mass destruction in the past and was clearly working to re-acquire chemical and biological weapons and to make nuclear weapons. Of course, all this was occurring despite dozens of impotent United Nations resolutions calling on him to disarm - a fact that will haunt the UN's credibility for years to come. If terrorists like Osama Bin Laden were going to acquire WMD to use on American soil, then Iraq prior to Operation Iraqi Freedom was the most likely place they'd have gotten them or the technology to build them. But thanks to our troops, terrorists won't get WMD from Iraq, and that's a big step forward in the War on Terror.
   Second, we owe it to our men and women in uniform and to all Americans to constantly review and make adjustments, where called for, to our mission in the War on Terror. War is dirty, and establishing democracy is difficult. The best laid plans often are fluid. Healthy debate is part of democracy as evidenced by the fact we're trying to determine why we had some faulty and exaggerated intelligence reports leading up to the Iraq War. In response to that faulty intelligence, late last year we created a Director of National Intelligence and reorganized our intelligence community. We're also working to make sure our troops have any needed equipment, and we're taking steps to prevent another Abu Gharib. 
   Having said that, I reserve the right to criticize Defense Secretary Rumsfeld and any others who want to close military bases, decrease shipbuilding budgets, dramatically increase National Guard deployments or make any other moves which might look good in short-term budgets, but actually be bad for our long term defense or hurt patriotic Mississippi communities. As many of you know, I've openly voiced my concerns with all these issues and will continue to do so without apology. Mississippians expect their Senators to chart an independent course dictated by the best interests of our state, and that's what I intend to do.
   Finally, above politics, partisanship, or personalities, our overall goal in Iraq right now must be to ensure that the Iraqi elections scheduled for January 30 go forward as the next step in Iraq's becoming a stable democracy. Clearly a free Iraq is something for which every freedom-loving person worldwide should hope. Of course, ultimately the Iraqi people will have to decide whether they want a future of unprecedented freedom or a return to dictatorship. I believe democracy and freedom are infectious. The seeds of liberty have been planted, and now Iraqis must cultivate them. Part of that process is moving forward with free elections. The Iraqi insurgents, particularly the Sunnis who benefitted from Saddam's perverted and murderous philanthropy, do not want change. They'll resist it. Yet, if the clear majority of Iraqis who want a better life prevail, freedom will win.
   Since September 11, 2001, our nation has been battling terror on every front - financially, diplomatically and militarily. So far, we've fended off additional attacks like 9/11. It has cost us time, money and, above all, lives, but we must continue. To do nothing and show weakness in the face of terror invites another attack, possibly a WMD assault of catastrophic proportions. 
   As President Bush said in his inaugural address this week, division among free nations is a primary goal of our enemies. We all may not agree with President Bush on every issue or decision in this war, but, rest assured, we have enemies, and we are at war with them. This remains an open-ended struggle against vicious and determined enemies incapable of negotiation or reason. Previous generations of Americans have faced down such foes before. So must we. Iraq is one battlefield in an ongoing, difficult and very serious war with terrorists. The President said, "Life is fragile, evil is real and courage triumphs." Our evil enemies are hoping that our courage will waver. For life and freedom's sake, it cannot.
 
 