SEN. LOTT: DEFENSE CONFERENCE REPORT INCLUDES $11 BILLION FOR SHIPBUILDING PRIORITIES
  The Defense Appropriations Conference Report for 2005 has been filed and it provides a total $11.1 billion for shipbuilding programs important to the U.S. Navy and to workers in Mississippi's shipbuilding industry, Sen. Trent Lott said. 
   "The report's numbers represent a $240 million increase for shipbuilding above the President's budget request, and it fully funds three DDG-51 destroyers and one LPD-17 - both ships built by Northrop Grumman Ship Systems in Pascagoula, Mississippi," Senator Lott said.
   An additional $150 million is provided for programs impacting Northrop Grumman Ship Systems Ingalls Operations, including initiation of the LHA-R program, $50 million is provided for modernization of existing DDG-51s and $84.4 million which is provided in advance procurement funding for construction of a second DD(X) destroyer - a highly advanced, revolutionary, stealth-like ship which represents the future of destroyers, setting a new benchmark for 21st Century naval design.
   "In all the conferees provided $1.4 billion for the DD(X) program, including $221 million requested for advance procurement of the first DD (X) ship," Senator Lott continued. "That means America's naval force will remain supreme on the world's oceans for years to come, and it translates into thousands of jobs for Northrop Grumman Ship Systems Ingalls Operations, Mississippi's largest private employer, which leads the DD(X) national team."
   The conferees also provided $953 million for the next generation CVN-21 aircraft carrier. Although big carriers are built by Northrop Grumman Newport News Division in Virginia, a sister company to Ingalls, the propellers for this vessel will most likely be constructed by Rolls-Royce Naval Marine, Inc. in Pascagoula. Earlier this month, Rolls-Royce Naval Marine won a $2.6 million contract to produce a set of big aircraft carrier propellers, with an additional $4.9 million for carrier propellers provided in the 2005 appropriation.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 