SPECIAL INTERESTS OR BEST INTERESTS
  With President Bush's nomination to the Supreme Court of the widely-respected Judge John G. Roberts, to replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, the Senate has an opportunity to show dignity and to move away from the shrill partisanship we've had surrounding recent judicial nominations. Americans want a Senate that works for their best interests, not for special interest groups on the right or the left. 
   Given the acrimony over the President's lower court nominations, many have expected the President's first Supreme Court nomination to be the battle royale of all judicial confirmation battles. But Judge Roberts' nomination shows that it doesn't have to be that way. He is a conservative who will interpret the Constitution as written, rather than making or formulating law according to his personal world view. That will surely lead to criticism from the far left. On the other hand, Judge Roberts has acknowledged that Roe v.Wade, the case which legalized abortion in the early 1970s, is the law. In keeping with his core conservative philosophy of interpreting the law as written, he is bound by it. That will surely lead to criticism from some on the right.
   However, Judge Roberts is very reflective of mainstream America and of President Bush's views. He's well qualified by experience and demeanor, serving as counsel during the Reagan and first Bush administrations and clerking for Chief Justice William Rehnquist. When nominated for the federal appeals court two years ago, he received a unanimous confirmation vote by the full Senate. Most Democrats found Judge Roberts an acceptable nominee back then, as they should today. In fact, 146 members of the District of Columbia Bar Association - hardly a den of conservative thought - including Clinton Administration officials, signed a letter urging his confirmation to the D.C. Court of Appeals.
   Many hope this confirmation process will meet the "Ginsburg standard." As you may recall, Ruth Bader Ginsburg was the last justice nominated and confirmed to the court, nominated by President Clinton and elevated during his first term. Judge Ginsburg was a known liberal. She once even served as a counsel for the ultra-left ACLU. Yet, Judge Ginsburg's legal and professional qualifications were solid. For that reason, I was one of many conservative Senators who voted for her, because that's our job. I knew I probably wouldn't agree with any of her decisions, but she was qualified, professionally and ethically. She reflected President Clinton's views, and the Constitution says nominations are a President's to make and the Senate's to confirm. 
   Nowhere in the Constitution do our wise Framers give the Senate power to filibuster a President's nominees. The Framers' thinking was that if you don't like the President or his philosophy, vote him out of office. Until then, Presidents are entitled to staff their administrations and make judicial nominations as they see fit. At the same time, the Senate has a responsibility, too. We're not supposed to give any nominee a free pass. We have the right to ask questions. The nominees have the discretion not to respond to all questions, particularly when questions pertain to how they might rule on a specific case. At the end of the day, however, the Senate's duty is to confirm the nominee who is qualified. regardless of our partisan political views.
   If we follow the same fair standard applied to Judge Ginsburg, Judge Roberts should be confirmed. Of course, the Framers of our Constitution probably didn't foresee the existence of special interest groups on the right and left, who have made a cottage industry raising funds, distorting the issues, provoking the media and trying to impact Congress. My words to all these groups - cool it, and let the Senate do its job as the vast majority of Americans expect of us. Whether liberal or conservative leaning, these special interest groups are itching for a fight, and frankly they're anxious to make more money from this, too. The Senate is elected to lead, to do what's in the best interest of the American people. Clearly, confirming Judge John G. Roberts to the Supreme Court is in America's best interest. 
   Senator Lott welcomes any questions or comments about this column. Write to: U.S. Senator Trent Lott, 487 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510 (attn: press office)
 
 