SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $24 MILLION FOR KATRINA RECOVERY, ASKS PRESIDENT TO EXTEND FEMA DEADLINE
  Federal reimbursements totaling more than $24 million have been approved for several Mississippi communities and utilities tasked with removing debris and restoring electric service following Hurricane Katrina, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. 
   "Recovering from this disaster will be a long process, but it is a sure one," Senator Lott said. "Mississippi will rebound, and while this money is only a fraction of the overall total needed statewide, it is very welcome in these areas."
   The announcement comes on the heels of a personal visit to the White House by Senator Lott during which he asked President Bush and his administration to quickly extend the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) deadline for 100 percent public reimbursement to all Katrina impacted local governments. Currently the deadline is October 27th. FEMA is now reviewing multiple requests for this extension. 
   "The President assured me he would encourage FEMA to enact such an extension," Senator Lott said. "One of my top priorities in our recovery effort is to get local governments financial relief through reimbursement grants such as the one today, through tax relief or through more generous bonding provisions such as those Congress has enacted."
   Today's grant package comes on the heels of a similar $30 million federal package for debris removal and infrastructure repair which Senators Lott and Cochran announced earlier this week.
   Today's funding which will be administered through FEMA breaks down as follows:
   $1,771,189.50 to Wayne County for debris removal efforts; 
   to Wayne County for debris removal efforts; 
  $11,880,830 to the City of Biloxi for debris removal efforts; 
   to the City of Biloxi for debris removal efforts; 
   $1,466,264 to Magnolia Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Pike County; 
   to Magnolia Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Pike County; 
   $2,576,000 to Singing River Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Jackson County; 
   to Singing River Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Jackson County; 
   $1,232,000 to Singing River Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Greene County; 
   $1,288,000 to Singing River Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in George County; 
   to Singing River Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in George County; 
   $1,750,000 to Pearl River Valley Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Lamar County; 
   to Pearl River Valley Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Lamar County; 
   $2,261,649 to Simpson County for debris removal.
   to Simpson County for debris removal. to Singing River Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Greene County; to Singing River Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in George County; to Pearl River Valley Electric Power Association for accelerated emergency power restoration in Lamar County; to Simpson County for debris removal.
   Federal reimbursements totaling more than $24 million have been approved for several Mississippi communities and utilities tasked with removing debris and restoring electric service following Hurricane Katrina, U.S. Senators Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 