AVIATION CHAIRMAN SEN. LOTT: DELTA AIRLINES TO UPGRADE SERVICE BETWEEN COAST, ATLANTA
  Delta Connection's regional carrier Atlantic Southeast Airlines will offer its South Mississippi commercial air customers all jet service between Gulfport/Biloxi Regional Airport and Atlanta by December 1, phasing out the last of its turboprop planes in Mississippi, Sen. Trent Lott, Chairman of the U.S. Senate's Aviation Subcommittee, said today.  
   The announcement precedes an open U.S. Senate Aviation Subcommittee Field Hearing which Senator Lott will bring to Gulfport next Tuesday, July 27. At the hearing, Senator Lott will hear testimony from Mississippi's airport officials and the public on ways to further improve Mississippi's airport capacity and expand or further enhance passenger and cargo service.
   "By Christmas, Atlantic Southeast Airlines will serve all its Mississippi customers with jet service completing a long-awaited process by which customers using airports in Jackson, Meridian, the Golden Triangle and Gulfport/Biloxi will benefit from full access to faster, more comfortable jet service," Senator Lott said. "Delta Connection's decision to enhance service between the Coast and Atlanta is welcome news to many South Mississippians who use Gulfport/Biloxi Regional Airport regularly. As Aviation Committee Chairman, I've worked to upgrade air service to our state's smaller, non-hub airports, and Delta's decision is consistent with this effort. I now look forward to hearing from Mississippians during the Committee's field hearing Tuesday regarding how we can build on this advancement and further improve our state's airports and service to the many citizens and businesses who depend on Mississippi's airports."
   Currently, four of the seven daily flights between the Coast and Atlanta are operated with turboprop aircraft. In addition to replacing the four turboprop flights with jets, the carrier will also upgrade the other three existing jet flights at Gulfport/Biloxi by replacing its four existing 50-passenger regional jet flights serving the route with 70-seat Bombardier CRJ700 aircraft. This provides an additional 36 seats for the airline's Gulfport/Biloxi customers.
   The upgrade process will begin September 1, as two daily round-trip flights will be upgraded with a third on October, 1 and a fourth November, 1. By December 1, the airline will offer seven daily all jet service flights between the Coast and Atlanta, making the company an all jet carrier throughout Mississippi. The CRJ aircraft carries passengers in two-by-two seating, with each seat being an aisle or window seat. It can cruise at 530 MPH and is recognized as one of the quietest commercial aircraft in the world.
   The Senate Aviation Subcommittee Field Hearing will begin at 10 a.m. at the Hancock Bank Building in Gulfport, Great Southern Club Room. The hearing is open to the public.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 