'BROADER, BOLDER, BETTER'
  My dad was a union member - a pipefitter by trade. In his day, union guys didn't take kindly to anything that threatened their freedom and independence. 
   Today things are different. 
   To appease supporters of the current "energy" proposal, the AFL-CIO is actually supporting a bill that would severely hinder worker rights and jeopardize manufacturing jobs.
   The "Employee Free Choice Act" isn't free at all. It would eliminate the tradition of union secret ballots during organizing elections. It's designed to help union recruiters, who, not surprisingly, get better results without private ballots. But it's opposed by 80 percent of union rank-and-file members.
   Why would union bosses do something so unpopular with their own folks? 
   Liberals in the Senate have made drastic new mileage mandates for cars and trucks - Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards - the center piece of their energy bill. And they're giving union bosses the "Free Choice Act" as a token to gain union support for it.
   Until now, unions have opposed dramatic new CAFE standards because they know they will lead to lost jobs throughout the auto industry. They're right, and now that Mississippi is a major auto manufacturing state, those CAFE job losses could impact Mississippi workers. Any plant that makes trucks and SUVs - including Nissan's Canton plant and the upcoming Toyota plant in Tupelo - could be hurt by over-reaching, government-imposed fuel economy mandates. 
   This strange alliance of union bosses, environmental lobbyists and fringe groups like Communist Party USA (yes, there is one) are examples of why this "energy" bill is an absolutely unworkable, special-interest mess in need of serious modification.
   Imposing drastic new CAFE standards isn't bold or innovative. It was tried in the late 1970s, and it didn't work. Rushing to meet the sudden requirements, automakers built a lot of untested technology into their products. The result was brand new cars that left motorists stranded on the road, returning to the repair shop and stung with huge repair bills.
   With free market-generated competition and technology, today's automobiles have come a long way, with passenger cars getting dramatically better fuel mileage. But even though much more fuel efficient than their predecessors, the segment that gets the most disdain these days from the Washington environmental groups is SUVs and trucks.
   I'm for increasing fuel mileage in all segments, including trucks, so I'm not necessarily opposed to new CAFE standards. But any new standards have to be realistic and rooted in today's technology and cost structure.
   A real energy policy has to be much more than just CAFE, and fragile political deals to appease partisan political constituencies. New standards only should be part of a much broader, bolder energy proposal that includes new domestic energy production and alternative energy, too.
   After Toyota announced a new SUV factory in Mississippi, there was consternation from Detroit to Washington. Some accused Toyota and the foreign-based nameplates of strategically siting their American plants to gain favor and influence with Congressional leaders like me. 
   Toyota and Nissan certainly are my constituents, and I want them to be in Mississippi a long time to create even more jobs. But as an American, I don't want to see iconic American companies like GM, Ford or Chrysler go the way of Studebaker, either. And I certainly don't want to see American workers, union or non-union, lose jobs.
   Americans - blue collar, white collar, union and non-union - should reject this phoney, dangerous and incomplete "energy" bill. Unfortunately it passed the Senate on June 21 with me voting no, but I will work to improve it before it clears the Congress. We must demand that Washington produce something broader, bolder and much better.
 
 