SEN. LOTT INTRODUCES BILL TO FUND KATRINA RELATED AIRPORT REPAIRS
  Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi today introduced legislation giving the Secretary of Transportation authority to use millions of dollars in existing federal grant funds to make emergency repairs at airports in the Gulf Coast region damaged by Hurricane Katrina. 
   "In the 2005 fiscal year which ends September 30, this bill could make between $15 million and $20 million available to help get our airports back in full operation," Lott, a senior member of the Senate's Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, said. "Even more millions of dollars would be available in the 2006 fiscal year which begins on October 1, 2005."
   Lott drafted the legislation in consultation with representatives of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). He said the bill is expected to be taken up by the full Senate today, Thursday, September 21, and Lott said he has received assurances that the Katrina airport funding should get an immediate vote in the full House of Representatives, which would make the money available almost immediately. 
   Lott's bill specifically permits the Transportation Secretary to make project grants for capital costs to repair or replace public use facilities damaged as a result of Hurricane Katrina that were incurred by a public use airport in Mississippi, Louisiana, or Alabama that is listed in the FAA's National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems. The bill also permits grant funding to cover emergency operating costs incurred as a result of Hurricane Katrina by these airports.
   The U.S.'s share of the funding is 100 percent. State and local governments will not be required to match the funds.
   "Rebuilding and repairing our airports is critical to the economic development, vitality and quality of life of our communities devastated by Hurricane Katrina," Lott said. "Congress' action on this bill is key to restoring commerce and passenger travel in Mississippi and the other affected states. It's an important step toward fully reopening our communities."
   Joining Lott as original cosponsors of the legislation are Senators Thad Cochran of Mississippi, Mary Landrieu and David Vitter, both of Louisiana, and Conrad Burns of Montana.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 