SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES ALMOST $30 MILLION FOR KATRINA CLEANUP
  Federal funding totaling almost $30 million is approved for post-hurricane debris removal in Harrison and Jackson counties, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. The individual grants are for both counties' expenses incurred with debris removal following Hurricane Katrina. 
   "These two counties face significant physical and financial hurdles with removing debris," Senator Lott said. "This funding will certainly be welcome in these areas, and it will hopefully help speed what is a continuing recovery process. We've still got a lot of work do to, and I'm working to secure more such federal grant support as our recovery continues." 
   Senator Cochran stated:
   "Our Gulf Coast communities continue to make progress in recovering from Hurricane Katrina, and these debris removal grants are essential to our successful economic revitalization. Restoring the beaches along the Gulf is important for coastal tourism and it is also a valuable symbol of Mississippi's recovery."
   Today's awards include:
   q. $6,546,600.00 -Harrison County- Debris Removal- Hurricane Katrina cased widespread damage to the engineered beach in Harrison County. The large volume of water that fell onto the beach caused a significant amount of sand to erode back to the sea. The high storm surge in excess of 30 feet pushed a large amount of beach sand into the inland areas. Heavy amounts of debris were deposited onto the beach as the water receded. Using contract labor and equipment, 727.4 acres of beach sand will be sifted to a depth of 12 inches at a cost of $9,000.00 per acre. 
   * Hurricane Katrina cased widespread damage to the engineered beach in Harrison County. The large volume of water that fell onto the beach caused a significant amount of sand to erode back to the sea. The high storm surge in excess of 30 feet pushed a large amount of beach sand into the inland areas. Heavy amounts of debris were deposited onto the beach as the water receded. Using contract labor and equipment, 727.4 acres of beach sand will be sifted to a depth of 12 inches at a cost of $9,000.00 per acre. 
   q. $21,848,700.00 - Jackson County- Debris Removal- As a result of Hurricane Katrina, heavy rain, strong wind, and a high storm surge uprooted trees, scattered limbs, damaged buildings and infrastructure, and deposited debris throughout Jackson County, causing a threat to public health and safety. Various types of debris including household items, vegetative debris, and hazardous waste must be removed. This $21,848,700 represents the contract costs to remove and dispose of an estimated 1,000,000 cubic yards of debris throughout Jackson County.
   * As a result of Hurricane Katrina, heavy rain, strong wind, and a high storm surge uprooted trees, scattered limbs, damaged buildings and infrastructure, and deposited debris throughout Jackson County, causing a threat to public health and safety. Various types of debris including household items, vegetative debris, and hazardous waste must be removed. This $21,848,700 represents the contract costs to remove and dispose of an estimated 1,000,000 cubic yards of debris throughout Jackson County.
   Federal funding totaling almost $30 million is approved for post-hurricane debris removal in Harrison and Jackson counties, U.S. Senators Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. The individual grants are for both counties' expenses incurred with debris removal following Hurricane Katrina.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 