MISSISSIPPI'S MARK
  By Sen. Trent Lott  
  Former House Speaker Tip O'Neill used to say "all politics is local," and he was right. This year's federal budget appropriations bill contains a lot of local projects for Mississippi. As your Senator, it's my job to represent Mississippi and her interests, and, as in most federal budgets, your Congressional delegation has left Mississippi's mark. The bill provides funds for several major initiatives around our state, including funds for historic preservation in Mississippi's six coastal counties, funds for the University of Southern Mississippi's Center for Excellence in Economic Development, and a multi-cultural leadership initiative at the University of Mississippi. 
   GULF COAST HERITAGE AREA DESIGNATION: The Omnibus Appropriations Bill provides $10 million over the next 10 fiscal years for historic preservation efforts in George, Stone, Pearl River, Jackson, Harrison and Hancock counties. Entities within these counties may apply each year for this money to be used for any preservation project that pertains to the coast's unique cultural, historic and natural heritage. This is a flexible program which will contribute a lot toward saving our coast's special heritage for the enjoyment and understanding of future generations.
   NATIONAL CENTER FOR EXCELLENCE IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT: Two million dollars are set aside to fund USM's National Center for Excellence in Economic Development - a new building and program that will consolidate and expand USM's entire economic development curriculum. USM has the most unique and comprehensive economic development degree program in the nation. It's the only university offering accredited economic development degrees through the Ph.D. level. It takes skilled, seasoned economic developers to represent communities in the global competition for jobs. Enthusiasm and plans scribbled down on a paper napkin just aren't enough to win jobs in today's business environment. Economic development and job creation requires the services of professional economic developers like this center is producing.
   OLE MISS MULTI-CULTURAL LEADERSHIP PROGRAM: The University of Mississippi will use $3 million from this bill to organize a multi-cultural leadership initiative. Ole Miss has taken a lead in leadership education and development. This initiative will be administered by the university's leadership institute dedicated last spring. Through symposiums and a speakers' series, it will develop leadership strategies specifically dealing with public service and government. The program is geared toward ways to bridge racial and ethnic divides, not just between black and white, but among all the varying cultures represented throughout America. 
   LAW ENFORCEMENT, TRANSPORTATION, INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESEARCH: The cities of Richton and Pascagoula, along with Jackson County will benefit from funding for law enforcement technology upgrades totaling almost $1 million. 
   There are $6 million in the bill for a new interchange near Sowell Road off I-55 near Jackson; $3.2 million to four lane Highway 67 from I-110 to Highway 49 near Biloxi; $2.7 million to four lane DeSoto County's Route 304, part of the new interstate I-69; $1 million for Improvement at Jackson's "Stack" interchange near U.S. 49; $4 million for the Canal Road Connector project near Gulfport and $1 million to extend the runway at Jackson County's airport to accommodate a new factory there. 
   About $34 million is slated to build new ships at Halter Marine in Jackson County; about $10 million is set aside for research programs at Stennis Space Center; $6 million for development and marketing of Mississippi's fisheries, including Gulf shrimp and red snapper; and another $1 million for the cities of Tchula and Brookhaven to improve water and sewer infrastructure.
   Mississippi's delegation definitely left Mississippi's mark on this measure, and our state will be better for it. It proves yet again that national politics in Washington is indeed a most local matter.
 
 