VICTIMS AND VICTORS
  Mississippians want to be victors instead of victims, not just over an unprecedented storm, but over decades of being economically shortchanged. As I've moved around Mississippi, I've seen our citizens working hard to make sure Mississippi 's share in the American bounty will grow, even amid Hurricane Katrina's daunting shadow. 
   For instance, we're hearing more about the "Go Zone." This is a tax package I shepherded through Congress in December that's designed to help the Gulf states bounce back from Hurricane Katrina, with incentives specifically for retaining and recruiting business.  
   Though primarily for hurricane recovery, we're using this special legislation as leverage in the competition for new jobs. What better way to recover than with a good job? All over the world right now, companies are asking how they can benefit from putting jobs in the Gulf states. 
   Another thing that encourages me is the fortitude of Mississippians. I recently was in Hancock County with my colleague U.S. Senator John McCain of Arizona. Senator McCain has longstanding family ties to Mississippi, and he wanted to get a first-hand look at the destruction Katrina caused his ancestral home state. 
   In Bay St. Louis, John and I met with many local residents whose homes were washed away, and he was impressed with their resilience. Coming from a guy who spent five years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, that's saying something. He could have been a victim, but he choose to be a victor. And he admires the inner strength Mississippians are mustering right now to do the same. 
   As we looked out over the ruined Bay St. Louis bridge, we strategized about prevailing upon our Senate colleagues to ensure that Mississippi, Louisiana and all the hurricane-stricken areas receive the federal support we need. We don't see this as a competition among Senators or states, but as a unified effort to make sure America doesn't forget the Gulf region. 
   The coast isn't the only region where Mississippians are taking control of our destiny and working to make sure our state's economy is not a victim of changing economic times. 
   In Meridian a Mississippi company has acquired the exclusive rights to manufacture a new type of engineered wood, made from Mississippi's abundance of young pine timber. This product could revolutionize the way homes and commercial structures are built and employ hundreds with skilled jobs right here in Mississippi. The "Timtec" process will give many Mississippians a good market for their pine thinnings and ensure that our timber and lumber industries are not the victims of unfair foreign competition. 
   In the Jackson area, we are competing with a handful of states for a new research lab to study halting the spread of animal and agricultural diseases. If we win this project, 400 high-paying, skilled jobs would be coming to this area. 
   Northeast Mississippi, the Golden Triangle and Lauderdale County continue to prepare Mississippi's "megasites' - tracts of land and infrastructure capable of handling large economic development projects. Coupled with the Go Zone incentives, this will ensure that Mississippi's global economic profile gets even higher. 
   In the Delta and in Northwest Mississippi, we're seeing considerable progress. I was in DeSoto County this week, one of the fastest growing areas of our nation. Not only are cities like Hernando and Southaven great places to live, they're also becoming great places to work, with new industries and facilities capitalizing on this region's reputation as an attractive distribution center. 
   In the Delta, we've worked successfully to improve Tunica airport where chartered jets now transport tourists to the resorts at Tunica. And I'm looking forward to soon being in Greenville to celebrate construction of the new Mississippi River bridge there which, coupled with the construction of the new Interstate I-69, will bring opportunities to this region. 
   When I get around Mississippi, talk to the people and see what's going on, it really reinforces for me that Katrina didn't break our back. We're not going to be victims of Katrina or of economic shifts. Mississippians will be victors.
 
 