SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $520 MILLION TO HELP COVER MISSISSIPPI'S KATRINA-RELATED HEALTH CARE COSTS
 The State of Mississippi today has been informed it will receive $520 million, the first installment of federal funds covering 100 percent of Hurricane Katrina-related Medicaid expenses as part of an agreement brokered by Sen. Trent Lott and the Bush Administration. The funding includes $368 million to cover the cost of Medicaid for the first two quarters of 2006, $75 million to cover Mississippi's uncompensated care pool, $2.43 million to cover hurricane waiver evacuees, and $73.5 million to cover the state shortfall in the State Children's Health Insurance Program ( S-CHIP) funding for children.  
   "Medicaid is one of the costliest items in our state's budget, and these funds will free up a lot of state money that can be dedicated for our Katrina recovery," Senator Lott said. "This is not about adding to the Medicaid rolls or expanding that program. It is about enabling Mississippi to continue meeting the needs of Medicaid recipients and those recovering from Katrina, without financial worries."
   The award is part of more than $1.5 billion being allocated to eight states affected by Katrina. Senator Lott's legislation is projected to total about $2 billion for the Gulf states hardest hit by Hurricane Katrina, primarily freeing up state resources in Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama while these states' tax bases recover. The amount each state receives will depend on claims and other program costs.
   The remaining $500 million will be allocated in coming weeks between Mississippi, Alabama, and Louisiana, and Senator Lott vowed to work aggressively to ensure that Mississippi receives its fair share.
   "Mississippi will receive 100 percent federal Medicaid reimbursement until funding expires," Senator Lott said. "It has been challenging, even in normal budget years, for state lawmakers to find the usual matching funds for the Medicaid program. After Katrina, that was going to be even more difficult without complete federal support. Mississippi now can devote its full attention to rebuilding and recovery."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 