PICK A FLOOD PLAN
  Mississippi flooding is one of the worst kinds of natural disasters from which to recover. Homes are practically ruined, and it's the same for businesses, cars and virtually any property submerged by the flood. When the waters recede, the smell is awful, and poisonous snakes are everywhere, including in what's left of your house. Folks who have experienced flooding, automatically fear it. Government officials - well, they sometimes need some friendly prodding. 
   As we approach Easter 2005, it's useful to look back to Easter 1979 and consider a lesson some folks have yet to fully grasp. Most of us can remember the 1979 Easter flood that put a shocking portion of Jackson under water. The Pearl River peaked at 43 feet and did about a half-billion (yes, that's billion with a "b") dollars worth of damage, measured in today's dollars. Since then we've had several more close calls - in 1983, the Pearl hit almost 40 feet. Twice in 2003 the river peaked at 35 feet. 
   Yet, a flood control plan for our state's largest metropolitan area still is not in place, and several proposals remain paper-bound, primarily because the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and local government entities can't come to terms on which plan to pursue. 
   Recently I met with officials from Hinds, Rankin and Madison counties about this problem, and I've talked extensively with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. My message to them: Pick a plan now. I've very candidly told all parties that if another major flood devastates Jackson, it won't be because Mississippi's Congressional delegation has been idle or indecisive. Senator Thad Cochran and I, in particular, are very proactive with all Mississippi flood control efforts, and we stand ready to help whenever a plan is chosen and presented to us. 
   In fact, Senator Cochran and I sometimes take a lot of nasty, unwarranted criticism from liberal, environmental special interest groups outside Mississippi because of our support for flood control. But we know that to most Mississippians, flood control is a life-or-death issue. The lives and property of people in our state take precedence. Therefore, I'm strongly urging the Corps and local officials to decide this year on a consensus Jackson area flood control strategy. Jackson area residents should no longer remain vulnerable.
   The emerging locally-preferred flood control plan appears to be the "Two Lakes" proposal, now called "Lefleur Lakes," which calls for the construction of two lakes near Lakeland Drive as a means to help protect the Jackson area. Yet, because of various bureaucratic breakdowns, this plan still hasn't gotten the designation to be put into effect. 
   As your Senator I have no personal attachment to any of the various Jackson area flood control proposals. If the local people and their leaders determine that Lefleur Lakes is the most practical plan, then I'll try to assis it federally. If the choice is another plan, same thing. No plan is going to be absolutely perfect or acceptable to everyone, but rest assured, flood waters rivaling those of the 1979 Easter flood watermarks or even higher, will return. Will the Jackson area be ready? 
   Whether it's the Lefleur Lakes plan or another, we must all take flood control very seriously. Your Congressional delegation has made it a priority. Local residents, government officials, business leaders and the Corps must all have equal zeal. That's not to say that area leaders and the Corps are doing nothing. They are, but these entities must put forward a consensus plan sooner, rather than later. 
   Flood control in the Delta, on the Coast and throughout Mississippi is just as important as in the Jackson area. But clearly all Mississippians have a lot invested in Metro Jackson. Even if you don't live here, many of you have family here, business interests here, and we all are impacted by government agencies which operate very near the still highly vulnerable flood zone.
   The lessons of the Easter flood must be realized, lest they be repeated. Let's decide this year on a Jackson area flood plan and make sure there are no more Easters like 1979. Let's pick a Metro Jackson flood plan now and make sure that every Easter hence, we're high and dry, in church, with our families, and not dodging snakes in the kitchen.
 
 