LOST WOULD SUBVERT AMERICAN SOVEREIGNTY, SUBJECT AMERICANS TO INTERNATIONAL TAXATION
  If approved by the Senate, the United Nation's Convention on the Law of the Sea Treaty (LOST) would subject America to an international organization with the ability to levy fees on American citizens and corporations as well as severely curb American sovereignty, said Senate Republican Whip Trent Lott of Mississippi and Senate Steering Committee Chairman Jim DeMint of South Carolina at a joint press conference today. 
   LOST creates the International Sea-Bed Authority and gives U.N. bureaucrats control of nearly two-thirds of the earth's surface. This organization would have the ability to tax American maritime activities as well as exercise judicial control over all the world's oceans.
   More importantly, LOST could have serious ramifications for national security by allowing the 155 member nations to amend the treaty without the expressed consent of the United States government. LOST does not define exempt military activities and could force some military vessels to leave treaty controlled waters.
   "This was a bad idea in 1982 when President Reagan rejected it and it is a bad idea today," said Senator DeMint. "Especially in a time of war, this Democrat Senate would be foolish to subject our nation to a treaty that ties our hands militarily and economically. We have seen the folly that international organizations like the United Nations are capable of. I don't believe America should prop up another unnecessary and overpowered organization with our tax dollars and support."
   "President Bush said he would not ask for permission slips in order to secure our nation," Senator Lott said. "If the Senate ratifies the Law of the Sea Treaty, we will cede our national sovereignty - both militarily and economically. Now is not the time to start asking for permission from the U.N. LOST needs to remain lost at sea."
   LOST is currently pending in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and is expected to be voted on in the near future.
   Contact: Nick Simpson, 202/224-4239; Wesley Denton, 202/228-5079.
 
 