IVAN'S AFTERMATH
  By Sen. Trent Lott  
   Mississippi was spared the brunt of Hurricane Ivan's destructive force, but let's keep in mind three things: First, Ivan hit our neighbors in Alabama and Florida very hard, and it will take them months, perhaps years, to fully recover. We should continue praying for them and helping them. Second, Mississippians did the right thing by evacuating. This storm went east of us, but let's guard against second guessing our evacuation or becoming complacent. Finally, though we escaped major destruction, residents in ten Mississippi counties are eligible for federal assistance, and I urge people who've suffered damage from Ivan in Clarke, George, Greene, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Lauderdale, Perry, Stone and Wayne counties to inquire about their eligibility for federal help. 
   As a Gulf Coast resident, I understand all too well the impact hurricanes can have. On August 17, 1969, Mississippi became the target of history's worst recorded hurricane, and I was among many Mississippians in her path. Like too many Coast residents, I decided to ride out Hurricane Camille and its more than 200 mile-per-hour winds and 25-foot storm surge. Like most, I didn't think it would be that bad, but nature proved we humans wrong yet again. When it was over, hundreds of people along Mississippi's coast were either dead or missing. Some were never found. Like a child kicking a sand castle, buildings were decimated. Huge oceangoing vessels were hoisted by the tidal surge and hurled far inland. Even graves were washed open. Like everyone on the coast that night, I'll always remember the catastrophic destruction and the deafening, terrifying roar. I'm one of many who vowed the next day never to ride out another hurricane.
   No doubt, many Mississippians were thinking back to that terrible Sunday 35 years ago. Our evacuation from Ivan's potential path along designated escape routes was slow, but sure, steady and smooth. Drawing on lessons from our past, cities, towns, churches, and individuals all over our state readily took in those seeking shelter from Ivan. It shows what kind of people Mississippians are - people of character, of compassion and courage. Even though Ivan caused minimal damage in Mississippi when compared to Alabama or Florida, let's remember the events of last week, and how we came together as a state. It brought out the best in us. Lives and property were indeed lost, but the impact was kept low by the measures taken.
   We are reminded again of the sheer unpredictability of a hurricane's footprint and that the destruction doesn't stop on the coast. Ironically, while the always hurricane-prone areas of Harrison, Hancock and Jackson counties escaped Ivan with a few scratches, Ivan unexpectedly stretched out to sneak a hard punch far inland from Waynesboro to Meridian. Thankfully, Governor Haley Barbour was well ahead of the curve, asking President Bush for disaster assistance even before the Hurricane hit. The President was quick to approve Mississippi's request, and, as of this writing, people in the ten aforementioned counties may apply for disaster assistance by calling the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) toll free registration line at 1-800-621-FEMA. FEMA has opened relief centers in Pascagoula, Lucedale and Waynesboro. Already during this busy hurricane season the federal government will spend $8 billion in hurricane disaster relief, and we stand ready to increase that number if needed.
   Finally, if you have something you can contribute to the pressing hurricane relief effort in Alabama and the Florida panhandle please do so. Simple things like ice, water, food, clothing and other basic necessities are a blessing to hurricane victims. Ivan's victims are truly neighbors. Each year thousands of Mississippians enjoy the beautiful sights and hospitality of Mobile, Fairhope, Orange Beach, Gulf Shores, Pensacola or Destin, and vice versa. Let's take that neighborly spirit and turn it eastward, remembering our own terrible ordeal 35 years ago. Let's never forget the destruction hurricanes can cause and the lives we save when we take precautions, help each other and, most of all, leave a hurricane's path.
 
 