'FIGHTING FOR WHAT IS RIGHT,' SOME THOUGHTS ON MEMORIAL DAY
  When a Mississippian is killed in the War on Terror, my heart sinks. I'm saddened and angered, and, like many of you, I question our current policy.
   Without question I know our soldiers' cause - America 's cause - is just. As an American, I'm comforted by the fact that our soldiers have always fought and died for what is right: our freedom. And on this Memorial Day, I honor them. 
   In the War on Terror, the right side is easy to see. In fact, it's more clearly defined than any conflict since World War II. The current fight is a confrontation between those who value democracy, religious freedom and human rights, and those who don't. Without provocation, they have killed Americans in our own homeland to demonstrate this demented view.
   With right and wrong so clearly defined, with the images of a collapsing World Trade Center and burning Pentagon just a few years removed, some Americans now question whether our troops fight for what is right in Iraq and in the broader War on Terror.
   They mistakenly and dangerously view terrorism as the unfortunate byproduct of American strength, of our troops' footprints abroad. They advocate weakness and withdrawal as the right course.
   To them I ask: Is it right to blow up busses filled with innocent civilians? Is it right to kidnap people and decapitate them on video? Is it right to oppose self-government, the rule of law, and freedom of religion as terrorists so openly do?
   Of course not. And the only opposition to this hateful behavior is coming from America 's military.
   I think that's why last week the Democratic Congressional leadership wisely backed off their previous demands that we set a date to abruptly withdraw American troops from Iraq - in effect, to surrender to the terrorists.
   Deep down, they understand that setting a withdrawal deadline in Iraq only serves the terrorist enemy. They know that peace at any price is not what America's troops have given their lives for in this and other conflicts throughout two centuries of America 's history. They know that a sudden withdrawal will end all hopes for a free Iraq .
   Far be it for me to defend the new Iraqi government or to predict its success. While our troop surge unfolds, we must demand the Iraqis do better and that they meet certain benchmarks to create a free and independent nation. Our troops have brought Iraqis an unprecedented opportunity. If democracy fails in Iraq , it won't be an American failure but an Iraqi one.
   On this Memorial Day, we as Americans should recheck our own commitment to liberty's basic requirements and resolve to better support our troops, without engaging in the partisan gamesmanship we've seen lately in Washington .
   Our nation always has met challenges to our freedom with military sacrifice, if necessary. And we will be required to do it again and again, as long as there are those who despise freedom and democracy.
   Former Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska last week called on his fellow American liberals who now so vehemently oppose the Iraq war and the War or Terror to "face the truth" about the ongoing and very real, global fight against radical Islam, and its current center in Iraq. He is a Vietnam veteran Medal of Honor recipient and a member of the 9/11 commission.
   We can question our nation's policies, but we should avoid shrill, demoralizing, self-defeating political strategies. As Senator Kerrey noted, the war to overthrow Saddam Hussein is over. What remains is not simply a conflict among domestic factions about local policies and power. It's part of a global war being waged by terrorists to advance their very real and radical agenda. Its outcome will impact the world.
  As we honor our soldiers on Memorial Day, let's recognize that they without question fight on freedom's side in Iraq and in the War on Terror. Let's always support them, honor them and remember those who have fallen throughout our history, fighting for what is right.
   Contact: 
 
 