SEN. LOTT HELPS MISSISSIPPI GET ALMOST $9 MILLION FOR HIGHWAY SAFETY
 The State of Mississippi will receive $9 million in federal funding thanks to a provision championed by Sen. Trent Lott in last year's highway bill which rewards states for passing more stringent seatbelt legislation.  
   "Mississippi lawmakers approved more rigid seat belt rules during this year's legislative session, making our state eligible to receive this federal money," Senator Lott said. "The law goes into effect Saturday, just in time to save lives during the busy Memorial Day holiday." 
   As chairman of the Senate's Surface Transportation Subcommittee, Senator Lott wrote the safety provisions included in last year's highway bill, and the incentive program is expected to save about 1,200 lives nationwide annually. 
   At Senator Lott's insistence, Congress included almost $500 million in the bill for states with primary seat belt laws or which maintain an 85 percent seat belt use rate for two consecutive years. 
   Senator Lott said Mississippi's federal funding will be available immediately to further improve the state's highway safety. The flexible performance grants can be used for a variety of safety enhancements, including restructuring risky intersections, installing better highway signs and redesigning dangerous sections of roadways.
   Mississippi, Kentucky and Alaska enacted primary seat belt laws this year to obtain the grants. Now roughly half of all states have enacted tougher laws, and Senator Lott said he is confident a majority of states will soon have better seat belt standards.
   "By enacting these incentives, Congress made a historic and productive shift in our approach to highway safety," Senator Lott said. "Instead of penalizing states with low seat belt use and weak seat belt laws, we're taking a more positive approach, providing real financial incentives to states for improved road safety, and it's working. I'm proud Mississippi is part of it."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 