SEN. LOTT SETS RECORD STRAIGHT ON JUDICIAL CONFIRMATION ISSUE
  Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi refuted charges made today by Democrats that two of President Clinton's nominees to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals were filibustered in 2000 by Senate Republicans. "This is a misunderstanding of history," Lott said. "My actions in 2000 were to guarantee up-or-down votes, not to block votes as is being done today." 
   "Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle and I, as the Senate's Majority Leader, actually used cloture petitions in 2000 to overcome Senators' holds and move forward on the nominations of Richard A. Paez and Marsha L. Berzon to the 9th Circuit," Lott said, referencing an October 1999 commitment he made to Daschle on the Senate floor to proceed to the two nominations. "That was unlike the situation we have experienced over the last 2 ? years where the Democratic leadership is using filibusters to block nominations from up-or-down votes." 
   On March 8, 2000, the Senate voted 85-14-1 to invoke cloture on the nomination of Richard Paez on a cloture motion signed by Lott, Daschle, Senators Orrin Hatch, Susan Collins, Arlen Specter, Ted Stevens, Thad Cochran, Robert Bennett, Harry Reid, Richard Lugar, Chuck Hagel, Conrad Burns, John Warner, Patrick Leahy, Charles Schumer, and Barbara Boxer. 
   On March 9, 2000, under Lott's leadership, a motion to postpone indefinitely a vote on Paez was defeated, 67-31-2. Paez's nomination was confirmed by the Senate on March 9, 2000, by a vote of 59-39-2, a margin that would have sustained a Republican filibuster if that had been Republicans' goal, Lott said. On March 8, 2000, the Senate voted 86-13-1 to approve cloture on the nomination of Berzon. Her nomination also was confirmed the following day, March 9, 2000, by a vote of 64-34-2. 
   "I certainly had some philosophical disagreements with these nominees," Lott said, "but they were President Clinton's choices, and I worked in a bipartisan fashion with the Democratic leader because I felt they deserved up-or-down votes. It was not a popular action with my colleagues, but I didn't think it was right to filibuster judicial nominees then. And it's not right now."
 
 