SENS. LOTT, COCHRAN: $50 MILLION APPROVED FOR MISSISSIPPI'S ONGOING KATRINA RECOVERY
 Federal funding totaling almost $50 million is approved for post-hurricane recovery efforts throughout central and south Mississippi, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. The funds consist of various reimbursements to counties, municipalities and utilities charged with removing debris and restoring services in the days and months following Hurricane Katrina. 
   "This funding will certainly be needed as these communities continue to deal with Hurricane Katrina's lingering impact," Senator Lott said. "By getting this money into the coffers of local governments and public utilities, we ensure that Mississippi's rebuilding and recovery effort will continue unabated." 
   Senator Cochran stated:
   "This is very good news for communities in Mississippi that are working hard to rebuild from thedamage caused by Hurricane Katrina. The substantial funding provided from the Federal Emergency Management Agency will boost recovery efforts not only on the coast of Mississippi but also across the entire state. In order to continue reconstruction, it is important that communities have the resources needed to repair damage to infrastructure and remove remaining hurricane debris. These grants will put our state on the right track in completing these tasks." 
   The funds will be administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and distributed through the state government to the specified local entities.
   The funding package announced today consists of the following: 
   Federal funding totaling almost $50 million is approved for post-hurricane recovery efforts throughout central and south Mississippi, U.S. Senators Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. The funds consist of various reimbursements to counties, municipalities and utilities charged with removing debris and restoring services in the days and months following Hurricane Katrina. 
  $998,223.30 - City of Pascagoula- The City of Pascagoula Bayou Casotte Reverse Osmosis Water treatment plant treats 700,000 gallons of water per day and serves approximately 2,600 residents. Hurricane Katrina inundated the plant with salt water, corroding key components and significantly damaging the plant. This represents the estimated cost to restore the facility to its pre-disaster design, capacity, and function. 
   $1,398,158.83 - City of Long Beach- The storm surge generated by Hurricane Katrina caused severe damage to the sewer system along Highway 90 in the City of Long Beach. The majority of the sewer lines along Highway 90 were damaged and must be replaced with pipes that meet the current codes and standards. Damage also includes cracking and upheaval of the pavement creating sinkholes, and the majority of the manholes also need replacement. This represents the estimated cost to restore this facility to its pre-disaster design, capacity, and function. 
   The storm surge generated by Hurricane Katrina caused severe damage to the sewer system along Highway 90 in the City of Long Beach. The majority of the sewer lines along Highway 90 were damaged and must be replaced with pipes that meet the current codes and standards. Damage also includes cracking and upheaval of the pavement creating sinkholes, and the majority of the manholes also need replacement. This represents the estimated cost to restore this facility to its pre-disaster design, capacity, and function. 
   $12,596,933.00 - Jones County Debris Removal- Debris Removal -Hurricane Katrina. This represents the estimated contract cost to pick up, haul, and dispose of approximately 355,433 cubic yards of ground debris, over 20,000 hanging limbs, and nearly 6,500 leaning trees from private sites. This funding is provided in accordance with Hurricane Katrina - specific policy authorizing debris removal from private property. 
   Debris Removal -Hurricane Katrina. This represents the estimated contract cost to pick up, haul, and dispose of approximately 355,433 cubic yards of ground debris, over 20,000 hanging limbs, and nearly 6,500 leaning trees from private sites. This funding is provided in accordance with Hurricane Katrina - specific policy authorizing debris removal from private property. 
   $7,747,968.00 - Wayne County- Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. This funding is in addition to previous funding for contract costs to remove and dispose of eligible trees and limbs along publicly maintained streets and approved residential property. This brings the total amount of funding to $9,146,126.83 to remove an estimated 236,000 cubic yards of debris and over 650 hazardous stumps throughout Wayne County. 
   Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. This funding is in addition to previous funding for contract costs to remove and dispose of eligible trees and limbs along publicly maintained streets and approved residential property. This brings the total amount of funding to $9,146,126.83 to remove an estimated 236,000 cubic yards of debris and over 650 hazardous stumps throughout Wayne County. 
   $2,656,064.00 - MS State Port Authority - Debris Removal- Hurricane Katrina caused severe damage to the Mississippi State Port Authority (MSPA) resulting in large quantities of debris. The debris is comprised primarily of construction and demolition material, destroyed equipment, and damaged cargo. This represents costs to collect, haul, and dispose of an estimated 105,000 cubic yards of debris
   Debris Removal- Hurricane Katrina caused severe damage to the Mississippi State Port Authority (MSPA) resulting in large quantities of debris. The debris is comprised primarily of construction and demolition material, destroyed equipment, and damaged cargo. This represents costs to collect, haul, and dispose of an estimated 105,000 cubic yards of debris 
   $2,502,372.17 - Harrison County Debris Removal - Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. The City awarded eight contracts to collect, haul, and dispose of hazardous debris. This represents actual contract costs to remove approximately 193,000 cubic yards of debris throughout the Municipality. 
   Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. The City awarded eight contracts to collect, haul, and dispose of hazardous debris. This represents actual contract costs to remove approximately 193,000 cubic yards of debris throughout the Municipality. 
   $1,000,000 - City of Columbia - Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. This represents additional funding provided to Stone County to support accelerated debris removal based on initial estimates. This brings the total amount funded for debris removal in the City of Columbia to $3,366,249.90. 
   Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. This represents additional funding provided to Stone County to support accelerated debris removal based on initial estimates. This brings the total amount funded for debris removal in the City of Columbia to $3,366,249.90. 
   $5,441,150.04 - Stone County Debris Removal - Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. Initial estimates have been amended and currently stand at 556,000 cubic yards of debris, 1,450 hazardous stumps, and 500 hazardous trees in need of removal and disposal. This is in addition to previous funds awarded to Stone county to support the cost of debris removal from private property, and brings the total amount to $11,945,500.04. 
   Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. Initial estimates have been amended and currently stand at 556,000 cubic yards of debris, 1,450 hazardous stumps, and 500 hazardous trees in need of removal and disposal. This is in addition to previous funds awarded to Stone county to support the cost of debris removal from private property, and brings the total amount to $11,945,500.04. 
   $1,847,641.17 - Lauderdale County- Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. This represents additional funding provided to Lauderdale County to support the cost of accelerated debris removal based on initial estimates. This grant is based on actual documentation of costs, and brings the total amount funded for debris removal in Lauderdale County to $3,330,991.17. 
   Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. This represents additional funding provided to Lauderdale County to support the cost of accelerated debris removal based on initial estimates. This grant is based on actual documentation of costs, and brings the total amount funded for debris removal in Lauderdale County to $3,330,991.17. 
   $2,275,279.40 - Jasper County- Hurricane Katrina. This is to reimburse the Southern Pine Electric Power Association (SPEPA) for costs incurred to restore electric power to all service customers and eliminate immediate threats to public safety. The applicant employed mutual aid agreements, contractor labor, and SPEPA employees to service over 855 miles of power lines. This is based on actual costs and is in addition to funding previously provided to SPEPA based on initial estimates. Total funding provided to the applicant for protective measures in Jasper County is $3,486,879.40. 
   Hurricane Katrina. This is to reimburse the Southern Pine Electric Power Association (SPEPA) for costs incurred to restore electric power to all service customers and eliminate immediate threats to public safety. The applicant employed mutual aid agreements, contractor labor, and SPEPA employees to service over 855 miles of power lines. This is based on actual costs and is in addition to funding previously provided to SPEPA based on initial estimates. Total funding provided to the applicant for protective measures in Jasper County is $3,486,879.40. 
   $1,348,482.10 - Covington County- Hurricane Katrina. This is to reimburse the Southern Pine Electric Power Association (SPEPA) for costs incurred to restore electric power to all service customers in order to eliminate the immediate threat to public health and safety. The applicant employed mutual aid agreements, contractor labor, and SPEPA employees to service power lines throughout the county. This grant is based on actual costs and is in addition to funding previously provided to SPEPA based on initial cost estimates of work. This brings the total amount of funding provided to the applicant for protective measures in Covington County to $2,638,082.10. 
   Hurricane Katrina. This is to reimburse the Southern Pine Electric Power Association (SPEPA) for costs incurred to restore electric power to all service customers in order to eliminate the immediate threat to public health and safety. The applicant employed mutual aid agreements, contractor labor, and SPEPA employees to service power lines throughout the county. This grant is based on actual costs and is in addition to funding previously provided to SPEPA based on initial cost estimates of work. This brings the total amount of funding provided to the applicant for protective measures in Covington County to $2,638,082.10. 
   $1,920,190.18 - Statewide- Hurricane Katrina destroyed many facilities including law enforcement operations centers and homes of law enforcement personnel. The Department of Public Safety deployed over 200 personnel to their Gulfport Command Center who were forced to sleep in their vehicles due to the unavailability of lodging in the vicinity. The Department of Public Safety acquired a shelter system that accommodates up to 240 individuals. This is to reimburse the applicant for 100% of the cost incurred. The applicant agrees that FEMA will assume ownership of the shelter system when it is vacated assume ownership of the shelter system when it is vacated. 
   Hurricane Katrina destroyed many facilities including law enforcement operations centers and homes of law enforcement personnel. The Department of Public Safety deployed over 200 personnel to their Gulfport Command Center who were forced to sleep in their vehicles due to the unavailability of lodging in the vicinity. The Department of Public Safety acquired a shelter system that accommodates up to 240 individuals. This is to reimburse the applicant for 100% of the cost incurred. The applicant agrees that FEMA will assume ownership of the shelter system when it is vacated assume ownership of the shelter system when it is vacated. 
   $1,312,890.51 - Forrest County- Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. FEMA and the City of Petal estimate 10,000 cubic yards of debris, over 1100 broken or leaning trees, 9,600 hanging limbs, as well as dangerous stumps and stump holes on public rights-of-way and private property. This represents the contract costs to cut, haul, and dispose of hazardous debris throughout the city. 
   Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. FEMA and the City of Petal estimate 10,000 cubic yards of debris, over 1100 broken or leaning trees, 9,600 hanging limbs, as well as dangerous stumps and stump holes on public rights-of-way and private property. This represents the contract costs to cut, haul, and dispose of hazardous debris throughout the city. 
   $2,100,000.00 - Statewide- Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. This represents estimated contract costs to haul and dispose of the remaining 105,000 cubic yards of vegetative debris to be collected from right of ways from federal aid roads by the Mississippi Department of Transportation throughout Pearl River County. Project costs are exclusively for the second pass of roadway debris removal that is eligible for FEMA funding; the first pass emergency debris clearance was covered under funding from the Federal Highway Administration.
   Debris Removal - Hurricane Katrina. This represents estimated contract costs to haul and dispose of the remaining 105,000 cubic yards of vegetative debris to be collected from right of ways from federal aid roads by the Mississippi Department of Transportation throughout Pearl River County. Project costs are exclusively for the second pass of roadway debris removal that is eligible for FEMA funding; the first pass emergency debris clearance was covered under funding from the Federal Highway Administration.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 