SENS. LOTT, COCHRAN: $7 MILLION APPROVED FOR COAST TRANSIT, LIBRARY
 Federal funding totaling more than $7 million is approved for separate projects impacting the Gulf Coast, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. The projects include funds to replace the Gulfport Library, various bus stations and to cover overtime labor needed to restore public services following Hurricane Katrina. 
   "These are reimbursements to be administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and this funding constitutes yet another step in our recovery process," Senator Lott said. "Senator Cochran and I continue working vigorously to secure federal support for Mississippi's recovery and rebuilding, and we look forward to seeing more grants such as this throughout our state."
   Today's funding and official projects descriptions are as follows: 
   $1,503,079.52 (Federal share) - Coast Transit Authority - Public Buildings. Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a 20 - 25 foot tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast. The storm destroyed seven (7) comfort/bus stations along US90 in Biloxi, Gulfport, Pass Christian, and Long Beach. These stations were each 1305 SF under a roof, but were open aired with the exception of the bathrooms. The bathrooms had a six inch thick concrete floor and four inch thick concrete walls. The entire facility was elevated to 14 ft above sea level on 12 inch diameter wooden piles. The storm surge washed away 90% of the structures leaving only the piles and some of the wooden girders. Repairs to each of the seven (7) comfort stations include replacing 16.6 SQ of roofing tiles and roof cover, replacing the electrical wiring throughout the stations, replacing the plumbing and fixtures in the bathrooms, replacing the pre-cast concrete pillars and benches in the stations, and removing and replacing the damaged substructure and slab. This $1,670,008.36 represents the estimated cost to replace the seven (7) destroyed comfort/bus stations to pre-disaster design, capacity, and function.Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a 20 - 25 foot tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast. The storm destroyed seven (7) comfort/bus stations along US90 in Biloxi, Gulfport, Pass Christian, and Long Beach. These stations were each 1305 SF under a roof, but were open aired with the exception of the bathrooms. The bathrooms had a six inch thick concrete floor and four inch thick concrete walls. The entire facility was elevated to 14 ft above sea level on 12 inch diameter wooden piles. The storm surge washed away 90% of the structures leaving only the piles and some of the wooden girders. Repairs to each of the seven (7) comfort stations include replacing 16.6 SQ of roofing tiles and roof cover, replacing the electrical wiring throughout the stations, replacing the plumbing and fixtures in the bathrooms, replacing the pre-cast concrete pillars and benches in the stations, and removing and replacing the damaged substructure and slab. This $1,670,008.36 represents the estimated cost to replace the seven (7) destroyed comfort/bus stations to pre-disaster design, capacity, and function.
   * Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a 20 - 25 foot tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast. The storm destroyed seven (7) comfort/bus stations along US90 in Biloxi, Gulfport, Pass Christian, and Long Beach. These stations were each 1305 SF under a roof, but were open aired with the exception of the bathrooms. The bathrooms had a six inch thick concrete floor and four inch thick concrete walls. The entire facility was elevated to 14 ft above sea level on 12 inch diameter wooden piles. The storm surge washed away 90% of the structures leaving only the piles and some of the wooden girders. Repairs to each of the seven (7) comfort stations include replacing 16.6 SQ of roofing tiles and roof cover, replacing the electrical wiring throughout the stations, replacing the plumbing and fixtures in the bathrooms, replacing the pre-cast concrete pillars and benches in the stations, and removing and replacing the damaged substructure and slab. This $1,670,008.36 represents the estimated cost to replace the seven (7) destroyed comfort/bus stations to pre-disaster design, capacity, and function. 
   $4,133,685.82 (Federal share) - Harrison County - Public Buildings. Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a high tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast, severely damaging the Gulfport Library in Harrison County. The two-story, 43,664SF, reinforced concrete frame facility was constructed in 1965 and was fully functional and the time of the disaster. The repair estimate is roughly 61% of the estimate to replace the facility, qualifying the Library for complete replacement. In order to replace the facility in kind, the scope of work includes concrete footings and foundations, a six inch concrete slab, reinforced concrete structure, tinted glass storefront, built up bituminous roof with ballast, painted concrete block and ceramic wall finishes, carpet floor finishes, one elevator with lift, standard plumbing and fixtures, water distribution, standard sprinklers, electrical services, standard HVAC, and one security system. This $4,592,984.24 represents the estimated cost to replace the damaged facility with a structure of equivalent design, capacity, and function. - Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a high tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast, severely damaging the Gulfport Library in Harrison County. The two-story, 43,664SF, reinforced concrete frame facility was constructed in 1965 and was fully functional and the time of the disaster. The repair estimate is roughly 61% of the estimate to replace the facility, qualifying the Library for complete replacement. In order to replace the facility in kind, the scope of work includes concrete footings and foundations, a six inch concrete slab, reinforced concrete structure, tinted glass storefront, built up bituminous roof with ballast, painted concrete block and ceramic wall finishes, carpet floor finishes, one elevator with lift, standard plumbing and fixtures, water distribution, standard sprinklers, electrical services, standard HVAC, and one security system. This $4,592,984.24 represents the estimated cost to replace the damaged facility with a structure of equivalent design, capacity, and function. 
   * Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a high tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast, severely damaging the Gulfport Library in Harrison County. The two-story, 43,664SF, reinforced concrete frame facility was constructed in 1965 and was fully functional and the time of the disaster. The repair estimate is roughly 61% of the estimate to replace the facility, qualifying the Library for complete replacement. In order to replace the facility in kind, the scope of work includes concrete footings and foundations, a six inch concrete slab, reinforced concrete structure, tinted glass storefront, built up bituminous roof with ballast, painted concrete block and ceramic wall finishes, carpet floor finishes, one elevator with lift, standard plumbing and fixtures, water distribution, standard sprinklers, electrical services, standard HVAC, and one security system. This $4,592,984.24 represents the estimated cost to replace the damaged facility with a structure of equivalent design, capacity, and function. 
   $1,553,268.92 (Federal share) - Harrison County - Protective Measures. Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a 20 foot tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast, causing severe damage to homes, businesses, and infrastructure across Harrison County. The Harrison County SheriffHurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a 20 foot tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast, causing severe damage to homes, businesses, and infrastructure across Harrison County. The Harrison County Sheriff's Department called personnel to prepare for the storm beginning August 22, 2005. The response continued through February 26, 2006, and included both regular and overtime labor to provide the necessary emergency protective measures to establish order, respond to its citizens' immediate needs, and to prevent further damage to improved property. This $1,553,268.92 represents the actual costs for overtime labor and equipment expenses. The equipment expenses constitute nearly $430,000 which includes the cost associated with the use of patrol cars, boats, and helicopters. The activities included patrolling unsafe and damaged areas, aiding evacuees at shelters, setting up stationary roadblocks, assisting in the distribution of water, food, ice and other necessities, and participating in marine, air, and land-based search and rescue missions. All work is complete for this project.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 