527 REFORM ACT REPORTED OUT OF SENATE RULES AND ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
  The Senate Rules and Administration Committee Wednesday morning by voice vote reported out a chairman's substitute to S. 271, the 527 Reform Act of 2005, and committee chairman Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi said he hopes the full Senate will take up the bill soon. 
   Introduced by Senators John McCain and Russell Feingold and cosponsored by Lott, the bill proposes to take so-called 527 organizations out of the soft money business in federal elections. The 527s, now only regulated by the Internal Revenue Service, would be required to register as political committees with the Federal Election Commission. The groups would have to comply with the same hard-money limits as the national political parties and individual lawmakers' campaign committees. They would be prohibited from using soft money to buy advertising making reference to any federal candidate.
   Lott made it clear from the outset's of today's mark up that his primary goal was to bring to the floor a bill clarifying the status of 527 organizations, and in the spirit of bipartisan cooperation, he supported some amendments, including a carve-out for voter registration and a provision requiring television broadcasters to charge federal candidates their lowest television rate, that he said he might oppose on the floor.
   "This is a process in motion," Lott explained. "We've moved a bill that's not perfect. If any of the amendments we've agreed to today are problems toward my ultimate goal of putting 527s on the same level as political party committees, then I'll work to jettison them."
   During the mark up, the committee adopted the following:
   Amendments offered by Senator Bob Bennett of Utah to: prohibit FEC regulation of the internet, increase and index political action committee (PAC) limits; to index state party limits; provide for unlimited transfers from leadership PACs to national parties; eliminate prior approval and twice-yearly solicitations from certain types of PACs; and increase registration threshold to $10,000.
   Amendment by Senator Chuck Schumer of New York exempting from the bill's requirement any 527 that only spends money on voter registration, voter identification, getting out the vote, and generic campaign activity, as well as public communications relating solely to those activities, as long as the groups do not use television or radio for those communications.
   Amendment by Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois requiring broadcasters to charge federal candidates the lowest unit television advertising rate available throughout the election cycle.
 
 