SEN. LOTT URGES ADVANCED FUNDING FOR SHIPS
  Sen. Trent Lott is urging Senators to adopt an advanced appropriations plan for all future U.S. Navy ships including the groundbreaking, next-generation DD(X) destroyer to be built at both Mississippi's Northrop Grumman Ingalls Operations and Maine's Bath Iron Works. 
   "Re-competing shipbuilding programs after contracts have been won - which the Navy has considered with DD(X) - is based sheerly on short-term budget worries rather than long-term security needs," Senator Lott said Wednesday night. "This improvised, seat-of-the-pants acquisition strategy will put either Ingalls or Bath out of the surface combatant business, leaving only one shipyard to produce America's surface combatants."
   "The future of America's entire shipbuilding industry depends on this proposal," Senator Lott said. "The handful of surviving American shipyards must have a steady, dependable stream of work. If not, America could be forced to outsource much of our naval construction to foreign workers. That would be a sad day for America's shipyard workers and the beginning of America's demise as a maritime nation."
   Advance appropriations will allow the Navy to commit to purchasing the ships it needs and permit the Navy to pay for those ships over several years, rather than a single, lump sum.
   Currently, the Navy's budget cannot support the quantity of ships which experts - including analysts at the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) - have determined is needed just to maintain a minimum of 200 or 300 ships. The financing plan is part of the Senate's budget proposal which Senators are expected to consider Thursday.
   "This is a life or death issue for America's shipyards," Senator Lott said. " I believe workers at my hometown's shipyard can compete with anyone, and I'm confident they would win any re-competition of DD(X) or other programs. But, that's not the issue. This is about preserving America's entire capacity for naval shipbuilding. Advanced appropriations are good for workers in Mississippi and Maine, but better for America. What's good for the country and our long-term security needs should always take precedence over short-term budgetary issues."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 