SEN. LOTT: TOYOTA SELECTS MISSISSIPPI FOR ITS LATEST PLANT
 U.S. Sen. Trent Lott heralded Toyota's selection today of Tupelo, Mississippi's "Wellspring" site for its next North American Plant as a victory for the state's economic turnaround and further evidence of the state's growing global influence.  
   After months of negotiations, Senator Trent Lott joined local and federal officials today in Tupelo to announce Toyota's siting near Blue Springs of a 2,000 employee, $1.3 billion vehicle assembly plant which will manufacture Toyota's popular Highlander crossover sport utility vehicle. 
   "Mississippi is on the move and open for business," Senator Lott said. "The world's best companies not only recognize this dynamic momentum, but they're confidently investing in Mississippi's potential and our ability to partner with them and grow together." 
   "Toyota is one of the world's best and fastest growing companies, poised to be the world's largest automaker," Senator Lott said. "With this announcement, Mississippi's work force will be tapped to be part of that bright future, and I know Northeast Mississippi and the Tupelo area have the resources and skilled workers needed to make this venture very successful." 
   Senator Lott said Governor Haley Barbour, the Mississippi Development Authority and Northeast Mississippi's regional economic development approach were critical to Mississippi's selection by Toyota. The plant will begin production the 1,700 acres site in about three years. 
   "Regional cooperation among counties and cities works," Senator Lott said. "I've encouraged counties, cities and even states to erase boundaries, harness each other's strengths and work together on projects which can have a huge impact, not only on the local area, but also upon our state and national economy. 
   "Northeast Mississippi has been a very proactive leader and innovator in this approach to job creation, aggressively seeking sites and marketing them to potential employers. That foresight continues to bear fruit, providing our state an invaluable asset and laudable example." 
   The facility will be capable of producing 150,000 vehicles a year. 
   "I expect this announcement will have many positive reverberations throughout Mississippi and our neighboring states," Senator Lott said. "I look forward to the day this facility begins production, employing thousands of Mississippians in Northeast Mississippi and thousands more at suppliers throughout our state. To borrow from the company's slogan, Toyota and Mississippi are now together 'Moving Forward.'"
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 