SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $8 MILLION FOR HURRICANE KATRINA RECOVERY
  Federal funding totaling more than $8 million is approved for separate Hurricane Katrina recovery projects impacting Mississippi, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. The projects include funds to replace schools in Bay St. Louis and to enhance the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency (MEMA).
   "These are reimbursements to be administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at the urging of the Congress and especially our state's delegation, and this funding constitutes yet another significant step in our recovery process," Senator Lott said. "It's all part of an ongoing hurricane recovery effort in which Mississippians are setting a national example for rebuilding our communities and restoring our economy." 
   Senator Cochran stated:
   "The release of funds from FEMA to help Mississippi recover from Hurricane Katrina will always be good news for Mississippians. The grants to Bay St. Louis will provide the resources needed to bring the high school back to pre-Katrina condition. The grant that the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency will receive will allow the agency to provide much needed manpower to assist communities across Mississippi in the recovery process."
   Today's funding and official projects descriptions are as follows:
   $1,016,669.88 (Federal share) - Bay St. Louis School District (Math Buildings) - Hurricane Katrina generated wind speeds in excess of 120 MPH along with four feet of water which caused extensive damage to the first floor of all buildings of Bay High School . The interior of the Math Classrooms which were constructed in 1989 are 14,614 SF. The building consists of gyp. board on metal stud non load bearing partition systems, insulation doors, frames and hardware, which were all damaged. All ceiling systems, coloring and trim were damaged along with finishes, fixtures, accessory items, partitions within restrooms, as well as the roof. These items were prepped and painted or replaced. The mechanical, plumbing systems, air handlers, condensers, ductwork, diffusers and controls were damaged, and a 49 Ton Air Conditioning, Cooling/ Heating unit to serve the entire 14,614 SF was replaced. All electrical distribution wiring, devices, fixtures and controls were damaged. These items were either replaced or repaired. This work will restore the school to its pre-disaster design, capacity, and function, including required code upgrades, less estimated insurance proceeds, and salvaged items.
   $5,974,650.00 (Federal share) - Mississippi Emergency Management Agency - Statewide. This project is to increase the reimbursement to the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) for an accounting firm to provide an additional 50 people to work with local municipalities, counties, and eligible private non-profit corporations to facilitate fund tracking, subgrantee (applicant) internal controls, ensure state and local contracting compliance, as well as to track and reconcile project financial performance for 3 months. The services outlined in this project work side by side with MEMA's public assistance professionals and the state's auditors office, assisting them in reconciling obligated funding for qualified and authorized projects. These accounting oversight and compliance services are essential in enabling Mississippi to manage and audit its reconstruction efforts in an open and effective manner. The original reimbursement was $11,914,474 and this request is for an additional $6,638,500.00 making the total to date $18,552,974.
   $1,032,106.86 (Federal share) - Bay St. Louis School District, (Social Studies Building) - Hurricane Katrina generated wind speeds in excess of 120 MPH along with four feet of water which caused extensive damage to the first floor of all buildings of Bay High School in Hancock County, MS. The interior of the Social Studies Classrooms which were constructed in 1989 are 14,009 SF. The building consists of gyp. board on metal stud non load bearing partition systems, insulation doors, frames and hardware, which were all damaged. A contractor was hired to install new tile flooring 14,009 SF, new doors (36), frames, hardware millwork and interior painting, new suspended ceiling tiles, grid and batt insulation. The mechanical, plumbing systems, air handlers, condensers, ductwork, diffusers and controls were damaged, and the 47 Ton Air Conditioning, Cooling/ Heating unit to serve the entire 14,009 SF was replaced. All electrical distribution wiring, devices, fixtures and controls were damaged. These items were either replaced or repaired. This work will restore the school to its pre-disaster design, capacity, and function, including required code upgrades, less estimated insurance proceeds, and salvaged items.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 