SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $6.2 MILLION FOR HURRICANE RECOVERY EFFORT
  Federal reimbursement funding totaling more than $6.2 million is approved for separate Hurricane Katrina recovery projects impacting Mississippi's Gulf Coast community, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. Today's award includes funds for Biloxi debris removal, for replacing a Biloxi Head Start building and for repair of damages at USM's Long Beach campus. 
   "I've been pleased to help secure federal funding for a variety of needs associated with our Hurricane Katrina recovery effort," Senator Lott said. "With each new award, Mississippi comes closer to complete recovery, and I'm particularly glad that this funding will benefit two very important educational facilities impacting the pre-school and the collegiate levels."  
   Senator Cochran stated: 
   "The City of Biloxi, the Gulf Coast Community Action Agency, and the University of Southern Mississippi desperately need these grants to continue the reconstruction process. I am pleased that the Federal Emergency Management Agency has recognized these needs and released the funds to assist in recovery." 
   The funds will be administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the support of Senator's Lott and Cochran. Today's funding and official project descriptions are as follows: 
   $3,294,664.38 (Federal share) - City of Biloxi - Debris Removal. Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a 20 foot tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast , which uprooted trees, scattered limbs, damaged buildings and infrastructure, and deposited debris throughout the City of Biloxi . Biloxi has been removing vegetative and construction debris from City rights of way and private property since shortly after the storm. It is estimated that 230,380 CY of vegetative, construction, and concrete debris still remain along City rights of way. This $3,660,738.20 represents the estimated contract costs to remove and dispose the remaining debris from the public rights of way, which is expected to conclude before February 28, 2007. 
   $1,769,320.22 (Federal share) - Gulf Coast Community Action Agency - E. Public Buildings - Hurricane Katrina generated wind in excess of 120 MPH and a 20 foot tidal surge along the Mississippi Gulf Coast. The storm surge and high wind gutted the Gulf Coast Community Action Agency's "Project Head Start" located in Biloxi, MS . This 17,945 SF metal facility consisted of 12 classrooms, 12 offices, and 9 bathrooms. The estimate to repair the facility was roughly 58% of the estimate to replace the facility, qualifying the facility for replacement. This $1,965,911.35 represents the estimated cost to replace the destroyed facility, after insurance proceeds, to their pre-disaster capacity and function, and to elevate the facility above the Advisory Base Flood Elevation. 
   $1,232,082.17 (Federal share) - The University of Southern Mississippi - Higher Education School Buildings. Hurricane Katrina generated wind speeds in excess of 120 MPH along with a three feet storm surge of water at the University which is located in Long Beach, Mississippi , on Hwy. 90 directly across from the beach. Extensive damage to the first floor of the approximately 80,973 SF Advanced Education Center Building built in 2002 was due to storm surge and wind driven rain. This building was an addition to the campus at USM it held many labs with over 25 computers in the lab rooms, and was the newest classroom on campus toward the rear of the property. High velocity winds did major roof damage, which caused severe water damage to the 2nd and 3rd floors of this three-story building. Mud, sand, sewage and miscellaneous debris were removed from the building prior to repairs. 7,905 SF of carpeting was replaced on the first floor, 1,026 SF of tongue and groove wood flooring in the auditorium was replaced, 11,344 SF of damaged tile was replaced, as well as doors, doorframes, baseboards, and destroyed contents throughout the building. 7,300 SF of bituminous membrane roofing was replaced including insulation, and 1,000 SF of red clay Spanish tile roofing over the lobby's exterior. All electrical components including the damaged hot water heater on the first floor were replaced. The cost for this work will bring the school to its pre-disaster design and capacity, less estimated insurance proceeds.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 