SEN. LOTT: DRUG-FREE COMMUNITIES SUPPORT PROGRAM TO FUND ANTI-DRUG EFFORTS IN LONG BEACH SCHOOLS, GULF COAST YMCA, METRO JACKSON
  Three Mississippi anti-drug efforts have been selected for federal grant awards being presented by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy's Drug-Free Community's Support Program. The Mississippi awards include almost $300,000 in competitive federal grants to support ongoing anti-drug efforts being implemented by the Long Beach School District, the Gulf Coast YMCA and the Metro Jackson Community Prevention Coalition. 
   "I was pleased to help support these grant applications, and I know this funding will be well utilized in Mississippi's effort to prevent and combat substance abuse," Senator Lott said. "These three organizations are doing crucial drug prevention work in Mississippi, and this infusion of federal support will help them expand their efforts and protect more children along the Coast and in Metro Jackson."
   The grants are as follows:
   * $95,880 for the Long Beach School District's Substance Abuse Task Force - 
   This organization serves the city of Long Beach, specifically the city's school district. The funds will help support this coalition's drug testing, tutoring, substance abuse prevention, drug awareness, youth alliance, mentoring and parental involvement strategies.
   * $100,000 for Anti-Drug Efforts Sponsored by the Mississippi Gulf Coast 
   YMCA - The South Mississippi Drug Prevention Task Force serves Harrison County. Its goals are to reduce substance abuse by establishing and strengthening collaborations among private nonprofit agencies and federal, state and local governments to support substance abuse prevention. The effort also strives to reduce drug-related crime, violence and fatalities. Its strategies include: conducting drug-use perception surveys, creating procedures for reporting drug-related data, maintaining data in an integrated information management system, creating a community "drug report card" with the information and establishing media campaigns and encouraging community-based policing.
   * $99, 892 for the Metro Jackson Community Prevention Coalition - This is a community organization established in 1995 under the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition Initiative. It oversees four school-based anti-drug projects and is striving to reduce substance-abuse in the Jackson area by 10 percent. The organization's mission is to carry out research and science-based prevention approaches targeted in Hinds, Madison and Rankin counties.
   A competitive peer-review process selected this year's 226 national award designees from 512 applications nationwide. All award winners must have at least a six-month history of working together as a coalition to reduce substance abuse. They must maintain a long term plan for preventing substance abuse and participate in a national evaluation of the Drug-Free Communities Program, extended by President Bush and Congress in December of 2001.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 