SEN. LOTT\'S KATRINA AIRPORT REPAIR BILL CLEARS SENATE
  Legislation to repair airports damaged by Hurricane Katrina has passed the Senate. The legislation authored and introduced by Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi last week and co-sponsored by Sen. Thad Cochran of Mississippi gives the Secretary of Transportation authority to use millions of dollars in existing federal grant funds to make emergency repairs at airports in the Gulf Coast region damaged by Hurricane Katrina. 
   \"To get our economy and jobs going again we need fully functional airports.\" Senator Lott, a senior member of the Senate's Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, said. \"This bill will restore our airports by making millions of dollars immediately available for repairs and refurbishment. It will help restore passenger and commercial air traffic throughout the Gulf region.\"
   Senator Cochran stated, \"I'm pleased to have cosponsored this bill that will enable the Department of Transportation to provide funding to airports in the Hurricane devastated areas. It is integral to the economic recovery of the entire Gulf Coast region that these airports be restored to their full operational capacity as soon as possible.\"
   Senator Lott drafted the legislation in consultation with representatives of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). He said he has received assurances that the Katrina airport funding should get an immediate vote in the full House of Representatives, which would make the money available almost immediately. 
   Senator Lott's bill specifically permits the Transportation Secretary to make project grants for capital costs to repair or replace public use facilities damaged as a result of Hurricane Katrina that were incurred by a public use airport in Mississippi, Louisiana, or Alabama that is listed in the FAA's National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems. The bill also permits grant funding to cover emergency operating costs incurred as a result of Hurricane Katrina by these airports.
   The U.S.'s share of the funding is 100 percent. State and local governments will not be required to match the funds. \"This 100 percent funding is very important,\" Senator Lott said. \"State and local governments impacted by Katrina are cash-strapped, and some municipalities are totally destroyed. This bill takes considerable pressure off local taxpayers at a time when it's needed most.\"
   Joining Senators Lott and Cochran as original cosponsors of the legislation are Senators Mary Landrieu and David Vitter, both of Louisiana, and Conrad Burns of Montana.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 