REMAINING NUMBER ONE - SEN. LOTT SAYS NAVY'S DECISION TO BUILD DD(X) DESTROYER ENSURES AMERICA'S NAVAL SUPREMACY
  By Sen. Trent Lott 
   Sometime next year, Toyota is predicted to overtake General Motors as the world's largest and leading automaker, displacing GM from the top perch it has held since 1931. Regardless of how we Americans feel about that, there's a lesson for us here: Just because you've been the biggest and best for a long time doesn't mean it's permanent. Companies, individuals and even nations must constantly change. It's not enough to merely adjust to accommodate the short term. To remain a leader, we've got to anticipate the long term far in advance. I'm pleased to report that's exactly what the U.S. Navy has chosen to do with a decision that can ensure America's seapower remains on top for generations.  
   I was very pleased to announce on November 23 that our Navy has decided to move forward with building the DD(X) destroyer. It's the stealth bomber of ships, and, yes, it will be built right here in Mississippi at Northrop Grumman Ship Systems' Pascagoula shipyard. 
   The Navy's decision has international, national and local implications. Internationally it will ensure America's Navy remains the world's most advanced and formidable sea force. The technology which DD(X) introduces to the surface combat fleet eventually will be applied to all forms of naval and Coast Guard vessels. It has the potential to revolutionize global shipbuilding, as we know it. 
   As communist China continues to launch submarines and ships at rapid rates, and many other nations invest in submarines, America must retain its lead at sea. The current War on Terror simply could not be waged without a Navy capable of projecting force forward to meet and dispense with threats well before they reach American soil.
   Nationally DD(X) also will ensure that America's shipbuilding industry survives. Earlier this year when some in Washington suggested we re-compete DD(X) - a tactic really aimed at delaying or killing the program in order to shift money to cheaper platforms - I strongly objected. As the son of a blue-collar, union-member shipyard worker, and with another 33 years working on shipbuilding projects in Congress to boot, I understand that without this contract, one or perhaps two of America's remaining three surface combat shipyards could close. That would put thousands of skilled shipyard workers in the unemployment line. Without DD(X), America eventually could be forced to rely on foreign shipyards and foreign workers to build its Navy. 
   That's just not acceptable in a realm critical to our national security. Surface combat shipyards, unlike facilities manufacturing consumer goods, can't simply close and then restart when the demand is back up. Once a shipyard ceases production, it's gone. The decision to build DD(X) ensures that our yards will remain active and that Americans will continue building America's warships. 
   With DD(X), local employees at Northrop Grumman Ingalls, the leading DD(X) contractor, can be ensured of a relatively steady employment. This is Mississippi's largest private employer. To put it into perspective, Ingalls is about three times the size of Nissan, our state's second largest in terms of job numbers. So the local implications of DD(X) to Mississippi are clear, especially along a Gulf Coast struggling to bounce back from Hurricane Katrina. The men and women of this shipyard have demonstrated time and again that they build the world's best surface combat ships. But more than local employees, they are a national asset which America must retain.
   It's one thing to lose your number one ranking if it's about cars and pickups. It's quite another if America's Navy loses its mastery of the seas. America's long-term security is too important to risk. We must constantly invest in our Navy, in our shipyards and in our skilled shipbuilding workers. The decision to build DD(X) demonstrates America's determination to remain the world's number one seapower for a long time to come. (12/1/05)
   Senator Lott welcomes any questions or comments about this column. Write to: U.S. Senator Trent Lott, 487 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510 (Attn: Press Office)
 
 