SEN. LOTT ASKS PRESIDENT NOT TO LEAVE MISSISSIPPI BEHIND NATION'S ECONOMIC UPTURN
  Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi today credited the agenda of tax cuts, deregulation and tort reform initiatives passed by the Congress and signed into law by President Bush with the overall upturn in the national economy, but he urged President Bush not to leave Mississippi behind in the nation's recovery.  
   Senator Lott recalled President Bush's promise to South Mississippians on his first visit to the Katrina-ravaged area on Friday, September 2, when the president said: "The good news is - and it's hard for some to see it now - that out of this chaos is going to come a fantastic Gulf Coast, like it was before," President Bush said. "Again, my attitude is, if it's not going exactly right, we're going to make it go exactly right. If there's problems, we're going to address the problems. And that's what I've come down to assure people of."
   "Mr. President, the recovery is not going exactly right," Senator Lott said Friday. "Three months after Katrina, 42 percent of the travel trailers required for those still homeless have not been delivered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Winter is coming to Mississippi, and too many people are still living in tents or carports. Three months after the hurricane, only an estimated one quarter of the storm's debris has been removed in most areas, and too many neighborhoods have had none removed, much less the garbage that has accumulated since Katrina."
   Pointing to the President's assertion that the nation's "small business sector is vibrant," Senator Lott said that as of November 28, only 314 business loans have been approved by the Small Business Administration for the entire State of Mississippi, out of 7,050 applications. "This is preventing small businesses from coming back and jobs from returning or being created, so not unexpectedly, our employment rates in Mississippi's two largest coastal counties - Harrison and Jackson - are more than quadruple the national average."
   "Mississippians are hard-working, resilient and competitive, which is why prior to Katrina, our state's economy was on an upward spiral," Senator Lott said. "Mississippians aren't whiners. We've dusted ourselves off and are working to restore our infrastructure and residential and business tax base, but, Mr. President, we need your leadership to ensure that the federal government fulfills its commitment to help Mississippians get back on their feet. That isn't going exactly right, and the nation cannot celebrate its economic recovery until Mississippi is whole again."
   Contact: Susan Irby, 202/224-6253.
 
 