SEN. LOTT TALKS WITH BUSH, CHENEY REGARDING KATRINA RELIEF EFFORT
  In phone calls from President George Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney today, Sen. Trent Lott discussed the damage and subsequent relief effort in Mississippi for Hurricane Katrina, as search, recovery and damage assessment continues. 
   While driving to Jackson from Alabama - his only route into the state - Senator Lott told Bush, "Mr. President, the people of Mississippi are flat on their backs. They're going to need your help. Thank you for the disaster declaration, and I'll be calling on you soon. I understand that you're planning to come here. I urge you to come to Mississippi. Your visit would be very good for the morale of Mississippians who are hurting right now." 
   In his call with Vice President Cheney, Lott reminisced about Cheney's many visits to Pascagoula when he served as Defense Secretary under President George H.W. Bush, and described the devastation along the Coast.
   "President Bush and Vice President Cheney have shown tremendous generosity and leadership with their quick and very strong commitment to help Mississippians recover from Katrina," Senator Lott said. "I'm pleased to report that the Bush Administration stands ready to increase assistance to Mississippi as needed. 
   "As our National Guard, emergency responders and all rescue workers comb the area for survivors, it is comforting that President Bush and our entire nation stand ready to help Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama recover and rebuild. I told the President that this damage seems to be unprecedented. We ask the nation for their prayers, especially now as thousands of residents emerge from shelters and begin to rebuild their homes and lives."
   Last Sunday Senator Lott announced that the President had declared 11 South Mississippi counties eligible for assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to prepare for the storm's imminent impact. On Monday Senator Lott announced that the Administration had followed that action with a separate declaration making 52 Mississippi counties eligible for either public assistance, assistance for individual residents, or both.
   A public assistance declaration makes local governments eligible for federal help in reestablishing public services. Assistance to individuals enables local residents and households to apply for appropriate federal recovery assistance to secure temporary housing and repair and rebuild damaged homes.
   "I was on the coast during Hurricane Camille, and I never thought I'd see another storm to rival her, yet Katrina not only rivals Camille, but could exceed Camille's impact," Senator Lott said. "I'll continue working with Governor Barbour, the Mississippi National Guard, local officials and the President to ensure that Mississippians hit by Katrina - from the Coast to the Tennessee line - bounce back, and that this state remains the home we all love."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood and Susan Irby, 202/224-6253.
 
 