SEN. LOTT: $8 MILLION APPROVED FOR MARION, STONE COUNTY DEBRIS REMOVAL
 Federal funding totaling about $8 million is approved for post-hurricane recovery efforts in Marion and Stone counties, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said today. The funds consist of federal reimbursements to both counties for expenses incurred with debris removal following Hurricane Katrina.  
   "Like most South Mississippi counties, these governments incurred significant costs associated with Katrina clean-up, particularly with the removal of unprecedented amounts of vegetative and man-made debris," Senator Lott said. "Senator Cochran and I will continue working to ensure that local governments and utilities are able to receive federal support for our ongoing recovery efforts."
   The funds will be administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   "The debris caused by Hurricane Katrina created a threat to public health and continues to hamper recovery efforts," Senator Cochran said. "I hope FEMA will remain consistent in releasing grants such as these to Marion and Stone counties for the purpose of removing this hazardous and cumbersome material."
   The funding package announced today consists of the following:
   $5,919,980.00 - debris removal - Marion County. Hurricane Katrina deposited debris throughout Marion County, causing a threat to public health and safety. This is in addition to the $2,606,250.00 previously granted to Marion County for debris removal. This funding is provided to support the cost to remove and dispose of an estimated 120,000 cubic yards of vegetative and demolition debris, not included in the initial assessment. 
   Hurricane Katrina deposited debris throughout Marion County, causing a threat to public health and safety. This is in addition to the $2,606,250.00 previously granted to Marion County for debris removal. This funding is provided to support the cost to remove and dispose of an estimated 120,000 cubic yards of vegetative and demolition debris, not included in the initial assessment. 
   $2,045,525.00 - debris removal - Stone County. Hurricane Katrina produced a significant volume of debris throughout the City of Wiggins, which posed a threat to public health and safety. This represents the estimated cost to remove and dispose of approximately 33,000 hazardous stumps, leaning trees, and hanging limbs from private property, and approximately 180,000 cubic yards of eligible debris from the public rights-of-way. 
   Hurricane Katrina produced a significant volume of debris throughout the City of Wiggins, which posed a threat to public health and safety. This represents the estimated cost to remove and dispose of approximately 33,000 hazardous stumps, leaning trees, and hanging limbs from private property, and approximately 180,000 cubic yards of eligible debris from the public rights-of-way.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 