SEN. LOTT: ALMOST $2 MILLION AWARDED FOR IMPROVEMENTS PRECEDING NEW NORTHROP GRUMMAN 'FIRE SCOUT' FACILITY
  Federal funding totaling $1.7 million is approved for infrastructure improvements preceding construction of the Northrop Grumman "Fire Scout" unmanned helicopter manufacturing facility at Jackson County's airport, U.S. Sen. Trent Lott said today. 
   "I was pleased to help secure this vital federal grant that will not only help complete the new Northrop Grumman Fire Scout plant, but will also be a catalyst for future economic development projects at this versatile airport," Senator Lott said. "The placement of the Fire Scout project in Jackson County and the investment by Eurocopter at the Golden Triangle Airport within the past year shows that Mississippi can become a center for aerospace activity and a magnet for good, high-skilled jobs."
   The grant will be administered through federal Economic Development Administration EDA with the Jackson County Port Authority as the designated grantee. Specifically the funds will assist with site preparation, placement of water and sewer lines, erection of a ground storage tank, construction of a pump station and placement of an access road. 
   Total project cost is $2.8 million, with the local government contributing 40 percent of the cost as specified by the grant's 60/40 federal-to-local matching requirement.
   In April, Senator Lott joined Northrop Grumman CEO Dr. Ron Sugar to break ground for the new Northrop Grumman Unmanned Systems Center, which will house construction of the Fire Scout, an unmanned drone helicopter which is capable of both surveillance and attack missions. Fire Scout can perform its work without putting the lives of crew at risk, and it will be used by multiple service branches, including the Navy and Marines. The remote-controlled drone can fly up to 20,000 feet hovering for hours above enemy positions. 
   The Northrop Grumman Unmanned Systems Center is expected to employ about 40 skilled workers with more jobs to come as the program matures. Northrop Grumman is Mississippi's largest private employer operating Northrop Grumman Ship Systems headquartered in nearby Pascagoula, Mississippi.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 