UNITED AND COMMITTED
  Charles Lindbergh, gained fame as the first pilot to fly nonstop across the Atlantic, but lesser known is his leadership later on in a nationwide movement against American involvement in World War II. It sounds strange now, but the legendary aviator thought Hitler's Air Force was unbeatable. He didn't like President Roosevelt too much, either. However, once America was attacked by the Axis, Lindbergh dropped the rhetoric and volunteered to serve, as did many others with reservations about our specific strategy and political leaders, but who understood evil when they saw it unleashed and knew it must be defeated. If anything, the 9/11 Commission Report tells us to do the same, imploring that America remains united and committed to the fight against terrorists on all fronts, despite domestic politics. 
   Above all, this bipartisan report specifically calls upon Congress and the Administration to embark in a effort to improve America's security with better intelligence, and to fully support all methods of combating terrorism - from diplomacy to our troops in the field. Some of you probably are saying unity, even in the face of a clear threat, is impossible for an America now divided in the midst of an election year and drama of political conventions. But America can do it, just as we did in Lindbergh's day. We must resist short-sighted, politically-motivated efforts to diminish the terrorist threat, which are proceeding in the name of politics. We've got to take terrorist threats seriously 24/7, political season or not. If we fail to fully appreciate the danger, our country is going to pay another terrible price for our inattention, probably much worse than 9/11.
   The 9/11 Commission report showcases stunning failures in our intelligence community prior to the 9/11 attacks which, as a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I'm working to fix in three ways: First, by having our dozen or more intelligence agencies report to a single, cabinet-level officer - a director of national intelligence who'll demand more accountability. Second we must recruit more skilled people to our intelligence apparatus who can get on-the-ground intelligence worldwide. Finally, we must have a better system of classifying and declassifying documents. Right now, the system is too inconsistent, and even Senators and Congressman can't get good information about what our intelligence services are doing and how the system could be improved.
   Both parties have tried to play the blame game with the report, as are various government agencies and the Congress. The media isn't without blemish either; they've engaged in some of the same tactics, cherry picking parts of the report while dismissing other sections to promote editorial agendas. Let's not forget the report's totality and its purpose. The report studies the mistakes of our past but appeals for us to look forward. Let's face it. We all failed to see 9/11 coming. Neither President Clinton nor President Bush saw it. With a faux sense of security, both parties in the Senate and House watered down our intelligence agencies for years, leaving us too dependent on spy satellites and deficient of trained, human intelligence professionals who know languages, cultures and can infiltrate enemy nations and terrorist organizations. We can't let any of this happen again. With terrorists threatening to detonate nuclear weapons and chemical weapons in America, the stakes are just too high. We've got to unravel their plots abroad before they are played out here in America again.
   Of course, these three things aren't the only remedies needed, but the report clearly shows they'd be a good start. If anything, this bipartisan report on the 9/11 terrorist attacks shows that even three years since the attacks the need for unity in the face of a clear and terrible threat supercedes the place of rhetoric. Fighting terrorists must remain America's number one priority for all of America until the evil of this century is defeated, just as it was in the last.
 
 