SEN. LOTT: COLUMBUS PLANT WILL BUILD NEXT GENERATION OF ARMY HELICOPTER
 Today, the U.S. Army awarded American Eurocopter -- a subsidiary of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company (EADS) -- a $2.2 billion contract to build the next generation of light utility helicopters (LUH) for the U.S. Army. The units will be assembled at American Eurocopter's Columbus, Mississippi plant requiring the addition of 250 new skilled aerospace jobs in the Columbus, Starkville and West Point area.  
   "This decision further solidifies Mississippi's position as a player in the global aerospace industry," U.S. Senator Trent Lott said. "American Eurocopter employees in the Golden Triangle can look forward to a bright future and more good-paying jobs. The U.S. Army is assured that they will get a quality product built by American workers that will serve our armed forces for many years to come."
   The 85,000 square-foot, 40-acre facility, located at Golden Triangle Airport, already builds the company's best selling A-Star (AS350) helicopters, and it customizes other Eurocopter models. Its vaunted products are depended upon by customers throughout the world, including the U.S. border patrol and major American metropolitan law enforcement agencies.
   EADS will head a production team for the LUH that includes three other companies. Today's award calls for construction of eight initial units totaling $43 million. Fulfilling the Army contract requires that the Columbus facility's plant size be doubled and that 250 new jobs will be added.
   "EADS North America has won an important U.S. Army contract that will support military missions both at home and abroad," U.S. Senator Thad Cochran added. "The light utility helicopter program award indicates that Mississippi continues to enhance its reputation as a state with advanced technology development capabilities and is firmly committed to meeting the needs of the men and women who are fighting to protect our nation."
   As of 2005, EADS has the largest market share of any worldwide helicopter producer, serving about 50 percent of the international rotary-wing aircraft market.
   "This contract will produce more good paying jobs and is yet another avenue for Mississippians to contribute to our national defense," U.S. Representative Roger Wicker concluded. "We appreciate the commitment EADS and American Eurocopter have made to our region. This partnership continues to boost our economy and bring more development opportunities."
   - Today, the U.S. Army awarded American Eurocopter -- a subsidiary of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company (EADS) -- a $2.2 billion contract to build the next generation of light utility helicopters (LUH) for the U.S. Army. The units will be assembled at American Eurocopter's Columbus, Mississippi plant requiring the addition of 250 new skilled aerospace jobs in the Columbus, Starkville and West Point area.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 