IMMIGRATION REFORM: 'SOMETHING OR NOTHING'
  The Senate has two choices on immigration reform: Do something now to curtail illegal immigration. Or do nothing, accept the status quo and hope it doesn't get worse.
   I'm for doing something, but I won't vote for an unbalanced, flawed bill. 
   Most Americans agree that currently, illegal immigration is unacceptable. Is the immigration reform bill before the Senate perfect? No. But it's stronger than the current 20-year-old laws which obviously have failed. 
   Some want the Senate to do nothing because this bill is not perfect. When will perfect circumstances come - when there are 20 or 30 million more illegals here? 
    The current proposal has the best chance to be improved and get through the U.S. Senate, though I will oppose a bill that does not put border security first. But it's time to act.
   Some Senators on the left, who want unfettered immigration, are unhappy with this proposal. They think it's too strong and unfair to immigrants. Some think it will hurt their big labor union backers and have tried unsuccessfully to water it down.
   Senators like me, on the right, who would like to see even tougher restrictions on illegal immigration, are strengthening this proposal significantly, as we did last week with the Gregg Amendment which increased requirements for fencing, border patrol agents, radar towers and detention facilities. 
   As a Senate leader I'm tasked with moving legislation that actually will become law. This bill is our last hope to deal with the problem of illegal immigration. It's not everything I'd like to do, but it's a good start.
   As of now, it puts border enforcement first, requiring that we hire thousands more border patrol agents, erect 300 miles of barriers, and patrol the border using high technology surveillance equipment, including radar stations and cameras. 
   Most important, it has a provision actually requiring border security. It commands the Department of Homeland Security to certify that our border is secure, before anything else in the bill can be implemented.
   Then, as part of any temporary worker program, it will require a sophisticated employment eligibility verification system to enable employers to distinguish legal from illegal workers and reject illegal applicants. 
   Illegal aliens no longer would be able to use bogus drivers' licenses, Social Security numbers or other fake identification. The bill requires employers to verify eligibility based on a new, tamper-resistant, encrypted identification system, which would tie each worker to a specific job. Employers would pay harsh penalties for not complying.
   The temporary worker program is truly temporary. After two years, workers must go home and re-register. No more coming here and staying forever. 
   The bill also has provisions to end immigration of extended family members. Favor will be given to immigrants with needed professional skills like doctors, engineers, welders or other specialties that can contribute to America's economy. And it requires immigrants to learn English.
   I have the most concern with the 12 million illegal immigrants already here. It's practically impossible to locate and "round up" 12 million people, scattered throughout the U.S. But we should not give them amnesty nor let them off the hook for breaking our laws. They shouldn't get automatic citizenship, and they shouldn't get benefits they don't pay for. 
   They should have to pay a fine, undergo background checks, be constantly employed and pay taxes, and go to the back of the line for citizenship papers - all required in this bill. And if I can make these provisions even stronger, I will.
   This bill is a work in progress. As a leader, I've worked to get it on the Senate floor for debate because the American people deserve decisions, not delays. I'm waiting for the final product before deciding if I can vote for this bill.
   One thing we can't do is to put off immigration reform any longer. Something or nothing - that's the choice before us. This bill could provide something, and that's 100 percent better than nothing.
 
 