'BIG TROUBLE' THE PROPOSED FEDERAL BUDGET
 We're hearing a lot right now about the Administration's firing of eight U.S. attorneys in what is primarily a political ploy by President Bush's opponents. They want to change the subject because the Members of Congress demanding an investigation of firings of individuals who serve at the pleasure of the President have produced no legislation except a budget that will dramatically raise taxes. Washington's big spenders know if their budget gets much attention, they could be in big trouble 
   It's a big government, tax-and-spend budget not seen since President Clinton's first year and President's Carter's last year in office.  
   Propelled by an ideological inclination to expand government, the new liberal leadership in Congress is demanding more of your money. They propose to repeal four major Bush tax cuts which have kept our economy strong even amid the terrorist threat and Hurricane Katrina. 
   The Economic Growth and Tax Reconciliation Act of 2001, the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Act of 2003, the Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004 and the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 are being targeted for extinction by the newly-empowered leadership in the House and Senate. 
   It's bad enough that the repeal of these tax cuts mean tax increases for most taxpayers. But in the next five years alone, this terrible proposal will increase the national debt by $2.2 trillion. And according to the Treasury Department, Mississippians will be hit hard. 
   More than 750,000 Mississippi taxpayers - almost one in three - now benefitting from the new lower 10 percent tax bracket passed by the previous Congresses, would see higher taxes. 
   More than 250,000 married Mississippi couples would face more taxes due to an increase in the marriage penalty. 
   Almost 300,000 Mississippi families with children would pay more taxes because the Democratic budget ends the Child Tax Credit. 
   Finally, 112,000 Mississippi investors, mostly senior citizens, would pay more under this proposed budget because it calls for increased taxes on capital gains and dividends. 
   The Treasury Department predicts the proposed budget would slap more than $2,000 in taxes annually on typical families of four earning about $40,000 a year. That means 113 million Americans - about one in three - will see their taxes go up by more than $2,000 next year. 
   From a national perspective, families with children and the elderly will face tax increases closer to an additional $3,000 annually, and small business owners will pay an average tax increase of almost $5,000. 
   Most Americans who pay taxes aren't going to like what they find in this budget and the significantly higher taxes it will impose on them. Time and time again, tax increases have failed while tax relief has worked. 
   Allowing Americans to keep larger portions of their money results in more of everything - more investment, more spending, more savings, more job creation and even more revenues for the federal government brought about by the increased economic activity that lower taxes spur. Tax relief has kept this nation's economy strong even after a gruesome attack on America's financial center and the nation's worst natural disaster, Hurricane Katrina. 
   When will Washington learn? America's power and greatness is not the product of government, but of enterprising people allowed to pursue their dreams outside of government's heavy, taxing hand. 
   I welcome this debate. In America, big government and big taxes usually mean big trouble, mainly for the big spenders who propose it. But if Congress' big spenders are successful this year, it will be the American people who pay. (03/23/2007) 
   Senator Lott welcomes any questions or comments about this column. Write to: U.S. Senator Trent Lott, 487 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510 (Attn: Press Office)
 
 