THIS SACRED SEASON
  Author: Sen. Trent Lott 
   I urge everyone to remember our troops serving overseas during this holiday season, especially the many Mississippians who are deployed away from home and the 18 Mississippi families who have lost loved ones as a direct result of Operation Iraqi Freedom.  
   Our prayers must start with the remembrance of those whose holidays will be tempered either by separation or bereavement. Some Mississippians have been in Iraq for almost a year or more. That's a long time to be away from family, friends and familiar surroundings. Yet, these courageous men and women do so without hesitation or complaint. 
   In my years as your Senator, and as a citizen from a shipyard town that has made strong national defense a priority, I've interacted with many servicemen and servicewomen since our all-volunteer force was introduced 30 years ago. I've said many times and I fervently believe that America's armed forces today are among our best ever.
   The highly motivated young people who comprise the backbone of our military force truly are taking their place as one of America's greatest generations. They've proven themselves with masterful performances in the War on Terror, liberating 50 million people abroad and protecting almost 300 million Americans here at home.
   While the holidays are primarily a religious celebration, we must reflect on our freedom, too. The men and women in uniform absent from us this season make it possible for us to sit down with our families and reaffirm our values and our hope for the future. 
   The simple pleasures of cooking a turkey, singing Christmas carols, shopping, decorating, or going to the church Christmas cantata are out of the question in far too many nations which treat each of their citizens' activities with sinister suspicion. We cannot forget the little things we take for granted in America that remain the disdain of dictators and terrorists throughout the world. 
   As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee with regular access to information regarding terrorist threats, I can tell you that our fighting troops are real life heroes and the most affective shield we have against some very dangerous enemies. 
   That shield of troops comes from among our own communities and neighborhoods. Units from Mississippi's National Guard which will be away this holiday season include: the 112th Military Police Battalion based in Canton; the 185th Aviation Group of Jackson; Company G 185th Aviation Group, Meridian; the 298th Corps Support Battalion, Philadelphia; the 114th Army Liaison Team, Greenville; the 1st Cavalry Division Rear Operations Center, Tupelo; the 238th Air Support Operations Squadron, Meridian; the 248th Air Traffic Control Squadron from Meridian and the 172nd Airlift Wing of Jackson. In addition to these forces, Meridian's 186th Air Refueling Wing makes regular commutes across the globe in support of our military's mission. 
   Communities which have lost either National Guard personnel or full-time military troops include Saucier, Jackson, Natchez, Utica, Booneville, Crystal Springs, Kokomo, Pricedale, Shubuta, Tutwiler, Picayune, Meridian, Columbus, Philadelphia, Hattiesburg, Southaven, Clinton and my own hometown of Pascagoula. 
   These are cities and small communities alike, from every part of our state. Yet as different as these places may be, they share the same sense of emptiness this holiday season. We all do. Mississippi remains a close, tight-knit community, and chances are, you know one or more people who are either serving overseas or whose loved ones may have been among those who have made the ultimate sacrifice.
   Let us celebrate life and joy and the hope for peace on earth this holiday season, as we should. But first, let's take a moment to remember those who have paid the ultimate price for the peace we enjoy in America and for which our neighbors still fight even during this most sacred season.
 
 