OVER THERE OR OVER HERE
  By Sen. Trent Lott  
   It was an honor to celebrate Memorial Week with local veterans in Richland, Mississippi. Talking to these distinguished individuals underscored the fact that defending America is the single biggest duty of our federal government and our military. With 150,000 of America's finest uniformed men and women in Iraq, and another 200,000 overseas at other foreign outposts, I am encouraging the Senate to pass our defense measures this year without political infighting. We should act in a bipartisan way because most Americans believe America's strongest defense right now is doing just what President Bush is doing - going on the offense to ensure that we stop terrorists over there before they get over here.  
   This June 6th marks the 60th Anniversary of the D-Day invasion which liberated Europe from Hitler's grasp. Back in those days, America's politics stopped at the water's edge. We didn't hesitate to support those troops. For the most part, liberals and conservatives, Republicans, Democrats and independents alike overwhelmingly agreed that defending America was well beyond politics. I'm afraid that's not true anymore - at least among some in Washington. The War on Terror, necessary as it is, is being politicized in Congress and in the national press. Yet, most Mississippians, and indeed the rank and file of Americans of all backgrounds, are outraged by the events of 9/11, just as Americans were outraged by Pearl Harbor. 
   In addition to recognizing Memorial Week with vets, I talked to combined civic clubs in Kosciusko, spoke to graduates at Wayne County High School, met with editors of three Mississippi newspapers, joined Mississippi Guardsman to dedicate a big new C-17 aircraft to "Mr. Veteran" - former U.S. Rep. G.V. "Sonny" Montgomery - and talked with shipyard workers on the Coast. It's clear to me that Mississippians see the War on Terror as one America must win. As far away as Mississippi is from New York, Washington, D.C. or that hallowed field in Pennsylvania, we understand there can be no detente' with terrorists or terrorist incubator states like Saddam's Iraq. This year's defense bills will give our troops, many of which are from Mississippi, the equipment and training they need to stay on the offensive against terrorists. 
   The Iraq War has not been a flawless endeavor by any means. I'm very disturbed by the poor intelligence the CIA provided leading up to the war last year, and I'm working within the Senate Intelligence Committee to make sure that doesn't happen again. I'm also very disappointed by the behavior of some soldiers who abused prisoners. Yet, despite these shortcomings, most Americans see the big picture and understand this to be a just war to destroy terrorists before they kill Americans. September 11 taught us that we can't wait for an attack as a prerequisite for response. The collapsing World Trade towers, the burning Pentagon - which I witnessed from my office window that dreadful day - and the barbaric beheadings of Daniel Pearl and Nick Berg are more than enough to convince a majority that our military men and women are fighting for freedom. They deserve the same strong support as those who fought World War II and defended America during the Cold War. 
  America's heroes in uniform have freed Iraqis from one of the world's most murderous dictators. Saddam Hussein was a man who openly admired Stalin. He possessed weapons of mass destruction and used them to kill his own people. He had an ongoing program to acquire nuclear weapons. But, to be sure, it will be up to the Iraqi people themselves to implement and sustain a democratic government. They have to make that choice. America can't do it for them. America has freed Iraq, but soon Iraqis will assume full responsibility for their future just as Afghans are doing. 
   The President's policy of attacking terrorists abroad before they attack us at home makes sense to most Americans. Congress should reflect the American people by fully supporting our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the world by promptly passing bipartisan defense authorization and appropriations measures. Our troops expect it. Most Americans expect it. The Terror War is not without problems and costs that should be addressed, but we'd do well to leave politics stateside and fight terrorists over there, before they get over here.
 
 