SENATORS REJECT PENTAGON'S ?WINNER-TAKE-ALL' PLAN TO PRODUCE DDX DESTROYER
  Mississippi's two Senators, joined by a bipartisan group of their colleagues in the Senate, today asked President Bush to reject a "winner-take-all" competition proposal being considered for the production of the Pentagon's next generation guided missile destroyer, the DDX.
   U.S. Senators Trent Lott and Thad Cochran of Mississippi told the President that such a competition between Northrop Grumman Ship Systems' Ingalls Operation in Pascagoula, Mississippi, and Bath Iron Works in Bath, Maine, the two yards now slated to build the DDX, likely would delay the DDX program, increase its costs, and exacerbate an already alarming 75 percent reduction in American shipbuilding jobs experienced over the past 15 years. 
   In a letter delivered to President Bush, the Senators argued that the winner-take-all plan ignores the Navy's own defense requirements and will almost certainly weaken American shipbuilding capacity and strengthen the position of foreign shipyards.
   "Having a DDX contest is an ill-advised, short-sighted strategy based on short-term budget priorities rather than on America's all important long-term defense needs, around which shipbuilding traditionally has been geared," Senator Lott said. "The DDX program likely would be delayed to accomplish the winner-take-all competition, possibly resulting in the layoff of highly-skilled employees. This would significantly increase costs of other ongoing ship programs at both yards."
   "The U.S. shipbuilding industrial base has already endured a three-quarter employment drop," Senator Lott said. "If a DDX competition is held, the losing yard likely would exit the surface combatant market, limiting America's ability to construct destroyers and cruisers. We only have a handful of shipbuilders today responsible for designing and supplying America's naval and Coast Guard ship requirements. If the exodus of skilled shipyard workers is allowed to continue, America may one day have to rely on foreign shipyards to fulfill its security needs. Needless to say, relying on foreign manufacturers to build America's storied Navy and Coast Guard fleet would be disastrous."
   In addition to capacity concerns, the Senators in their letter to the President said that the reported competition would violate the Navy's own quantity requirements as outlined in DOD's 2001 Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) which defines the nation's security requirements every four years. 
   The Senators also told the President they believe any decision to pursue a winner-take-all strategy for DDX is inappropriate until the DOD has completed its next Quadrennial Defense Review, which is ongoing.
   "It is inconsistent to offer a proposal that ignores the QDR we're presently under, much less one that is submitted before the upcoming QDR is even completed and its findings submitted to Congress," Senator Lott said. "I am asking President Bush to seriously review the Secretary of Defense's shipbuilding priorities. I believe the President will find that Congress' concerns are not only justified, but much more attuned to America's long tradition as a maritime nation. If America is to maintain the dominant force at sea, we must pursue shipbuilding strategies that preserve our nation's ability to build quality, cost-efficient ships at American shipyards." 
   In addition to Senators Lott and Cochran, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine, John Warner of Virginia, Christopher "Kit" Bond and Jim Talent of Missouri, Mary Landrieu and David Vitter of Louisiana, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, Joe Lieberman of Connecticut, Richard Shelby of Alabama, Jack Reed of Rhode Island, Patrick Leahy of Vermont, Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Dianne Feinstein of California, John Cornyn of Texas, Bill Nelson of Florida, and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 