SEN. LOTT INTRODUCES AVIATION INVESTMENT AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2007
  Legislation providing full funding for the Federal Aviation Administration was introduced by Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi, ranking member on the Senate Aviation Operations, Safety and Security Subcommittee, and Subcommittee Chairman Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia.  
   This legislation is a four year reauthorization that addresses issues of service improvements, aviation research and safety as well as air traffic control modernization - an issue FAA Administrator Marion Blakey is championing. 
   "I have worked on every FAA reauthorization since 2000," Senator Lott said. "Even then, Congress recognized the looming crisis of antiquated air traffic control systems and created the Joint Planning and Development Office to coordinate the modernization effort. I hope this bill helps us take the quantum leap." "The most recent forecasts, Senator Lott said, show that unless we act aggressively we may face serious gridlock in the sky by 2015. Experts are predicting that the current system of air traffic control is not capable of handling this increased capacity and must be completely replaced. 
   Lott called the modernization aspect of this reauthorization the single most important section of the bill.
   Funds for the modernization will come from a $25 dollar per flight surcharge on commercial aviation and "high end" general aviation. Piston engine aircrafts and emergency aircrafts are exempt from this charge. This surcharge will generate about $400 million per year and would be exclusively dedicated to the modernizing the air traffic control system over the next 4 years.
   In addition to modernization,Senator Lott Aviation Investment and Modernization Act of 2007 continues the 95 percent federal matching of FAA funds for small airports; will not raise the per ticket passenger facility charge; and continues the Airport Improvement Program at the same levels for all general aviation airports. 
   "Aviation is far too critical to American passengers and businesses for us to be satisfied with an inefficient and aging national system," Senator Lott said. "We have tremendous demand for more capacity, and modernization is essential for future economic growth." 
   A full committee markup is tentatively scheduled for May 16.
   Contact: Nick Simpson, 202/224-4239. 
 
 