SEN. LOTT LAUDES $53 MILLION CONTRACT AWARD TO MISSISSIPPI'S NORTHROP GRUMMAN INGALLS
  The Navy's award to Northrop Grumman Ship Systems Ingalls Operations of a $53 million contract for the next phase of DD(X) destroyer development signifies the Navy's commitment to moving forward with the program as originally planned without costly recompetition involving other shipyards, U.S. Sen. Trent Lott said today.  
   "I am pleased with the Navy's decision to proceed with DD(X) as originally envisioned with Ingalls as the lead contractor," Senator Lott said. "Recompeting this contract during war time would have delayed the program for more than a year when our nation should instead move forward with a speedy and robust shipbuilding program."
   The DD(X) will be America's next generation of naval destroyer. Its development will set new technical standards for shipbuilding in much the same way as stealth technology did for aircraft.
   "To keep America's unquestioned naval supremacy, we need DD(X)," Senator Lott continued. "As we fight a global war on terrorism, we must maintain a naval force capable of projecting force throughout the globe. DD(X) will ensure that America retains its maritime edge well into this century."
   This contract is specifically for Phase IV DD(X) transition and design. In this phase, Northrop Grumman will coordinate with venders and obtain information regarding design of the ship's state-of-the-art warfighting systems, including its unprecedented data processing capability.
   Earlier this year, some with the Department of Defense suggested a recompetition of DD(X) as a short-term cost reduction strategy. Senator Lott strongly objected to this suggestion, indicating that delays would cost America much more throughout the DD(X) program's life cycle. 
   "Some at the Pentagon are clearly suggesting that shipbuilding be put on the back burner in the midst of a struggle involving so many of our land forces," Senator Lott concluded. "But, America has always been a maritime nation, and we must remain so. A generation ago, Ronald Reagan faced down similar dismissals of our Navy's importance, and time proved him right. Today we are the only nation capable of defending our interests and protecting freedom worldwide. Yet, we must again reinvest in our surface fleet to preserve our security in this generation and for generations to come."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 