The COURSE OF FREEDOM
  As we watch the aftermath of the elections in Iraq, let's remember that while our own American culture remains young, our course of freedom is not. More than 225 years is a long time for any single form of government to last, but because our Founding Fathers had such a strong vision of liberty, our free republic not only has endured, it has become freedom's highest beacon, its standard of measure, freedom's unquestioned leader. Iraqis have just begun their course of freedom, and all free peoples should support their effort. 
   As Condoleezza Rice, the first female African-American Secretary of State, noted upon her confirmation, it took time for America to live up to the ideals of freedom and liberty for its many types of people. Yet, because those ideals of freedom were ingrained in our Constitution, our course of freedom and full attainment of liberty's promise were set. The vision of a nation formed from many different peoples bound together by a common love of freedom was staked out long before our lifetimes or even our parents' or grandparents' lifetimes. The same is true for Iraq or for any new democracy. While it may take generations of nurturing, nations founded on and grounded in freedom will eventually overcome and prosper. Once free, folks rarely accept anything less, and that includes Iraqis.
   The Iraqi elections this week surpassed expectations. An incredible 70 percent of eligible Iraqis voted, risking their lives and sending an unmistakable signal that Iraqis want to follow 30 years of Saddam's tyranny with freedom. As one newspaper noted, the Iraqi people indeed confounded their critics. Despite all that's been hurled against them for generations, they very actively and gladly participated in this historic leap forward - an opportunity for liberty brought to them by uniformed military men and women from America and a host of coalition partners who drove Saddam Hussein from power, denying the terrorist parasites yet another host country to plunder and subject to tyranny.
   Yet, rather than Americans teaching Iraqis a lesson in democracy, they're teaching us one - a lesson too many of us take for granted. That lesson is: While God intends for all people to be free, it is indeed still a privilege to live free and vote freely. While Americans let something as minor as rain impede us from voting, Iraqis snubbed the possibility of death or injury, bravely voting, and sending America a big "thank you" by their actions. We ought to remember their sacrifices and that of our military men and women in Iraq the next time we have the opportunity to vote.
   So often, we dwell on democracy's shortcomings and the sometimes disorganized and dissenting chorus of competing voices which characterizes the democratic process. Yet, as the President said in his inaugural address and again in his State of the Union speech, freedom is contagious. In just 20 years, the number of democratically-elected governments worldwide has gone from roughly 20 countries to more than 118, including places no one once would have dreamed would hold free elections - like the Ukraine, Poland and now Iraq.
   Even with successful elections behind them, a lot of people think that Iraq is too splintered to succeed, that there are too many ethnic or religious differences for democracy to really take root there. They expect Iraq's new government will be short lived, and they'll continue to voice skepticism. Well, that's what some folks thought almost exactly 190 years ago, when English naval and marine forces - many of them seasoned veterans who had fought Napoleon - sailed up the Mississippi Sound and headed for what they considered a contemptible little backwater town called New Orleans. They had just laid waste to the young American republic's new capital at Washington, D.C. No one expected a few American troops, commanded by a gruff Tennessean named Andrew Jackson, and a few hundred ragtag volunteers of native Americans, African-Americans, Creoles, and Mississippi farmers to join ranks, much less rout the King's formidable invaders. But they did. Why? Because people yearn to live free, and once people are free, they'll come together, defy all odds and repeal any threat to freedom. 
   Freedom is never easily won, but once established, freedom lasts, spreads and chokes out tyranny. From our own experience, Americans know that the path to freedom, though very hard, is always the right course.
 
 