RAMPS TO OPPORTUNITY
  As you may recall, we introduced similar legislation last fall calling for a preliminary I-14 study to be completed before December 31, 2004. But Congress' schedule simply didn't allow time for passage of this legislation by year's end, and it died. 
   Like last year's bill, the new legislation calls for the Secretary of Transportation to study and report to Congress the steps and estimated funding necessary to designate and construct I-14. As in the previous legislation, it calls on the Secretary to complete this within the calendar year.
   I support I-14 because of what it can do for Mississippi's job growth. Interstate highways are one of the basic foundations for winning new jobs. Every time I get involved with an economic development project, I find that CEO's ask the same things about perspective sites: Where is the nearest airport? How are the schools? Is there a trained or trainable workforce? Where is the nearest interstate? 
   Where there are interstate highways, new hope follows. In fact, I-14 is named after the historic 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, passed during the emancipation period of the 1860s. The amendment was intended to bring economic parity to freed African-American slaves. Yet 140 years later, some predominantly minority regions of our nation still lag economically. 
   True to its namesake, I-14 would traverse some of the most job-hungry parts of central Alabama, bringing new hope to that challenged region in much the same way the new Interstate-69, now under construction, will do for the Mississippi Delta.
   Unlike I-14's route through Alabama, I-14's route through Mississippi isn't considered impoverished, but its transportation needs are underserved. For Mississippians in our south central counties, I-14 is more about furthering economic development through better access. 
   The Mississippi section of I-14 will follow roughly along the existing route of Highway 84, from Waynesboro through the Laurel-Hattiesburg/Brookhaven-McComb areas and onto Natchez. The Laurel-Hattiesburg area has enjoyed growth, but there is still capacity for much more. The same can be said for the Brookhaven-McComb area. 
   Yet folks in the Natchez area can perhaps benefit most from direct interstate access. Though Natchez is the historic birthplace of modern Mississippi and today remains the icon of Mississippi and our tourism economy, the area yearns for interstate access, having been left out of previous construction cycles. I-14 would bring significant new accessibility to counties in Southwest Mississippi, elevating the area's tourism economy and, most important, allowing for more economic diversification outside the tourism arena. 
   Is this a long-term proposal that will take decades to accomplish? Absolutely. New interstates are major investments of time and money. Yet they're clearly worth it. Today's economy simply couldn't function without interstate highways. Most of us now can't imagine life without them, yet many of us remember travel before them. Without superhighways, it took considerably longer for people and goods to get from point A to point B. 
   Still, we sometimes forget that millions of Americans remain isolated from interstate ramps and distant from the veins of commerce which circulate the life blood of economic growth and economic hope. I-14 and other new interstate proposals together mark the next evolution of our interstate system. Their ramps will lead to much-needed, new opportunities for people in all the communities they will touch.
 
 