SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $2.6 MILLION FOR GOLDEN TRIANGLE, MERIDIAN REGIONAL AIRPORTS
 Federal grants totaling $2.6 million are approved for use at the Meridian Regional Airport and Golden Triangle Regional Airport, Sens. Trent Lott, Thad Cochran and Rep. Chip Pickering said.  
   "Mississippi has some very good regional airports that are well prepared for the future," Senator Lott said. "Yet, with so much potential for additional economic growth in the Golden Triangle and in Meridian, we must continue to improve these facilities even further." 
   At Meridian Regional Airport/Key Field, $1.6 million will be used to acquire an emergency generator, safety equipment, fencing, install guidance signs along with apron and runway rehabilitation The funds will also help update the airport's master plan.
   "I am pleased that the Department of Transportation is providing funding to modernize rescue equipment and improve runways to the airports in Meridian and Columbus," Senator Cochran said. "This funding will continue to foster a reliable transportation infrastructure that will benefit the entire state."
   At Golden Triangle Regional Airport, federal funds totaling $1 million will help acquire rescue and fire fighting safety equipment, handicap passenger lifts, additional land, parking lot construction, terminal modifications, taxiway rehabilitation and to update the airport's master plan.
   "Our regional airports are critical components to the statewide transportation strategy," Congressman Pickering said. "They contribute to our growing commercial shipping, tourism travel and economic development needs and these funds will improve Meridian Regional and GTR."
   The funding follows a visit by Senator Lott, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta and Federal Aviation Administrator Marion Blakey to Gulfport/Biloxi International Airport Friday. The three jointly announced more than $44 million to repair that facility, which was very heavily damaged by Hurricane Katrina 
   All these grants will be administered through the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration.
   "Both Secretary Mineta and Administrator Blakey have been very responsive to Mississippi's airport recovery needs following Hurricane Katrina," Senator Lott concluded. "Working with them has been very productive for Mississippi."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 