SEN. LOTT, SECRETARY MINETA, ADMINISTRATOR BLAKEY ANNOUNCE $44 MILLION FOR GULFPORT/BILOXI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
 Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi was joined today in Gulfport by Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta and Federal Aviation Administrator Marion Blakey in announcing a $44 million federal grant to repair the Gulfport/Biloxi International Airport (GBIA), heavily damaged by Hurricane Katrina.  
   The funding was made possible through legislation introduced by Senator Lott last September and shepherded through the Congress by him a month later. His bill, S. 1786, authorizes the Transportation Secretary to make emergency airport improvement grants for repairs associated with hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
  "I'm very pleased that Secretary Mineta and Administrator Blakey have come to Mississippi to see this facility and the progress we're making toward its enhancement," Senator Lott said. "The Gulfport/Biloxi airport already was experiencing remarkable growth prior to Katrina. Now in Katrina's aftermath, the airport is a key component in the Coast's recovery." 
  Senator Lott and airport administrator Bruce Frallic took Mineta and Blakey on a tour of the airport's general aviation, tower, rental car, air cargo and terminal facilities before announcing the grant. 
  The funding will build new air cargo and general aviation facilities, and provide for the main terminal's ongoing renovation. This grant is a follow-on to a previously announced $4.65 million award from DOT for planning and engineering work. 
  Senator Lott, working with Administrator Blakey, led efforts to secure emergency funding for hurricane damaged airports after discovering that current law lacked the flexibility to use existing FAA funds for recovery efforts. 
  "Of all the federal agencies, DOT and FAA were two of the most responsive in Katrina's wake," Senator Lott said. "Mississippians are grateful for the steadfast support we've received from Secretary Mineta and Administrator Blakey, and as a result the Gulfport/Biloxi airport is destined to be rebuilt better than ever, as a world-class facility that will enhance our economic development and recovery."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 