SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $2.1 MILLION TO UPGRADE UNIVERSITY-OXFORD AIRPORT
  Federal funding totaling $2.1 million is approved for improvements at University-Oxford Airport, Sen. Trent Lott, ranking member of the U.S. Senate Aviation Subcommittee, and Sen. Thad Cochran said today.  
   Specifically, the funding will be used to construct a parallel taxiway and install an instrument landing system (ILS), enabling aircraft to more safely use the airport during severe weather conditions. 
   "I've actively encouraged the FAA to fund this project," Senator Lott said. "Having an ILS at this facility is important as the University of Mississippi and Oxford continue to grow and host more national and international visitors. 
   "For example, just last year the plane carrying the King of Jordan had to circle the airport many times because of bad weather and the Oxford facility's lack of an instrument landing system. With an ILS, users of the University-Oxford Airport will have a better, safer gateway into one of Mississippi's most celebrated and important communities." 
   SENATOR COCHRAN STATED: 
   "I am pleased the Federal Aviation Administration has recognized the importance of the Oxford Airport to North Mississippi's transportation infrastructure. As our state's universities become increasingly valuable in helping generate innovative business and industry, we must ensure the availability of reliable air travel in and around cities such as Oxford." 
   Having an ILS in Oxford, will mean flights during challenging flying conditions won't have to divert to Tupelo or other ILS equipped airports. The project will begin with Phase I construction of a parallel taxiway, and it will finish with installation of the ILS system. Total project costs is estimated to be around $10 million. 
   "The FAA is committed to funding and completing both of these upgrades, and I'll continue working with them until the project is finished," Senator Lott said. "This initial federal installment is a good start, and I look forward to increasing the capacity and safety for this facility serving a growing part of Mississippi."
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 