MISSISSIPPI A FINALIST FOR AIRBUS FACTORY
  Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran today praised a decision by the European Aeronautic Defense & Space Company (EADS) to select Stennis Space Center, Mississippi, and three other sites as finalists for its next Airbus large aircraft assembly facility. Airbus is currently competing to build the next generation of U.S. Air Force refueling tankers. Sens. Lott and Cochran spoke this morning with EADS executives about their decision. 
   "This is a testament to the success of the growing aerospace industry in our state, and it shows that Mississippi is doing the right things to compete for the world's best jobs," Senator Lott said. "I'm confident that Mississippi will compete vigorously for this project with the remaining finalists, and, regardless of the final outcome, we again will have demonstrated to the world business community that our state is indeed open for business."
   Senator Cochran stated:
   "The announcement by EADS this morning is a reflection of the reputation that Mississippi has established as one of the nation's premier locations for industry and technology development. I look forward to working with Governor Barbour and his economic development team in the coming weeks to ensure that Mississippi is given full consideration in our bid to house this facility."
   EADS has existing operations at Golden Triangle Airport where it has placed a helicopter manufacturing facility operated by its Eurocopter subsidiary.
   Mississippi also has recently been selected as home to other aerospace manufacturing and testing facilities, with recent investments by Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Rolls-Royce.
   The latest investment includes a facility for the manufacture of drone aircraft in Jackson County. When completed, it will assemble the Firescout unmanned helicopter and the fixed-wing Global Hawk unmanned aircraft, each of which are capable of attack and surveillance and will be used by various U.S. military branches.
   "Certainly this is an area in which we have a winning track record, and we'll put forth our best effort," Senator Lott continued.
   The other finalist states for the Airbus project include: South Carolina, Florida, and the site of the long-closed Brookley Air Force Base at Mobile, Alabama. Senator Lott has been a vocal advocate of Mississippi's working with neighboring states on economic development projects with mutual benefits.
   "Mississippi already is one of only four sites selected from 70 potential locations considered by EADS," Senator Lott concluded. "But, if it becomes clear during the home stretch that we're not the lead contender among the four, then we'll work tirelessly in support of our neighbors, where their success might also impact Mississippi."
   A final site selection is expected in June.
 
 