SEN. LOTT DEMANDS HELP FOR KATRINA VICTIMS
  Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi emerged from a one-on-one meeting with President Bush today in Poplarville asserting, "I am demanding help for the people of Mississippi to recover from the devastation of Hurricane Katrina." 
   Lott who has been battling the bureaucracy of FEMA and MEMA jurisdictional squabbles called on the President to authorize the immediate transport of 20,000 trailers, now sitting idle in Atlanta, to the Mississippi coast to provide housing for the tens of thousands of Mississippians now homeless. FEMA has refused to ship the trailers until contracts are signed specifying their exact locations in Mississippi.
   "Mississippians are homeless, hungry and hurting," Lott said. "FEMA and MEMA need to be saying 'yes' to Mississippi's needs, not 'no.'"
   Lott thanked the President for his relief and recovery efforts, but in addition to briefing the President on Mississippi's specific commodity and cash needs, he re-emphasized the need to curtail bureaucratic red tape as the relief process continues.
   "This is an emergency situation without peer, like nothing our generation has ever encountered," Lott said. "If suffering people along the Gulf Coast from Mobile to New Orleans are going to recover as soon as possible, we'll need an unprecedented public and private effort that can't be hampered by a process geared toward much lesser disasters.
   "The President understands this, and I am optimistic we're seeing a dramatic improvement in the relief effort and in the lives of Gulf Coast residents. We've got a long way to go, and that's the very reason we must remain focused solely on helping people now."
   Lott said his paramount concern is the distribution of fuel to emergency vehicles key to the immediate relief and economic recovery efforts. The Senator has reached out to every major oil executive and is receiving regular status reports on the pipeline restoration process. 
   "Fuel shortages will continue as 95 percent of Gulf crude oil and 88 percent of natural gas production have been idled by Katrina," Lott said. "Nine refineries, including Chevron Pascagoula, the nation's second-largest refinery, have ben shut down. That's about 25 percent of America's entire oil and gas production. But the pipelines carrying energy sources are close to 100 percent restored which means we can expect to see additional gasoline stations open throughout the state. I urge Mississippians to conserve as much fuel as possible while the shortages persist, and we'll continue working toward full restoration of our production and refining capacity.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 