EDUCATING, ENRICHING AND ENTERTAINING
  By Sen. Trent Lott 
   For vacation we often think about going to the beach, the mountains or to other parts of the country. But let's not forget all the great things that we can see on a short road trip right here in Mississippi - things that can entertain, educate and enrich us, like Mississippi's many historic, cultural or just-for-fun places which form a colorful mosaic that few states can rival. 
   For instance, I recently spent a great day in Corinth to dedicate a tourist destination that will help Americans of all ages better understand a pivotal point in America's history - the Siege and Battle of Corinth. I worked in the Senate to secure federal funding totaling almost $10 million for this new building which houses a Civil War Interpretive Center - a themed display of historical items aimed specifically at helping people better comprehend the characters and events of this battlefield's past.
   Investing this kind of time and money in Mississippi's historic and cultural sites is important for three reasons. First, we've got to better educate Americans about our nation's history. Like many of you reading this newspaper, I'm very concerned about our fellow Americans who don't do much reading, who can't name any of our Founding Fathers or place World War II within the right decade or even within the right 50 years. America's rich and unique history is a chronicle of mankind's political and social evolution from tyranny to liberty. It's a prerequisite for understanding our place in the world and to fully appreciating our privileges and rights as Americans. It's a history too rich to be dull and too important to be overlooked. Facilities like the Corinth Interpretive Center will help adults and students really understand the people who lived, fought and died there 140 years ago, and why they did it.
   Investing time and money in Mississippi's historic and cultural sites is also about capitalizing on Mississippi's tourism economy. When we spend money in our state, that helps support jobs for our fellow Mississippians. The same is true when we attract visitors from elsewhere who infuse money into our local economies. The Vicksburg National Battlefield alone is now hosting an astounding one million visitors annually. That represents a huge economic impact, not just for Warren County and the surrounding area, but for our entire state. 
   We also must preserve our historic and cultural sites. Its been an honor for me to help secure federal funds to preserve our lesser known or up-and-coming historic and cultural treasures as well, like the Coast's George Ohr Museum which showcases this world-renowned potter's internationally acclaimed works. And, let's not forget Hattiesburg's effort to preserve their historic depot and downtown. And, I'm supporting efforts to build a new visitors center at Stennis Space Center near Interstate 10, so folks can easily see items related to our nation's space program - from the role the center played in the moon landing, to the shuttle program and beyond.
   Right now, Governor Haley Barbour and his economic development chief Leland Speed are trying to get our state to better realize and capitalize on our historical and cultural assets and our just-for-fun tourist attractions, too. It's an effort long overdue. Mississippi's attractions are many when you think about it. The Delta was the birthplace of the blues, and folks from around the world migrate to places like the Crossroads at Clarksdale or the Delta Blues Museum. Jackson has hosted some of the most significant artistic displays from Europe, including the Glory of Baroque Dresden exhibit now on display at the Mississippi Arts Pavilion. You won't find a better collection of antebellum architecture than you'll find while touring the homes of Natchez or riding around old river towns like Port Gibson. If motors are your thing, Tupelo, in addition to being the well-known birthplace of Elvis, now has one of the country's nicest vintage auto museums. Jackson, Harrison and Hancock counties are preparing for "Cruisin the Coast" this October, a car show which in just a few years has morphed into one of the country's best attended, attracting more and more people each year.
   So, before you spend your cash out-of-state for a weekend or week-long getaway, think first about the sites and sounds of Mississippi. You'll be supporting your neighbors, and you'll be surprised just how educational, enriching and entertaining Mississippi can be.
 
 