AVIATION CHAIRMAN LOTT, SEN. COCHRAN: DELTA'S ASA TO OFFER DIRECT SERVICE BETWEEN JACKSON, WASHINGTON
  Sen. Trent Lott, who chairs the U.S. Senate's Aviation Subcommittee, and Sen. Thad Cochran have voiced praise for today's decision by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) permitting Delta Connection carrier Atlantic Southeast Airlines (ASA) to establish direct nonstop passenger service between Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and Jackson, Mississippi's Jackson International Airport. The move follows passage of a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill which Sen. Lott helped craft late last year, providing slots for additional flights between Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and other select U.S. cities as determined by the USDOT. 
   "This direct flight will be a great step forward for Mississippi's airline customers, establishing a nonstop commercial flight between Mississippi's capital city and our nation's capital city," Senator Lott said. "More and more airlines are realizing Mississippi's economic and commercial potential by establishing direct jet service between Mississippi and major U.S. cities, and this particular flight would certainly signal that this very welcome service expansion trend will continue."
   Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport is located in Alexandria, Virginia is just across the Potomac River from the city of Washington, D.C., within minutes of virtually every major government and tourist destination in the D.C. area. Currently Mississippi air passengers using Delta or other airlines to access Ronald Reagan Washington National's convenient location and ground transportation offerings must fly through other major hubs, including Atlanta and Cincinnati. A direct flight between Ronald Reagan Washington National and Jackson will cut travel time for passengers considerably, eliminating layovers and reducing the chances for flight delays or cancellations of connecting flights.
   "Our state will benefit greatly from this direct flight between Jackson and Washington, D.C.,"
   Senator Cochran stated. "I am pleased the Department of Transportation has approved Delta's application." 
   The ASA service between Jackson and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport would include one daily flight aboard the popular Bombardier CRJ regional jet aircraft.
   Delta applied for one of the new slots allowing additional direct flights to Ronald Reagan Washington National back in January, but its request was denied. Senator Lott encouraged the airline to reapply and supported the request which led to today's decision. 
   Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, located in the heart of the highly populated D.C. area only serves domestic flights - part of a long-established system to minimize noise and maximize safety in the Washington area. Therefore, slots to operate flights to Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport are more limited and regulated than those at other airports, requiring airlines to embark on a slot approval process such as this one.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 