BETTER INTELLIGENCE
  By Sen.Trent Lott
   As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I know the intelligence leading up to the Iraq campaign was faulty. Our men and women in uniform deserved better intelligence about our terrorist enemies than they got. I've suggested several ways to improve our intelligence system including: One, having more consolidation of our intelligence operations coupled with better human intelligence capability. Two, making our intelligence efforts more accountable, having more experience on the Congressional intelligence committees. Three, having better communication between the intelligence community and Congress.  
   Consolidation: America has more than a dozen different intelligence arms. The most famous intelligence agency, the CIA, is not alone. We have the NSA, Naval intelligence, Army intelligence and more. In addition to bureaucratic inefficiencies inherent to this splintered system, our own laws have hampered America's intelligence gathering ability. There's no question the now-famous 1970s-era Church Commission sowed the seeds of recent intelligence failures, limiting the CIA's ability to employ the type of human, covert, ground-based intelligence gathering that we need. We've relied too much on satellites to spy. We need more trained agents in the field infiltrating our adversaries' home turf. Having intelligence agencies work more closely and report to one Presidentially-appointed head would vastly improve performance within our intelligence services. 
   Accountability: Second, the Congressional intelligence committees can use more stability and skill to provide effective Congressional oversight. As soon as a Senator serving on the Intelligence Committee masters the art of questioning enigmatic CIA personnel and understanding their answers, their term on the committee expires. We need longer terms and more experience on these important committees which fund and oversee intelligence. Without it, the CIA and other intelligence agencies can cover their bureaucratic mistakes, eluding the accountability which they have to Congress and the American people. 
   Cooperation: Like most of you, I'm very troubled by suspicions that our intelligence community may have played a role in abusing Iraqi prisoners, and the Senate Intelligence Committee is trying to find out if this charge is true. Certainly extracting intelligence from prisoners is not pretty, but there are internationally-recognized rules of interrogation to follow. What we saw depicted at Abu Ghraib prison was illegal, indefensible and unacceptable. The people responsible for these perverse acts - whether they are military, intelligence officers or civilian contractors - should be punished, and this prison - where Saddam Hussein carried out so many sadistic crimes - should be leveled to show Iraqis that this type of behavior is not indicative of American values. Having said that, I must tell you that the Senate Intelligence Committee had to get initial reports about this situation, not from the intelligence community, but from the National Public Radio website. That is unacceptable. It shows we need better cooperation from the intelligence community. Congress is constitutionally part of the intelligence process, and we must be informed. 
   To do less than have the best intelligence service and the best intelligence gathering standards, reflects poorly on the vast majority of Americans in uniform and the civilians who serve so well every day - men and women like those in the Mississippi National Guard's 204th Air Defense Artillery Battalion, based in Newton. I visited them last week in Washington, D.C. where they've served for a year protecting the airspace above the city with their advanced Avenger weapons system. These citizen soldiers underscore the professionalism and competence that we've come to expect from America's military. The unprofessionalism at Abu Ghraib stains their noble efforts as it does all our military men and women, including those who served and are serving in Iraq, and especially the 15 Mississippians who have died in Iraq. We owe the vast majority of men and women who serve with distinction an intelligence apparatus on par with their high standards and proven accomplishments.
 
 