SENS. LOTT, PICKERING SEEK STUDY FOR NEW INTERSTATE FROM NATCHEZ TO LAUREL
 Sens. Trent Lott of Mississippi and Zell Miller and Saxby Chambliss, both of Georgia, are sponsoring Senate legislation calling for a study and immediate report on proposals to construct a new interstate between Natchez and Augusta, Georgia, intersecting Laurel and Montgomery, Alabama. 
   Congressman Chip Pickering is sponsoring companion legislation in the House of Representatives, supporting the study and examining plans to upgrade the existing U.S. 84 route through South Mississippi to interstate standards, in preparation for eventual incorporation into the new interstate, which would be designated "I-14."
   "Senators Miller and Chambliss, Congressman Pickering and I recognize the importance of roads to both public safety and job creation," Senator Lott said. "Just as building the new interstate, I-69, through the Mississippi Delta will provide economic momentum in that challenged region, I-14 will intersect another economically depressed area of our country - central Alabama. In Mississippi, the Waynesboro, Laurel, Hattiesburg corridor along Highway 84 has tremendous potential for additional growth which I-14 could help bring, and the beautiful Natchez area yearns for interstate access and better transportation alternatives for industrial development, as well as for enhancing its already vibrant tourism economy. This study is the first step in what I believe will be one of the most important regional transportation projects of our generation."
   The legislation directs the U.S. Department of Transportation to complete the study and report from existing USDOT budget resources by the end of this calendar year. The report will describe the steps and estimated funding necessary to construct I-14. The bill language specifically lays out the proposed route between Augusta and Natchez, via Laurel, Montgomery, Alabama, Macon and Columbus, Georgia.
   The bill further cites the significant economic impact such an interstate would have upon South Mississippi and Alabama and cites the lack of an adequate east/west interstate through this region as a current impediment to job creation.
   Congressmen Pickering and Max Burns of Georgia have sponsored the companion House legislation.
   "This new interstate will open additional commercial and tourism opportunities to Mississippi and the Southeast," Congressman Pickering said. "Convenient and modern transportation infrastructure is vital to Mississippi's future economic development plans and necessary for our growing population. Natchez has naturally served as a crossroads for America's transportation needs since and before our nation's earliest days, and it is appropriate and makes good sense that it would serve as one of the two terminals of this new Southern artery."
   The I-14 proposal joins plans for three other new interstates to traverse Mississippi, including: I-69 through the Delta; I-22 through Northeast Mississippi, and to Birmingham, Alabama utilizing the existing Highway 78 and I-85 from Meridian, Mississippi to Montgomery along the route of the existing U.S. Highway 80.
   Each of these separate proposals are supported strongly by Senator Lott because of their potential to enhance transportation, improve public safety and provide economic growth. I-69 construction has already begun in Mississippi, with the upgrading of State Route 304 to interstate standards. Legislation authorizing the designation of Highway 78 as I-22 has already cleared the Congress with support from Senator Lott, Senator Thad Cochran and Congressman Roger Wicker. 
   Most of Highway 78 already is built to interstate standards through Mississippi, and Alabama officials continue to upgrade this route for eventual I-22 designation. I-85 proposals are moving forward with supporters envisioning a seamless interstate connection from Meridian to Montgomery and joining an existing interstate link to Atlanta, helping Mississippi and Alabama further strengthen the burgeoning automotive manufacturing corridor developing in both states.
   "Obviously interstate projects are long-term endeavors, but, when you look at the interstate proposals impacting our region, Mississippi is poised to see some of the most significant transportation investments and improvements we've experienced since the interstate system was built some 40 years ago," Senator Lott continued. "We must remember that the vast interstate system we enjoy now was first envisioned by President Eisenhower in the 1950s and completed in just over a decade using a combination of new construction and incorporation of existing routes. Today, we can't imagine life without these modern highways. As we move forward with these new interstate proposals let's keep in mind the huge impact we know these roads will have, and how quickly we can build them once we get started."
 
 