SENATE PASSES RESOLUTION OF CONDOLENCES FOR KATRINA VICTIMS
  The U.S. Senate Tuesday night in a 94-0 unanimous vote of solidarity adopted a Sense of the Senate Resolution expressing the condolences of the nation to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, commending the resiliency of the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, and committing to stand by them in the relief and recovery efforts. 
   Three hours earlier, U.S. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi returned to Washington and came straight to the Capitol to make an impassioned appeal on the Senate floor for help for Mississippians. Lott said he knew that the Senate will "make sure that the full force of the federal government is used, and where we need changes and where we need help, we will work together to put those in place."  
   "I've seen hurricanes of all kinds, and I've seen tornadoes and the devastation of ice storms and floods," Lott said on the Senate floor. "We've had everything in Mississippi but locusts, and I expect them to show up really soon. This is a disaster of Biblical proportions, and I just want the people to understand that. We're still looking for people we haven't been able to find. You can't even really comprehend the loss of life. The spirit of Mississippians has been indomitable. We'll come back. We're going to rebuild, and we'll be bigger and better and stronger for it all. I just want to make sure the American people know that." 
   The text of S.Res. 233, the Senate-passed Resolution follows: 
   Resolution 
   Expressing the condolences of the Nation to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, commending the resiliency of the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, and committing to stand by them in the relief and recovery efforts. 
   Senate Resolution - Add One 
  Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
   Whereas, on August 28, 2005, Hurricane Katrina reached landfall devastating the Gulf coast states; 
   Whereas there has yet to be a full accounting for all our citizens whose lives were tragically lost; 
   Whereas the cost in human suffering is ongoing for hundreds of thousands of people who have lost loved ones, homes, and livelihoods; 
   Whereas immediate humanitarian aid is still critically needed in many of the devastated regions; 
   Whereas the devastation on the Gulf Coast of Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama is catastrophic; 
   Whereas the City of New Orleans is tragically flooded and the surrounding communities of St. Bernard and Plaquemines parishes are devastated; 
   Whereas every city on the Mississippi Gulf Coast is severely damaged or destroyed, including Waveland, Bay St. Louis, Pass Christian, Long Beach, Gulfport, Biloxi, Ocean Springs, Moss Point and Pascagoula; 
   Whereas the States of Florida, Texas, and Georgia, also sustained damage; 
   Whereas Coast Guard search and rescue teams, police, firefighters, and the National Guard have risked their lives to save others; 
   Whereas doctors, nurses, and medical personnel worked expeditiously to ensure that hospitals, medical centers, and triage units provided needed care; 
   Whereas the American Red Cross, the Salvation Army, and other volunteer organizations and charities are supplying hurricane victims with food, water, and shelter; 
   Whereas the State of Texas has welcomed tens of thousands of victims from Louisiana, and other States are following its lead; 
   Whereas the Army Corps of Engineers has worked to reinforce levees in Louisiana; and 
   Whereas thousands of volunteers and government employees have committed time and resources to help with recovery efforts: Now, therefore, be it 
   Senate Resolution - Add Two 
  Tuesday, September 6, 2005 
   Resolved, That the Senate - 
   (1) Expresses the condolences of the Nation to the victims of Hurricane Katrina; 
   (2) Commends the resiliency of the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama; and 
   (3) Commits to stand by the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama in the relief and recovery efforts.
   Contact: Susan Irby, 202/224-6253.
 
 