SEN. LOTT PUSHES BILL TO PROTECT CONSUMERS, DRIVERS FROM UNSAFE KATRINA CARS
Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi joined Reps. Cliff Stearns of Florida and Charlie Melancon of Louisiana and representatives of the National Automobile Dealers Association (NADA) Thursday in pressing Congress to enact legislation that will protect car buyers and highway travelers from unsafe cars totaled in Hurricane Katrina and other natural disasters.  
 The "Consumer Access to Total Loss Vehicle Data Act," S. 3707, would make available to consumers information about automobiles declared a total loss by insurance companies. The legislation directs the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to compel all insurers to commercially disclose information pertaining to total loss vehicles, perhaps through such online auto services as CAR-FAX. 
 "After Hurricane Katrina, I was approached by responsible auto dealers in Mississippi who were concerned abut flooded vehicles ending up in the marketplace," Senator Lott said. "An estimated half million vehicles were damaged by Katrina, and indeed there is evidence that these cars are being cleaned up and sold to unsuspecting consumers. 
 "A number of these cars are unsafe and shouldn't be on the roads. And folks are overpaying for vehicles they believe are mechanically sound. To the untrained eye, they appear to be in good shape." 
 Senator Lott said that consumers should not have to rely on the various states' titling processes because each state is different and, often, the branding information is not passed from one state to the next. When an insurance company declares a car totaled, the insurer assumes the title. "The insurance industry should make this information available to protect the consumers, and we will be working to enact that protection in the 110th Congress," Senator Lott said. "Buyers are entitled to truthful titles and complete information about a vehicle's history." 
 Joining the legislators at Thursday's press conference were Don Regan with NADA and Scottie Davis, an auto recycler expert who demonstrated the problems with a car onsite that was flooded during recent Maryland storms but which appeared to the unwary eye to be a sound vehicle. Don Regan with NADA pledged his organization's support in getting unsafe cars off the roads.
 Contact: Susan Irby, 202/224-6253.
 
 