SENATE REPUBLICAN WHIP LOTT ASSESSES IRAQ WAR DEBATE STATUS
  Highlights of Senator Lott's floor speech:
   I don't think there's any excuse for the fact that we have come to the point where we're just throwing up our hands - and saying I can't have it my way, you can't have it your way, and, therefore, we'll have it no way
   * The proposal that Senator Gregg had, made eminently good sense. Let's show we support the troops. Gee whiz, why is that a bad idea? The American people don't want to send our troops into harm's way around the world or even in Baghdad without knowing we're behind them. 
   So what's the problem here? The problem is that was able to get 80, I don't know, 90 votes. We can't have that vote because later on, we may want to cut off the funds to the troops. And there is a little bitty twist of language like we support funding of troops in the field. What does that mean? In the field? What if you're on the way? What if you're with a brigade pulling out of Texas now or in Kentucky or headed to Kuwait ? We don't support them? There are too many nuances here.
   * This shouldn't be about the political winner or who won the PR battle. We're playing with lives here - America 's finest - and I think we should support them, as Senator Gregg proposes. We should give the plan the President has developed a chance, because nobody else has com e up with a better plan other than pull back to the borders. What good is that? You know, which way are we going to shoot? To me, that's the worst of all worlds.
   Remarks on Iraq by Senate Republican Whip Trent Lott of Mississippi
  U.S. Senate Floor
  Wednesday, February 7, 2007
   Mr. Lott: I was pleased to hear a moment ago it was suggested that maybe we go to the omnibus appropriations bill in such a way that would allow amendments to be offered on both sides. That's good. That's the way it ought to be. And that's why I've been surprised and, quite frankly, disappointed that we have not been able to com e to some sort of agreement about how to proceed to these resolutions dealing with the President's plan to take action in Iraq and have a full debate on the substance
   Of the plan and the resolutions, I don't think there's any excuse for the fact that we have com e to the point where we're just throwing up our hands - throwing up our hands and saying I can't have it my way, you can't have it your way, and, therefore, we'll have it no way.
   Mr. President, if this were the Super Bowl, whether you were Grossman or Manning, you'd call a time out and say, wait a minute here, there's got to be a way we can get a plan to go forward. I know how difficult it is to do this because our leaders on both sides of the aisle get pressures from all sides. They're pulled. Don't agree to that, you've got to agree to that.
   In the end, the leaders have to decide how we go forward in a fair and open way, and the rest of us have to support that decision. Mr. President, the majority has strong power in the House of Representatives and a good bit in the Senate. But I think the most difficult job in this city is the job of being majority leader, the job that Senator Reid has right now, because he doesn't have a Rules Committee. He's not the President. He can't give an order and have the bureaucracy move, not that the bureaucracy ever moves. He has to work with the minority. He has to find a way to move things forward.
   Some people say, "Oh, that's the process." Look, the process is substance because if you can't figure out how to get it done, you never get to the substance. This is not an autocracy here. No one person possesses unlimited power. You've got to give to get a little. You can't have a deal where you say, "No, no, you can't offer but one amendment; and, by the way, it's got to be this."
   If we were going to do anything, we should have gone with more, not less. So, I don't get it. If this is the big, important, serious issue we all say it is, surely we could have worked out a way to proceed. Well, I guess one thing we could say is, we'll get back to this. We're going to get back to it in many different ways. But at least in the future, when we get to the debate, it's going to be a serious debate about something that's real.
   We were talking about taking up resolutions that had no binding effect. It was a feel-good deal. Yeah, we're going to take a pop at the President. Yeah, we support the troops, but no, we don't support the troops.
   Oh, yes, thank you very much General Petraeus, 81-0, you're confirmed. Go over to Iraq . Oh, and by the way, we don't agree with what you're trying to do. We don't support the plan. How did we get into that?
   At least at some point, men and women of strong principle and beliefs are going to offer up amendments that are going to say, support the troops, stick with the plan, or pull out. High-tail it. Get out of there now. Then we'll have a real debate. We'll have real bumps. That's what under our Constitution, we should be doing actually.
   I think the proposal that Senator Gregg had, made eminently good sense. Let's show we support the troops. Gee whiz, why is that a bad idea? The American people don't want to send our troops into harm's way around the world or even in Baghdad without knowing we're behind them.
   So what's the problem here? The problem is that was able to get 80, I don't know, 90 votes. We can't have that vote because later on, we may want to cut off the funds to the troops. And there is a little bitty twist of language like we support funding of troops in the field. What does that mean? In the field? What if you're on the way? What if you're with a brigade pulling out of Texas now or in Kentucky or headed to Kuwait ? We don't support them? There are too many nuances here.
   Let me get away from process. Let me talk about substance. We have a problem in Iraq . A lot of people now are shifting their position, saying, "Well, I voted for it earlier, but I'm against it now. Yeah, it's gotten tough, so I don't like it."
   Everybody says change the status quo. I had a chance to talk to some world leaders recently in Switzerland , and they were saying, "My goodness, you can't do that, can't do this, can't do something else."
   I said, here's the choice: "Stay, leave, or do what?"
   They said, "No, you can't leave. You've got to stay." Well, what do you propose? Deafening silence. The President understood that we had to change the status quo. Action had to be taken. A plan had to be developed. He proposed a plan. He met with us. He came to the Congress. He spoke in the State of the Union , "Here's what I propose to do: Give this plan a chance. Give the plan a chance."
   And General Petraeus, maybe the General Grant of this war, or the General Washington of a previous war - this is the man of the hour, and I hope and pray the good Lord will guide him in the right way, because he's got a serious challenge before him. But this is not just about a surge, although that's a part of the plan. This is a plan with at least three other key com ponents. But ask yourself, we say to the Iraqis, you've got to get a political solution. Everybody's saying we'll never get a military solution without a political and economic solution.
   Well, yeah. But how do you get a political solution in chaos? How can you get a political solution when your capital is being blown up every day by insurgents of all stripes? You've got to get a grip on security. It's like here in our nation's capital, we couldn't have orderly government if we didn't have order. So we're going to try to send in the best we have, under the best general we have, and get some control of the violence and the chaos in Baghdad , and give the Iraqis a chance to deal with the politics.
   Am I convinced that all of this is going to work? I don't know. I'm not the best expert in the world. I've been on the Armed Services Committee. I've been on Intelligence. I've been around awhile. But I'm not going to impose my military judgment on a man like General Petraeus. But let's see if the politics won't work. There's a lot of pressure. They know - they know.
   I met with the vice president of Iraq recently, and he was talking about, well, what is your strategic plan? I said, "No, sir, excuse me. With all due respect, it's not about what is our plan. What is your plan? It is your country, your government. When are you going to ante up and kick in, in a way that brings leadership and order out of all this?"
   The second part of the President's plan is for different rules of engagement. It is for a requirement that some political achievements be reached. That's why I like the McCain-Lieberman-Graham proposal. I like benchmarks. Now, the question is: Well, it is one thing to lay down benchmarks, but what if they don't meet them? Then, you decide. If we conclude it won't work, that they can't govern themselves, then we have to go with the next plan.
   Somebody said, "Well, this is the last plan." It's never the last plan. There's always another plan. But in the politics, I think we can be successful. We've certainly got to try to. And I do think that regional solutions, getting particular provinces under control or particular sectors under control, getting generals in different sectors makes good sense, but also the economy. I mean, just look at here in America where you have people who are not working. Their lives are insecure. They get into trouble. I understand that 40% of the young men in Baghdad don't have a job. There's got to be a better job done of getting the money, the oil money, fairly distributed and done in an economic way that will create jobs so that these young men and women will not be, just be bored, and looking for ways to kill themselves.
   And so, Mr. President, we should have found a way to go forward with this debate. I don't quite understand what's going on. Maybe we're all having to learn a little different roles here of who's in the majority and who's the minority and how it works. I know for sure that in some respects, it's easier to be in the minority than in the majority.
   The majority leader has to, he has to be tough. He has to eat a little crow every now and then. He's got to be prepared to say to the Republicans, we'll find a way to work this out. You've got to keep poking at it. Somehow or other, we didn't want to do it this time. I don't know. Maybe everybody's going to leave the field and say we won. This is not about winning and losing.
   This shouldn't be about the political winner or who won the PR battle. We're playing with lives here - America 's finest - and I think we should support them, as Senator Gregg proposes. We should
   give the plan the President has developed a chance, because nobody else has com e up with a better plan other than pull back to the borders. What good is that? You know, which way are we going to shoot? To me, that's the worst of all worlds.
   We can make this work, but the President, General Petraeus, our troops, the American people need our support and our confidence in what we're attempting. We can go on and have the debate today about these nominees, two good men. We can turn to the omnibus appropriations and find a way to get it done with order.
   Nobody wants to play games. Nobody should be trying to say, if you don't do it this way, my way, you're trying to shut down the government. Nobody should be saying we're going to filibuster if we don't get everything we want.
   This is the Senate. You've got to give everybody their chance. You've got to have some order out of the chaos. This is sort of like Baghdad . Sometimes we get divided up into provinces. I appreciate the efforts that have been made, but the important thing is not the process in the Senate. The important thing is what our men and women are going to be trying to do in Iraq .
   Let's give this plan a chance.
   I yield the floor, Mr. President.
 
 