$248 MILLION APPROVED TO REBUILD HIGHWAY 90, BRIDGES
 Federal funding totaling $248 million has been approved for the reconstruction of U.S. 90 and its coastal bay bridges in Biloxi and Bay St. Louis, destroyed by Hurricane Katrina, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said Tuesday. Federal funding totaling $248 million has been approved for the reconstruction of U.S. 90 and its coastal bay bridges in Biloxi and Bay St. Louis, destroyed by Hurricane Katrina, Sens. Trent Lott and Thad Cochran said Tuesday.  
   "The importance of this project can't be overstated," Lott said. "Rebuilding these bridges and continuing efforts to repair other hurricane damage to Highway 90 itself must remain a priority from both a financial and a scheduling perspective. We must get these bridges reconstructed and operable as soon as possible to restore the quality of life and economic vitality that people of the Mississippi Gulf Coast need to fully recover."
  Senator Cochran stated:
   "I am pleased the Secretary of Transportation is releasing the funding Congress approved in December as part of Hurricane Katrina appropriations legislation. This funding will allow the Mississippi Department of Transportation to rebuild two new bridges over the Biloxi Bay and St. Louis Bay, which represents an enormous step in the Gulf Coast moving from hurricane recovery to economic revitalization."
   "I am pleased the Secretary of Transportation is releasing the funding Congress approved in December as part of Hurricane Katrina appropriations legislation. This funding will allow the Mississippi Department of Transportation to rebuild two new bridges over the Biloxi Bay and St. Louis Bay, which represents an enormous step in the Gulf Coast moving from hurricane recovery to economic revitalization." 
   In the fall Congress approved $2.75 billion to fund highway transportation aid packages for Gulf Coast states. As a result, DOT provided $25 million last year and $740 million for the state's road repair work in January, the Senators said. 
  Tuesday's award of $248 million is in addition to the earlier figures, bringing the total federal funding for emergency road repairs in Mississippi to more than $1 billion, Cochran and Lott said. The total also funds the cost of removing debris from highways immediately after the storm.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569. 
 
 