FROM PAPER TO PAVEMENT
  Author: Sen. Trent Lott  
   This week I was pleased to join my colleagues Senators Zell Miller and Saxby Chambliss, both of Georgia, along with Congressman Chip Pickering in taking the first steps to build a new interstate from Natchez through Laurel and on through Montgomery, Alabama, and Augusta, Georgia.  
   This new interstate, destined to become "I-14," would join three other new interstate projects impacting Mississippi. When the transformation from paper to pavement is complete, these projects will represent some of the most significant interstate construction since our modern highway system was completed some 40 years ago.
   Our legislation calls for a study of the proposed I-14 route which in Mississippi would follow along existing Highway 84 from Waynesboro, Laurel, Printiss, and Brookhaven to Natchez. Our bill requires the U.S. Department of Transportation to submit a report on the I-14 study by the end of this calendar year.
   The proposed I-14 is accompanied by three other projects in various stages of development: I-69, stretching from Canada to Mexico via the Mississippi Delta; I-22 from Memphis to Atlanta via Oxford, Tupelo and Birmingham, Alabama; and I-85 from Meridian to Montgomery, and connecting to Atlanta. 
   These new interstates, just like the ones we now have, will improve public safety, ease transportation and provide a stimulus for job creation. Like the planned I-69 project which will traverse the economically-challenged Mississippi Delta, I-14 will help bring business investment and jobs to a very poor area in Central Alabama. 
   In Mississippi it will help the Laurel/Hattiesburg region build on its already progressive economy. I-14's greatest Mississippi beneficiary could be the Natchez area, where people have longed for interstate access that will help spur industrial development and enhance Natchez/Adams County's already well-established tourism economy. 
   Now, some folks think these projects are way off in the future. Not really. At least they don't have to be when we resolve to do them. Today we take our modern interstate system for granted, but not so long ago, it didn't exist. People under 40 can't imagine life without four-lane interstate highways, but folks my age knew it all to well. My father was killed on a narrow, curved, two-lane road near Laurel. I remember driving from red light to red light on highways like U.S. 90, 11, 80 or 51. The danger factor was higher, and it took forever to get somewhere. 
   Thankfully, President Eisenhower initiated construction of America's interstate system in the 1950s. Within just over a decade, our modern highway system was done. We built this system very quickly using a combination of new routes and existing ones. Interstates 10, 55, 20 and 59 transformed communities throughout Mississippi almost overnight. Our mobility and safety were dramatically increased. Industrial parks sprang up. Lives and opportunities were improved..
   Still, many communities were left out of the interstate mix, and some states are doing better than others in fixing that. In Mississippi, the initial interstate construction of the 1960s bypassed Tupelo, Natchez and Greenville. 
   Today, Mississippi is the first state to initiate I-69 construction. Mississippi now has Interstate 78 in northeast Mississippi mostly brought up to interstate standards and ready to become I-22 - good news for the folks in Tupelo and Oxford, and for the big "mega-site" industrial location that leaders in this region are promoting. I-85 from Meridian to Montgomery is important for Mississippi and Alabama's continued development of the southeastern automotive manufacturing corridor. It would have a direct impact on a joint Mississippi/Alabama super industrial site straddling the state lines near Kewanee, in Lauderdale County just east of Meridian, where we'd like to lure another automotive manufacturer or similar industrial development.
   But both the I-22 and I-85 proposals need additional commitment from Alabama, beyond voiced verbal support. Needless to say I'm encouraging my colleagues like Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama to ensure that both our states, along with Georgia, are committed to these interstate projects.
   We know that interstates improve safety, enhance travel and stimulate job creation. Let's pursue a new phase of interstate development with the same vision and vigor of President Eisenhower and all those who so quickly transferred our modern highway system from paper to pavement.
 
 