ERASING STATE LINES
  By Sen. Trent Lott 
  Growing areas like the Gulf Coast, Tupelo, and Hattiesburg are dramatically different than they were a decade or two ago. Yet, some key parts of Mississippi still have unexploited potential. We can develop these areas in part by erasing state lines - by establishing communication and expanding joint economic development with our neighboring states. 
   Establishing Communication: Just two weeks ago I met with Senator David Vitter of Louisiana to talk about cooperation between our two states on mutual economic and environmental issues. 
   Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour already has laid the groundwork for interstate cooperation with his and Alabama Governor Bob Riley's commitment to pursue economic development along the extensive Mississippi-Alabama border. We hope the Alabama Legislature soon will endorse this effort, too.
   Of course, there's a natural tendency to let state lines be barriers to cooperation and communication, but, when you look at a map of Mississippi, interstate cooperation makes sense. You'll notice that many of our major cities are near or practically on the state border, employing workers from surrounding states. The Gulf Coast, Natchez, Meridian, Vicksburg, Greenville, Columbus, Southaven, McComb, Starkville, Picayune, Clarksdale, and Jackson all lie within a short distance of neighboring states. In my hometown of Pascagoula, Northrop Grumman's Ingalls shipyard remains one of the largest employers of Alabamians, drawing huge numbers of workers from the Mobile area.
   Recognizing mutual sites: Yet, we still have areas of Mississippi near our borders that clearly have additional potential. I see three areas in particular that can benefit immediately from interstate cooperation: Lauderdale county, Pearl River and Hancock counties, and Jackson county. 
   If I had to pick one area that yearns for more growth, it's East Central Mississippi and the Meridian area. Here, there is a trained or trainable work force, and there are a variety of educational institutions. Many communities would love to have the type of transportation assets this area has - rails, two interstates, four-lane highways, and one of the region's longest runways.
   Yet, so far, job growth in this area remains stagnant. There are great sites for development in East Mississippi, particularly along the state line. For my part, I've joined with Congressman Chip Pickering to help this area get federal funding for a new industrial park in Lauderdale county, and I'm ready to assist further. But I believe progress in East Mississippi will take more regional unity and coordination among Lauderdale, Newton, Neshoba, Clarke and Kemper counties, and the municipalities contained within them. This means erasing not just state, but municipal and county lines as well.
   When we jump across and down the state to Hancock County, we have Stennis Space Center already attracting dozens of small, high-tech companies like Lockheed-Martin and Rolls-Royce Aerospace - all feeding off the great testing facilities and research opportunities of the Space Center. But just across the state line in Louisiana is the similar NASA Michoud Space Center which is also ripe for development benefitting both Louisianians and Mississippians. This is one of the things I talked with Louisiana officials about, along with ways we can assist one another in federal legislative matters.
   Working together: For example, when lots of fresh water from the Mississippi River empties into the Mississippi Sound following severe rain or flooding, it causes the salt water line to move further south. When the river is low after dry weather, the salt water creeps northward. Too much salt water or too much fresh water are extremes which cause problems for Mississippi oystermen dependent on stable salt water oyster beds in the Mississippi Sound. I've asked for Louisiana's help in diverting some of the Mississippi River's fresh water into Lake Maurepas or Lake Pontchartrain as a way to regulate and stabilize the salination line. In turn, I've pledged my support for their federal efforts to preserve Louisiana wetlands. This kind of cooperation opens the door for additional partnerships in job growth.
   Finally, in my home county, Jackson county, we've had success in attracting jobs. But we can't forget that one of the major underutilized sites impacting our area isn't in Jackson County or even in Mississippi. It's across the line in Mobile County, Alabama. The old Brookley Air Force Base which was closed years ago is a good site for development, and I'm talking with Alabama leaders about that, as well as about using Mobile Airport and its commercial airport as catalysts for development.
   Mississippi and our neighbors will continue to compete vigorously for job prospects. But when we can't win a prospect, there are at least three immediate areas on either side of our borders where we can work together, and there are a lot more areas along our state lines with similar potential. When it comes to preserving or winning jobs, we should work to erase state lines whenever possible.
 
 