PORT GIBSON BATTLE SITE DECLARED NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK
 The U.S. Department of Interior has designated the Port Gibson, Mississippi battle site as a National Historic Landmark, Sen. Trent Lott said today. The site is among 24 locations nationally designated this week by U.S. Secretary of the Interior Gale A. Norton. 
   "I've worked in support of legislation and designations that will preserve more of Mississippi's historically significant places, especially those sites related to the far-flung Vicksburg Campaign which touched areas for many miles along the Mississippi River. 
   "Preserving sites and linking them can contribute significantly to the state's tourism economy and to the study of American history. Certainly, Port Gibson is one of Mississippi's most historic and storied communities, and its pivotal role in the Vicksburg Campaign remains a key part of America's development."
   In addition to sites related to the Civil War's Vicksburg Campaign, Senator Lott has helped secure funds for an interpretive center at the Corinth National Battlefield, showcasing and explaining that area's role in the climactic Civil War Battle of Shiloh. Senator Lott helped dedicate the center last year. Additionally Senator Lott spearheaded legislation declaring Mississippi's six coastal counties and a National Heritage Area, making communities therein eligible for federal funds supporting significant historical or environmental preservation projects.
   The Battle of Port Gibson had a direct and decisive influence on the Union effort to capture Vicksburg and secure the vital Mississippi River. The Port Gibson engagement marked the beginning of the final phase of General Ulysses S. Grant's epic struggle to capture Vicksburg, the South's last stronghold on the river. Grant's victory at Port Gibson gave him a beachhead from which to advance north to Vicksburg. The terrain of the Port Gibson battlefield retains integrity. The natural topography and the sunken roadways followed by the troops remain.
   All National Historic Landmarks are included in the National Register of Historic Places, the official list of historic properties and cultural resources worthy of preservation.
   Additional information on the National Historic Landmark program can be found on the National Park Service website at http://www.cr.nps.gov/nhl.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 