SEN. LOTT ANNOUNCES $3.6 MILLION FOR MISSISSIPPI WATER SERVICE UPGRADES
  A package of federal loans and grants totaling more than $3.6 million is approved for three separate water system projects in Forrest, Pike and Jefferson counties, Sens. Trent Lott, Thad Cochran and Reo.Chip Pickering said today. 
   "Rural water and waste water improvements are a critical component of Mississippi's development both economically and from a quality-of-life standpoint," Senator Lott said. "We've made dramatic improvements in water service capacity and refinement through the USDA Rural Development Program, which will administer these funds. Better water and waste water service gives local communities a stronger foundation for residential development and job growth."
   Congressman Pickering stated:
   "Improving rural water service is crucial to Mississippi's continued economic development and quality of life. As our communities grow and infrastructure improvements are made, we must provide safe and clean water, and I'm glad these federal funds will be used in Magnolia for that purpose."
   In Forrest County, a Rural Development loan of $720,000 will help the Carnes Utility Association, Inc. to complete a water well, elevated storage tank, line, and other ongoing improvements. 
   In Jefferson County, a rural development loan of $398,000, a grant of $112,700 and a natural disaster grant totaling $1 million will be used by the McNair-Stampley Waterworks Association, Inc. to construct water well, elevated tank and distribution lines that will increase pressure and eliminate leaks caused from excessive amounts of rainfall erosion.
   In Pike County, a federal loan of $368,000, a grant of $55,000 and a natural disaster grant of $975,288 will help the Magnolia Rural Water Association, Inc. to construct two wells, a storage tank and a water treatment plant. Additionally the funds will help construct new distribution lines to increase pressure and meet standards.
   Contact: Lee Youngblood, 601/965-5569.
 
 