PRACTICAL EDUCATION
  Too often when we think about education, we envision desks and lecture halls. Or we get caught up in news about the latest standardized test scores or fights over school funding. 
   But education is much more. In today's global economy, education must be about practicality, too. Ultimately education is about giving people knowledge that can be used to make a good living in the current job market, and I'm pleased that here, Mississippi is at the forefront.  
   Last week I announced an initiative tailor-made to help Mississippi's educational system meet specific local needs. 
   Working through the U.S. Department of Labor, I helped secure $5 million to set up "Centers for Excellence" throughout South Mississippi, specifically to train more workers in the metal trades. 
   Metal trades skills lead to good-paying jobs and career building, and there is a growing need for more metal trades workers. It wasn't that long ago that Northrop Grumman Ship Systems had to employ welders from India to temporarily balance out a worker shortage in this field. 
   More than 72,000 Mississippians work in the metal trades sector, which in Mississippi includes jobs in shipbuilding, commercial construction, the oil and gas industry, automotive manufacturing and petrochemical production. 
   That number is bound to grow with more work at existing industries like the Northrop Grumman shipyard in Pascagoula and at new industries like the upcoming steel mill that will be sited near the Mississippi/Alabama state line, just north of Mobile. 
   The first centers will be established at Gulf Coast Community College and Jones Junior College, covering 18 Mississippi counties where metal trades workers are in the most demand. 
   Outside of industry, in the construction field, Mississippi will need more metal trades workers as we continue our Hurricane Katrina recovery and rebuilding process. Hurricane recovery coupled with the current boom of aerospace, automotive and steel industry jobs throughout our region has helped boost metal trades jobs in Mississippi by almost 30 percent between 2002 and 2006. 
   Metal trades are where there are growing opportunities, and, thanks to Mississippi's excellent community and junior college system, we've got a good educational mechanism to train our workforce to meet employer needs. 
   This particular grant will be administered through the Labor Department, headed by Secretary Elaine Chao. 
   I've consulted with Secretary Chao many times about Mississippi's workforce needs, particularly in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. She is always quick to respond to every request from Mississippi's leaders. She provided many grant packages for Mississippi, beginning just two days after the storm with $50 million released to hire temporary workers needed in the emergency supply distribution and clean-up effort. 
   This latest $5 million grant, issued under the federal Workforce Innovation In Regional Economic Development (WIRED) program, follows two other recent Labor Department initiatives now at work in Mississippi. 
   One is an $15 million WIRED grant being administered for workforce development in the Meridian area. The other impacts the Starkville-Columbus-West Point area, where federal funds are now helping to re-train workers - who lost their jobs when the Sara Lee meat processing plant closed - teaching them skills for jobs in that area's new aerospace and automotive industries. 
   Today's education system must continue going beyond the traditional educational setting and definitions, and meet the ever-changing needs of individual communities and economies. That's the practical part of education that's helping Mississippi move forward. (6/29/07) 
   Senator Lott welcomes any questions or comments about this column. Write to: U.S. Senator Trent Lott, 487 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510 (Attn: Press Office).
 
 