REMEMBERING RONALD REAGAN
  Author: Senator Trent Lott
   In 1980 it seemed the American dream was fading. We doubted our strength. Our economy was severely faltering. The threat of a rapidly expanding communist empire headed by the Soviet Union seemed unstoppable and nuclear war inevitable. People were pessimistic about the future. Then came an optimist to Washington. He was a man who said America's best days are ahead of us, that it was far from America's sunset, but a morning in America. By the time he left office in 1988, Ronald Reagan had proven what he said, changing America and the world for the better - beyond anything, anyone but Reagan thought possible.  
   I am proud to have served him. In fact, I don't know where America would be today if he hadn't come along at the moment he did. As one of President Reagan's chief lieutenants in the U.S. House during the "Reagan Revolution" serving as House Minority Whip, I worked hard to implement President Reagan's agenda in Congress - legislation that brought us levels of prosperity and peace far beyond what anyone, except Ronald Reagan, could have thought possible in 1980.
   Like so many Mississippians, I'll never forget when Ronald Reagan kicked off his first Presidential campaign at the Neshoba County Fair. His optimism about America seemed both boundless and contagious. Even though he had been successful as an actor and as California Governor, by the time Ronald Reagan was elected President, he was still an average guy from the Midwest - a man who never lost sight of his basic vision of an America that is strong and a world free from communism.
   His critics tried to paint him as a simpleton. They were content for government to grow, to continue being a nanny state even though dependency on government was siphoning energy from Americans, crushing the entrepreneurial spirit that made our economy great. His critics seemed willing to live with communism even as one nation after another fell into dictatorship. Yet, Reagan trusted Americans and believed in American ideals. He trusted our common sense, and he wanted the American people, not our government, to make decisions for themselves. To this end he passed sweeping tax cuts because he respected America's working people and thought they should be able to keep the fruits of their labor. He made it possible for millions of people to build businesses and have careers that today have created an American economy and living standard far beyond our closest comparable nation. He was so successful that by 1992, even his liberal detractors felt it necessary to follow his lead, claiming the "era of big government is over." That was further evidence showing Reagan truly changed our political landscape.
   A man of faith, President Reagan told us evil dictatorships can't be pacified, that we must confront them. He called the Soviet Union an "evil empire" scorning communism for what it Godlessly did to human beings who are created in God's image. At first his hard line against the Soviet Union seemed to heighten Cold War tensions, but by 1985 the tensions subsided. Reagan had spearheaded the largest peacetime military buildup in history, and the corrupt, bankrupt Soviet communist system just could not match it. Gradually the Soviets began to embrace democratic reforms. By 1989, the Communist empire in Eastern Europe began to fall apart, one satellite state at a time. The next year, the Soviet Union itself crumbled. It was breathtaking. Ronald Reagan, in just eight short years, had helped overturn a century of totalitarian lies. Today full-scale nuclear conflict is hardly pondered. Communism, as he predicted, has been dismissed from serious thought.
   Ronald Reagan was right. America had better days ahead back in 1980. We still do. The complex problems of our day seem to pale when you really think about what could have happened, if Ronald Reagan hadn't come preaching his message of personal optimism, smaller government, military strength and self-confident, unapologetic American assertion. His lessons are still applicable today. America must remain confident and strong. Ronald Reagan's message appealed to Americans because the things he stood for really are America, the real America - a shining city on a hill, where it's always the morning of a better day.
 
 