'A PROMISE TO KEEP'
  Recently a historical marker was dedicated near the grave of the late Congressman G.V. "Sonny" Montgomery in Meridian. The marker notes Sonny's legacy of national service, particularly as an unflinching advocate for America's veterans. Sonny was always at home with America's military men and women, especially his fellow World War II and Korean War soldiers.
   But this Veteran's Day, let's remember that the word "veteran," is by no means synonymous just with the older generation of World War II, Korea and Vietnam-era veterans who frequent the VFW halls. With the War on Terror, America has commitments to a new, growing generation of veterans who have served in Afghanistan and Iraq. We must be mindful of their continuing sacrifice, and we must adjust our veterans' service structure to meet the needs of this new demographic. 
   With that in mind, I want to see Dr. James Peake confirmed soon as Veterans Affairs Secretary. Nominated to fill the post by President Bush, Dr. Peake, like Sonny, is a veteran. After graduating from West Point, he went to Vietnam with the 101st Airborne, serving as a combat platoon leader. For his courage there, he was awarded the Silver Star and two Purple Hearts. After recovering from combat wounds, he went to medical school and became an Army doctor. As Army Surgeon General, he reformed the way army medical treatment is administered, leading to much higher survival rates for soldiers today.
   With Dr. Peake, we have a Secretary for Veterans Affairs who really understands the challenges and needs facing today's veterans. He was a wounded warrior himself, and he's been a physician who treats them. He will make a great spokesman and guardian for our veterans.
  Dr. Peake is especially well-qualified to help our Veterans Affairs department eliminate backlogs and help vets get prompter service. As Dr. Peake has noted, America's veterans disability system is "largely a 1945 product" with 1945-era processes. Most experts believe it's time to update and upgrade this system, particularly to meet the needs of wounded veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan.
   This Veterans Day, we should be mindful of another continuing commitment our nation made to veterans, this one right in our backyard. We recently began reconstruction of the Armed Forces Retirement Home in Gulfport, which was destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. But even before the hurricane, hundreds of veterans living there complained about the treatment and service, particularly from its civilian administration.
   I responded by introducing legislation calling for reform and more military oversight of the home. That angered some Washington bureaucrats and after the hurricane destroyed the home, the bureaucrats balked at rebuilding it. Senator Cochran and I persevered in securing funds from Congress, and reconstruction has now begun on a new home to serve yet another generation of veterans.
   Regardless of our views on military missions and deployments, we always must remain faithful to our veterans. Adopting Sonny's example, we always should remember that America's commitment to veterans is long-term. It's not just to the three or four million remaining World War II and Korea veterans, but the 20 million veterans from Vietnam to the current War on Terror.
   When you see veterans this Veterans Day, thank them for their service. And remember that America's commitment to veterans is a lifetime of gratitude embodied by the veteran services we've promised to keep.
 
 