SEN. LOTT: REBUILDING TOGETHER, REBUILDING BETTER
  The Mississippi Gulf Coast and the cities of Mobile and New Orleans are siblings - established 300 years ago by the French as the first modern settlements in our region. Through centuries of dramatic change we've grown together, and now we face dark days together. But we'll endure Hurricane Katrina rebuilding together and rebuilding better.  
   Though from many backgrounds, folks along the Coast are a tough, resilient people who've developed a single, unique culture. We can, and we will face down our most difficult challenge ever.
   Yet, it's really not just our challenge but the entire nation's task. Given the vital energy production in the Gulf and the important defense installations and contracting, the fate of our country rests on how soon we get the Gulf Coast going again. If anybody can recover and rebuild itself from such a mess, it's America. 
   President Bush started the recovery and rebuilding effort even before Katrina came ashore, eventually declaring 52 Mississippi counties eligible for federal disaster assistance. A $10.5 billion emergency aid package has been passed by the Congress. As the real impact of Katrina's unprecedented storm surge has become clear, the entire world sees this was no ordinary hurricane. 
   On Friday following the storm, the President said the relief efforts to date were "unacceptable," and I agree. We need more guardsmen, more food, fuel, ice and emergency supplies, and I've been assured the relief effort will intensify dramatically. 
   Right now my office is working feverishly to help get needed supplies to the Coast. Whether it's finding fuel, tankers to ship it or making sure roads are open so people can get back and bring supplies in, we're working. And I want to know about any problems.
   For the months ahead, Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao has made $50 million available to Mississippi, enabling our state's Department of Employment to hire temporary workers who can assist in the ongoing recover effort, and I know this will be well utilized.
   As of this writing, I've contacted many people in the private sector to help Mississippi recover. To date at least 40 national and international companies have stepped forward, providing money, materials or services for the recovery.
   For those of you who want to help, I urge you to contact the Red Cross, Salvation Army or any charitable organization aiding the relief effort. I've posted helpful numbers on my website: www.lott.senate.gov. 
   Governor Haley Barbour has established a 501(c)(3) fund to which people can send donations for the relief effort and Katrina's many victims. Checks should be made payable to: Hurricane Relief Fund, P.O. Box 3562, Jackson, Mississippi 39207.
   I'm working with our governor, state officials and anyone who can help direct resources where they're needed. If you're not getting a response to your needs for immediate relief, please contact my offices in Jackson, Oxford or Washington. My Pascagoula office was destroyed, and my Gulfport office has yet to be cleared for reopening. But I soon will open a temporary office on the coast.
   From the coast to Laurel, Hattiesburg, Jackson, Meridian and even as far north as Tupelo, Katrina has left a huge scar, but I'm confident the hard-hit coast and all of Mississippi will heal. 
   Like thousands of coast residents, I've walked the coast streets gazing in total shock at the tangled mess of destroyed homes and businesses.
   Today we're mourning the death of loved ones; searching for those who may be alive in the wreckage; tending to the hungry, homeless and hurting; clearing the debris and planning south Mississippi's rebirth. We will rebuild together, and we will rebuild better, even better than we remember, but keeping the same spirit that has set the coast apart for three centuries. (9/9/05)
   Senator Lott welcomes any questions or comments about this column. Write to: U.S. Senator Trent Lott, 487 Russell Senate Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20510 (Attn: Press Office)
 
 