SEN. HUTCHISON: AMERICA HAS BEEN BLESSED WITH STRONG LEADERS
  Texas celebrates Presidents' Day each year on the third Monday in February. Our first president, George Washington, was born February 22, 1732, and many states celebrate his birthday with a holiday bearing his name. In fact, the federal government officially recognizes the third Monday in February as Washington's Birthday. However, individual states observe their own holidays, and, since 1971, Texas has honored all presidents by celebrating Presidents' Day. 
   I have a deep respect for George Washington, who led our Revolutionary Army against the British in the fight for America's independence. His leadership in the formative years of our country paved the way for America to emerge as the bright, shining star that it is today. 
   He also had unparalleled self-restraint. At the end of the Revolutionary War, even though he controlled a powerful army, General Washington rebuked those who urged him to become king of the new country. Instead, he resigned his post as commander in chief and dissolved the army, allowing for a peaceful transfer of power.
   Six years later, the country unanimously elected George Washington as our first president. Despite his great popularity, he retired from office after two terms to set the precedent of voluntarily giving up the country's highest office. When King George III of England -- the very man America revolted against -- learned President Washington had stepped down, he stated that the president's self-restraint "placed him in a light the most distinguished of any man living," and made him "the greatest character of his age." 
   Abraham Lincoln, our 16th president, was also born this month. President Lincoln stood out for his pragmatism and moderation. When the country was being torn apart by people from two political extremes, he sought to find a middle path. Toward the end of the Civil War, many northerners wished to punish the South, but President Lincoln refused. In his famous second inaugural address, he announced a policy of forgiveness, offering "malice toward none" and "charity to all." 
   General William T. Sherman perhaps best summed up who Abraham Lincoln was when he said, "Of all the men I ever met, he seemed to possess more of the elements of greatness, combined with goodness, than any other." To this day the Republican Party is often referred to as "The Party of Lincoln."
   In addition to Presidents Washington and Lincoln, I am happy to recognize all our other presidents on this holiday. Their sacrifice and service contributes to the distinguished reputation the presidency has today in our country and throughout the world.
   Thomas Jefferson, our third president, greatly affected the early years of our country, championing of the idea of government by the people. He drafted the Declaration of Independence in 1776, at the young age of 33, before being elected president 20 years later. One of his most notable achievements was the Louisiana Purchase, which doubled the size of the United States and ushered in an era of westward expansion that led to the settling of Texas.
   Theodore Roosevelt, the 26th president, became the youngest president ever at the age of 43, following the assassination of President William McKinley. President Roosevelt, a hero of the Spanish-American War, led the United States' emergence as a world power. Believing in diplomatic persuasion backed up by military might, he was known for quoting the West African proverb, "Speak softly and carry a big stick."
   Texas has sent its share of leaders to the White House. Dwight Eisenhower, who served two terms as the 34th president, was born in Denison. Lyndon B. Johnson, the 36th president, was born in Stonewall. More recently, George H.W. Bush, the country's 41st president, began his political career in 1969 by representing Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives before eventually becoming president.
   Of course, we also have a Texan in the White House today: our 43rd and current president, former Texas governor George W. Bush. Our president has valiantly kept his word to defend America in the war on terror. 
   Please take a moment this Presidents' Day to appreciate our commanders in chief. We are blessed to have had so many strong leaders over the years.
 
 