SEN. HUTCHISON: TEXAS TRANSPORTATION, HIGHER EDUCATION TO BE HER TOP PRIORITIES IN NEW CONGRESS
  Congress will consider measures in its coming term of vital importance to Texas, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) told a meeting of the Bryan-College Station Chamber of Commerce. Texas' senior Sen. vowed to prod the legislature to complete work next year on other priorities such as a comprehensive energy plan and a six-year transportation reauthorization. 
   "I will also work to pass a transportation bill that provides Texas a fairer share to meet our pressing needs," Sen. Hutchison said, noting that when she first started working on the issue, Texas taxpayers received only 76 cents off of each dollar sent to Washington in fuel taxes. She helped secure a better return for Texas raising that amount to 90.5 cents on the dollar in subsequent legislation. Sen. Hutchison said she is now working to further improve Texas' share in new highway legislation coming before Congress.
   "We also need to enact a comprehensive energy policy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and foster new exploration and job creation here at home," she added. "The new makeup of the Senate offers fresh hope for passage of legislation to lower U.S. reliance on unstable overseas markets. Currently, Americans import 60% of our oil, while domestic sources of energy go undeveloped. We need to change that," the Senator said. 
   "Federal research funding for Texas must be a priority as well," said Sen. Hutchison, who spoke last week at the second annual meeting of The Academy of Medicine Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST). She said she has made it a high priority to ensure that Texas improves its ranking of states receiving federal research dollars. In 2000, the National Science Foundation ranked the state fifth in Federal Research and Development (R&D) expenditures, and it has risen to third. 
   "Texas A&M is an important part of my effort to make Texas a state of science," she said. "I have worked hard to ensure its researchers get their fair share of funding."
   Sen. Hutchison has secured the school's National Emergency Response and Rescue Training Center (NERRTC) $75 million over four years. She has also secured federal funding for the school's Vegetable and Fruit Improvement Center, for a total of $3.139 million.
 
 