SENS. HUTCHISON, CORNYN ANNOUNCE PRESIDENTIAL DISASTER DECLARATION FOR ELEVEN ADDITIONAL TEXAS COUNTIES
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, and Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, announced Tuesday that President George W. Bush has added 11 Texas counties to the major disaster declaration as a result of recent storms. This declaration will trigger the release of federal funds to help those affected by flooding in the following counties: Archer, Bell, Burnet, Eastland, Hood, Parker, Starr, Victoria, Webb, Wichita, and Williamson. 
   The declaration comes in addition to six counties approved for assistance on June 29: Cooke, Coryell, Denton, Grayson, Lampasas, and Tarrant.
   "There is still much important work to do to help Texas communities recover from the flooding in recent weeks. This is an important step toward providing these counties with much needed relief," Sen. Cornyn said. "We must continue working with the Texas Congressional delegation to press for additional federal funding and cut bureaucratic red tape, ensuring assistance will be delivered in a timely manner. And we'll keep pushing to make sure all Texas counties that need assistance get it."
   "After touring the flood damage across Texas last week I have urged FEMA and the White House to expand the disaster declaration and I am pleased they have done so," said Sen. Hutchison. "We need the federal government to step up and provide the immediate assistance Texans need and this announcement will help do that."
   Sens. Hutchison and Cornyn have urged the President to expedite the federal disaster declaration for the Texas counties that need assistance.
   Individual assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
   FEMA said that damage surveys are continuing in other areas, and more counties and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are fully completed. All counties in the State of Texas are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Additional designations may be made at a later date after further evaluation.
 
 