SEN. HUTCHISON: WATER DEBT AGREEMENT SHOULD HAVE BEEN SOONER, STRONGER
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) expressed reservations about an agreement announced today by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her Mexican counterpart, Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez, to repay Mexico's remaining water debt to the United States. Sen. Hutchison called on the two leaders to address the debt in a letter she sent to Sec. Rice on March 4, 2005.  
   "This agreement is long overdue, and it may well be the best deal available," Sen. Hutchison said. "But the debt should have been paid in full. Mexico now has more than sufficient supplies to totally repay the debt. If anything, the Mexicans should have paid more water as interest on their long-overdue arrearages.
   "That being said, the Rio Grande Valley, State of Texas and United States will benefit from the agreement reached today," Sen. Hutchison continued. "Local economies and livelihoods depend on this water. Repayment will help assure farmers have the necessary water for future growing seasons, when water supplies are not as plentiful as they are today. With Mexico having ample reserves in storage, it is only right - and fair - that the obligation is discharged. And we must ensure that we do not allow Texas producers to be put in this position again in the future." 
   Sen. Hutchison has led the effort to address water concerns in Texas, and particularly in South Texas, where water is becoming a scarce resource. Since 1999, she has introduced two key pieces of legislation which Congress has passed. This legislation, combined with $7.6 million Sen. Hutchison secured through appropriations, has assisted South Texas water conservation efforts. In 2002, she obtained $20 million to compensate South Texas producers for their losses from non-fulfillment of treaty obligations.
   The U.S. Mexico Water Treaty of 1944 obligates Mexico to allow for an average of 350,000 acre-feet of water to flow into the Rio Grande annually during five-year cycles. In return, the U.S. is to allow for an average of 1,500,000 acre-feet of water to flow to Mexico from the Colorado River.
 
 