READING IS A KEY TO SUCCESS
  When you teach children to read, you give them one of life's greatest gifts. Children who unlock the world of the written word gain access to unlimited opportunities for learning and discovery.
   Sadly, many children do not have access to books at an early age. Millions of children are growing up without books because their families have limited means or do not have ready access to appropriate children's books. Some parents, themselves, were not read to as children and find it difficult to start the habit with their own kids. Unfortunately, getting a late start in reading can contribute to continuing the cycle of poverty. 
   Teaching children to read at an early age helps break that cycle. Early readers enter school ready to succeed academically. When children love reading, they do better in school and they enjoy their courses more. Reading is the foundation for learning and excellent reading comprehension facilitates studies in other subjects, such as math and science. 
   As a parent, I recognize the value of literacy and the importance of promoting it at every stage of a child's life. Every night at bedtime, my husband and I read a story to our children. Reading stories with children teaches them about the world and shows them how fun reading can be at the same time.
   Many children dislike going to the doctor because they relate a visit to the doctor with being sick or getting a shot, but a national literacy program is changing that. Since doctors have regular contact with young children and their parents, these visits are valuable opportunities to share information about reading.
   Reach Out and Read is a non-profit organization that trains pediatricians to advise parents about the importance of reading aloud to children. It also gives new books to children at pediatric checkups from the age of six months to five years. 
   If there is one thing children love, it is getting gifts. There is always a look of joy on a child's face when opening presents at a birthday party or during the holidays. Associating this same feeling with reading is invaluable. Now, instead of dreading a trip to the doctor, a child can look forward to acquiring a new book.
   Founded in 1989, Reach Out and Read serves more than 2.1 million children each year and distributes over 3.4 million books annually. There are over 2,500 Reach Out and Read programs in hospitals and health centers across the country, and 28,000 pediatricians, nurses and other clinicians have been trained to be part of the program. Reach Out and Read also has volunteers who read aloud to children in clinic waiting rooms and provides parents with ideas about how to get the most out of reading with their children.
   I am proud to support Reach Out and Read programs in Texas and nationwide. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I help secure funding for worthwhile programs such as Reach Out and Read. For our country to remain competitive in a global economy, it is essential that our children are well educated; and the best educations start with early reading. Supporting educational programs remains a top priority for me in the Senate and, last fall, Congress approved over $9 million to fund Read Out and Read which has programs in all 50 states.
   I recently visited some Read Out and Read programs in Texas. Dyess Air Force Base in Abilene established Texas' first Reach Out and Read program for children on a military base and I was honored to have the opportunity to read to children there. I also recently had the privilege to read to children at Reach Out and Read clinics in Amarillo and Odessa. These are just a few of the 180 Reach Out and Read programs in Texas. Each year they serve over 200,000 Texas children and distribute more than 250,000 books to the youngsters in the Lone Star State.
   When I read to these children, I see their growing interest in reading beam from their faces. It is obvious they are excited about books and they enjoy having adults read to them. That is a great sign for our future.
   I still have some of the books that I had growing up. They are now worn out and tattered, but I keep them to this day. There were many books I liked, but there is an even greater variety of books available to today's children. 
   We are fortunate to have the generous people at Reach Out and Read providing books to children so they can begin building their own personal libraries at an early age. When children develop a sense of ownership in books, they begin to cherish them. This makes a huge difference in their level of interest and it helps them acquire skills that benefit them the rest of their lives.
 
 