MEDICARE BRINGS NEW BENEFITS
  It is crucial that every Texan understands how best to take advantage of Medicare and, in particular, the new prescription drug coverage known as Medicare Part D. I have long fought for more comprehensive coverage for seniors in Texas, and Medicare now provides more benefits that allow people to lead healthier, longer lives without having to make difficult financial choices for health care.
   Since January 1, 2006, Medicare beneficiaries have enjoyed access to prescription drug coverage. Before this change, Medicare paid for costly operations and potential complications but did not pay for preventive medicine. Increasingly, illness can be treated with medication instead of invasive surgeries, and the Medicare Prescription Drug benefit provides seniors affordable access to those drugs. 
   Over 38 million people are already using the new prescription drug plan, including 2.5 million Texans. More than 90 percent of Texas Medicare beneficiaries now have prescription drug coverage. According to a recent survey by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, people who have looked into the available plans are generally satisfied with their plans by a seven-to-one margin and want to stay with them.
   Actual costs for Medicare Part D have been well below the estimates. Competition from private plans has reduced the projected cost to taxpayers by $11 billion over the next five years, while the average premium for beneficiaries in 2006 is less than $24 a month. These unexpected savings are the result of price negotiation, low-cost coverage for generic drugs and discounted brand-name drugs.
   Medicare Part D has another window for signing up or changing plans this year. From November 15 to December 31, Medicare beneficiaries can sign up for the prescription drug benefit or change their plan according to their current needs. Everyone with Medicare is eligible for this coverage, regardless of income and resources, health status, or current prescription expenses. These plans cover both brand-name and generic drugs.
   As with other insurance, seniors pay a yearly deductible and a monthly premium, which varies by plan. Seniors also pay a portion of the cost of prescriptions. The amount varies depending on which drug plan they choose. Some plans may offer gap coverage and additional drugs for a higher monthly premium. Currently, there are 47 different prescription drug plans available for Texans. If a senior has limited income and resources, he or she may qualify for extra help.
   I recently met with Dr. Mark McClellan, the administrator for Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. A native Texan and graduate of the University of Texas, Dr. McClellan cares deeply about educating Texans on how to best take advantage of Medicare Part D. He and his staff offer a variety of ways for seniors or family members to learn more about which option works best to meet their needs.
   A wealth of information is available by calling 1-800-MEDICARE, including customer service representatives who can offer personalized information. The website www.medicare.gov offers comprehensive information, including detailed coverage of each drug plan and a special new feature to help visitors customize the site to cater to their specific needs. And this fall, Medicare representatives will be visiting communities across Texas to help educate the public as the next sign-up date approaches. Counselors will be available at these events to assist citizens in choosing an appropriate plan.
   The most important consideration in choosing a plan is determining how comprehensive it needs to be. When meeting with a counselor, the beneficiary should have a complete list of the medication he or she is currently taking. Medicare staff can also assist seniors in finding generic drugs that provide cheaper alternatives to brand-name drugs. These generic drugs have similar benefits at a lower cost, reducing the senior's co-payment.
   I am working with my colleagues in Washington, D.C., to continue to improve the Medicare program for all seniors and, most importantly, educating them on how to utilize the benefits it offers. I urge all Medicare beneficiaries in Texas to be mindful of their health care needs by taking full advantage of the benefits offered by Medicare.
 
 