SEN. HUTCHISON ADDRESSES 8TH ANNUAL TEXAS TRANSPORTATION SUMMIT
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today gave the keynote speech at the 8th Annual Texas Transportation Summit luncheon. Before an audience of regional, state and federal transportation and elected officials, Sen. Hutchison discussed federal transportation issues affecting the state, including the surface transportation reauthorization bill recently passed by Congress.  
   "An efficient and timely transportation infrastructure is an integral part of Texas' prosperity. It is imperative we work together to not only maintain, but modernize our transportation infrastructure to meet new demands of our growing state," Sen. Hutchison said. "Improvements to our ports, railways and more than 300,000 miles of highway that connect the state will strengthen the economy and improve safety." 
   Sen. Hutchison highlighted the improved rate of return Texas will receive under the new highway bill. She worked to increase Texas' rate of return to 92 percent by the final two years of the bill. The new reimbursement rate will increase Texas' share of highway funding by nearly $800 million per year, to $2.89 billion annually for state transportation projects. 
   "The increased rate of return for Texas is a significant improvement but I intend to work for a higher rate of return in the next highway authorization bill," Sen. Hutchison said. "Starting the next authorization at 92 cents should improve our ability to gain needed transportation dollars." 
   In addition, Sen. Hutchison discussed light rail and rail safety improvements. The transit formula of the highway bill includes a provision which directs additional funds to high growth states. The bill also includes rail safety language based on legislation Sen. Hutchison introduced in April, 2005. Specifically, it directs the Federal Railroad Administration to implement rail rules which will improve inspections of welded track, develop tank car safety standards and require reports on new standards. 
   Regarding Amtrak's future as a national rail system, Sen. Hutchison discussed legislation introduced by Senator Trent Lott (R-MS), which she cosponsored, that establishes programs to improve service. She cited the importance of giving the system a chance to succeed before altering routes. The on-time performance standards and Surface Transportation Board report requirements in the bill will usher in accountability and help the system identify and eliminate delays.
 
 