SEN. HUTCHISON ADDRESSES 9TH ANNUAL TEXAS TRANSPORTATION SUMMIT
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today gave the keynote speech at the 9th Annual Texas Transportation Summit luncheon. She discussed transportation issues before an audience of regional, state and federal transportation and elected officials. 
   "Transportation improvements and solutions to meet growing demands are critical to the development and expansion of Texas cities and communities. Local communities can make great contributions to those efforts. DART and local efforts to repeal the Wright amendment are prime examples of local efforts delivering results," Sen. Hutchison said. "A continued focus on safe and efficient transportation will pave the way to economic growth and new development throughout Texas."
   Sen. Hutchison highlighted Dallas Area Rapid Transit's (DART) success in being awarded a $700 million Full Funding Grant agreement. She led efforts in the Senate to secure the funding for DART, which has been nationally recognized as a model of excellence in light rail systems. 
   Sen. Hutchison also spoke about her work with the 2005 highway reauthorization bill regarding Texas' rate of return. 
   "Texas' position has improved dramatically since I first took office, but we are still not where we deserve to be," Sen. Hutchison said. "When I arrived in the Senate in 1993, Texas was receiving only 76 cents for every gas tax dollar we sent to Washington. While we have greatly increased our share, more work needs to be done."
   Highlighting the need to provide local solutions to transportation needs, Sen. Hutchison discussed efforts to repeal the Wright amendment as a recent example. She has been working closely with the North Texas Congressional delegation, the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth and surrounding communities to craft a solution. The legislation that Sen. Hutchison introduced to repeal the Wright amendment passed the Senate Commerce Committee by a vote of 21 - 1 and she is working to ensure it passes the Senate as soon as possible.
 
 