TEXAS MUST BE AN INNOVATION LEADER
  As Albert Einstein once said, "Everything that is really great and inspiring is created by the individual who can labor in freedom." This is why our country has for centuries attracted the greatest minds in the world. The free, creative spirit of Texas has always been conducive to scientific research and innovation. During the past few decades, our state has been home to the invention of the computer chip, the buckyball (which is the basis of nanotechnology), and the balloon stent that opens arteries to prevent heart attacks.
   But despite individual gains, Texas has not reached its full potential. Our best researchers pursued their work independently from those in other Texas institutions, and sometimes they even competed against each other for federal grants. This lack of synergy was one reason why Texas ranked only sixth in the nation in federal research and development dollars. 
   I was determined to improve that ranking, so beginning in 2000 I set up a series of summits in Washington between federal agency representatives and the leaders of Texas's research universities and medical schools. The purpose was to find out what the major federal research priorities were and to encourage the universities with expertise to apply for the peer-reviewed grants. During one of those summits, Dr. Neal Lane, Rice University professor and past director of the National Science Foundation, suggested that Texas researchers could better collaborate if they were more familiar with the research being done outside their own institutions. We soon established an advisory committee headed by two of Texas' Nobel laureates, Dr. Michael Brown and the late Dr. Richard Smalley, to form The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas, better known as TAMEST. The purpose of TAMEST is to bring together the state's leaders in medicine, engineering and science, so they can learn from each other, assist each other, and further opportunities to collaborate on projects.
   In just five years, TAMEST has established a major support system for our state's best minds. Our goal has been to recruit and retain these prestigious researchers. Since the Academy was created, the number of TAMEST members who have been inducted into the prestigious National Academies has grown from 249 to 279. TAMEST also has 10 Nobel Laureates. In another major milestone, Texas has jumped from sixth to third in the nation in federal research and development dollars.
   At the national level, there is growing concern about the scientific base that has fueled our economy for the past hundred years. In 2005, the National Academies released an eye-opening report, "Rising Above the Gathering Storm," which identified alarming trends and worrisome indicators in science education in America's public schools. The conclusion of the National Academies report was clear: if we want to remain the undisputed leader of the global economy, we need to improve our science, math, and engineering education, and we need to do it urgently.
   In response to "Rising Above the Gathering Storm," TAMEST formed a panel which has been studying ways to improve science and technology education in Texas. Their report is scheduled to be released this September.
   Last year, I strongly supported and championed the America Competes Act, a bipartisan bill which is aimed at better positioning American students to compete with their international counterparts and to create a better-educated U.S. workforce. This landmark legislation increases research investment, especially at the National Science Foundation and NASA, and improves teacher education in math, science, engineering and other technical disciplines. President Bush signed the bipartisan legislation into law in August. With an eye toward research, education, and innovation, we can prepare young Americans to compete with the brightest minds from around the world, and lead our country into future prosperity.
   But more must be done. The choices we make today will have a powerful impact on our standard of living tomorrow. If we want our state to remain a leader in the global economy, we need to support and strengthen organizations like TAMEST - where bright, talented men and women help create the scientific breakthroughs of the future. We must advance every initiative that strengthens Texas' identity as a preeminent destination for research and economic opportunity.
 
 