SEN. HUTCHISON LAUDS TEXAS MAJOR DISASTER DECLARATION ANNOUNCEMENT
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison tonight lauded the White House's announcement that President Bush has declared a major disaster exists in Texas in response to the fires in the state. Below is a quote from Sen. Hutchison as well as the letter she and Sen. John Cornyn sent the president yesterday requesting the designation: 
   "Texans have suffered through months of devastating natural disasters," Sen. Hutchison said today. "Today's declaration by President Bush will help our state rebuild and recover from these fires. While we are currently focusing on this latest devastation, we continue to assist those who remain in need in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita."
   January 10, 2006
   The Honorable George W. Bush
  President of the United States
  The White House
  1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   We are writing in support of the State of Texas' major disaster declaration request in response to the devastating fires occurring across the state.
   Since December 26th, the Texas Forest Service has responded to 415 fires burning more than 253,000 acres, destroying 339 homes, and killing three people. On New Year's Day alone, more than 44,000 acres burned, including more than 70 homes and the entire community of Kokomo in Eastland County. High winds, gusting at times to 50 mph or more, prevented the launch of most air resources and caused uncontrollable fires.
   This severe wildfire threat is a result of one of the state's worst droughts in a decade, since 250 fires raged across North Texas in 1996. The National Weather Service has predicted that high winds and unseasonably warm temperatures will likely intensify through early 2006, making it likely that the state will face additional devastating wildfires.
   Texas citizens have experienced catastrophic losses, and state and local government resources have been severely stretched thin due to these fires. Therefore, we respectfully request your approval of this major disaster request.
   Thank you for your attention in this matter. 
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison
  John Cornyn.
 
 