HONORING 'THE GIPPER'
  This week Americans said their goodbyes to an American legend, President Ronald Reagan. Like all Americans, I was saddened to learn of his passing, but even in a moment of great loss, the memories of his good humor, contagious optimism and historic accomplishment comforted me. 
   At a time of great despair in our nation, Ronald Reagan came into office and restored hope. He was an unequaled champion of freedom, smaller government and market-oriented principles. His philosophies guided our nation to become the economic and military superpower it is today.
   But beyond his optimism, his confidence and his graceful charm, was a man of action who implemented great change in the United States of America. Under his leadership, our nation sowed seeds of prosperity and reduced regulatory burdens on business. He lowered taxes for all Americans, including reducing the top marginal rate from an oppressive 70 percent to a low of 28 percent, offering new incentives to create wealth and jobs, and to rebuild America.
   He encouraged Americans to embrace their own destiny and realize that government was not the answer to social ills - people were. Good people working in concert to better their communities and their fellow man could accomplish far more than bureaucracy.
   Perhaps most importantly, President Reagan took the steps to ultimately win the Cold War. He pursued peace through strength and achieved an overwhelming victory that was inconceivable to a generation raised with fallout drills and backyard bunkers. Who can forget the famous challenge he laid down when he cried, "Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!"? They were indeed dramatic words but more importantly, words of action. Two and a half years later, what once seemed a permanent divider through the heart of Berlin was torn down piece by piece, section by section until it was reduced to a pile of rubble.
   Visitors to the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, D.C. can view a section of the wall, donated by the people of Berlin in honor of the president and in recognition of his leadership. It stands as a stark reminder of the great shift in global politics that spread freedom in Europe, and encouraged new generations to pursue democracy.
   Today, we again find ourselves in a fight for freedom. This generation, like their World War II grandparents and Cold War parents, has been called to stand and fight for freedom. Today we're grappling with a new threat: global terrorism. An enemy with no borders, no uniforms, no respect for the traditional rules of war, and more importantly, no respect for human life.
   World War II took years of bitter fighting and sacrifice. The Cold War took decades of dedication and patience. This battle against terrorism requires all that and more. The question is: Will our generation meet the test - will we have what it takes to win? I believe we do. And I believe the strength, perseverance and patriotism that President Reagan embodied will help us see this through. In 1987, he addressed a joint session of Congress saying, "Let it never be said of this generation of Americans that we became so obsessed with failure that we refused to take risks that could further the cause of peace and freedom in the world."
   Ronald Reagan's lasting place in the hearts of all Americans has been evidenced by the outpouring of love and admiration we have seen across the nation and around the world. Ronald Reagan was a leader who touched people with his words, inspired them with his actions and led by his example.
 
 