WOMEN HAVE HELPED MAKE TEXAS GREAT
  Women's History Month is a perfect time to reflect on those strong women who contributed so much to Texas, starting with the Lone Star Republic's early days.
   Mary Austin Holley was Stephen F. Austin's first cousin. She noted that early Texas women were a breed apart. She once observed, "It is not uncommon for ladies to mount their mustangs and hunt with their husbands, to ride long distances on horseback to attend a ball with their silk dresses in their saddlebags. Hardy vigorous constitutions, free spirits and spontaneous gaiety are thus induced and continue a rich legacy to their children who, it is to be hoped, will sufficiently value the blessing not to squander it away in the eager search for the luxury and refinement of polite life." 
   Thomas Rusk, the first senator to hold my seat, and a close friend of fellow senator Sam Houston, wrote about the women and their contribution during the War for Independence. His wife Mary had helped oversee the calm evacuation of Nacogdoches by the women and children left behind after the men had gone off to war.
   They feared the Mexican Army and their Indian allies might be on the way, so the women took their children eastward in an exodus, remembered as the "Runaway Scrape."
   Rusk wrote: "The men of Texas deserved much credit, but more was due to women. Armed men facing a foe could not but be brave, but the women with their little children around them without means of defense or power to resist, faced danger and death with unflinching courage."
   My great-great-grandmother, Anna Maria Taylor, and four of her children made that arduous escape through harsh weather. Their children perished from illness during the ordeal, but after the Taylors returned to Nacogdoches, they raised nine more.
   Since those days, Texan women have continued to display the grit and strength of character those pioneers passed on to their children.
   Oveta Culp Hobby, mother of long-serving former Lieutenant Governor Bill Hobby, came up with the plan during World War II to recruit and train women to fill jobs in our military so that men would be freed up for combat.
   General George C. Marshall backed the formation of the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, known popularly as the WACs. At first, the list of jobs women were expected to fill was only 54. By war's end, that list had expanded to 239.
   Oveta did not want to head the WACs, but was prevailed upon to do her duty. At first, she found herself a one-woman recruiting drive for the organization, traveling from city to city giving speeches urging women to join. 
   Because she became the first American woman to become a commissioned officer, she had to design her own uniform. She carried an iron with her to press it each night when she made her pitch in various towns and cities throughout the country. She later became the first woman to receive the Distinguished Service Medal, our nation's highest non-combat award.
   Her leadership continued after the war. She insisted that Armed Forces Day celebrations in Houston would be open to everyone, regardless of race.
   Later, her leadership skills were tapped by President Eisenhower, who named her to head the new Department of Health, Education and Welfare as a cabinet secretary. When she passed away in 1995, she left a media empire, a loving family and a legacy built on hard work.
   One of those legacies is me. After I graduated from the University of Texas Law School, I could not find a law firm willing to hire me. I decided to try journalism instead, and applied for a television reporter job with KPRC TV in Houston. There were no women television reporters in Houston at that time, but the news director and station manager went to Mrs. Hobby, who said it would be a great idea to have a woman with a law degree as one of her reporters. That was my start. I owe her a great deal.
   Today Texas women serve in Congress, in the state legislature, as scientists, teachers, business leaders and artists. Even more important, many Texas women have embraced motherhood and have taken on the difficult job of raising the next generation. My only hope is that all of us who are raising children will succeed in instilling the Texas virtues of independence, strength of character and love of our state that we received from our parents.
 
 