SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES OVER $4 MILLION IN LAW ENFORCEMENT GRANTS
  Texas's senior Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded $4,420,219 in grants to Texas law enforcement agencies to assist in their mission to protect public safety. 
   "It is so important that our law enforcement agencies have the resources they need to keep us safe," Sen. Hutchison said. "These grants will support innovative programs to help our law enforcement officials prevent and fight crime."
   The following organizations will receive funding:
   Table omitted (It can be viewed at http://hutchison.senate.gov/pr091107c.html)
   Dallas County was awarded $1,483,835 under DOJ's Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders program, which enhances victim safety and offender accountability in cases of domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking by encouraging jurisdictions to implement pro-arrest policies as an effective intervention strategy. Dallas County will use the funds to continue its efforts to provide specialized services for victims of domestic violence.
   The University of North Texas Health Sciences Center, the University of Texas at Arlington, the Texas Engineering Experiment Station and Montgomery County were awarded grants under DOJ's National Institute of Justice Continuation Awards program. The University of North Texas Health Sciences Center will use a $1,400,000 grant to conduct DNA testing on unidentified human remains. The University of Texas at Arlington was awarded $264,879, and the Texas Engineering Experiment Station was awarded $242,000, to develop position location technologies for law enforcement use. Montgomery County will use a $198,581 grant for over-time pay for employees familiar with evidence storage and case histories to research cold case evidence.
   Mosaic Family Services Inc., received a $325,000 grant under DOJ's Services for Trafficking Victims Continuation program to expand victim service programs for persons who have been identified by federal law enforcement as victims of a severe form of trafficking.
   The Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of Texas received a $200,000 grant under DOJ's Tribal Courts Assistance program to develop a court system to serve the tribe's population.
   The Northside Independent School District was awarded $116,563 under DOJ's Gang Resistance Education and Training (GREAT) program. The goal of the GREAT program is to train law enforcement officers in a school-based curriculum in which the officers provide instruction to school-aged children in life skills, gang awareness and anti-violence techniques. The school district will use the funding to implement the GREAT Family Component and Middle School Program at six middle schools.
   The City of Austin was awarded a $95,000 grant, and Dallas County was awarded a $94,361 grant under DOJ's Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act Formula Grant program. According to DOJ, these funds can be used to improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science and medical examiner services and eliminate backlogs in the analysis of forensic evidence.
 
 