SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES RAIL SAFETY LEGISLATION, QUESTIONS FRA ADMINISTRATOR NOMINEE DURING SENATE HEARING
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today will introduce the Welded Rail and Tank Car Safety Improvement Act and questioned Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) nominee, Joseph Boardman, about his commitment to improved FRA oversight of tank car integrity during the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee hearing. 
   "We have seen in Texas, especially in San Antonio recently, the severe consequences of inadequate rail safety standards," Sen. Hutchison said. "This bill will initiate new rail precautions and enforce higher safety standards to protect passengers and communities that host rail traffic." 
   The bill calls for the FRA to improve track standards, inspections and tank cars. Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) co-sponsored the legislation. Specifically, the Safety Improvement Act will direct the FRA to implement rail rules which would improve inspections of welded track, develop tank car safety standards and report back to the committee on the new standards. In addition, the bill authorizes $1 million for Fiscal Year 2006 for these activities.
   Sen. Hutchison also co-sponsored the rail security bill in 2004 that was approved by the Commerce Committee and passed the Senate by unanimous consent. In October 2004, she held a meeting in San Antonio with local leaders and the FRA to encourage more comprehensive safety assessments of rail infrastructure, following a series of rail accidents in the area.
   A transcript of Sen. Hutchison's exchange with Mr. Boardman during the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee is listed below:
   SENATOR HUTCHISON: "With my last minute I would like to just ask a question to Mr. Boardman. Sen. Dorgan and I have just introduced legislation. I was very pleased to work on this with him because of a situation that happened in San Antonio, Texas. Last year-it happens in other parts of the country as well-it just happened that we had a huge wreck and it was going through a major metropolitan area. We know that hazardous materials carriage going through metropolitan areas is an issue that affects many communities. Our bill would require railroads to improve inspections of welded tract, develop tank car safety standards, and direct the FRA to do a relevant rule making. I just wanted to ask you if you are familiar with this issue, if you are committed to better inspection capabilities by the railroads, better oversight from the FRA and also the issue of tank car integrity." 
   MR. BOARDMAN: "Senator, I am familiar with at least part of the issue and I will, if confirmed, pay attention to the HASMAT issue - not only in terms of the technical characteristics of the cars but also in some of the balance of how we're going to notify and operate those cars."
   SENATOR HUTCHISON: "And working with the communities involved?"
   MR. BOARDMAN: "Absolutely."
 
 