EFFORTS TO IMPROVE SECURITY SHOULD NOT HARM TEXAS' COMMERCE
  With the savage bomb attacks in London, the world was put on notice that terrorists are continuing their jihad against the peaceful free people of the world and trying to destroy freedom. Because these murderers have often stated that their goal is to attack Americans in our homeland, we have to continue our efforts to improve our domestic security.  
   A key element in any plan to make America safer is prevention of terrorists and their weapons from entering our country in the first place. This is why, ever since 9/11, Congress has been providing increased resources to make our seaports, airports and land border crossings more secure. This is vitally important in the valley region. After all, Texas is widely known as America's "Third Coast" because of its long gulf shorelines; it has 1,254 miles of shared border with Mexico. Terrorists as well as violent drug gangs are trying to penetrate our borders more and more. 
   Al-Qaeda's number one man in Iraq, Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi, has said his goal is to attack Americans in our homeland and suggested smuggling terrorists in through Mexico. Already, investigators report finding Qurans and prayer mats in border areas of Arizona. 
   Currently, our policy requires our border agents to handle Mexican illegal immigrants differently from those who come from other countries, who are known by the acronym OTM, or Other Than Mexican. Amazingly, most OTM individuals are set free on personal recognizance and ordered to appear for court hearings a few weeks later. In testimony before the House Judiciary Committee, it was reported that more than 70 percent of these illegal immigrants fail to appear for those hearings. 
   The government reports that last year, we had more than 44,000 apprehensions of OTMs, of whom 4,000 were from countries identified by the State Department as terrorism sponsors or national security concerns. One of them was Farida Ahmed, a South African national who officials believe is a high-level Al-Qaeda operative. She was heading to New York when apprehended in McAllen, but how many of her allies have been released to blend into the population? 
   What complicates efforts to make the border safer is the explosion of goods and people traveling between the United States and Mexico. This trade has been a part of our history, but began to accelerate with the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1996. 
   Texas roads and rails carry most of America's NAFTA trade. Our challenge is to properly screen the huge amount of people and goods which cross our border each year well enough to provide good security while being efficient enough to allow trade to continue to flourish. 
   To improve security we must provide sufficient resources and personnel to do the job. This was a key reason why I successfully fought to restore funding to increase the number of border patrol officers to the full 2,000 authorized in the Intelligence Reform Bill. 
   We cannot physically screen every single container in our nation's vast economy, but we can certainly screen more than we do at present, and can set up a system to coordinate methods of identifying shippers and materials. We can also use large scanners, canine teams and other methods to determine whether containers are carrying weapons, narcotics, explosives, currency or people. 
   We can also do a better job of monitoring Texas' substantial cross-border truck traffic. A single truck booth on the border may handle 3.9 million vehicles per year. To address this problem, we are beginning a pilot program using Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFIDs) on the vehicles. If the program proves successful, we should think about speeding up adoption of these devices. 
   Some people think we can solve our problems by simply slamming the door on our borders. We in Texas know better, and I am committed to working with residents in the valley to come up with solutions which will allow our commerce and prosperity to increase even as we improve our nation's security against the terrorists and drug traffickers who threaten our way of life.
 
 