AN AGENDA FOR THE FUTURE
  There are elections in which everyone knows that "the people have spoken" but they don't always know exactly what the people have said. This November's election was different. Not only did the people speak, they spoke clearly. They supported President George W. Bush and want Congress to do the people's work without political obstruction. 
   We have important tasks ahead of us. First, we have the War on Terror. President Bush believes this war is not a localized matter confined to a single country. It is a worldwide struggle. We are battling fanatics who kidnap and behead civilians and shoot fleeing children in the back. There can be no dialogue with such people, and the American people understand this. The War on Terror not only involves providing our troops with everything they need, it also involves making needed reforms to our security agencies to help us defend our homeland.
   The voters in this election also delivered a verdict on domestic policies. They decisively rejected obstructionism because they desire Republicans and Democrats to work together.
   For instance, the Senate should take action on the President's judicial nominees. For years, qualified candidates have been denied a vote for confirmation despite having the support of a bipartisan majority in the Senate. I will work with my colleagues to ensure these nominees get a vote.
   The American people want Congress to make family tax relief permanent. Texans also want us to make the state sales tax deduction permanent. Eliminated 18 years ago, I and my colleagues were able to restore it for 2004 and 2005 and save the average Texas family of four more than $928 in federal taxes each year.
   Tax simplification is also on the agenda. One proposal is the Flat Tax to replace our present multi-tiered system with a single rate. Another option is to adopt a National Sales Tax in place of income and payroll taxes. 
   Our country also hungers for leadership to ensure the long-term survival of our Social Security system. With 70 million baby boomers in this country on the verge of retirement, we need to take action to shore up the system. President Bush's proposal guarantees those who have already retired, or are close to retirement, will receive the benefits they have been promised. His plan will also let Americans voluntarily choose to deposit part of their Social Security payments in private accounts which have historically yielded higher returns than payments into the Social Security program.
   In this uncertain world, Americans want to see our nation move to reduce our dependence on foreign energy by encouraging domestic exploration and production. This will spur the growth of our economy and create jobs. Efforts to move in this direction were blocked in the past, but now we have a chance to move forward.
   Another issue of special interest to me is achieving greater fairness in the federal funding of our highway systems. Highway construction is largely funded by the federal fuel taxes we all pay when we fill up our cars and trucks. Unfortunately, federal highway funding has traditionally provided far greater funds to states in the Northeast than in the Southwest, making states like Texas "donor" states because we get back less in highway funds than we send to Washington. Over the past 47 years, Texas drivers have contributed $5 billion to other states so they can build their highway networks. This is not fair, and makes less sense than ever, because our state has more highway miles than any other state.
   When I first came to Washington, Texans only received 76 cents out of every dollar paid on fuel taxes. By increasing that level to 90.5 cents, we gained an additional $1.23 billion for Texas. If we are successful in pushing the share up to 95 cents, Texas will gain over $160 million per year additional highway funding.
   While Congress and the President still have a great deal of work to do, I am confident we will make progress.
 
 