SEN. HUTCHISON: NASA-NIH AGREEMENT A MILESTONE FOR U.S. SPACE LEADERSHIP
  U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), ranking member of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Space, Aeronautics and Related Agencies, which authorizes NASA and the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science, which funds the NASA and NIH budgets, today hosted the signing of a memorandum of understanding between NASA and NIH to allow NIH to conduct scientific research on the International Space Station (ISS). 
   "This is a wonderful day in the history of America's space program because this agreement is a milestone in making sure that America remains the world's leader in space for decades to come," Sen. Hutchison said. "This is the kind of cooperative relationship I envisioned when I sponsored the 2005 NASA Authorization Act and championed the idea of designating the International Space Station as a national laboratory. I believe so strongly in the research potential of the ISS, and how important that research is, not only to our leadership in space, but also to our economic security and quality of life."
   The memorandum of understanding represents the first formal agreement establishing a framework for a non-NASA agency to make use of the ISS National Laboratory. It serves as an example of the kind of cooperative relationships Sen. Hutchison envisioned when she authored the 2005 NASA Authorization Act as chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Space, Aeronautics and Related Agencies and included in that authorization the designation of the ISS as a national laboratory.
   "Next month will mark the 50th anniversary of Sputnik, the remarkable event that spurred the federal government to create NASA and reach for the stars," Sen. Hutchison said. "In the half-century since then, we have safely landed a man on the Moon, launched interstellar craft to explore the outer reaches of our solar system, and now we are in the process of building the International Space Station.
   "Because of U.S. leadership, the ISS is becoming a global center for groundbreaking scientific research. The Station provides our scientists with a unique environment where they can conduct many experiments not possible on Earth.
   "As NASA expands its role in fostering technological innovation, we must ensure that it has enough funds to carry out its mission. Recently, I helped lead the effort to pass the America Competes Act, which increased essential NASA funding to support basic research and foster new innovation by calling for full use of existing budget authority.
   "Now, more than ever, we need NASA to be fully-funded, so that it can spur the new technologies that are so vital to our prosperity."
 
 