BACK TO SCHOOL: MAKING COLLEGE WORK
  August is back to school time for children across Texas. Chairs are dusted off, books are opened and pencils, pads and backpacks are purchased for the big first day. And while students from 1st to 12th grade are required to check-in on day one, what happens after graduation is up to them. More and more students are making the decision to attend a technical school, college or university. Unfortunately, as the importance of a college degree continues to rise, so does the price of tuition. In fact, the average cost of attending a public college or university in Texas is roughly $14,732 per year.  
   Whether you, your child, or grandchild is college-bound, these increasing costs may seem nearly impossible to fathom. I believe every child who wants to work hard to pursue a college education should have the opportunity to do so. Both federal and state governments have taken major steps over the years to open doors for students who want to take their education to the next level.
   The entire college process, from applications to financial aid and scholarships, can be overwhelming. A great help in navigating the maze can be admissions advisors, counselors and teachers. And there is financial help, particularly loans, readily available. Last year more than $3 billion was awarded to students attending college in Texas. Seventy-five to 80 percent was from the federal government and 20-25 percent was from the state, institutions or private sources. Let's take a look at how to find some of these available resources.
   * Financial Aid
   The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), is used to decide student eligibility for federal Pell Grants, Stafford Loans, and most state aid. Colleges use the data to compare the eligibility requirements of their assistance programs. Aid comes in many forms, such as grants, scholarships, college work-study programs, or loans. For a FAFSA application and deadline information, visit www.fafsa.com. To contact the Texas Financial Aid Information Center, call 1-888-311-8881.
   * Scholarships
   The best place to start finding scholarships is at the chosen institution. Each school has unique courses of study, and groups of alumni or contributors who have set up scholarships for future students. Most financial aid offices can provide a list of available awards that will help students narrow down the process. Of course, another fantastic resource is the Internet. Over the past decade, www.fastweb.com has expanded its database from 180,000 awards to more than 600,000. The total worth of the awards listed: $1 billion.
   * Special for Texans
   Texas offers many different ways to finance an education. There are numerous state grants, scholarships and programs available to help hard-working Texans achieve their educational goals. Here are a few of them:
   TEXAS GRANT: The Texas Grant provides money to enable well-prepared students to attend public and private nonprofit institutions of higher education within the state. The award amount depends on tuition and fees paid by the student at each school. 
   MINNIE STEVENS PIPER FOUNDATION: Started in 1951, this non-profit foundation has approximately $350,000 in student loans available yearly for full-time students attending Texas colleges or universities. Loan applications will be considered for undergraduate Juniors or Seniors and graduate students pursuing a higher degree. Each student is eligible for up to $10,000 in loans. MSPF also provides a wide range of grants.
   TEXAS TOMORROW FUNDS: No matter how old your child or grandchild is, it's never too early to start saving for college. Texas Tomorrow Funds provides two plans to meet the future needs of every Texas student. Visit www.texastomorrowfunds.org to investigate these savings and investment plans.
  Research! 
   The bottom line in financing an education is this: The more research you do and the more knowledge you acquire, the more opportunities appear. For tools and information to help your family plan for the future, visit any of the websites listed below. Obviously, not every Texan wants to attend an institution of higher learning. But as our economy goes global, many of us will want additional technical, business, computer or academic training. My goal is that this learning should be within the grasp of every Texan who will devote energy and effort towards pursuing it.
   www.collegefortexans.org
  www.state.tx.us
  www.ed.gov
  www.finaid.org
  www.college-scholarships.com
  www.student-loans.com
  www.usnews.com.
 
 