2005: A CHAMPIONSHIP YEAR FOR TEXAS
  Texas colleges and universities have a well-deserved reputation for excellence, but that success is not limited to the classroom. In the past year, teams of student-athletes from Texas schools have been incredibly successful on the playing fields as well. 
   The University of Texas represented our state with honor last week, winning the college football national championship with an amazing victory over the University of Southern California in the Rose Bowl by a score of 41-38.
   The Longhorns finished the season 13-0 by defeating the Trojans, who were going for their third consecutive national championship. It was so exciting to be at the Rose Bowl and witness quarterback Vince Young and his teammates win such a big game. When Young scored the final touchdown on a fourth-and-five play with only 19 seconds left in the game, the Texas fans were so loud you could feel the stands vibrate from the cheering. The team showed great character, becoming more determined after falling behind, and it displayed an indomitable spirit by wearing down the Trojans. I could not sit down the entire game because there was not a single dull moment.
   Years ago, I remember watching the great Texas teams coached by Darrell Royal when I attended UT. I will never forget the victory over Navy that clinched UT's first national championship in football on New Year's Day 1964. 
   This year, coach Mack Brown perfected his team, infusing it with confidence and stability. I expect the 2006 Rose Bowl will be the most unforgettable college football game I will ever witness. 
   The Longhorns showed the essence of Texan grit and determination. They are made up almost entirely of native Texans. Of the team's 22 starters, 20 of them are from Texas. 
   Another great memory I have from Texas sports last year was cheering on the Baylor University women's basketball team as they defeated the Michigan State University Spartans in April to win the school's first NCAA national basketball title. The Lady Bears' 84-62 victory was the second-highest margin of victory in a woman's NCAA title game ever and was an outstanding performance by a Texas team on a national stage.
   By leading her team to the championship, coach Kim Mulkey-Robertson became the first woman to win a national championship as a player and head coach, having been a star on two national championship teams at Louisiana Tech in the 1980s. She was awesome to watch last season.
   In June, the University of Texas baseball team won the national championship decisively by sweeping the University of Florida two games to none in the College World Series. Coach Augie Garrido has been extremely successful over the past few years, as the Longhorns have reached the College World Series four consecutive years, finishing second in 2004 and first in 2002. (Rice University won the championship in 2003 with another remarkable Texas team.) I am glued to the television during the College World Series each year. I love the games, and I am proud of how Texas teams always are a major presence.
   Also in June, the University of Texas women's track and field team won the NCAA Outdoor Championship by winning a close race in the final event. The Longhorns were in third place with just one race remaining, but they came through in the end to bring home the school's fourth outdoor track and field national championship.
   The victory was especially meaningful for coach Beverly Kearney, who overcame a personal tragedy and inspired all of us with her hard work and perseverance to recover and return to championship form.
   And to close out the year, several other schools saw their football teams complete excellent seasons by appearing in bowl games. TCU finished the season with an 11-1 record after winning the Houston Bowl; Texas Tech capped its winningest season since 1976 by playing in the Cotton Bowl, losing to Alabama only on the last play of the game; the University of Houston played in its second bowl in three years in the Fort Worth Bowl; and the University of Texas-El Paso appeared in its second consecutive bowl game by playing in the GMAC bowl in Mobile, Alabama, the first time since 1954 that the school played in a bowl game in back-to-back years.
   Congratulations to all of these teams! I am rooting for your continued success in 2006. You make Texas proud.
 
 