HISPANIC LEADERS MEET IN WASHINGTON TO PURSUE OPPORTUNITY SOCIETY
  This week more than 300 Hispanic leaders met in Washington for a two-day summit hosted by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas to address key priorities with senior members of Congress and Bush Administration officials. 
   The summit underscored values dominant in the diverse Hispanic community nationwide, as well as Latino support for an opportunity society. "Hispanics believe in hard work, personal responsibility and accountability, strong families, education, a robust national defense, law and order, respect for life and devotion to religion," said Sen. Hutchison. "They want to be successful, and they're willing to work hard to make life better for their children. These are the values that have made, and will continue to make, America great."
   Sen. Hutchison and Senate event co-chairs Sens. Pete Domenici of New Mexico, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch of Utah, and Jon Kyl of Arizona were joined by the Honorable Lynne Cheney; Alberto Gonzales, Counsel to the President of the United States; His Excellency President Elias Antonio Saca of El Salvador; Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist; U.S. Small Business Administration Administrator Hector Barreto; U.S. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida and other leaders and representatives from 36 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia.
   "I am honored so many came for this important and thought-provoking forum in our nation's capital," Sen. Hutchison added. "This event allows us to share ideas and work with one another to tackle the issues that will make a difference in the Latino community." 
   The summit brought together members of the business, non-profit, academia communities with government officials to pursue legislation and policies affecting their daily lives. Attendees received briefings on the U.S. House and Senate agendas and held interactive sessions on the economy, health care and education initiatives. Sen. Hutchison held a similar summit in 2002 and noted the overwhelming turnout led her to hold the event again this year. 
   More than 45 Texans registered to attend the summit, including Dr. Francisco G. Cigarroa, President, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio; Robert Duffy, Director of the Boeing Company; Dinah Lovett, President of the Central & South Texas Minority Business Council; State of Texas District Judge Sam Medina; Vince Puente, Chairman of the Fort Worth Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and Special Assistant Attorney General Edna Ramon Butts of the Texas Attorney General's Office.
 
 