SEN. HUTCHISON ENCOURAGES COLLEAGUES TO ADDRESS BORDER SECURITY, IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today released the text of a letter she sent to Republican senators on Tuesday. The letter encourages her Senate Republican colleagues to address the nation's border security crisis and reform immigration.  
   "We have an opportunity in September to pass a comprehensive immigration reform plan that can be signed into law," Sen. Hutchison said in the letter. "I am writing to urge you to work with me and our Senate colleagues, as well as the House of Representatives, to address an issue that demands our attention. Failure to do so will be an abrogation of our responsibility to our constituents and to our Nation."
   Sen. Hutchison worked with Congressman Mike Pence (R-IN) to put forth a border security and immigration reform plan that has received widespread acclaim across the political spectrum. Further excerpts from the letter follow below.
   "Our proposal first secures the borders of our nation by providing an immediate infusion of financing, technology, and personnel. When the president certifies to the Congress that we have regained control of the borders, our temporary, guest worker program will begin.
   "Individuals who wish to obtain employment in our country would register at branches of U.S. based employment placement agencies - "Ellis Island Centers" - that would be opened in the NAFTA and DR-CAFTA countries. The centers would maintain a database of employment opportunities in the United States that have been certified by the Secretary of Labor as having been first offered to American workers.
   "Those who are now in the United States and wish to participate in the program must first return to their home country to apply [for a visa] and undergo the required background checks in order to re-enter our country legally. Those who choose not to participate in the program would soon be unable to find employment because all employers would be required to verify the eligibility of all employees after a nationwide employment verification system is activated. 
  "Participants would not be eligible for welfare. Medicare withholdings would be used to reimburse hospitals that provide medical care to uninsured patients. The visa may be renewed but the holder must pass an updated background check and an English proficiency test.
   "We were elected to do the people's business. Do we face a greater domestic challenge than the need to fix our porous borders and broken immigration system? I am reminded of the challenge that President Reagan issued in his Second Inaugural Address "If not us, who? If not now, when?"
 
 