SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES OVER $7 MILLION IN LAW ENFORCEMENT GRANTS
  Texas' senior Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded $7,197,889 in grants to Texas law enforcement agencies and community organizations to assist in their mission to protect public safety. 
   "It is so important that our law enforcement agencies and community organizations have the resources they need to keep us safe," Sen. Hutchison said. "These grants will support innovative programs to help prevent and fight crime."
   The following organizations will receive funding:
   Table omitted (It can be viewed at http://hutchison.senate.gov/pr091307b.html)
   The Sheriff's Association of Texas was awarded a $2,292,000 grant under DOJ's National Institute of Justice Continuation Awards program to support the Border Research and Technology Center, which provides science and engineering advice, technology information and outreach services on border issues for local law enforcement agencies.
   The City of Austin, Texas Department of Public Safety and the Arlington Police Department received grants under the DOJ's Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program, established to aid the efforts of local and state law enforcement agencies. The City of Austin was awarded $990,000 to implement various violent crime fighting strategies, including overtime, data sharing and training. The Texas Department of Public Safety was awarded $949,766 to enhance the operations of 13 crime laboratories under the direction of the state's Crime Laboratory Service. The Arlington Police Department received a $480,436 grant to target violent offenders and violent offenses involving guns and other weapons.
   The University of North Texas Health Science Center will use a $800,000 grant awarded under DOJ's Forensic Science Training and Development and Delivery program to develop and deliver a curriculum for two regional missing persons training seminars with the goal of training at least 150 people at each session.
   The City of Fort Worth was awarded $750,000 under DOJ's Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders program, which enhances victim safety and offender accountability in cases of domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking by encouraging jurisdictions to implement pro-arrest policies as an effective intervention strategy.
   Safehaven of Tarrant County received a $255,000 grant under DOJ's Transitional Housing Grant program which provides assistance to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking who are homeless or in need of transitional housing.
   The Parker County Sheriff's Department was awarded a $408,577 grant from DOJ's Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Methamphetamine Initiative, which helps targeted jurisdictions combat methamphetamine and treat methamphetamine abuse.
   The Generations Center in Dallas was awarded a $272,110 grant from DOJ's COPS Methamphetamine Training and Technical Assistance program, which provides support for training and technical assistance providers to inform and engage communities about methamphetamine abuse.
 
 