SHUTTLE ANNIVERSARY CONTINUES ERA OF EXPLORATION
  This month, the U.S. space program reached a landmark in its history, and it looks forward to a promising new era. On April 12th, we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the first space shuttle launch. The last quarter century of human space flight was dominated by this amazing spacecraft. The passing of the baton from the shuttle to a new generation of vehicles is on the horizon. With these vehicles we will reach new destinations and view new vistas.
   Late last year, Congress enacted my NASA authorization bill, the first in five years. The bill does more than simply authorize funds for the space program. It begins the transition to the new era of exploration. 
   That era will continue this July with the launch of the Space Shuttle Discovery on the second Return to Flight test mission. During their mission to the International Space Station, Discovery's crew will test new equipment and procedures that increase the safety of space shuttles.
   The successor to the shuttle program will embark on bold, new missions, including a return to the moon after a hiatus of more than 30 years. This time, it will be more than a brief visit; the moon will become a stepping stone for exploring the further reaches of space. 
   Our ultimate goal of this new era will be to set foot on the Red Planet. Incredible pictures from the Spirit and Opportunity rovers on Mars have given us a deeper sense of what it will be like to stand on the surface of Mars, climb its rolling hills and explore its craters and valleys. 
   This new journey must begin from where we now are. It must build on the solid base of knowledge and experience that we have spent many years and invested extensive resources to develop. That base will not be completed until we return the space shuttle to full flight status; and we must finish the Space Station to provide an essential laboratory for important research.
   Current plans call for the end of space shuttle flights in 2010, but we need to be sure we do not have a gap during which our nation is unable to perform manned missions. We do not yet know when the new Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) will become fully operational. Therefore, my bill requires NASA to notify the Congress if a gap appears likely and detail the steps they believe we should take to bridge that gap.
   We must be able to sustain operations aboard the space station. It will be necessary to ensure that we have the capability to deliver cargo, re-supply the station, and return payloads to Earth. It is not enough for us to simply attach the remaining modules to the space station and leave it behind. That would not meet our commitments to our international partners, our taxpayers, or to the scientists who have spent two decades planning and preparing to use the space station.
   My bill maximizes our investment in the International Space Station by designating it a National Laboratory. It is an important national asset with enormous potential for scientific research and exploration, for example, increasing our understanding of cosmic rays and working to develop new sources of energy. This designation will open up new avenues for outside funding and support, and it will extend the benefits provided by the many unique possibilities for research on the space station.
   Our efforts in space are essential to keeping our nation competitive. We have an exciting and bright future in space exploration. We are on a course that will bring important new knowledge and inspire the next generation of American scientists to do what, only yesterday, seemed like science fiction.
 
 