TSUNAMI DISASTER BRINGS OUT BEST IN TEXANS
  Like most Texans, I listened with a sinking heart to news of the death and devastation unleashed on Asia by the tidal waves spawned by an earthquake off the coast of Indonesia. The tsunamis ravaged the coastlines of Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand, and Malaysia. More than 150,000 were killed, and five million more were instantly rendered homeless. As a mother, I could only listen in shock to reports that approximately one-third of the victims were children.  
   Yet, in that time of trial and loss, I was heartened by the response of the American people. With the breaking of the news, we sprang into action, donating money and goods to those affected by this natural disaster. The pace has not slackened, and the United States is providing needed help to the suffering people in the region.
   Our armed services have demonstrated, once again, their ability to perform humanitarian as well as military missions. The sailors and airmen of the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln are providing airlift capacity to relief efforts. A U.N. official has said the helicopters, which get supplies and help out to remote villages whose roads and ports have been demolished, are "worth their weight in gold." 
   As always, Texas is heavily involved in providing aid. The High Speed Vessel (HSV) 2 Swift, whose home port is Ingleside, was deployed on January 3, to support tsunami disaster relief efforts in the vicinity of Singapore.
   President Bush has pledged over $350 million so far to help the people and nations affected by this natural disaster. The Senate approved a resolution, and Congress stands ready to do everything necessary to support relief efforts. In the meantime, food, medicine, and other aid is already flowing.
   While our generosity as a nation is impressive, it is as individuals that we shine. After television broadcasted the grim news of the tsunami, Texans spontaneously sought ways to help. Local churches, schools and charities have pitched in, raising money, supplies, and materials. 
   There are countless examples of corporations, people, and organizations which have pitched in. Kimberly-Clark Corp., of Irving, said donations by the company and its employees could hit $1.5 million. The firm has also donated health and hygiene products to the relief effort.
   Philip and Donna Berber of Austin, founders of the Glimmer of Hope foundation, have pledged $1 million. 
   The Baptist General Convention of Texas is sending three water purification units to Sri Lanka and one to Thailand and more than 80 volunteers to man cooking teams which can provide up to 30,000 meals daily.
   Michael Dell, chairman of Round Rock's Dell, Inc., has pledged $3 million to relief efforts through his Michael and Susan Dell Foundation.
   Texas artists are also chipping in. Willie Nelson headlined the "Tsunami Relief Austin to South Asia" concert to benefit the Red Cross, UNICEF and Doctors Without Borders. Joining him were Patty Griffin, Bruce Robison, and other musicians.
   If some readers are looking for a chance to contribute, they will find their local churches, temples, and civic organizations can help direct them to a worthy agency. They can also contact either the local chapter of the American Red Cross, or go to the national organization's website at: http://www.redcross.org. For a list of reputable organizations involved in tsunami disaster relief, you can go to the webpage of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), at: http://www.usaid.gov/locations/asia_near_east/tsunami/ngolist.html.
   I am personally giving to Samaritan's Purse, a part of Billy Graham's humanitarian effort that has been delivering supplies throughout the region.
   At this time of immense suffering, it is inspiring to see so many of our neighbors helping out their fellow man. Lending a hand is part of our heritage. I urge my fellow Texans to remember the afflicted in their prayers, and to support the relief effort if they can.
 
 