DYESS AIR FORCE BASE VITAL TO DEFENSE NEEDS, SEN. HUTCHISON SAYS
  Dyess Air Force Base will continue to play an important role in America's 21st century defense strategy, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) said following a briefing at the facility today. 
   "Dyess has been a true leader in the war on terrorism. I am so proud of the contributions the men and women of this installation have made to defend freedom worldwide," said Sen. Hutchison, Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction. "In the coming months I hope we can build on the expertise here. Dyess has more than proven its worth and capability to take on additional missions. I will do everything I can in Congress this year to make that a reality."
   Sen. Hutchison has been a staunch supporter of Dyess, enacting budgets that have provided over $142 million in military construction spending since fiscal year (FY) 1999. In FY 2005 alone $43 million was approved for Dyess - $11 million for a new fire and rescue station near the runway, $28.6 million to replace 127 units of family housing and $3.3 million to build a refueling vehicle maintenance shop.
   This year the Pentagon will receive recommendations from the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) panel. Since the last BRAC, Sen. Hutchison has made strengthening Texas bases one of her top priorities, steering $1.5 billion in military construction funds to Texas facilities since 2000.
   For years, Sen. Hutchison has urged Department of Defense leaders to overhaul America's global alignment, which has retained a sizable presence in Europe and Asia despite the end of the Cold War and the emergence of new threats elsewhere. She also created an Overseas Basing Commission to ensure bases overseas have the same scrutiny that those in Texas will face in the upcoming 2005 BRAC. At its first hearing, the committee heard that if the Pentagon returns 29,000 soldiers from Germany - approximately two divisions -we would save up to $575 million annually and give our troops far better training capabilities and opportunities. The panel is currently surveying facilities abroad and a report is expected this year. The final report will be ready in advance of the domestic BRAC recommendations to provide the BRAC commissioners with a more comprehensive perspective.
 
 