SEN. HUTCHISON SPONSORS COMMISSIONING OF USS SAN ANTONIO AT NAVAL STATION INGLESIDE
  U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today took part in the commissioning of the USS San Antonio (LPD 17) as the ship's sponsor, giving the first order to "Man our ship and bring her to life!" The commissioning ceremony took place at Naval Station Ingleside with remarks by Sen. Hutchison and the keynote address delivered by President George H.W. Bush. 
   "It has been a tremendous honor to sponsor the USS San Antonio. I have toured the ship and seen the new systems and technology that this new class of ships will use to help our Navy and Marine Corps protect our nation," Sen. Hutchison said. "San Antonio is a renowned symbol of strength as the home of the Alamo. I am proud this ship is named after our great city and that Texas is the chosen site for its commissioning as the USS San Antonio officially takes to the sea. Man our ship and bring her to life!"
   USS San Antonio is the first of nine planned amphibious assault ships in this class and will replace the older LPD 4 class. This entire class of new ships will now be referred to as the San Antonio class. Christened by Sen. Hutchison in July 2003, San Antonio will hold 363 crew members - 28 officers and 335 enlisted - and can accommodate up to 800 combat-loaded troops. The ship will help ensure the Navy and Marine Corps have the naval expeditionary forces - ships, aircraft, weapons and systems - to conduct a range of missions around the globe.
   The commissioning will be organized by Naval Station Ingleside Commanding Officer Captain Timothy L. Watkins, USS San Antonio Commanding Officer Captain Jonathan Padfield and Richard "Tres" Kleberg, III, Chairman of the Commissioning Committee as well as local leaders and city officials.
   In keeping with the rich tradition of naming ships after U.S. cities, Secretary of the Navy John H. Dalton named the first of the new ships after the city of San Antonio, the site of the battle of the Alamo that became the rallying cry for Texas' heroic struggle for independence from Mexico in 1836. Sec. Dalton also asked Sen. Hutchison to be the sponsor.
   The 300-year-old tradition of commissioning a ship marks the USS San Antonio's entry into active Navy service. When the commissioning pennant is broken at the masthead, the ship takes her place alongside the other active ships of the fleet.
 
 