MATH AND SCIENCE REQUIREMENTS BENEFIT OUR FUTURE
  America is the undisputed leader in the global economy because of innovations in science and technology. Our dominant strategic position, economic advantages, and high standard of living are driven by our leadership in these areas. To maintain our competitive advantage and keep our economy strong, however, we must prepare our children to compete in the global market of tomorrow by improving science and math education.
   Beginning next year, Texas high school students will be required to complete four years of both math and science. The Texas Legislature established these standards in the recently passed House Bill 1, which increased the previous level of three years of science and math. I strongly applaud this effort to improve our students' understanding of math and science, as America's continued leadership in scientific research and education is critical to the future of our economic and national security. It is imperative that the state follow this measure by providing teachers and school districts with the necessary support to expand math and science programs across Texas. 
   For many years, I have worked in the United States Senate to provide additional resources to support math and science education. I co-sponsored the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which authorizes the National Science Foundation to provide four-year scholarships of up to $20,000 a year to students who major in math and science in college and pursue concurrent teacher certification. The PACE Act also supports continued education for current teachers by providing funding for three-year master's degree programs in math and science. An extra year of math or science in high school will lead to more students entering college with a passion for these subjects, which in turn will lead to more passionate teachers for the next generation of Texans.
   High school students currently acquire a well-rounded understanding of science by completing biology, chemistry and physics, while fulfilling math requirements by studying algebra, geometry and algebra II. Students will now have an opportunity to complete additional courses in areas of interest that may not have previously counted for credit towards graduation. Students who are interested in a particular area of math or science can choose an additional year in that subject, perhaps in an Advanced Placement course to prepare for college. Or they can study a less traditional subject, such as meteorology or statistics. Additional math and science exposure will provide students options to pursue their passions in these areas. Teachers will also be able to teach classes at a higher level or in their areas of expertise. 
   Under these new requirements, high schools will be in a position to develop new math and science courses that will lead to long-term benefits for our state. For example, our state's population is projected to double by 2050, which will strain our water resources. Students taking earth science courses could develop an interest in solving water constraints, which would benefit all Texans.
   I will continue to work to secure federal aid for math and science in Texas. One project I am proud to support is the Math and Science Partnerships Initiative, which provides federal funds to school districts to partner with local universities and community colleges to offer more rigorous math and science courses.
   We must do a better job of preparing our children today for the jobs of tomorrow. Recent scores on standardized tests show that 82 percent of American 12th-graders are not proficient in science and 72 percent of eighth-graders are not proficient in math. These figures are unacceptable, and we must address these deficiencies. 
   During the next decade, the U.S. demand for scientists and engineers is expected to increase at more than double the rate for all other occupations. The National Academy of Sciences reports that foreign-born students currently receive nearly half of all engineering and computer science doctorate degrees awarded in the United States. The jobs that will fuel our economy for years to come will be in groundbreaking areas of science and engineering. Encouraging additional math and science education in high school will help provide a pool of qualified American workers for these jobs.
   Increasing high school math and science requirements today prepares students for rewarding careers in related fields to solve the problems of tomorrow.
 
 