CELEBRATE CHRISTMAS TEXAS-STYLE
  Across our great state, children anticipate opening beautifully wrapped presents, parents and grandparents look forward to embracing visiting family members, and young families eagerly await their first Christmas together. These are all signs that the holidays have arrived.
   The holiday season has come to include many things, such as Christmas carols, decorations, trees, lighting of Menorah candles, egg nog, and a break from work and the daily routine. This time of year also brings several traditions and celebrations that are unique to our state. 
   For many Central Texans, the holiday season begins with spinning under the Tree of Lights in Austin's Zilker Park. This tree is 155 feet tall, 180 feet in diameter, and dangles 3,309 bulbs on 39 streamers strung from Austin's historical Moonlight Tower. The park's mile-long Trail of Lights Festival includes 43 lighted scenes such as North Pole Express, Santa's Sleigh, 12 Days of Christmas, and Home for the Holidays.
   Galveston's historic commercial district, the Strand, is transformed during the first week of each December to Victoria-era London during the Dickens on the Strand festival. Characters from Charles Dickens novels march through the streets, while vendors, carolers and musicians provide entertainment.
   Marshall's downtown courthouse is centerpiece of one of the largest Christmas lights shows in the country. Known as the "Crown Jewel," the courthouse is decorated with more than 125,000 lights as part of the city's Wonderland of Lights. 
   In Cleburne, the Whistle Stop Christmas Lights cover 11 acres and always attract visitors from across North Texas. In West Texas, Santa Land has illuminated the Lubbock sky for 50 years. This holiday village features a 60-foot Christmas tree, animated displays, bonfires, traditional holiday scenes, and Santa and Mrs. Claus.
   Since 1977, Christmas trees have been grown on approximately 150 Christmas tree farms in Texas. These farms produce 200,000 trees annually on 2,500 acres. Texas Christmas tree growers contribute $12 million each year to our state's economy, and this year an estimated 36 million families nationwide will decorate their own Christmas trees.
   While participating in activities such as these, it is important to remember the silent night in Bethlehem 2000 years ago when our Savior was born in a manger. On this night, there were no elaborate lights or decorations, but there was joy and hope for peace. The good news of His arrival was not delivered to the wealthiest and the most powerful; instead, angels appeared to the poorest shepherds in the field.
   As we gather around the Christmas tree, many of our men and women in uniform are unable to be home for the holidays because of deployments overseas. These brave soldiers protecting our freedom may be thousands of miles away, but they are always present in our thoughts and prayers. They too are providing messages of hope and peace to future generations. 
   The holidays offer us all an opportunity to reflect on the past 12 months, share stories and memories with friends and family, and ring in the new year with an optimism representative of the Texan and American spirit. This hope for a brighter tomorrow and a better future for our children and grandchildren guides us in our daily lives to do all we can to make our world a safer place.
   Christmas in Texas may not always be white, but it is always full of laughter, hope and joy. May we all appreciate the gifts we have all been given and enjoy a festive, safe holiday season.
 
 