SEN. HUTCHISON'S FREEDOM TO FISH LEGISLATION MOVES FORWARD IN SENATE
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce Science and Transportation, today announced the committee approved the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act (MSFCMA) of 2005. The bill includes establishes guidelines in the implementation of no-fishing zones and is based on past Freedom to Fish legislation Sen. Hutchison has introduced. 
   "Proper fishery management has achieved great results in the protection of our resources. We cannot let improper management measures unfairly threaten recreational fishing opportunities," Sen. Hutchison said. "Fishing is a timeless recreational sport enjoyed by millions of Texans and fishermen nationwide. This legislation will ensure that no-fishing zones remain a tool of last resort. Passage of this language will ensure recreational fishermen's rights are protected along with the environment." 
   Recreational fishing is being threatened due to marine reserves, known as "no-fishing zones." The threat of a no-fishing zone network fails to make critical distinctions between weekend recreational anglers and professional commercial fishing operations.
   Sen. Hutchison's language offers guidelines for marine reserve use, stating the level of regulation should be appropriate to the conservation problem being addressed. It requires that fishery closures managed under this act are based on the best scientific information available, including the size and extent of the closure. It calls for assessments of the benefits and impacts of the closure in relation to other management measures, including the benefits and impacts of limiting access to users of the area. 
   The language has been incorporated into the MSFCMA which will be put before the full Senate for a vote following passage by the Commerce Committee today. 
   Sen. Hutchison has been working with conservationists, environmentalists and other interested parties to create legislation that will prevent arbitrary closures along the Texas coast.
 
 