SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES BREAST CANCER RESEARCH STAMP EXTENSION, EARLY DETECTION LEGISLATION
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, this week introduced legislation to reauthorize the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program and to extend the sale of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp.  
   "Early detection of breast and cervical cancers saves lives and is essential to our fight against these devastating diseases," Sen. Hutchison said. "The national early detection program has given millions of disadvantaged women access to vitally important cancer screenings and must be continued."
   National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program makes critical breast and cervical cancer screenings and post-screening diagnostic services available to low-income, uninsured and underinsured women. Established by Congress in 1991 and reauthorized in 2000, the program has been implemented in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. To date, it has provided nearly 5.8 million screening exams to almost 2.5 million underserved women nationwide.
   "The Breast Cancer Research Stamp has raised tens of millions of dollars for research, and it is crucial to keep this financial support flowing," Senator Hutchison said. "Breast cancer affects not only those who suffer from it, but also their friends and loved ones. Extending the sale of this stamp will keep us on the path to finding a cure."
   The Breast Cancer Research Stamp was issued on July 29, 1998 under legislation passed by Congress and was America's first fund-raising stamp. To date, sales of the stamp have raised over $53 million for breast cancer research. Seventy percent of the amount raised is given to the National Institutes of Health and 30 percent is given to the Medical Research Program at the Department of Defense. Under current law, sale of the stamp will expire on December 31, 2007. 
   Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) co-sponsored the Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Act, and Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-CA) co-sponsored the Breast Cancer Research Stamp provision.
 
 