DON'T BE SCARED TO GET EARLY SCREENING FOR BREAST CANCER
  For most Americans, the scariest event in October isn't really scary. It's the arrival on our doorsteps of little witches and goblins seeking Halloween treats. But this month we should remember to prepare against a real and frightening threat to women's health. October is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month and a good time to remember the threat breast cancer poses to women all year long. 
   According to the National Breast Cancer Coalition, 266,471 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed among women in the United States in 2004. Other health organizations predict 43,300 will die as a result. With age, the risk of breast cancer increases. One woman in eight either has or will develop breast cancer in her lifetime. 
   Breast cancer strikes women of all ages and ethnic groups, but according to the Women's Surgery Group, the incidence rate for breast cancer in Texas varies among different ethnic groups. Anglo-American women have the highest rate of breast cancer at 107 cases per 100,000 women, while Hispanic women have the lowest occurrence at 69 cases per 100,000. African-American women are struck by breast cancer at a level of 96 per 100,000; however, they have the highest mortality rate: 33 per 100,000 compared with the lowest mortality rate of 17 per 100,000 among Hispanic women.
   These statistics are cause for concern, but we also know survival rates for cancer victims are improving. More Americans are beating breast cancer each year thanks to early diagnosis and improved treatments. The American Cancer Society reports that the five-year survival rate for those discovered with stage one cancer stands at over 96 percent. The key is to discover the cancer early, while it is still at stage one.
   To catch breast cancer in its early stages, experts say women in their 20s and 30s should have a clinical breast exam along, with a periodic health check-up, about once every three years. At age 40 and beyond, women should have a yearly screening mammogram. This program of screenings can provide the early detection so crucial to beating the disease.
   To help promote Breast Cancer research and awareness, I was the original proponent of the Breast Cancer Research Stamp, the first in our nation's history dedicated to raising funds for a specific cause. The stamps, which were first issued in 1998, have raised almost $40 million for breast cancer research. The stamp, designed by a breast cancer survivor, was expected to expire in 2000, but has been such a strong seller that I have sponsored legislation to extend its life twice. It will now be issued until 2005. This stamp costs 8 cents more than a first class stamp, with the difference earmarked toward breast cancer research.
   Yet, while early detection is key to better survival rates, far too many women still do not get screenings. Millions of U.S. women 40 years of age or older have never had a single mammogram. This is a tragedy, because all the medical advances in the world cannot help a woman who does not take the first step of getting a mammogram. The scariest thing in October is not Halloween, nor possibly the threat of breast cancer itself, but the idea that some of our friends, mothers, aunts, sisters and daughters are still putting off live-saving screenings. That should scare all of us and motivate us to do our parts this month to raise awareness of this simple, but often overlooked precaution.
 
 