SEN. HUTCHISON DELIVERS LEGISLATIVE UPDATE TO CAMERON COUNTY CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today discussed legislative accomplishments in the beginning of the 109th Congress and the upcoming congressional agenda as she delivered a legislative update to the Brownsville, and Harlingen Hispanic and Harlingen Chambers of Commerce.  
   "I am proud of the Senate's success in passing legislation that will help our nation's businesses grow. These bills will improve our transportation infrastructure and reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy," Sen. Hutchison said. "Texans will see the benefits of this legislation as our share of funding is increased by nearly $800 million per year. That is a significant funding increase to be put to use for Texas roadways, railways, bridges and other transportation improvements across the state." 
   Sen. Hutchison discussed passage of the first comprehensive energy policy in over a decade, a surface transportation reauthorization bill and the Central American Free Trade Agreement that opens opening trade to new markets and creates jobs. 
   "We passed sweeping energy research and development initiatives," Sen. Hutchison said. "Our actions will improve energy efficiency and increase renewable energy resources including hydropower, solar and wind energy. The bill also includes increased energy tax incentives." 
   Sen. Hutchison also discussed legislative priorities before Congress when it reconvenes in September. A swift and fair confirmation of U.S. Supreme Court nominee Judge John Roberts and repeal of the Death Tax - which is set to expire in 2010 - are among the pending issues she highlighted. Sen. Hutchison played a leading role in finding additional funding to secure our nation's borders and $1.5 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs for Fiscal Year 2005. At the summit, she discussed the need to pass the Fiscal Year 2006 appropriations bills and new immigration measures to further secure our borders.
 
 