SEN. HUTCHISON EARNS HOUSING RELIEF PARITY FOR HURRICANE VICTIMS IN TEXAS
  The Senate today passed the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005, significant hurricane tax relief legislation that will promote development of housing and employment opportunities for victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Texas' senior Sen., Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), successfully secured a provision that ensures parity in housing relief assistance for Hurricane Katrina victims in Texas. The provision also provides a 30-percent increase in federal housing assistance in Hurricane Rita-damaged areas to alleviate housing shortages.  
   "Texas deserves no less than the same housing relief provided to evacuees in Katrina damaged states. Just as Medicaid and education relief is being provided to states hosting evacuees, so should housing assistance," Sen. Hutchison said. "This housing assistance increase will help provide much-needed affordable housing and ensure Rita is not the forgotten hurricane."
   Sen. Hutchison's provision provides Texas a per-capita tax credit based on the number of Katrina victims that are estimated to remain in Texas. The credit, totaling $3.5 million, will be used to provide low-income housing to alleviate the shortage in Texas after it opened its doors to hurricane victims in neighboring states.
   In addition, Sen. Hutchison's provision designates areas damaged by Hurricane Rita as "Difficult Development Zones" which will earn a 30-percent increase in federal housing assistance for the affected region.
   Sen. Hutchison has been leading efforts in the Senate to ensure Texas is compensated for the costs associated with caring for thousands of Hurricane Katrina evacuees, including Medicaid, education and housing costs. At the same time, Sen. Hutchison has been working to ensure areas damaged by Hurricane Rita are given the assistance needed to provide care for victims and help the state rebuild. 
   "Texans who lost their homes after Hurricane Rita deserve the same assistance to rebuild and recover," Sen. Hutchison said.
   Other provisions of the bill will provide tax incentives to employers who hire hurricane victims and tax benefits to help businesses in Rita affected areas. The bill must now be reconciled with the House version and sent to President Bush to be signed into law.
 
 