A FOOTHOLD IN OUTER SPACE IS KEY TO AMERICA'S PLACE ON EARTH
  The next time you look up into a dark sky and see a moving light, do not jump to the conclusion that it is an airplane. You might be looking at the International Space Station. At present, it is bigger than a three-bedroom house, and it will be at least twice that size when completed. Since it is 230 miles above the Earth's surface and moving at over 17,000 miles an hour (orbiting about 16 times a day), you might find it difficult to believe that you can see it from your backyard without a telescope or binoculars. But the Station has giant solar panels powering it, which reflect sunlight extremely well, making it one of the brightest objects in the night sky. The Station is also a key to keeping America's future bright.  
   The United States is facing increasing competition in high-tech industries. At present, just 32 percent of American undergraduates receive degrees in science or engineering compared to 59 percent of Chinese students. The advent of the internet has made it easier for people from other nations to compete with our workers. And other countries are increasing their investments in science research; China has even made significant strides in its own space program. 
   In order to maintain our leadership in science and science-related businesses, we need to keep our commitment to the Space Station. In crucial ways, doing pioneering work on the frontiers of space contributes to making our scientific community the best on the planet. Dr. Richard Smalley, a brilliant Texan who won the Nobel prize for his work in nanoscience, was first inspired to take science seriously by the Soviet Union's successful launch of Sputnik in 1957 and the response of the United States: an ambitious space program of its own. After several missions to the moon, the U.S. program became less captivating; and we have since lost the interest of many students during their formative years when they are making decisions that could lead them to a career in science.
   The Space Station helps the United States lead the world in science by making it the center of ground-breaking research. While the Station receives funding from 16 different countries, the United States remains at the nexus of the project. With the U.S. leading the project, we receive the lion's share of the credit for discoveries made in its laboratories. Our nation also operates as the headquarters for the scientific and engineering support work for the Station, bringing many of the world's brightest researchers to do their work here, while also adding numerous valuable jobs to our economy. With the Johnson Space Center located in Houston, Texans have seen firsthand the scientific and economic benefits of space-related discoveries.
   The Station provides our scientists with a unique environment where they can conduct many experiments not possible on Earth. One planned project, led by American Nobel laureate Dr. Samuel Ting, will place a sophisticated particle detector on the Station to learn more about cosmic rays. This research must be carried out in space where researchers can collect data without the hindrance of Earth's dense atmosphere and gravity. The results could lead to breakthroughs in our fundamental understanding of matter and energy. As much as 70 percent of the universe is made up of dark matter, but at present scientists know very little about it. The planned research on cosmic rays may provide researchers with vital insights in understanding dark matter. Those insights could, in turn, develop new energy sources. Dr. Ting's research will also directly advance our knowledge of using superconducting magnet technology for propulsion and radiation shielding.
   This kind of basic research in the hard sciences often leads to breakthroughs that make life better for us on Earth and fuel new industries. Individuals originally studied electricity and magnetism out of curiosity and for entertainment, often inviting an audience to watch their experiments. That work led to a vast improvement in our knowledge of the world, subsequently leading to the development of electric lighting, car engines and many other inventions we now consider necessities.
   The Station also makes possible other pioneering research. Biologists can study the growth of human cells without the influence of gravity, learning details that they would not notice on Earth. In the unique environment of outer space, scientists are able to learn more about things so basic that you may have thought they were already fully understood. By seeing how fire and water behave in outer space, they have discovered better ways of spraying water to put out a fire. They also hope that their new insights into the nature of fire may lead to the development of more efficient engines here on the ground. 
   Finally, the Station will also act as a base for further exploration, eventually leading to an inspirational, manned trip to Mars, where the American flag will, one day, fly.
   Now, more than ever, is the time for the United States to continue its commitment to leading the world in outer space. Of the parts of the International Space Station funded by the United States, 97 percent have been produced; however, because of the Columbia tragedy, deployment has been delayed. People around the world are watching to see if the U.S. keeps its word and continues the work it started. In addition, many other countries are waiting to make their own contributions to the Station, increasing our return on the investment we have already made. 
   As chairman of the Senate's Subcommittee on Science and Space, I am dedicated to bringing all of our hard work to fruition, while also ensuring that America maintains its leadership in space and science. Moving forward with the International Space Station plays a vital role in achieving that.
  (To learn more about viewing the ISS from your own backyard, visit spaceflight.nasa.gov/realdata/sightings/index.html.)
 
 