SEN. HUTCHISON CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO DEFEND FIREARMS MANUFACTURERS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today joined Sens. Larry Craig (R-ID) and John Cornyn (R-TX) to introduce the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act - legislation that prohibits frivolous lawsuits against the manufacturers of firearms. Sen. Hutchison is an original co-sponsor of the Senate version of a bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives last year. 
   For the past decade, the U.S. firearms industry has been under assault by activists attempting to hold the industry responsible for the criminal conduct of others. These lawsuits are not limited to individual or even class action claims, however.
   "Lawful and innocent employers should not face frivolous lawsuits due to the wrongful actions of criminals," Sen. Hutchison said. "When these lawsuits do proceed, the enormous legal fees are passed along to law-abiding gun owners, and that is unacceptable."
   Since 1998, more than 30 cities and counties and two states have filed lawsuits against the firearms industry to demand compensation for the public costs of violence associated with guns. These suits expose the industry to unfair heavy litigation expenses and the risk of crippling judgments by activist judges. Some in the industry believe legal defense costs to date exceed an estimated $200 million. 
   This legislation is not blanket immunity. It does not offer protection for: Those who sell someone a firearm knowing it would be used in a violent crime or drug trafficking crime; dealers who sell firearms to prohibited persons; sellers or manufacturers who knowingly violated a state or federal statute for sales or marketing of firearms or ammunition; manufacturers who break their warranty; or injuries resulting directly from a defect in the design of the product.
   The complete list of original co-sponsors: Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), John Cornyn (R-TX), Larry Craig (R-ID), Max Baucus (D-MT), Jim Bunning (R-KY), Conrad Burns (R-MT), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Pete Domenici (R-NM), John Ensign (R-NV), Mike Enzi (R-WY), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Tim Johnson (D-SD), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Ted Stevens (R-AK), Craig Thomas (R-WY) and John Thune (R-SD).
 
 