TEXAS STUDENTS SELECTED FOR SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM
  Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn today announced the names of the two Texas students who have been selected as delegates to the 46th Annual United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP) that will be held March 1 - 8, 2008 in Washington, D.C. William Gifford of Sugar Land and Tara Viswanathan of Lubbock were chosen from hundreds of applicants to be part of the group of 104 student delegates who will attend the program's 46th Annual Washington Week.
   The USSYP was created by Senate Resolution 324 in 1962 and has been sponsored by the Senate and fully funded by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation since inception. Originally proposed by Senators Kuchel, Mansfield, Dirksen and Humphrey, the impetus for the program as stated in Senate testimony was "to increase young Americans' understanding of the interrelationships of the three branches of government, the caliber and responsibilities of federally elected and appointed officials, and the vital importance of democratic decision making not only for America but for people around the world." 
   Each year this extremely competitive merit-based program brings 104 of the most outstanding high school students - two from each state, the District of Columbia and the Department of Defense Education Activity - to Washington, D.C. for an intensive week-long study of the federal government and the people who lead it. The overall mission of the program is to help instill within each class of USSYP student delegates more profound knowledge of the American political process and a lifelong commitment to public service. In addition to the program week, the foundation grants each of the 104 student delegates a $5,000 college scholarship with encouragement to continue coursework in government, history and public affairs. Transportation and all expenses for Washington Week are provided by the foundation, as stipulated in S.Res.324; no government funds are utilized.
   William Gifford is Class President at Kemper High School. He also serves as President of the Texas Association of Student Councils. His many leadership roles include: President of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Captain of varsity football, and member of National Honor Society, Youth in Philanthropy, and the Mayor's Youth Advisory Council. In addition, William volunteers for the Special Olympics.
   Tara Viswanathan is Senior Class Vice President at Lubbock High School. She also serves as a peer tutor in calculus, chemistry and biology. She is a member of the National and Junior Honor Society, Spanish Club, India Association of West Texas, and Future Business Leaders at the local, state and regional level. Tara was selected to research genetics as part of the Clarks Scholars Program at the Texas Tech University.
   Chosen as alternates to the 2008 program were Mark Pavlyukovskyy, a resident of Denton, who attends Tx Academy of Math & Science, Denton ISD and Casey Manning, a resident of Kaufman, who attends Kaufman High School, Kaufman ISD.
   The chief educational officer in each state selects the delegates after nomination by teachers and principals. This year's delegates were designated by Mr. Robert Scott, Commissioner of Education.
   While in Washington the student delegates will attend meetings and briefings with Senate leadership, other Senators and Congressional staff; the President, a Justice of the Supreme Court, leaders of cabinet agencies, an Ambassador to the United States and top members of the national media. The students will also tour many of the national monuments and several museums and they will stay at the historic Mayflower hotel in downtown Washington, D.C.
   In addition to outstanding leadership abilities and a strong commitment to public service, this year's students rank academically in the top one percent of their states. They continue to excel and develop impressive qualities that are often directed toward public service. Among the many distinguished former program delegates are Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the first program delegate elected to the Senate; Judge Robert Henry, U.S. Court of Appeals; former Ambassador to West Germany Richard Burt; former Presidential Advisor Karl Rove and former Presidential Advisor Thomas "Mack" McLarty. Additional distinguished alumni are former Lt. Governor of Idaho David LeRoy, U.S. Attorney for New Jersey Christopher Christie, military officers, Foreign Service Officers, members of State Legislatures, top Congressional staff, healthcare providers and university educators.
   Members of the USSYP 2008 46th Annual Senate Advisory Committee are: Co-Chairs - Senator Dianne Feinstein of California and Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas. Advisory Committee - Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, Senator Robert P. Casey, Jr. of Pennsylvania, Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina, Senator Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas. Each year, the Honorary Co-Chairs of the program are the Senate Majority and Minority Leaders and the Vice President of the United States.
 
 