YOUR VOTE MATTERS
  The great American heroine, Susan B. Anthony once said, "Suffrage is the pivotal right." Today, voting is still one of the most significant rights extended to United States citizens. This presidential election year provides an excellent opportunity to exercise this right. 
   Under British rule, the American colonists were forced to pay taxes to Great Britain, yet they had no one to represent their interests in Parliament. The colonists rebelled against this policy of, "taxation without representation," fought a major war to win independence, and then founded the United States of America as a "Republic." This form of government would allow the citizens to elect people who would then represent their interests in Congress.
   For many the new government was an improvement over British rule, but not all could enjoy this new, hard-fought right. Initially, only white, male, property owners could vote. It was nearly 200 years before all American citizens over the age of 18 had the right to vote.
   Less than a century ago, women could not legally vote. The Women's Suffrage Movement, led by Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton throughout the latter part of the 19th Century, argued women should also have a say in who represented them. In 1920, the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution finally granted women the right to vote.
   While black men were enfranchised by the 15th Amendment at the end of the Civil War, many African Americans still were obstructed from casting their votes in several states until the mid-1960s. A major element of the Civil Rights Movement focused on getting African Americans registered to vote and calling an end to tactics, such as poll taxes, and property ownership requirements, which created hurdles for many blacks from being able to vote. It was not until 1965, not quite 50 years ago, that African Americans were able to freely exercise their right to vote. 
   During the height of the Vietnam War, Americans expressed their concern over the idea that men could be drafted to fight in a war at 18, yet could not vote until they turned 21. With the passing of the 26th Amendment in 1971, nearly every U.S. citizen over the age of 18 could register to vote. 
   Surprisingly, however, less than half of the voting age population votes. Many Americans may have forgotten the historical significance of being able to vote or believe their votes don't matter. Others neglect to register in time to vote in an election. For instance, in Texas you must be registered to vote at least 30 days prior to the election. This means if you are not registered by October 3rd, you will have forfeited your right to cast a vote for our next president on Election Day, November 2, 2004.
   Don't pass up your opportunity to vote. Registration is as easy as going to your local Department of Motor Vehicles. For information about polling locations and other local election details you can contact the Office of the Texas Secretary of State at www.sos.state.tx.us or call them at 1-800-252-VOTE. 
   If you know you won't be in your home district on Election Day, you can still cast your vote. Just be sure to contact your county or city election official in advance to request an early or absentee ballot. Also, the Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP) serves military and non-military citizens abroad by helping them register and vote by absentee ballot. You may contact the FVAP via email at www.fvap.gov or toll free at 1-800-438-VOTE. 
   History is ripe with tales of elections that were decided by close margins - even a single vote in some cases - so remember your vote does count. Voting is more than a right, it's a responsibility.
 
 