HOMELAND SECURITY EFFORTS CAN BE IMPROVED, SAY TEXANS
  After the 109th Congress is sworn in this January, it will grapple with many issues, including homeland security. How do we better protect our people from terrorists at the same time we uphold our vital civil liberties? This year's Listening Post survey gathered valuable comments from my fellow Texans which I will share with my colleagues when the Senate begins the next session. 
   Respondents provided feedback on arrangements regarding visas for foreign nationals, suggested our next priorities in transportation safety, named the most important goal to improve protection from terrorist attacks, and offered guidance about where additional homeland security funding would best be spent.
   Over 400,000 people travel into the United States each day through Texas, entering through 11 border crossings. There is a great deal of concern that some of these visitors mean harm to our people. Presently, Canadians can enter the United States for a six-month stay on a tourist visa, while Mexican nationals, on the same type of document, are allowed to remain for just one month. By a large margin, the survey respondents recommended the Mexican visa remain at one month, rather than extend it to match the tourist visas given to Canadians.
   A good number of respondents came up with a different idea. Thomas, of Bryan said, "The Canadian nationals should also be limited to a 30-day visa." Jon, from Brooks Air Force Base, says the solution is to split the difference and provide both Mexican and Canadian tourists 90-day visas, but posed this question: "How many Canadians or Mexicans really stay beyond 30 days just for tourism?"
   In the Listening Post I solicited your opinions on what we should do next to protect the United States against more 9-11 type attacks. Most of you said we should apply the same standards to air cargo that are in place for passengers. Fortunately, my legislation calling on the Transportation Security Administration to improve aviation security by providing enhanced screening of air cargo was included in the recently-passed Intelligence Reform Bill. A close second in respondent ratings was to set up a computer database to check airline passenger names against criminal watch lists. Many expressed interest in overhauling security procedures for train travel, and the fewest number supported expansion of the registered traveler program to airports nationwide. This program lets passengers who voluntarily supply certain personal information to benefit from expedited security procedures. Davis, of Fort Worth, said any security decision involves, "a tough trade-off, but I want our children to live."
   Spending on homeland security efforts has nearly tripled since 2001, providing larger budgets for everything from aviation and port security, to vaccinations and training and equipment for firefighters and police officers. I asked what further changes Texans want to see in homeland security appropriations. Most opted in favor of altering present funding formulas to allocate a larger share of resources to those states and cities facing greater terrorist threats. Many others said we should seek better training and preparation for the firemen, emergency medical technicians, and police who are the first responders in our communities. A distant third replied that we should simply keep our current spending levels. Reid, who lives in McKinney, says that whatever decision we make, we must, "make sure that the money allocated is well-spent and the taxpayer gets what they pay for." I agree one hundred percent. 
   The attacks on 9-11 spurred Congress to take the unprecedented step of creating the Department of Homeland Security, a single government agency responsible for defending Americans on our own soil. Most of you suggested our next step should be to improve the security of our borders. Many also wanted government officials to address weaknesses in security at our seaports. "Security at ports needs to be addressed," said Keith, from Cedar Park. "This is probably number one on my list. This should include everyone on the ship along with the products and the shipping containers."
   Wayne, from Greenville, said we need to watch our northern border with Canada, and suggested changing our policy of setting an upper age limit to those joining the Border Patrol. "This limits the valuable asset of retired military personnel and police," he said. 
   This survey showed national security is on the minds of many fellow Texans. It also showed, through your thoughtful answers, you take this issue seriously. I want to thank all of you who took the time to send in responses and help me do a better job of representing you in Washington.
 
 