E PLURIBUS UNUM
  Sometimes people who hold different opinions claim that a problem cannot be solved when, really, they simply disagree on the best way to solve it. A free exchange of ideas and beliefs helps keep our country strong, but many people have forgotten the spirit of unity that is also part of our country's identity. There are times when I am handed a quarter and it reminds me of our need to work together to solve problems.
   Most people know that George Washington is depicted on the front of the quarter, but you may not have noticed the motto on the back: "E Pluribus Unum." This official motto of the United States is on all of our coins. The motto is Latin for "out of many, one," and was adopted as our country's official motto in 1776. It refers to the formation of one nation from 13 colonies. 
   The phrase was made popular by the Roman poet Virgil, author of the epic poem The Aeneid. He used "E Pluribus Unum" in the poem Moretum when describing the blending of many colors into one. "E Pluribus Unum" has taken on additional meaning over the years as America has welcomed people from all over the world and added states to our union. In many other countries, national identity has everything to do with who your parents are or the particular piece of land on which you grew up. Being a true American has more to do with what you believe than where you are from. 
   When immigrants earn citizenship, they are given the same rights and freedoms as every other American. It does not matter that their parents were not American. It does not matter that they cannot trace their family's lineage back in time to find an ancestor who shed blood in the Revolutionary War. The key to being American is sharing certain fundamental beliefs, such as the value self-governance and the right to free speech and to worship as you choose.
   We are a nation rich in diversity. We have people from disparate backgrounds, who practice different religions and who have a variety of native tongues. Our diversity has made us stronger because we remain united by the fundamental beliefs we share. To preserve the unity of our nation, those who are seeking citizenship must be willing to put the interests of America ahead of the loyalty they have for their former countries. 
   Unfortunately, today the climate in Washington, D.C. is frequently one of division. Too often people vote or make decisions based on politics or party affiliation instead of first carefully examining the issues and then backing solutions that are in the best interests of the country. Political partisanship often divides our country, but we are strongest when we move past it and work together across party lines.
   One area where the nation needs its legislators to unite is in strengthening America's competitive edge in science and technology. For years, I have been working with educators to strengthen science and technology programs at the state level. Recently, I introduced legislation to strengthen math and science education throughout the country, and President Bush has shown support with his American Competitiveness Initiative.
   Everyone has a stake in creating a better future for our children and grandchildren, and leaders in Washington have a responsibility to work together to achieve common goals. Our nation's framers supported this notion when they fought for our independence. "E Pluribus Unum" reminds us that we must continue to promote strong public education for all citizens and cooperate in the best interests of our nation.
   The next time you see one of our quarters with its portrait of George Washington, think of how the country united behind him, voting unanimously to elect him as the first president. But also remember our need to come together now. The new quarters, honoring each of the 50 states, will all feature the motto "E Pluribus Unum." This is appropriate because all states comprise one united nation.
   We Texans know better than anyone that we can accomplish much on our own. Yet, when all Americans work together, there is no limit to what our great country can achieve.
 
 