SEN. HUTCHISON VOTES AGAINST TRANSPORTATION BILL CITING UNACCEPTABLE STATE REIMBURSEMENT FORMULA
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Commerce and Transportation Committee, today voted against the Senate transportation reauthorization bill (SAFETEA) citing the unacceptable gas tax reimbursement rate for Texas.  
   Sen. Hutchison worked with Senator Cornyn and Senators from other donor states to increase the rate of return. However, donee states outnumber donor states and they were unable to go beyond the 91 cent return in the bill. 
   "The return rate is an improvement, but does not unburden Texas from its donor state status, a status it has held for nearly 50 years. The formula offers the least relief to states whose cities are growing most rapidly," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am not asking for special treatment; I am asking that Texas taxpayers get their fare share for the more than 300,000 highway miles that canvass the state. I will continue to work with the conference committee to increase Texas' share." 
   The 91.3 cents on the dollar return for Texas is an increase over the 90.5 cents Texas received under the previous highway bill, TEA-21. Sen. Hutchison, however, stated this rate is unacceptable. Texas was receiving 76 cents before Sen. Hutchison was elected Senator in 1993. Since then, she has worked with the Texas Congressional Delegation to improve the rate of return to 90.5 cents last year and now 91.3 cents. 
   Under TEA-21, Texas was receiving on average $2.1 billion annually for Texas projects. Sen. Hutchison increased the average funding by nearly $800 million, bringing Texas' average to $2.89 billion in the transportation bill that passed today. 
   "This bill does include good news for Texas - an increase of nearly $800 million for transportation projects. Taxpayers across the nation will also benefit from my amendment preventing the double-taxation of existing interstates through tolls," Sen. Hutchison said. "But I could not let these benefits weaken a decades-long fight for a fairer reimbursement rate." 
   To eliminate a provision in this year's highway bill that would make it easier for states to toll existing federal highways to raise more revenue, Sen. Hutchison submitted an amendment that would ban tolling existing roads. The amendment that passed unanimously in the Senate repeals the Interstate System Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Pilot Program, also known as the "Interstate Tolling Program." 
   There has recently been a renewed interest in expanding opportunities to toll our nation's interstate highway system. The system was conceived and built with federal tax dollars - so tolling existing interstates amounts to double taxation.
 
 