TEXAS PORT SECURITY IS CRITICAL TO AMERICA'S SAFETY
  The Texas Gulf Coast is one of our state's finest resources. The 367 miles of shoreline along the Gulf of Mexico has beaches that boost our tourism industry as well as natural resources that nourish our economy. Texas' position on the Gulf of Mexico has made shipping a bedrock of our state's commerce.
   But, our coast is not being protected the way it should be. In the Senate, my highest priority is our country's national security, and I have been concerned that port security is not moving forward with the proper urgency. The planned transfer of American port management from a British firm to an Arab-government owned company brought port security to the national forefront.  
   Texas is home to 29 ports, including four of the 10 busiest in the country. Unfortunately, these thriving ports are inviting targets for our enemies. Only about five percent of containers arriving in our ports are inspected. This is unacceptable. Our ports must not continue to be a hole in our homeland protection.
   Not only does shipping play a large role in our economy, it is also a national security issue. We learned on Sept. 11, 2001, that immediate steps had to be taken to protect our airports, and since then, the federal government committed to heavy investments in homeland security by providing $18 billion to strengthen airline security. Yet in that same period, there has not been enough emphasis on securing our nation's ports.
   Last year, a study by the Coast Guard and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security confirmed that significant gaps remain in our port security. The study identified 66 of the nation's 359 ports as being especially vulnerable to terrorist attacks.
   One of the most important ports in the world is in Texas. The Port of Houston ranks first in the United States in foreign waterborne tonnage, second in total tonnage, and is the sixth-largest in the world. It is also home to one of the planet's biggest petrochemical complexes and the $20 billion U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve, the world's largest oil stockpile. 
   The Port of Houston's significance is unquestioned, and its stature has only increased in the months since Hurricane Katrina. It has become even busier by adding much of the business that used to go through the Ports of South Louisiana, New Orleans and Baton Rouge. With this additional traffic, strengthening its security is even more critical.
   I recently met with officials from Texas ports, including officials from the Port of Houston, to discuss our security concerns. I am thankful for all of the hard work that local officials are already doing with the resources they have, but they need greater support to be sufficiently protected from potential threats.
   As a result of the controversy over a company from the United Arab Emirates managing some U.S. ports, Congress is now focusing more attention on port security. We have the momentum for more comprehensive programs for port security, and I am pleased we are finally moving more decisively in the right direction.
   I first introduced the Shipping Container Security Act in 2004; and last November, most provisions of my bill were included in a comprehensive package of transportation security improvements approved by the Senate Commerce Committee. 
   This March 15, the Senate passed an amendment that I sponsored to the Senate Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution. The amendment calls for $978 million to improve port security measures. This is a positive start, but much remains to be done. In particular, we must require all foreign countries shipping goods to the U.S. to grant access to U.S. inspectors. This will permit containers headed to the U.S. to be inspected at their port of origin. In addition, we need to develop a comprehensive plan to increase the number of containers inspected as they enter the U.S. Finally, cargo transported within the U.S. should be monitored until it reaches its final destination.
   Now is not the time for grandstanding about who manages the ports. The U.S. Coast Guard is responsible for port security and the U.S. Customs Service is responsible for container security. The level of the security they provide is the real issue that needs to be addressed. We must not simply talk about improving port security - we must continue to take constructive actions.
 
 