STRONG LEADERSHIP THROUGH DEMOCRACY
  Democracy continues to blossom around the world. Last year, 60 percent of Iraq's eligible voters braved persistent threats of violence to participate in their country's constitutional referendum. This month, 70 percent of voters in formerly totalitarian Nicaragua cast ballots in free, democratic elections. As additional nations embrace democracy, it is important to remember that exercising the right to vote is one of the most sacred privileges we have as Americans. 
   The core tenet of the American Revolution was our forefathers' objection to "taxation without representation." Samuel Adams, who helped organize the Boston Tea Party in 1773 and later signed the Declaration of Independence, said, "Let each citizen remember at the moment he is offering his vote that he is not making a present or a compliment to please an individual - or at least that he ought not so to do; but that he is executing one of the most solemn trusts in human society for which he is accountable to God and his country."
   I extend my heartfelt thanks to those of you who did your part to keep democracy strong in America by voting earlier this month. During local, state, and federal elections, over four and a half million Texans participated in the electoral process. Over 82 million people voted nationwide, with turnout increasing from the 2002 midterm election to more than 40 percent. 
   This year's elections revealed an especially promising trend in the growing number of young voters. Estimates show that 10 million people under the age of 30 voted in the 2006 elections, a 25 percent increase from the 2002 midterm elections. I am encouraged by younger voters taking a more active role in the democratic process.
   There are always changes following elections, and this year's sweeping changes spread across our country, with Democrats gaining the majority in both houses of Congress. But one thing that will never change as long as I am in the Senate is my allegiance to our state. Regardless of what party is in power, my top priority will always be representing the interests of Texas.
   My focus for the immediate session of Congress is the continuation of the tax cuts and the state sales tax deduction on federal income taxes. Texas collects revenue through sales taxes rather than a state income tax, and for the past two years, Texans have been allowed to deduct state sales taxes when filing federal income tax returns, just as residents of other states deduct their state income taxes. I intend to make sure this deduction remains available to our state's citizens.
   During the last 13 years, I have worked with both Republican and Democratic Congresses, as well as Presidents of both political parties. I pride myself on being a senator for all Texans, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to pass legislation that improves the Texan, and American, way of life.
 
 