KEEPING TEXAS HISTORY ALIVE
  Texas has the most vivid history of any state in the nation. Stories about the heroes of the Texas Revolution, the Battle of the Alamo, and the six flags that have represented our state are well known by Texans young and old. Much of our history is also reflected in county courthouses, which are true Texas treasures. These enduring landmarks possess significant intrinsic value, and Texas has made a priority of preserving our heritage with quality restoration.
   Local activities have long revolved around town squares, and many courthouses can trace their roots to the early years of our state - a time when the county courthouse was a symbol of prosperity and progress for a growing area. As the main location for business and trade, courthouses were pivotal in the economic development and expansion of many Texas communities. 
   Designation of the county seat has always been a measure of prestige and honor. In fact, feuds over county seat locations were common during the settlement of Texas. Once the community was chosen, courthouses were placed in prominent locations on public lands typically donated by the town's founders.
   The many changes Texas has experienced over the years are apparent in the variety of our courthouses. The architecture of these buildings reflects the attitudes of local communities, with each style expressing origin and tastes of the earliest Texans. The first courthouses were typically small, wooden structures patterned after buildings in the South. This style gave way to larger more substantial courthouses made of brick or stone, which displayed the Greek Revival details that were popular before the Civil War. Courthouses began to transition from ornate Victorian to Romanesque revival styles based on Renaissance buildings in Europe after the Civil War, and early 20th-century courthouses were heavily influenced by the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago and conformed to the Neoclassical Revival style.
   Courthouses continue to be used for public business today, as they house county courts, city and district attorneys, justices of the peace, county clerks, and other county administrative offices. They also provide a location for marriages, a place to research your family history, or the best spot in town to see a local parade.
   I have long appreciated the value of Texas historical landmarks such as courthouses. When I served in the Texas State Legislature, I sponsored the bill that allowed counties to create historical commissions to preserve their past. These commissions have helped save many courthouses throughout our state's 254 counties. 
   Communities are breathing new life into their courthouses. Funding from the Texas Courthouse Preservation Program is restoring the Nueces County courthouse in Corpus Christi as a new science and technology museum. The Denton County courthouse, which concluded its restoration in 2004, functions as both a home for several county offices and as a museum with permanent and traveling exhibits on early Denton County history. And while traveling across Texas during this month's Senate recess, I had an opportunity to visit with residents of Albany at the Shackelford County courthouse, which has also participated in the Texas Courthouse Preservation Program.
   Though the exact number of structures is unclear, more than 700 sites have been identified by the Texas Historical Commission as present or former locations of county courthouses. There is likely one near you. For more information on the Texas Courthouse Preservation Program at the Texas Historical Commission, or to search for a local organization involved in restoration, visit www.thc.state.tx.us or call (512) 463-6100. Your involvement and support can help keep Texas history alive.
 
 