SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES $428.6 MILLION SECURED FOR TEXAS HURRICANE COSTS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today was joined by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Alphonso Jackson to announce that the state of Texas will be provided $428.6 million in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding. The CDBG funds will reimburse Texas communities for the costs associated with Hurricane Rita damage and the accommodation of 250,000 Hurricane Katrina evacuees who sought refuge in Texas. 
   "I am pleased to announce that $428.6 million in emergency funding will be provided to Texas communities still rebuilding and recovering from the costs of last year's devastating hurricanes," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am proud of my fellow Texans who graciously opened their doors to the thousands of Hurricane Katrina evacuees and students seeking refuge last August. This funding will have an enormous impact on the Houston community. It will also provide support to Southeast Texas communities that are still recovering from Hurricane Rita. I thank Secretary Jackson for personally touring the damage in those communities and recognizing their critical need for assistance." 
   As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Sen. Hutchison helped secure $5.2 billion in the 2006 Emergency Hurricane Supplemental Appropriations Bill for CDBG funding which will help repair and restore housing and infrastructure in hurricane damaged areas.
   While $4.2 billion of that funding was designated to Louisiana in the legislation, $1 billion remained to be divided among states affected by the 2005 hurricanes. Of the remaining $1 billion, Sen. Hutchison worked to secure nearly half for Texas. Over the past year, Sen. Hutchison has secured $3.76 billion in hurricane recovery funding for Texas.
   Sen. Hutchison was also able to secure in the emergency funding bill legislation that raised the federal reimbursement rate for Hurricane Rita damage claims in Texas to a 90 percent federal, 10 percent local rate. By securing that provision in the final bill, the new reimbursement rate will save Texas counties nearly $200 million.
 
 