SAVING TEXAS SEA TURTLES
  From the high, wide skies of the Panhandle in the north to the southern tropical brush country of the Rio Grande Valley, Texas' rural landscape is unique and unsurpassed by other states. But it isn't just people who enjoy our great outdoors. Our state is home to nearly 90 endangered species and some of the nation's most extensive preservation programs. I am proud of the progress our environmentalists and biologists have made in preserving our state not only as a home for Texans but for every living creature.  
  One program I have supported is the Kemp's Ridley Sea Turtle Restoration Project. Kemp's Ridley sea turtles (Lepidochelys kempi) are the most critically endangered sea turtle in the world. They are the smallest sea turtle, along with their cousin the olive Ridley, at about 99 pounds or less and 25 inches around in shell size, and they live in shallow coastal areas, bays and lagoons.
   A half century ago, at least 40,000 females nested in a single day. Today, fewer than 2,000 nest each year. Nesting on both the coast of Rancho Nuevo, Mexico and South Padre Island, Texas our two nations have worked vigorously together in an effort to save these rare turtles.
  The biggest enemies to the kempi are no longer the coyotes or egg hunters that brought about the original decline - today's threats are human encroachment and incidental catching by shrimp trawlers. The Texas coast is the most deadly for these small creatures, especially since most that wash up on shore are pregnant females coming to nest.
   By making parts of the Texas coast a Marine Reserve, scientists believe the number of turtles will start to increase. Recently, the Project secured a ban of shrimping in the shallow waters of the coast, but believes more protection is needed throughout these waters, specifically during nesting season. Currently, there are 12 national marine sanctuaries, representing less than one percent of all ocean territory under U.S. jurisdiction. In comparison, about four percent of our land area is protected in national parks.
   Other legislation the Restoration Project has supported is making Turtle Excluder Devices (TEDs) mandatory on all shrimp nets. It is estimated that up to 5,000 turtles were killed each year by these nets prior to the implementation of TEDs, which are simple, yet effective devices that keep objects larger than shrimp out of the net.
   However, advocacy and legislation are not the only tactics used in saving the Kemp's Ridley turtles. Scientists have carefully collected data and observed these animals over recent decades by tagging the turtles. When nests are found along the Texas coast, the eggs go through a phase called Head Starting. Here the eggs are incubated and released to their natural habitat after hatching.
   This procedure was proven successful just this past April as two turtles that were Head Started back in the late 1980's were located in Galveston laying eggs. Scientists and Environmentalists were delighted over these findings, as it proves their hard work and determination are leading to the increase in kempi population. Since it takes approximately 15 years for a Kemp's ridley sea turtle to mature and lay eggs, scientists are hopeful that they will see similar discoveries in the near future.
  At present, nestling aggregations number in the hundreds, not the thousands necessary for the species to survive without man's intervention. With the Project's gradual success, it is clear that our marine biologists need the necessary and most up to date technology to help protect these endangered sea turtles, which is why I have supported continued funding.
   The desire to protect our wildlife is a value rooted deep in the hearts of Texans. Biodiversity is critical to the health of the ecosystems that support life on our planet, and we all share the responsibility of preserving the world's endangered species. I believe our natural heritage should be preserved for the enjoyment and education of future generations. And we must continue to maintain a careful balance between the integrity of our natural resources and encouraging economic growth, which will shape America's future.
   Kemp's Ridley sea turtles are just one of the many endangered species that roam our lands here in Texas and just one of the great wonders that make our state unique. To learn more on this extensive restoration program and how you can help, visit www.seaturtles.org.
 
 