OWNING THE AMERICAN DREAM
  In 1954, the median salary was $3,200. A loaf of bread cost 22 cents. The U.S. population was 163 million. And a gallon of gasoline cost 29 cents. Fifty years later, our population has nearly doubled and the median household income is $41,000. A trip to the grocery store will reveal that a loaf of bread can cost up to $4, and if you've filled your car up at the pump lately you've undoubtedly been shocked by the $2+ per gallon price. Fortunately, rising right along with the cost of living, has been the number of American homeowners. In the first quarter of this year, homeownership hit a record rate of 68.6 percent, meaning more Americans than ever are pulling up to a driveway they own. 
   For many people the pinnacle of the American Dream is owning their own home - saying goodbye to a landlord and taking the reins on their own future. Homeownership enables Americans to build credit and create wealth. Perhaps more importantly, it also allows people to put down roots in a community, and develop a sense of pride and establishment.
   June is National Homeownership Month, a time for Texans who've been dreaming about owning a home to take the first steps toward achieving this goal. In this year's proclamation announcing June's designation, the president said, "Homeownership remains an essential part of the American experience and plays a critical role in strengthening families, their communities, and our entire nation. We must not be satisfied until every family that seeks to own a home, gets put on the path to homeownership."
   And while most Americans would agree that home ownership is an important part of our nation's foundation, they would also concur that buying a home can be a confusing and complex process, especially for first-time buyers. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has developed a helpful ABC guide to buying a home:
   ABC's of Buying A Home
   A. - Aim for a home you can really afford. The rule of thumb is that you can afford a house that runs about two-and-one half times your annual salary. If your salary is $50,000, and your credit is good, you could look at homes selling for $125,000.
   B. - Begin by looking at your credit. Since you will most likely need to get a mortgage to buy a house, you must make sure your credit history is as clean as possible. Before you start house hunting, get copies of your credit report. Make sure the facts are correct and fix any problems you discover. The three major credit-reporting agencies are: Equifax, www.equifax.com, 888-202-4025; Experian, www.experian.com, 888-397-3742; and, TransUnion, www.transunion.com, 800-916-8800. Start by calling them, getting a copy of your credit report and examining it closely.
   C. - Consult with the experts. HUD is a great resource for helping you through this process. HUD has a list of approved housing counselors who can walk you through this process step-by-step. You can find a counselor near you by visiting www.hud.gov.
   With our nation's economy continuing to strengthen and more Americans finding work, now may be the time for you to consider buying a home. In May, 248,000 jobs were created, bringing the three month total to nearly one million new jobs. The unemployment rate was 5.6 percent, lower than the average of each of the past three decades. And after-tax incomes are up 11 percent since December of 2000, meaning Americans are keeping more of their hard-earned dollars. 
   There are a number of federal programs for which many Texans can qualify, such as the American Dream Downpayment Initiative, which will help make homeownership a reality for 40,000 families this year. Housing education programs, grants for low-income families and tax credits for developers who build affordable housing are other initiatives that can bring you one step closer to writing your last rent check.
   In Texas that home could be a farm, a mid-town bungalow or something in a suburban neighborhood. Whatever your dream, the federal government has resources available to help you navigate the maze of homeownership.
 
 