NASA MUST KEEP ITS SCIENCE FOCUS
  When Neil Armstrong radioed Houston, Texas' Johnson Space Center "The Eagle has Landed," a waiting world wondered at this triumph of science and technology. I watched those grainy black and white images along with millions all over the world, and I felt such pride in our nation, and the role Texas played in putting the first humans on the moon. 
   Since that time, we have had many triumphs in space, including the launch of the space shuttles, putting the Hubble Space Telescope into orbit and inaugurating and using the still incomplete International Space Station. We have also, in these intervening years, experienced deep losses as well. The explosion of Space Shuttle Challenger in 1986, and the loss during re-entry of the Columbia in 2003, are sobering reminders that space travel is still a risky business. The fleet is currently grounded as we work to correct safety problems to ensure access to orbit is as safe as possible.
   This year, I have taken the chairmanship of the Subcommittee on Space and Science. My goal is to help refocus NASA on its scientific mission.
   The road back into orbit faces some hurdles. Our space shuttle fleet is not only grounded, it is aging. The first shuttle flights were launched in 1981. The youngest shuttle, Endeavor, flew its first mission in May, 1992, more than 12 years ago. The International Space Station is incomplete, with many parts ready for launch and assembly. Finally, we have to lay the groundwork to implement President Bush's vision of a Mission to Mars.
   The decisions we make this year will have an enormous impact on how we surmount these obstacles and how we achieve our short-term and long-term goals. As subcommittee chairman, my priorities will be as follows:
   First, we have to return to manned space missions. NASA is still working to get the shuttles flying again and its new nominee for administrator, Dr. Michael Griffin, has to make this his first, and highest priority.
   Second, as soon as we get our shuttles flying, we need to finish the International Space Station. This is not only an obligation we made to all those nations which joined the project, it is vital to our future space efforts. Weightless conditions allow us to perform many experiments involving crystals, materials and biology that are impossible on earth. The scientific benefit is enormous and is likely to generate tremendous economic benefits in the future. For example, NASA, in cooperation with the National Eye Institute, has developed a new dynamic light scattering device which allows doctors to detect cataracts in patients 55 years old or less before the clouding of the disease is visible. The research was spurred by the discovery that astronauts with prolonged exposure in space become more prone to develop cataracts. NASA is now experimenting in using this technique for non-surgical treatment of cataracts and for early detection of other diseases such as diabetes.
   The space station will build our experience with prolonged human exposure to zero gravity, which is known to cause loss of bone mass in astronauts. NASA is testing treatments for osteoporosis, a disease which reduces bone mass in many senior citizens.
   The third priority is to develop a new transportation system to get us into space without an interruption in our launch capability. Some plans envisage a gap of several years between the last projected flight of our shuttles and the first flight of a planned new reusable space ferry capable of carrying an entire crew. That is not, in my opinion, a wise course to take. It could be a national security risk for other countries to have men and women in space while America is grounded for five years.
   We are at a very important juncture in the history of space exploration. China has become the third nation to orbit the earth with a manned space craft; Japan and India have also announced very aggressive programs. 
   As we work to achieve our first three priorities, we must also keep our eye on the fourth: the Mission to Mars. Landing men on an entirely different planet would mark a new epoch in history.
   The Moon can be our laboratory. The Lunar surface would allow us to perfect the landing equipment, exploration techniques and living quarters for the first explorers of Mars. In the meantime, we could erect the next generation super telescope on the dark side of the moon, where it would benefit from permanent night conditions without the decaying orbits and size limitations which affect orbiting telescopes.
   We cannot afford to surrender our lead in space exploration. Our defense depends upon control of the high ground of space and our space program has always been a catalyst for technological and scientific development. Our future lies in space.
 
 