SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES BILL TO IMPROVE DIABETES CARE
  Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and Ben Nelson (D-NE) today introduced legislation to improve the quality of diabetes care under the Medicare program by supporting Diabetes Self-Management Training (DSMT).  
   "Diabetes is a serious, debilitating illness that afflicts more than 18 million Americans, including eight million Medicare beneficiaries," Sen. Hutchison said. "This bill can help improve the quality of life for diabetes sufferers and work to reduce the burden of costly complications on the Medicare program."
   Sen. Hutchison noted more than 902,000 Texans have been diagnosed with the disease, an estimated 6.5 percent of the population. Diabetes disproportionately impacts minorities in Texas, affecting 11.4 percent of African Americans and 9.3 percent of Hispanic Americans. The University of Texas estimated the disease costs Texas more than $4 billion annually. "Sadly, diabetes is on the rise in Texas. We must act now to ensure those suffering from the disease have the tools they need to enjoy fuller lives and prevent diabetes complications," Sen. Hutchison said.
   DSMT helps people with diabetes learn the daily regimen of diet, exercise, meal planning, medication and monitoring necessary to keep blood sugar under control. Certified Diabetes Educators (CDEs) are highly trained healthcare professionals - often nurses, pharmacists, or dieticians - who specialize in helping people with diabetes develop these skills. 
   The legislation would help ensure beneficiaries can access these critical services by permitting CDEs to be recognized as providers under the Medicare program for the purposes of providing DSMT. By allowing CDEs to be reimbursed by Medicare, more than 13,000 health care professionals will be made available to diabetes sufferers seeking assistance in managing their illness.
   "Individuals with diabetes must constantly monitor their insulin, diet and activity. This is difficult even for adults, let alone the many children suffering from this terrible disease," Sen. Nelson said. "Allowing CDEs to be reimbursed by Medicare will give patients better access to the tools they need to manage their illness. I'm pleased to work with Senator Hutchison on this important health issue."
 
 