SEN. HUTCHISON LAUDS PASSAGE OF STATE SALES TAX EXTENSION
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today applauded the Senate's passage of the budget reconciliation bill late last night which provides for a one-year state and local sales tax extension to ensure Texans have the same tax relief opportunities as the rest of the nation. Sen. Hutchison has led the effort to extend this tax relief and also make it permanent. 
   "All Americans deserve the right to deduct their state taxes, whether they pay state income taxes or sales taxes," Sen. Hutchison said. "This is a question of fairness. We not only need this one-year extension, but the permanent ability to deduct our state sales taxes." 
   Until last year, sales taxes were not deductible. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Sen. Hutchison worked to include this deduction in the tax relief bill of 2004. The bill must now be reconciled with the House of Representatives' version and signed into law by President Bush.
   Below, please see the letter Sen. Hutchison sent to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley (R-IA) and Ranking Member Max Baucus (D-MT) urging the extension of the sales tax deduction:
   September 8, 2005
   Chairman Charles Grassley
  Ranking Member Max Baucus 
  United States Senate Committee On Finance
  219 Dirksen Senate Office Building
  Washington, DC 20510-6200
   Dear Chairman Grassley and Ranking Member Baucus: 
   As your Committee considers a reconciliation tax package, we urge you to include an extension of the state and local sales tax deduction. This is critical to ensuring that fairness is maintained in the tax code. 
   State and local governments have various alternatives for raising revenue. Some levy income taxes, some use sales taxes, and others use a combination of the two. The citizens who pay state and local income taxes have long been able to offset some of what they pay by receiving a deduction on their federal taxes. Until last year, taxpayers did not have the ability to deduct their sales taxes, which harmed those who live in states without an income tax.
   Sales tax deductibility is not only an issue of fundamental tax fairness, but is also an economic stimulus that creates jobs and will improve the lives of the 55 million Americans living in states which do not levy income taxes. The option for taxpayers in all states to deduct either state and local income or sales taxes is an issue of fairness that deserves to be maintained. Sales tax deductibility provides equity in the tax code and takes away any federal bias regarding the type of taxes a state uses for its revenue source.
   We urge you to provide a five-year extension of sales tax deductibility in the reconciliation tax package. We look forward to working with you to ensure equity in the tax code.
   Sincerely,
   Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison
 
 