CAN WE MAKE DROUGHTS SHORTER AND HURRICANES WEAKER?
  Farmers invest their money in sophisticated seeds, spend weeks planting their crops and sometimes are forced to watch as day after day of unusual weather bakes their crops to a crisp, destroying their livelihood and raising the cost of produce in our supermarkets. But this may not be necessary. 
   Our satellites can spot approaching hurricanes from hundreds of miles away. Meteorologists can predict their paths with reasonable accuracy. But still we are forced to watch extremely powerful storms batter our coasts. The most powerful hurricanes cause substantial loss of life and destroy billions of dollars in property - shutting down businesses and costing workers their jobs. The recent storms in the Gulf of Mexico destroyed oil platforms and severely damaged refineries, causing a spike in the price of gasoline. What if there was something we could do to weaken such storms before they come ashore?
   The idea of controlling the weather sounds like something from a science-fiction film, but it may be possible. People have been controlling the weather in small ways for many years. Since Benjamin Franklin's pioneering work on electricity in the mid 1700s, multitudes have been using lightning rods to protect their property from thunderstorms. For half a century, ski resorts have been making their own snow when Mother Nature refuses to cooperate. Controlling the weather may seem unlikely now, but when the Wright Brothers were busy building their first airplane, most people would not have believed that flying across continents and oceans would become commonplace.
   Controlling the weather in significant ways may not be very far off. Experimenting on weather modification is difficult, particularly because researchers studying weather have difficulty isolating variables, but a number of scientists report significant success. Their best results so far come from seeding clouds to increase the amount of rainfall. Some trials over Texas produced clouds that lasted 18 percent longer than normal and generated 71 percent more precipitation. These trials are starting to convince skeptics. And, while you might worry that bringing down more rain in one place reduces the amount of rain elsewhere, so far, data suggests that such effects are small to non-existent.
   Scientists have also had success modifying other types of weather. Airports have managed to clear up cold fog around busy runways, and several major airports now have systems to dissipate fog. It may also be possible to reduce the damage caused by hail. One project showed such significant results in reducing hail damage to crops that it enticed the Canadian insurance industry to support a multi-year effort to reduce hail damage in Alberta's largest cities.
   Further research may lead to even greater ability to control the destructive forces of hurricanes and tornados. German and Russian scientists have devised a way they believe we might make hurricanes dissipate harmlessly by using jet engines to reduce the temperature of the ocean surface. Even if such plans ultimately fail, it may still be possible to at least weaken hurricanes or steer them away from cities and oil refineries, where they now cause the most damage. It may also be possible to weaken a tornado or lessen its lifespan.
   Other countries are investing in weather modification technology. According to Congressional testimony, China is "funding greatly-expanded weather modification research and operations program at $100 million per year, as well as training over 1500 new weather modification scientists." Weather modification projects have also taken off in countries as diverse as Argentina, Saudi Arabia and Israel. 
   I believe it is time for the United States to reexamine this issue. We need to assess what opportunities may exist to alleviate droughts by increasing rainfall. We need to look into the possibility of reducing hurricane and tornado damage by using advanced technology with our increasing knowledge of weather systems.
   To take a step forward in weather modification, I have introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate. If Congress passes my bill, it will start a national weather modification research effort through federal and state programs. It will focus a portion of the executive branch on weather modification by creating a Weather Modification Subcommittee within the Office of Science and Technology Policy. It will gather outside experts on a Weather Modification Advisory and Research Board to advise the subcommittee. This board will work to promote the research and development of weather modification. With the hard work and determination of American researchers and universities, I hope we might one day make substantial reductions in the damage weather causes to people, crops and property.
 
 