CONGRESS APPROVES VA BILL THAT DESIGNATES WACO VA AS 'MENTAL HEALTH CENTER OF EXCELLENCE'
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced the Senate has approved the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. The legislation funds the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and designates the Waco Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) as a "Mental Health Center of Excellence."  
   "The center of excellence designation gives the Waco VA facility and its outstanding care givers the recognition they deserve," Sen. Hutchison said. "It also directs the VA to support the facility with appropriate resources which will help strengthen its standing as VA centers around the country are evaluated during the CARES process."
   The Waco VA is a leading institution in the field of psychiatric care due to its breakthrough research and treatment of mental health issues including Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.
   "I believe this designation will enhance the commitment of the VA to preserving the excellent facility in Waco," Sen. Hutchison continued.
   The legislation also includes language authored by Sen. Hutchison to delay the Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) process by encouraging further study of VA facilities. It prohibits any change to the current infrastructure, service or mission of the 18 facilities recommended by the CARES Commission for additional review. It encourages the VA to conduct further study of these locations-which include the Waco VAMC -and submit their recommendations to be considered in the VA's FY 2007 capital plan. The language covers the fiscal year ending in September of 2006.
   "The CARES process began just as our country was mobilizing to fight the War on Terror. We must consider how this war has changed our veterans' health care needs before any decisions are made to close facilities," Sen. Hutchison said. 
   Overall, the legislation will provide more than $70 billion to fund the Department of Veterans Affairs. It includes over $37 billion for mandatory veterans' benefits and over $32 billion in discretionary spending. Included in the discretionary funding is $22.5 billion for medical services, $3.3 billion for medical facilities and $412 million for medical and prosthetic research which includes a minimum of $15 million a year for five years for Gulf War Illness research and over $607 million for the construction of major facilities.
 
 