CONGRESS APPROVES VA BILL THAT DELAYS CARES PROCESS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced the Senate has approved the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. The legislation includes language authored by Sen. Hutchison to delay the Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) process by encouraging further study of VA facilities.  
   "The CARES process began just as our country was mobilizing to fight the War on Terror. We must consider how this war has changed our veterans' health care needs before any decisions are made to close facilities," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am working to ensure the evaluation is completed in the best interests of our veterans and the communities that serve them."
   The Big Spring facility has the capacity to grow and enhance services to veterans from the whole region. Its location is central to the veteran population in the region.
   The CARES language prohibits any change to the current infrastructure, service or mission of the 18 facilities recommended by the CARES Commission for additional review. It encourages the VA to conduct further study of these locations - which includes the Big Spring VA Medical Center - and submit their recommendations to be considered in the VA's FY 2007 capital plan. The language covers the fiscal year ending in September of 2006.
   Overall, the legislation will provide more than $70 billion to fund the Department of Veterans Affairs. It includes over $37 billion for mandatory veterans' benefits and over $32 billion in discretionary spending. Included in the discretionary funding is $22.5 billion for medical services, $3.3 billion for medical facilities and $412 million for medical and prosthetic research which includes a minimum of $15 million a year for five years for Gulf War Illness research and over $607 million for the construction of major facilities.
   The bill will now be sent to President Bush to be signed into law.
 
 