SEN. HUTCHISON DELIVERS KEYNOTE SPEECH AT EAST TEXAS TRANSPORTATION SUMMIT
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today discussed the Surface Transportation Reauthorization Bill and recent legislative accomplishments in the beginning of the 109th Congress as she delivered the keynote speech at the East Texas Transportation Summit.  
   "An efficient and timely transportation infrastructure is an integral part of Texas' prosperity. It is imperative we work together to not only maintain, but modernize our infrastructure to meet the new demands of our growing state," Sen. Hutchison said. "Improvements to our ports, railways and more than 300,000 miles of highway that connect the state will strengthen the economy and improve safety." 
   Sen. Hutchison highlighted the improved rate of return Texas will receive under the new highway bill. She worked to increase Texas' rate of return to 92 percent by the final two years of the bill. The new reimbursement rate will increase Texas' share of highway funding by nearly $800 million per year, to $2.89 billion annually for state transportation projects. When Sen. Hutchison was elected, Texas's rate of return was only 76 cents. 
   In addition, Sen. Hutchison discussed the transportation bill's support for trade corridor developments. It provides an additional $50 million for further development of the 1-69 corridor from the Valley through East Texas to the Canadian border. 
   Sen. Hutchison also discussed light rail and rail safety improvements. The transit formula of the highway bill includes a provision which directs additional funds to high-growth states. The bill also includes rail safety language based on legislation Sen. Hutchison introduced in April, 2005. Specifically, it directs the Federal Railroad Administration to implement rail rules which will improve inspections of welded track, develop tank car safety standards and require reports on new standards. 
   Regarding Amtrak's future as a national rail system, Sen. Hutchison discussed legislation introduced by Senator Trent Lott (R-MS), which she cosponsored, that establishes programs to improve service. She cited the importance of giving the system a chance to succeed before altering routes. The on-time performance standards and Surface Transportation Board report requirements in the bill will usher in accountability and help the system identify and eliminate delays.
 
 