THE FUTURE OF TEXAS FARMING
  Texas farming has a long and rich history. Since prehistoric times, inhabitants have used a variety of agricultural methods to produce the necessary foods for survival. Caddo Indians in East Texas lived in permanent villages and prepared fields to cultivate corn, squash and beans. In West Texas, Pueblo Indians employed irrigation techniques to successfully grow cotton. The Spanish introduced the grapefruit to Texas, which was later adopted as the official fruit of the Lone Star State. After Mexico won independence from Spain in 1821, the government encouraged settlement in the region north of the Rio Grande River by offering land grants.  
   Stephen F. Austin inherited a land grant from his father, Moses Austin and, together with 300 other families from the United States, helped to settle parts of Central, East, and Southeast Texas. Prior to the Civil War, Texas agriculture primarily consisted of subsistence family farms typically ranging in size from 120 to 160 acres. With the expansion of the railroads, Texas farming grew rapidly creating the opportunity for commercial production. 
   The Morrill Land-Grant College Act in 1862 established the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, known today as Texas A&M University, to advance research in the fields of farming and ranching. Despite the devastating setbacks caused by the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl, advancements in cultivation, irrigation, crop diversification and equipment modernization lead to improved agricultural productivity. 
   Today, groups such as the Texas Farm Bureau are advocating for the future of agribusiness in our state. Adding approximately $40 billion to the state economy each year, Texas is one of our nation's leading farming states. Numerous organizations such as 4-H and the Future Farmers of America are helping to teach Texas' youth the cutting-edge techniques that will keep Texas on the forefront of the international agricultural industry. 
   Recent legislation will also contribute to the success of Texas' agricultural industry. The Central American Free Trade Agreement, recently passed by Congress and signed into law on August 2nd by President George W. Bush, will have a tremendous impact on the Lone Star State. Texas is currently the fifth-largest state agricultural exporter to CAFTA countries and the nation's number one exporter of cotton. 
   CAFTA is a comprehensive trade agreement negotiated by the U.S. and Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic. CAFTA will eliminate 80 percent of tariffs on U.S. exports, including the up-to-15 percent tariffs on chemical, electrical equipment, machinery, processed food and transportation exports. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, CAFTA will boost Texas' exports to the region, adding $683 million to the state economy after a year and $3.6 billion after nine years. 
   On August 8, President Bush signed into law the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The legislation includes tax credits to encourage the production of clean renewable energies for wind, biomass, geothermal, small irrigation power, landfill gas and trash combustion. The bill also includes the Coastal Impact Assistance Program, which I sponsored in the Senate. This program will improve habitat conservation and restoration, protect estuarine marshes and help improve Texas' air quality. The energy bill also includes a provision to authorize the U.S. Department of Interior to inventory oil and gas resources on the Outer Continental Shelf. This inventory will better enable the federal government to assess the extent of these resources. The increased use of ethanol required by the bill will be a boost to corn growers who must supply the raw products to make ethanol into fuel. Our national energy independence is critical to the future of Texas' agricultural industry. 
   Also critical to Texas' future is meeting our transportation needs. For 50 years the Federal Aid Highway Program and the states have maintained one of the world=s finest highway networks, making highways the first choice to transport most of the goods that drive our economy. This year, Congress was finally able to pass the transportation bill known as the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act. This bill provides $286.5 billion in federal funding through Fiscal Year 2009 for transportation projects. 
   The new law will go a long way toward meeting our transportation needs. Under the previous law, Texas was receiving on average $2.1 billion annually. The new law will increase the average annual funding by nearly $800 million, bringing Texas' annual average to $2.89 billion. Today, there are other critical needs to be addressed such as the increasing amount of American trade stemming from NAFTA. Texas has over 300,000 highway miles, the most of any state in our nation, and it is critical to make the commitment to maintain this system so that our farmers can move their products to market in an effective manner. 
   Texas is truly a national and international leader in the field of agriculture. Working together, we are improving rural economic development, capitalizing on the latest agricultural research and technologies and improving nutritional health through Texas A&M University and Texas Tech University. I am proud of the role Texas has earned as a model for agribusiness.
 
 