TEXAS' GREAT OUTDOORS
  This month President Bush signed into law the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act. Included in this legislation is a "Freedom to Fish" provision that I wrote to protect Texas anglers. Without my language, recreational anglers would have been penalized by restrictions intended to affect only commercial fishing. I support efforts to protect our environment in a sensible fashion and in a manner that does not deny Texans opportunities to enjoy the great outdoors.
   An unmistakable part of our state's identity is its natural beauty. Texas possesses a diverse landscape that includes mountains, canyons, beaches and forests, and there are 80 state parks for Texans to explore and enjoy. Wildlife is also abundant, with nearly 300 species native to the Lone Star State.  
   Activities such as camping, hiking, hunting, and fishing offer a special time to appreciate nature and provide families with opportunities to enjoy Texas together. They encourage bonds and friendships. Furthermore, revenue from the management of hunting and fishing provides for many preservation efforts.
   Since the 1930s, legal hunting has also funded the bulk of wildlife conservation efforts in Texas through the Wildlife Restoration Program. The federal taxes from the sale of sporting arms, ammunition, and archery equipment is appropriated to each state using a formula based on the state's total area and the number of licensed hunters in the state. Texas receives over $8 million each year to support wildlife restoration in over 50 wildlife management areas covering more than 750,000 acres.
   In other parts of the country, special-interest groups continue to take away the rights of hunters. Last fall, Michigan became the 38th state to ban dove hunting. Should a similar ban ever be proposed in Texas, I will be the first to sign up in opposition. People who hunt and fish are already subject to stringent regulations, and passing unnecessary hunting bans would deny many Texans a cherished sport and significantly affect our state's economy. According to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the 1.2 million hunters in Texas who are at least 16 years old spend, on average, 14 days per year hunting and contribute $1.5 billion annually to the Texas economy.
   During my 13 years in the Senate, I have supported worthwhile preservation efforts in Texas such as the Balcones Canyonlands National Wildlife Refuge and secured funding to acquire threatened areas near the Big Thicket National Preserve. In Mission, I have worked to protect the natural heritage of the area by supporting conservation efforts in the Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge.
   By protecting the land, residents of the Rio Grande Valley also experience economic benefits. The World Birding Center, part of the Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge, is considered the richest birding area north of the Mexican border. Potential sightings of nearly 500 species of birds, birding festivals and other events have created a $125 million annual ecotourism industry in the area. Statewide over three million wildlife watchers contribute $1.3 billion to the Texas economy each year. Improving the local economy while preserving the habitat of endangered species is a winning combination, and I will do all I can to enhance these types of projects in the future. 
   As our population grows, protecting our great outdoors is intrinsically and economically valuable. Preserving our land and providing access to its treasures is a responsibility we owe future generations. I have worked for years to preserve Texas' natural habitat as well as to protect the rights of those who hunt and fish in Texas, and I will continue these efforts so others can appreciate and enjoy our land for years to come.
 
 