SEN. HUTCHISON COMMENDS U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL FOR LAUNCHING INVESTIGATION
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, today commended United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for announcing a system-wide investigation of the agency's global programs. The announcement comes after news reports indicating that North Korea diverted tens of millions of dollars in funding from the U.N. Development Program while ramping up their illegal nuclear weapons program. 
   "The U.N. can play a valuable role in peacekeeping missions around the world but has allowed corruption, fraud and mismanagement to subvert many of its programs. The United States is the U.N.'s largest contributor and this fraud undermines the core ideals and goals we support. I commend Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for calling for an investigation and an independent audit. I urge him to lead the U.N. into a new era of accountability and effectiveness."  
   Below is a copy of Sen. Hutchison's weekly column addressing accountability issues at the United Nations. 
   Accountability at the United Nations
  By Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison
  January 12, 2007
   Over 60 years ago, the United Nations was chartered to advance human rights, promote justice, rule of law, and freedom, and save future generations from suffering the scourge of war. It requires all member nations to share the costs. The U.N. has grown from its original 51 members to 192 today, and it remains a central forum for international cooperation and communication. The U.N. can also play a valuable role in peacekeeping missions. 
   But in recent years the U.N. has become inefficient and disorganized and has been widely lampooned as an emblem of incompetence. Its missions have frequently been politicized and have had a high rate of failure. The organization has also not allocated and distributed aid fairly and properly. The U.N.'s disastrous Oil-for-Food program in Iraq was rife with fraud and corruption while providing support to Saddam Hussein's regime for years. The U.S. General Accountability Office estimates that Saddam and his henchmen pocketed over $10 billion from this mismanaged program.
   Now headquartered in New York City, the U.N.'s charter was drafted in San Francisco in 1945. In 2005, the United States provided 22 percent of the regular U.N. budget and 25 percent of the U.N. peacekeeping budget, making us the largest contributor. Despite our support for U.N. missions around the world, other members of the U.N. overwhelmingly vote against the United States' interests. Excluding consensus votes, members of the U.N. General Assembly vote in concert with America just 25 percent of the time. The level of support received by America from the general body is not much greater than that given by such rogue nations as Iran (nine percent)!
   In 2005, the United States contributed 44 percent of the U.N.'s World Food Program budget, which feeds approximately 97 million people in 82 countries each year; 16 percent of the budget of the United Nations Children's Fund to feed, vaccinate, educate, and protect children in 157 countries; and 22 percent of the budget of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to protect the rights and well-being of nearly 21 million refugees, returnees, and stateless and internally displaced people in 116 countries.
   United States leadership in the U.N. is essential to making the world more secure, democratic, and prosperous. The anti-American sentiment prevalent at the U.N. should no longer be tolerated when we are so generous in our support.
   Our former ambassador to the U.N., John Bolton worked tirelessly in pursuit of reforms necessary to modernize the organization. Sadly, his permanent appointment was torpedoed by political adversaries. Zalmay Khalilzad, a seasoned diplomat with decades of experience negotiating with foreign officials, is expected to succeed him. Mr. Khalilzad most recently served as our ambassador in Iraq, where he helped bring Iraqis to an agreement on a constitution. After our forces routed the Taliban, he was America's first ambassador to Afghanistan, where he earned praise for his work with tribal factions and leaders in the new Afghan government. 
   The U.N. is also under new leadership, as South Korea's Ban Ki-moon replaced Kofi Annan as Secretary-General on January 1. Mr. Annan served 10 ignominious years as Secretary-General, and his departure provides the organization with an opportunity to start anew. Secretary Ban is a Harvard graduate who has been described as trustworthy, a good listener, and a workaholic. I am hopeful that he will work with Ambassador Khalilzad to usher in an era of accountability at the U.N. and seek greater support for America's efforts to promote the ideals of liberty and justice.
 
 