SUBCOMMITTEE APPROVES 2006 VA BUDGET
  The Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, chaired by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), today approved the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill of 2006. The legislation appropriates funds for Fiscal Year 2006 for the Department of Veterans Affairs and includes nearly $2 billion in emergency supplemental funding to address the previous shortfall.  
   The Waco Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) is a leading institution in the field of psychiatric care due to its breakthrough research and treatment of mental health issues including Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. This legislation directs the VA to designate the center as a "Mental Health Center of Excellence" and to support it with the appropriate resources. 
   "Veterans have risked their lives for our freedom. While we can never fully repay them, we can do everything possible to fulfill our commitments," said Sen. Hutchison. "Maintaining quality health care services for our veterans is critical. I am hopeful that this important research will lead to advanced treatment that will help our veterans live happier, healthier lives." 
   The committee included language in the legislation prohibiting any change to the current infrastructure, service or mission of the 18 facilities recommended by the Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) commission for additional review. If enacted it would cover the Fiscal Year ending October 1, 2006. It encourages the VA to conduct further study of these locations, which include the Waco VAMC and the Big Spring VA Medical Center, and submit their recommendations to be considered in the VA's FY 2007 capital plan. 
   Overall, the legislation will provide more than $70.7 billion to fund the Department of Veterans Affairs. It includes $36.6 billion for mandatory veterans' benefits including pensions and compensation. The subcommittee included over $34 billion in discretionary spending, more than $1.25 billion above the president's budget request and more than $3.3 billion above FY 2005. This amount includes $23.3 billion for medical services, $2.8 billion for medical administration, nearly $3.3 billion for medical facilities and $412 million for medical and prosthetic research. 
   "I am pleased to help pass this legislation, which will add nearly $5 billion to last year's VA funding level," said Sen. Hutchison. "Our servicemen and women deserve proper facilities. We must live up to the promises made to our veterans." 
   The legislation passed the House of Representatives on May 26th. It will now be sent to the full Senate Appropriations Committee before being considered by the full Senate.
 
 