SEN. HUTCHISON PROPOSES CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL FOR DOCTOR DEBAKEY
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today introduced legislation to award the congressional gold medal to Dr. Michael DeBakey, in recognition of his many outstanding achievements and pioneering efforts relating to cardiac and vascular health. Original co-sponsors of the bill include Senate Majority Leader and renowned surgeon, Sen. Bill Frist (R-TN) and Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX).  
   "Dr. DeBakey has devoted his entire life to the health and well-being of others," Sen. Hutchison said. "His contributions to society are immeasurable, and our nation will be forever in his debt." 
   "Dr. Debakey's accomplishments are legendary," Sen. Cornyn said. "Through his impressive contributions to the medical community, he has touched the lives of countless Texans and, indeed, people around the world. This is a much deserved recognition for a man who's devoted his life to the service of others."
   Dr. DeBakey's innovative research and surgery techniques revolutionized the field of cardiovascular medicine. He is recognized internationally for inventing and refining several medical devices and procedures used daily to save lives. Two of his most significant inventions include the roller pump, an essential component of the heart-lung machine, and the DeBakey Ventricular Assist Device (VAD), a miniature device implanted into the heart to increase blood flow.
   He helped develop the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital (MASH) units that saved thousands of lives during the Korean and Vietnam conflicts, and he helped establish the Veteran's Administration Medical Center Research System. Dr. DeBakey served as an advisor to almost every president in the past fifty years, and he received numerous awards from educational institutions, professional and civic organizations and governments worldwide, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction in 1969. Dr. DeBakey currently serves as the Chancellor Emeritus of the Baylor College of Medicine and Director of the DeBakey Heart Center at Baylor.
   "Dr. DeBakey, a legendary surgeon, teacher and inventor, truly deserves this honor for his tireless efforts to advance cardiovascular health and patient care," Sen. Hutchison said. "Congress should move swiftly to recognize his momentous achievements."
 
 