NATIONAL MILITARY APPRECIATION MONTH
  As a nation, it is important to observe and participate in holidays and events that celebrate our national heritage. National Military Appreciation Month provides all Americans an opportunity to recognize the incredible sacrifices of our nation's armed forces and to reflect on our rich military history. 
   On April 30, 1999, the United States Senate passed a resolution that designated May as National Military Appreciation Month. This resolution called on the people of the United States, in a symbolic act of unity, to observe a National Military Appreciation Month to honor the current and former members of the Armed Forces, including those who have died in the pursuit of freedom and peace. A concurrent resolution, later agreed to by both the House of Representatives and the Senate, established May, in perpetuity, as National Military Appreciation Month. 
   May is an ideal time to honor our servicemen and women, as this year we celebrate Loyalty Day on May 1, VE Day on May 8, Military Spouse Day on May 12, Armed Forces Day on May 20, and Memorial Day on May 29.
   Members of the armed forces and their families truly understand the meaning of commitment and sacrifice. While many Americans have served this great nation in varying capacities, it is the men and women who have served as soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines who have put their lives on the line. They have endured frequent deployments and long family separations in sometimes hostile environments to protect freedom and uphold the rule of law.
   The very essence of being a member of our armed forces is defined when a recruit takes the oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States. This single act of commitment is significant because the military truly values the superiority of principle.
   Military service builds character, as the words "duty," "honor," and "country" have special meaning. General Douglas MacArthur eloquently explained this during his legendary address to the Corps of Cadets at West Point on May 12, 1962: "Those three hallowed words reverently dictate what you want to be, what you can be, what you will be. They are your rallying point to build courage when courage seems to fail, to regain faith when there seems to be little cause for faith, to create hope when hope becomes forlorn."
   During Military Appreciation Month, we must remember the scale of the War on Terror in which we are now engaged. It is a global war fought against determined enemies. Our tyrannical foes control their countrymen through oppression and fear while resorting to ruthless tactics against those who champion peace and freedom. Defeating these enemies will require the determination, skill and courage of those who wear the uniforms of America's military forces.
   I steadfastly stand behind our troops. As Chairman of the Senate's Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, I work to make sure that supporting those who risk their lives to protect our freedom is always a priority for Congress.
   As we remain committed to maintaining and supporting the finest armed forces in the world, we must be equally dedicated to caring for our veterans when they come home. In my committee, I make a special point to see that veterans receive proper medical care and have access to excellent hospitals and doctors who are researching the treatments our veterans need most.
   I invite all Texans to join me in honoring our nation's heroes. Our recognition is important to our warriors, and it further strengthens America's collective consciousness about the virtues and values of military service.
 
 