SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES REPEAL OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GUN BAN
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today introduced the District of Columbia Personal Protection Act of 2005 - legislation to repeal the District of Columbia gun ban and restore to District residents the Constitutionally guaranteed right to protect themselves.  
   "The rights guaranteed by the Constitution do not end at the borders of Washington, D.C.," said Sen. Hutchison, former Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the District of Columbia. "Residents of the District should not have to choose between protecting themselves and obeying a law that shreds the Constitution."
   The District of Columbia - which enacted the Firearms and Control Regulations Act in 1975 - has some of the most restrictive gun control laws in the nation. The Mayor and D.C. Council have the authority to pass laws that regulate sales of hand guns, but they do not have the authority to pass laws that undermine the Constitution. Prior to the gun ban's implementation, the murder rate in the District was on the decline. Following the ban, the murder rate began to rise and had tripled by 1991, while violent crime was decreasing nationally. 
   "The Constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens should not be infringed to protect a policy that increasingly proves its ineffectiveness in reducing violence," Sen. Hutchison said. "Citizens in every state enjoy the right to protect themselves, but D.C. has taken those rights from its residents. This bill will protect the Second Amendment rights of our fellow citizens.
   "The murder rate in D.C. today is eight times higher than the rest of the country, even though violent crime has decreased to a 27-year low nationwide," Sen. Hutchison said. "It is clear this gun ban is not reducing the rate of violent crime in the District. In fact, new violent crime records have been set since the ban was put in place."
   Sen. Hutchison's legislation, which has already garnered support of more than 20 bipartisan cosponsors, makes D.C. gun laws consistent with federal law.
   It recognizes that current law denies citizens access to firearms which is an infringement on their Second Amendment rights. It also clarifies that the D.C. City Council does not have the authority to prohibit private ownership of firearms but will maintain power to regulate machine guns and firearms according to the National Firearms Act.
 
 