AMERICANS HAVE MUCH TO GIVE THANKS FOR
  Thanksgiving is a uniquely American holiday. It does not commemorate a battle or other historical event, nor does it honor a specific person or even a particular religion. It is dedicated to the simple idea that we have received blessings as individuals and as a nation for which we should give thanks. It is this idea, far more than turkey, gravy and mashed potatoes, which makes each Thanksgiving so special to me and my family. 
   I frequently have occasion to appreciate these blessings, especially when I am at home in Texas and think about our nation and the world in which we live. I am particularly grateful for our standard of living, made possible by the hard work of millions of Americans. A recent study by Swedish economists Fredrik Bergstrom and Robert Gidehag reported the average living space for poor American households is 1,200 square feet. In Europe, the average space for all households, from rich to poor, is 1,000 square feet. We live in a productive economic system, and that's one reason we all should be thankful.
   What separates Americans from the rest of the world is the freedom enjoyed by every American, from the most humble to the most powerful. A key civil right is guaranteed by the First Amendment, the freedom of speech.
   This freedom is not matched by Canada or the nations of Europe. This means that unpopular words which may merely earn disapproval and criticism in the United States can result in jail or heavy fines imposed by the government in other countries. I am thankful the people of the United States support the rough and tumble of free speech instead of censorship, however well-intentioned.
   Our recent presidential election is also a cause for thanksgiving. The election was a victory for the American people not because of which party won, but because we again proved to the world that we set aside our partisan differences after our elections as we cherish the democratic process. This year, when I saw young Afghan women ignoring death threats to cast their ballots in Afghanistan's first free elections, I was reminded yet again of how lucky we are to be living in the Land of the Free.
   Finally, as I watch the progress of our troops in the War against Terror, I am grateful for the young men and women who fight against despicable enemies: enemies who behead civilians and shoot fleeing children. Our brave soldiers are cut from the same cloth as their forbearers who guarded the free world against communist totalitarian dictatorships in the Cold War, and destroyed Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan when those regimes tried to impose their dark vision on all Mankind.
   When I think of the efforts our great nation has made to defend the cause of freedom, and the sacrifices made by America's sons and daughters in this fight, my heart is filled with boundless gratitude. Remembering all these things makes Thanksgiving one of my favorite holidays.
 
 