SEN. HUTCHISON TO MEET WITH HOUSTON RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS WITH FIRST LADY
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today will join First Lady Laura Bush during a series of meetings with dislocated Hurricane Katrina victims in Houston and local community members providing support for relief efforts.  
   "No one can fully understand what Texas is doing for its neighbors in need unless they witness it first hand," Sen. Hutchison said. "Business, religious and community service organizations in Houston are playing a critical role in meeting the tangible and emotional needs of Hurricane Katrina victims who sought refuge here. It is important we thank them for their contributions. Mrs. Bush's visit today is an honor and will provide encouragement to these organizations and the victims working to get back on their feet." 
   Mrs. Bush and Sen. Hutchison will meet with pastors who organized Operation Compassion, a group of volunteers based at major shelter sites to aid the evacuees in their daily life and tour the George R. Brown Convention Center. In addition, they will then visit the House of Tiny Treasures, an early childhood development center serving homeless children. The Houston visit will conclude with a meeting with dislocated victims who were hired as new employees at the Home Depot in Houston. 
   When Congress resumed on September 6, Sen. Hutchison immediately began taking action to support Texas as more than 300,000 Hurricane Katrina evacuees sought refuge in the state. 
   Through conference calls she hosted with community leaders, meetings with President Bush and the Texas Congressional Delegation, and discussions with top federal relief officials including Office of Management and Budget Director Josh Bolton, Education Secretary Margaret Spellings, Department of Homeland Security Deputy Director Michael Jackson and CMS Administrator Mark McClellan, Sen. Hutchison has formulated legislative fixes to bureaucratic roadblocks and has worked to ensure Texas communities are adequately compensated. Below is a wrap-up of action Sen. Hutchison has taken: 
   September 1: Visited the shelter in Houston Astrodome relief shelter;
   September 5: Visited the Dallas Convention Center relief shelter;
   September 6: Hosted a conference call with Texas community leaders to discuss their needs;
   September 8: Hosted a Texas Delegation meeting which included 17 members of the Texas Delegation;
   September 8: Sent a letter to President Bush on the need for fast legislative changes to speed relief.
   Also spoke with Sec. Spellings, Administrator McClellan and Director Bolton;
   September 9: Sent a letter to Senate Committees on the need for fast changes to speed relief efforts;
   September 10: Toured Department of Emergency Management with Vice President Cheney; 
   September 12: Hosted second conference call with communities to discuss their needs;
   September 12: Introduced five Hurricane Katrina-related bills to address reimbursement needs; 
   * BILL ON HEALTHCARE - Enroll evacuees into the Texas Medicaid program with full federal reimbursement and waive current state eligibility criteria to allow coverage for all evacuees for a limited amount of time (six months or until the disaster designation is lifted, whichever is sooner), including costs for access to mental health services for evacuees. 
   * BILL ON EDUCATION - In order to ensure that communities can effectively continue to provide primary and secondary education to evacuee-students, a number of changes must be made to increase flexibility in implementing programs and to ensure the cost of providing these services is covered by the federal government. 
   * BILL FOR BULK SUPPLY PURCHASES - Allows communities to be reimbursed for buying supplies, such as linens, to be distributed to individuals, rather than only reimbursing those expenses incurred by the individuals themselves. 
   * BILL FOR LOST REVENUE REIMBURSEMENT - Many of the facilities being used to house evacuees are ongoing business operations which had to cancel revenue-raising activities in order to provide shelter for evacuees. FEMA should reimburse for the revenue-raising events that were cancelled in order to make the facility available for use by evacuees. 
   * BILL FOR SHELTER EXPENSES - Broaden the definition of what expenses for shelters are reimbursable by FEMA. For example, in order to provide police officers for security at shelters, some cities must have other police officers work overtime to fill the resulting gaps; the overtime costs of those officers not at the shelters but working overtime as a result of it should be reimbursable. 
   September 14: Announced bipartisan Senate Finance Committee relief bill which incorporated major portions of the senator's Medicaid relief bill.
   September 14: Announced Dr. Mark McClellan, Administrator of CMS, called to tell her Texas would receive a full five-month waiver for Medicaid matching funds which ensures the state 100 percent reimbursement for evacuee medical services;
   September 17: Toured Austin Convention Center with Sen. Cornyn and local education officials.
 
 