SEN. HUTCHISON CALLS ON JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TO RECUSE ITSELF FROM CONSIDERATION OF WRIGHT AMENDMENT LEGISLATION
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today sent a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales calling on the U.S. Department of Justice to recuse itself from further consideration of the Wright Amendment legislation. The letter was written in response to a purported Justice Department document which was filled with factually and legally inaccurate information, preventing fair consideration of the legislation. A copy of the letter follows:
   August 1, 2006 
   The Honorable Alberto Gonzales
  Attorney General
  U.S. Department of Justice
  Washington, D.C. 20530-0001
   Dear Attorney General Gonzales:
   I object strongly to the methods used by the Department of Justice (DoJ) to "review" my legislation, S. 3661, to repeal the Wright Amendment. The document from the Department titled "Problems with the New Wright Amendment Deal" is both factually and legally inaccurate, and is an uninformed opinion regarding a complex issue that has plagued North Texas for more than a quarter of a century. In fact, my concern begins with the title of the anonymous document; the so-called "deal" is a carefully balanced, compromise agreement reached by multiple local parties and approved overwhelmingly by the city councils of Dallas and Fort Worth. 
   While I recognize your Department is entrusted with the enforcement of antitrust law, as a senior member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, I am also fully aware that the Department of Transportation has jurisdiction over issues of aviation law and policy, including airport use limitations - areas into which the Wright Amendment squarely falls. I am troubled greatly that the document produced by the Department of Justice appears to have been provided initially to one Senator and was not distributed at the same time to the members of the Commerce Committee (who have voted 21-1 to approve my legislation) or to me as the author of the bill in question. Further, according to a news article that appeared in the July 28, 2006 edition of The Dallas Morning News (enclosed), objections to the gate limit provision originated with the law firm representing one of the parties in a lawsuit challenging the agreement and were circulated in Washington by lobbyists retained by that law firm. This raises the question of how and why the Department of Justice has become entangled in a pending lawsuit. What was the genesis of this document? Does it reflect the agreement reached in a multi-party, interagency conference call held by Administration officials to discuss the legislation I introduced? What was the initial distribution of the document and how was that determination reached?
   The inflammatory rhetoric of the document is clearly intended to lead the reader to a position of opposition to the local parties' agreement, which was reached in direct response to a request by senior members of the Senate Committee on Commerce. The document makes assertions that are not supported either by legal citations or case law. This analysis without substance is disturbing. Further, incendiary allegations by the unknown author that the parties "colluded" and that their actions and statements should be regarded with "profound skepticism" is outrageous. That type of language is neither objective, nor professional, and it fails to even acknowledge that 21 members of the Senate Commerce Committee and the overwhelmingly majority of members on the House of Representatives Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure have voted to support the actions taken by the local communities - actions which under state law the cities have the absolute right to take.
   As a result of this unfortunate, unfair, and very biased position regarding a important matter pending before Congress, the Department of Justice should recuse itself from further consideration of the Wright Amendment legislation. While I know you, personally, had nothing to do with this memorandum, the result has been publication of opinion presented as fact and damage to the ability of the Department to adequately, and fairly, adjudicate any potential legal question that might arise with regard to this legislation.
   Allowing the Justice Department to review this matter would be equivalent to sending one to trial after the court had announced the verdict. 
  Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison
 
 