SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES BILL TO AWARD CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL TO CHANCELLOR EMERITUS OF BAYLOR COLLEGE OF MEDICINE DEBAKEY
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today introduced legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Dr. Michael DeBakey, Chancellor Emeritus of the Baylor College of Medicine and Director of the DeBakey Heart Center at Baylor. Sen. Hutchison introduced the bill on the eve of the American Heart Association's National Wear Red Day in recognition of Dr. DeBakey's many outstanding achievements and pioneering efforts in cardiac and vascular health. Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) is an original co-sponsor of the legislation.  
   "Dr. DeBakey is a legendary surgeon, teacher and inventor who has devoted his entire life to the health and well-being of others," Sen. Hutchison said. "His contributions to society are immeasurable, and many Americans live longer, healthier lives as a result of his commitment to cardiovascular medicine." 
   "Dr. DeBakey's impressive contributions to the advancement of medical care are legendary. He has touched the lives of countless Texans and, indeed, people around the world," Sen. Cornyn said. "This would be a much deserved recognition for a man who's devoted his life to the service of others. So I hope our colleagues will support it."
   Dr. DeBakey's innovative research and surgery techniques revolutionized the field of cardiovascular medicine. He is recognized internationally for inventing and refining several medical devices and procedures used daily to save lives. Two of his most significant inventions include the roller pump-an essential component of the heart-lung machine-and the DeBakey Ventricular Assist Device (VAD)-an apparatus implanted into the heart to increase blood flow.
   He helped develop the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital (MASH) units that saved thousands of lives during the Korean and Vietnam conflicts, and helped establish the Veteran's Administration Medical Center Research System. Dr. DeBakey has served as an advisor to almost every president of the past fifty years, and he has received numerous awards from educational institutions, civic organizations and governments worldwide, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom with Distinction in 1969. Dr. DeBakey currently serves as the Chancellor Emeritus of the Baylor College of Medicine and Director of the DeBakey Heart Center at Baylor.
 
 