ENERGY BILL FOSTERS INDEPENDENCE AND SECURITY
  With oil prices hovering around $60 a barrel, the price for petroleum is over 50 percent higher now than it was last year. Energy affects every part of an industrial economy, from manufacturing and transportation to services. Petroleum is also the source from which we create plastics, adhesives and light-weight composite materials.  
   High oil prices have occurred in large part because of a tightening supply and increasing demand. China and India alone account for the majority of the increase in world demand. Consumers in the United States are feeling the effect of higher energy prices worldwide because we are increasingly dependent upon imports. The American Petroleum Institute's latest data shows we depend on imports for 64.3 percent of our petroleum needs. In 1973, when an OPEC oil embargo hammered the U.S. economy, we were importing 28 percent of our oil. 
   Petroleum imports are rising because our domestic production is declining. New fields are no longer being drilled, existing fields are aging and consumption is rising. Helping offset these trends has been increased energy efficiency in the United States. According to various sources, including the Energy Information Agency, the U.S. Gross Domestic Product rose 32.2 percent in the 10-year period from 1994 through 2003 and our population rose 13.1 percent, yet our total energy consumption rose by only 9.6 percent. While most regions of the world show an upward trend in per-capita energy consumption, in the United States, it has declined slightly since 1980. 
   Although America is becoming more efficient, we are facing growing exposure to changes and disruptions in the international energy markets, particularly involving petroleum. This is why our passage of the energy bill is vital for our national security. 
   The importance of a comprehensive energy bill cannot be overstated. It provides us a roadmap for achieving greater energy independence which will make us less vulnerable to price swings. The bill encourages domestic production, improves conservation efforts and promotes renewable sources of energy. This is good for consumers, for businesses and for the environment. 
   To boost domestic production, the bill streamlines oil and gas development on existing federal lease sites to bring fuel to market sooner. It seeks to diversify our sources of energy to give us flexibility and adaptability. It does this by stimulating use of clean nuclear power, providing incentives for solar, wind and geothermal energy. It establishes a federal loan guarantee program to encourage the design and development of clean innovative technology and new energy sources. The bill requires fuel manufacturers to use eight billion gallons of ethanol in gasoline by 2012. 
   An ambitious program to design and use clean coal burning technologies will help America use its 250-year supply of coal in environmentally safe power plants. A program researching the use of clean-burning hydrogen in cars is included in the legislation as well as provisions and mandates to encourage utilities to expand, modernize and improve the reliability of the electric power grid. 
   The energy bill is strong on conservation, too. It requires the federal government to devise a plan to save one million barrels of oil a day by 2015. 
   This legislation also provides help in dealing with environmental problems. The bill included the Coastal Impact Assistance amendment which I co-sponsored to ensure that Texas will get federal assistance for handling energy problems which may occur in areas with offshore oil exploration. The bill will provide funding for wetland restoration and coastal restoration. 
   I have long argued that our nation needs a coherent energy policy. I am gratified that the Senate has, at long last, passed this important and necessary bill.
 
 