SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES PRESIDENTIAL DISASTER DECLARATION FOR TEXAS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, Texas' senior Senator, today announced that President Bush has issued a major disaster declaration for the State of Texas as a result of the recent storms and deadly tornadoes that have devastated several communities. Sens. Hutchison and John Cornyn and Reps. Ciro Rodriguez and Mac Thornberry last week sent a letter to the president urging this declaration.  
   "Texans have suffered serious personal and economic losses in the wake of these tragic and deadly storms," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am pleased to announce this major disaster declaration, which will help put our communities on the road to recovery."
   The text of the letter sent last week is included below:
   Dear Mr. President:
   As you know, Governor Perry has requested a major disaster declaration for the State of Texas as a result of recent severe storms and tornadoes that occurred on April 21 and April 24, 2007.
   We urge you to expedite the consideration of this request, as we believe that such declaration is critical to ensuring that important mitigation and recovery assistance is made available to the residents of Maverick, Moore, and Swisher Counties as soon as possible.
   On April 21, as a result of severe tornado damage, the cities of Tulia and Cactus in Swisher and Moore Counties, respectively, suffered an estimated $2.4 million of infrastructure damage. Numerous families have not only lost their homes, but also their businesses which will make the recovery process that much more difficult.
   Severe storms again struck Texas on April 24, 2007. The tornadoes that hit the city of Eagle Pass in Maverick County that day resulted in seven fatalities and at least 81 injuries. Further, more than 600 families have been reported homeless due to the destruction of their homes covering several city blocks. 
   We appreciate the efforts underway by the Federal Government to review the State's request in a timely manner, and we respectfully ask that you give this request due consideration. You may be certain that we will work with the Administration to aid the victims of this disaster.
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison
  John Cornyn
  Ciro Rodriguez
  Mac Thornberry
 
 