SEN. HUTCHISON: PRESIDENTIAL PERMIT ISSUED FOR WEST RAIL PROJECT
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) announced that the Brownsville West Rail international bridge initiative was issued a Presidential Permit today, allowing the county to proceed with design plans, financing and construction. The bridge will alleviate commercial and traffic bottlenecks in South Texas.  
   Sen. Hutchison's efforts helped the initiative get a Presidential Permit in about 19 months, compared to the three to five years often required for international bridge projects. When completed, the $24 million project will allow railroad traffic to Mexico to be rerouted to a new international bridge located west of Brownsville, dramatically easing railroad and traffic congestion in both Brownsville and Harlingen. It will also eliminate most of the rail traffic from residential areas, which will remove 17 rail-street crossings, improve the air quality in Brownsville and Matamoros and allow the trains to travel at a higher but safer speed. In addition, the project will eliminate the need to construct seven planned overpasses in Brownsville estimated to cost $36 to $43 million.
   "With more than 30 federal agencies to be consulted, our national, state and local effort won approval for this initiative in record time," Sen. Hutchison said. "This bridge will give commuters some relief from traffic congestion and help expedite international commerce - creating jobs and boosting the Valley's economy."
   Sen. Hutchison announced this summer that the U.S. Department of State obtained the final signature for the Programmatic Agreement that provides protection for any archeological artifacts that might be found during bridge construction. The Programmatic Agreement was approved by Cameron County Judge Gilberto Hinojosa, Texas Historical Commission executive director Larry Oaks, and representatives of the U.S. State Department and the U.S. Department of Interior's Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
   The Senator worked closely with area officials to facilitate the project, especially Cameron County Judge Gilberto Hinojosa, Brownsville Mayor Eddie Trevino, Jr., former Harlingen Mayor Connie de la Garza, current Harlingen Mayor Rick Rodriguez and both county commissioners and Brownsville city officials. Federal, state and local officials in Mexico also provided invaluable cooperation. During 2002 and 2003, Sen. Hutchison secured $1 million in federal funds to begin rail relocation in Harlingen. This year she is seeking an additional $2 million for bridge engineering planning on the West Rail initiative and an additional $2.8 million for Harlingen's rail relocation. Both of these pending Cameron County projects will be discussed in the upcoming Transportation, Treasury and General Government Appropriations Conference. 
   This spring, when the process appeared bogged down by governmental red tape, Sen. Hutchison made the contacts at the Secretary of State's office to help clear away bureaucratic hurdles, and put the project on track.
 
 