FOLLOWING IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF HISTORY
  In a recent column, I recalled our state's rich Native American history in light of the opening of the National Museum of American Indians. This week, I want to tell you about another significant aspect of our past - the early Hispanic history in Texas in conjunction with another development in Washington. 
   After years of work, Congress enacted my legislation granting El Camino Real de los Tejas the status of a U.S. National Historic Trail - a privilege so rare that only 15 other trails throughout the entire nation have been given that status by Congress. 
   In October of 2000, El Camino Real de Tierra Adentro was the first trail to be nationally recognized in Texas. Extending from Mexico City, Mexico to San Juan Pueblo, New Mexico, this route once served as the sole artery for news, supplies, and travel to the far-flung Spanish colony of New Mexico.
   Now, we take another step in enriching our heritage and education by recognizing El Camino Real de los Tejas. For nearly 300 years "The Royal Road" operated as a corridor for settlers, immigrants, Indians and the military. Its various trails assisted victories during both the American Revolutionary War and the Texas War of Independence, particularly during the infamous battle of the Alamo. Davy Crockett used a section of the trail to reach the Alamo while General Santa Anna launched a quick surprise assault on the Texans in San Antonio utilizing an adjacent trail. As the first major highway into Texas and Louisiana, El Camino Real opened the pathways to trade and cultural exchange.
   El Camino Real de los Tejas is more than a road, it's a 2,600 mile path embedded with footprints and tracks that narrate long-standing tales about Texas and all who settled here or simply passed through. As visitors travel down this winding route, they'll follow in the footsteps of Spanish missionaries of 1691, Mexican and Texan armies of 1836, Anglo-American settlers and personages such as Jim Bowie and Sam Houston, all while observing Spanish missions in San Antonio, Caddo Indian mounds in Alto and a dozen historical small towns that help make Texas unique. Preserving this landmark enhances our heritage and culture, which is why I first proposed this important measure designating El Camino Real de Los Tejas as a National Historic Trail. 
   Under this piece of legislation, the path will be recognized nation-wide on maps as a significant landmark. The law authorizes the National Parks System, working under the Department of Interior, to designate, establish and maintain the trail. Significantly, the designation gives landowners the right to opt in or opt out of those portions of the trail that are not public property, helping to protect private property owners. In addition, the bill will allow our state agencies, such as the Texas Historical Commission, to participate in the establishment and designation of the trail to boost tourism and economic development. 
   One of the reasons for this law is to promote education for current and future Texans, as well as the many tourists who will visit each year. My bill allows the Secretary of Interior to coordinate activities with the United States and Mexican public and non-governmental organizations. By collaborating with Mexican institutions, academic programs will help enrich our knowledge of the trail's history, geography and cultures, while enhancing resource preservation and public understanding.
   This legendary trail forged the way for the early development of Texas into a Spanish colony, an independent Republic and, finally, our nation's 28th state. This corridor is not just a highway; it is the foundation of an inspirational past and, with this designation, will become an even more important academic and economic aspect of Texas as our second national historic trail.
 
 