FIVE YEARS LATER: SEPT. 11
  Just as many of us will always remember where we were when President John F. Kennedy was shot in Dallas in 1963, we will never be able to forget what we were doing when we first learned of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Five years have passed since 9/11, and the horrific images of that morning remain ingrained in our memory.
   On this anniversary, it is important to reflect on what happened that fateful morning and how our country responded. The bravery exhibited by emergency responders on September 11 is both inspiring and heartbreaking, because America lost many of its finest citizens that day. September 11 is now recognized as Patriot Day in their memory. 
   The morning of 9/11, I was in my office in the United States Senate. As I watched the events unfold on television, I knew what so many others were concluding at the same time all across the country - America would be forever changed. Not since Pearl Harbor had such cowardly and deadly acts been carried out against America, and we all felt confusion, sadness and anger that terrible day.
   Though the details of the terror plot were yet to be revealed, I called my entire staff into a conference room to speak to them about what appeared to be happening. Many of my younger staff members had never experienced anything that reminded them of their own mortality, and I wanted to reassure them that we were going to get through this.
   The rest of the day was incredibly hectic--communication was difficult and I spent a good deal of time trying to reach other senators. Even so, I was able to organize a meeting of about two thirds of the Senate to determine how we would proceed. Congressional leadership decided we needed to go back to work the next day, not only to send a message to the terrorists responsible for the attacks that they could never break the American spirit but to begin immediately doing what was necessary to secure our homeland.
   America has always shown resolve when confronted with tragedy. Today, our country is at war. This war did not begin on September 11, 2001, but it arrived on our front doorstep that morning. The war against terrorism is not a war that can be easily won, but the resolve of our President and the American people must be steadfast. This is a war that radicals began well before September 11, and we owe it to future generations to see this through to ultimate victory. As weapons of mass destruction become easier to obtain, the price of failure is unimaginable.
   In the last five years, we have significantly strengthened our national defense by engaging the enemy in the Middle East before they reach America and improved our homeland security by passing the PATRIOT Act. We must continue to provide law enforcement officials with the resources necessary to protect us, and we must remain vigilant in pursuing terrorists who seek to harm our country.
   We also owe an enormous debt of gratitude to the brave men and women of the armed forces who are defending America and freedom today. Their service honors the victims of September 11 and ensures a safer future for all of us. In the coming weeks and months, as troops from Texas are deployed abroad, they will carry with them the love and support of a grateful state and nation. We have not forgotten the events of 9/11, and we will not forget those who continue to serve on behalf of us all.
 
 