SENS. HUTCHISON, CORNYN PASS SENATE RESOLUTION HONORING SPURS' NBA CHAMPIONSHIP
  Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and John Cornyn (R-TX) today passed a resolution in the U.S. Senate to honor the San Antonio Spurs' 2007 NBA Championship. The resolution passed the Senate by unanimous consent. 
   "I was so proud of the Spurs' victory and I'm honored to help them receive recognition worthy of their amazing achievement," Sen. Hutchison said. "The Spurs made San Antonio and all of Texas proud and I expect even more from them in the future as they continue the 'drive for five.'"
   "The Spurs showed yet again their class, poise and determination to win," Sen. Cornyn said. "They're an example to us all what it takes to be champions."
   The Spurs swept the best of seven series by defeating the Cleveland Cavaliers in four games. This is the Spurs' third championship in five years and fourth in nine years.
   The following is the text of the resolution:
   Whereas on June 14, 2007, the San Antonio Spurs (Spurs) won their fourth National Basketball Association (NBA) Championship since 1999 by defeating the Cleveland Cavaliers 4 to 0;
   Whereas Tony Parker won his first NBA Finals Most Valuable Player award after shooting 57 percent for the series and averaging 24.5 points per game;
   Whereas Spurs Head Coach Gregg Popovich added to his growing legacy by winning his fourth NBA Championship;
   Whereas Spurs owner and Chief Executive Officer Pete Holt and General Manager R.C. Buford have built the San Antonio Spurs into 1 of the best organizations in the NBA history;
   Whereas the Spurs hold an all-time record of 16 wins and 6 losses in the NBA Finals;
   Whereas the Spurs have the best winning percentage in NBA Finals history;
   Whereas the Spurs are committed to serving the San Antonio community by promoting education, achievement, and civic responsibility; and
   Whereas the Spurs are the pride and joy of the City of San Antonio: Now, therefore, be it
   Resolved, That the Senate -
   (1) Congratulates the San Antonio Spurs for winning the 2007 National Basketball Association Championship; and
   (2) Respectfully requests the Secretary of the senate to transmit 1 enrolled copy of the resolution to Senator Hutchison for presentation to the San Antonio Spurs.
 
 