SEN. HUTCHISON SECURES WIN FOR RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS IN TEXAS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Texas' senior Senator, today secured language in the Higher Education Reauthorization bill that protects the mission of religious institutions in the accreditation process. 
   The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee today approved the Higher Education Reauthorization bill, which will now move to the full Senate for consideration.
   Included in the bill's language is a requirement that accreditors consistently apply and enforce standards "that respect the stated mission of the institution of higher education, including religious missions." The bill would retain current law provisions regarding adverse action related to religious mission or affiliation.
   Many universities across Texas could be directly affected by this language, including Baylor University, Texas Christian University, Southwestern University, Texas Lutheran University, St. Mary's University, Incarnate Word College, Our Lady of the Lake, Trinity University, Abilene Christian University, Hardin-Simmons University, McMurry University, St. Edward's University, the University of St. Thomas, the University of Dallas, Dallas Baptist, Dallas Christian, the College of St. Thomas More, Rutersville University, Wesleyan College, McKenzie College, Soule University, Arlington Baptist, Houston Baptist, Lubbock Christian, and Texas Wesleyan University.
   "Baylor University is the oldest institution of higher learning in continuous operation in Texas and the largest Baptist University in the world," said Sen. Hutchison. "I am proud that the Senate HELP Committee included a provision that I have championed while in the United States Senate, a provision that respects the religious mission of our religious institutions of higher learning in their accreditation process."
   "Senator Hutchison did outstanding work to include an important provision in the Higher Education Act reauthorization bill to protect the mission of religious colleges and universities," said Dr. John Lilley, President of Baylor University. "Baylor's faith confession is central to its identity as an academic institution, and I am very grateful for her efforts to safeguard the freedoms we enjoy to be a distinctly Christian university."
   Current law requires accreditors to consider student achievement in relation to institutional mission, but otherwise does not address accreditation standards related to institutional mission.
 
 