SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES BILL TO HONOR CREW OF SPACE SHUTTLE COLUMBIA
  MRS. HUTCHISON. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a bill to honor seven individuals who last year made the ultimate sacrifice. The crew of flight STS-107 was tragically lost aboard the space shuttle Columbia on February 1, 2003. Debris from the vehicle was found in several cities and towns in my home State of Texas, where memorials will be raised to the mission's memory.  
   Commander Rick Husband, Pilot William McCool, Payload Specialist Michael Anderson, Mission Specialists Kalpana Chawla, David Brown and Laurel Clark, and Payload Specialist Ilan Ramon, Israel's first astronaut, admirably exemplified our commitment to human space exploration. These men and women labored for years to join the select group of NASA astronauts. Their 16-day mission was dedicated to research in physical, life, and space sciences. They conducted approximately 80 separate experiments comprised of hundreds of samples and tests, for 24 hours a day in alternating shifts. This selfless toil has repeatedly formed the basis of NASA's significant discoveries about our universe. 
   The Columbia crew, by participating in this effort, fully endorsed manned space exploration, which has been among NASA's missions since its inception in 1958. Beginning with NASA's earliest Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo missions which first put men on the moon, to this year's Mars rovers, the benefits of space technology are far-reaching and affect the lives of every American. The work of people like those lost last year has led to myriad tangible benefits here on Earth, such as the life-saving CAT Scan. This very American desire to cross frontiers and explore our surroundings drives critical innovation and development, and it does not exist without people like those we commemorate today. 
   I believe these cherished husbands and wives, sons, daughters, parents, and friends deserve to be counted among another exclusive number. For their bravery, dedication, audacity, and perseverance, these astronauts should be posthumous recipients of the Congressional Gold Medal, which is awarded as the highest expression of national appreciation for distinguished achievements and contributions. According to convention, this measure must be cosponsored by 67 Senators before it can be considered, and I am certain my colleagues hold the Columbia crew in the same high regard as I do. I ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the RECORD.
 
 