REMEMBER TO READ DURING SUMMER VACATION
  With summer vacation approaching, most students freed from school are anticipating a great many activities: swimming, playing baseball, hiking and camping. These are wonderful pastimes, but I would urge parents to make sure there is something else on that list: reading. 
   A brain needs exercise just as much as muscles do. Encouraging our children to continue reading not only makes summer more interesting, it also gives them a head start on the coming school year.
   A fascinating study published by the Johns Hopkins University examined the impact of summer vacation on student achievement. Since 1906, researchers have discovered students score better on standardized tests at the beginning of summer than they do at the end of summer when they are "rusty."
   Low-income students tend to experience significant losses in reading comprehension and word recognition while middle-income students have slight gains in reading skills over the summer. This goes a long way toward explaining different performance in schools between students from families of different economic backgrounds. Studies show these students make similar progress during the school year, but those from lower-income families tend to lose ground each summer. Educators believe a lack of emphasis on reading in some homes could lead to this disparity.
   During the summer months, middle-income students lose an average of one month of combined math and reading proficiency, while lower-income students lose an average of three months. Over the 12 years of primary and secondary schooling, those cumulative losses leave low-income students far behind their middle-income peers.
   Some educators use this information as an argument on behalf of year-round education. Others say more summer education programs should be made available to students. All of them agree that parents need to do as much as they can to keep little minds active.
   The 2000 Census found that seven to 15 million "latchkey children" return home to an empty house each afternoon. After-school programs meet only half this demand, but during summer months, not even this is available. Only 10 percent of students attend public schools during summer months but I am pleased to say there has been progress. Over a period of 25 years, the largest school districts offering summer programs rose from only 50 percent to nearly 100 percent. 
   Another approach, which has proven effective for participants, is the Texas Summer Reading Club Program promoted state-wide by the Texas State Library and Archives Commission (TSLAC). This summer, the theme is "Go wild...read!" TSLAC provides materials and information, while local libraries implement their own programs to encourage summer reading.
   David Price, County Librarian for the Burnett County Library System, tells me his program reaches 50 percent of the children in the county at a very important age.
   "In those early years, up through fifth grade, they are extremely energetic and very curious and they want to learn," he said. "It is the perfect time to develop their reading skills."
   This investment in reading programs is cost-effective. According to the Johns Hopkins study, the cost of making up the summertime loss of learning is expensive. Nationwide, taxpayers provide $7,000 per year per student. The time spent getting students back up to speed averages $1,540 per pupil per year. The large urban school district of Baltimore, Maryland, with 90,000 students, finds itself spending nearly $138 million per year helping students make up ground lost during the summer.
   The worst loss is not financial: it is time. You can recoup monetary losses, but time can never be recovered.
   Consult your local library for a summer reading program. If your children are too old to participate in that program, consider giving them a summer reading list with a reward for reading 75 percent of the books on it. It will expand their horizons and give their brains a good healthy workout.
 
 