SEN. HUTCHISON PROPOSES MORE EQUITABLE SOCIAL SECURITY FORMULA FOR PUBLIC SERVANTS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today introduced the Public Servant Retirement Protection Act to repeal the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) and ensure Social Security benefits for Texas teachers and other public servants are based on actual earnings. The bill is the Senate companion to legislation introduced earlier today by Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX) in the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   "Texas teachers and other public servants should have their full earnings history used in calculating their Social Security benefits, like the rest of America's work force," Sen. Hutchison said. "By repealing an arbitrary provision that does not fairly account for all earnings, this bill provides a more accurate approach to Social Security benefits for an important part of our nation's work force."
   "I want to commend Kevin Brady, who has been a real leader on this issue," Sen. Hutchison added. "Since learning about this inequity, he has been at the forefront in solving the problem. I am confident that a fair formula has now been reached, and I am pleased to join him in this effort." 
   Almost two percent of retired American workers earn both a Social Security benefit and a benefit from a Social Security substitute, such as the Texas Teachers Retirement System. These workers include firefighters, police officers, teachers, and other public servants who spend part of their career in jobs not covered by Social Security, but also have earned Social Security benefits from other employment. The current system inaccurately calculates benefits for them because the Social Security Administration does not use the worker's entire earnings history. When they retire, the WEP adjustment is applied and can reduce their Social Security benefits by as much as $300 a month.
   By repealing the WEP, this legislation guarantees Social Security payments will be based on each worker's entire earnings history, as well as their Social Security contributions. Those who have already worked in non-covered jobs prior to one year after the bill is enacted will receive the higher of either their benefit under current law or their benefit calculated under this new formula. This would ensure no one will receive lower payments as the transition is made into the new system.
 
 