SEN. HUTCHISON TOURS UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SOUTHWESTERN GULF WAR RESEARCH AREA WITH VA UNDERSECRETARY FOR HEALTH
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, today toured the University of Texas Southwestern Research area with U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Undersecretary for Health Dr. John Perlin. The tour was used as an opportunity to learn about the research area that Sen. Hutchison helped designate as a consolidated center specifically dedicated to Gulf War Illness research. 
   "This tour is an excellent opportunity to show Dr. Perlin the extensive Gulf War Illness research being conducted at UT Southwestern. Veterans nationwide will benefit from a greater understanding of this illness," Sen. Hutchison said. "UT Southwestern's breakthrough findings helped Dallas become the site designated for this critical research. I am confident great progress will be made here as we seek new treatment." 
   In November of 2005, Sen. Hutchison authored language included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill that designates the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center as a consolidated research center specifically dedicated to Gulf War Illness research.
   The appropriations bill Sen. Hutchison authored requires the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to establish a research center specifically dedicated to Gulf War Illness research. Furthermore, it requires the VA to spend a minimum of $15 million a year for the duration of five years - $75 million in total - on Gulf War Illness research. 
   At a ceremony following the tour, the VA and UT Southwestern signed a Memorandum of Understanding that sets forth an agreement between UT Southwestern Medical Center and the Dallas VA Medical Center to collaborate on Gulf War Illness research.
   Sen. Hutchison has been instrumental in broadening understanding of the cause and origin of Gulf War Illness. She worked with past VA Secretary Anthony Principi to raise awareness of the issue and has introduced language that gives veterans more time to file for medical care and compensation related to the illness.
 
 