SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING ARE CRUCIAL TO OUR NATION'S FUTURE
  U.S. excellence in science and engineering is a top priority for me in the Senate. Since World War II, we have been unmatched in science and engineering, but today we are starting to lose our edge. We do not have the scientists and engineers needed to maintain our position, and other nations are threatening our lead.
   Across the planet, other countries are increasing support for their research universities and substantially raising the amount of public funding they provide for research and development. China, over the past 11 years, has increased research and development spending by 500 percent. India is not far behind, and many Indian workers are well trained in engineering and speak fluent English. 
   To address this issue, we need to make changes to our country's education system. Too many of our teachers do not have the training they need to succeed, and we must do more to support them. As our future leaders pursue their college educations, not enough American students are getting their undergraduate degrees in science. America is 20th among nations in the proportion of 24-year-olds with degrees in a natural science or engineering. This puts our country below countries like Iceland, and just barely above Kyrgyzstan.
   This is a situation that must be addressed, and I will continue to work in Congress to make sure education is a top priority. During my years in the Senate I have focused on strengthening Texas in medicine, science, and engineering. We have had some great successes: the Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST); the Strategic Partnership for Research in Nanotechnology (SPRING); the Alliance for NanoHealth in Houston, the National Biocontainment Laboratory at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, and of course, NASA.
   I have also sought to improve our educational system at the national level. In 1997, I cosponsored the College Affordability and Higher Standards Act, which authorized $25 million for the first federal Advanced Placement (AP) program grants. Since then we have increased the commitment to the AP program, which allows students to enroll in preparatory classes and earn college credit by testing out of courses, saving students time and money. In 2005, we provided incentives for undergraduates to major in math, science, or a foreign language that is critical to national security, by adding to the Pell Grant amount for those majors.
   We must push even harder at the national level if we are to remain a world leader. As Chairman of the Senate's Subcommittee on Science and Space, I am working on a big-picture solution that will keep the United States at the forefront of science and engineering for decades. The PACE Act (Protecting America's Competitive Edge) makes a substantial stride in that direction by investing in both research and education.
   The PACE Act increases NASA basic research and the National Science Foundation (NSF) research, respectively, by 10 percent annually through 2013. This bill will also double authorized funding levels for basic research in the physical sciences and encourage private innovation by increasing the current research and development tax credit from 20% to 40%.
   To encourage more teachers in middle and high school, the PACE Act authorizes the NSF to award merit-based scholarships of up to $20,000 per year to students majoring in mathematics, science, or engineering who pursue concurrent teacher certification and agree to teach for four years after graduation. In addition, it aims to improve the training of the teachers we already have by providing funding for three-year master's degree programs in math and science education.
   America makes the best fighter jets, the best submarines, and the best rockets. It used to be undisputed that we made the best cars and the best televisions. To be at the forefront of science and engineering in the decades to come, we must to raise bright young stars in math and science and provide them with the teachers and support that will make them shine.
 
 