SEN. HUTCHISON ISSUES STATEMENT ON JUSTICE OWEN, 'CONSTITUTIONAL OPTION'
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today issued the following statement regarding the Senate Judiciary Committee voting to approve the nomination of Texas Supreme Court Justice Priscilla Owen to the federal bench. She also commented on the "Constitutional Option" for voting on judges in the Senate:  
   "Justice Owen is an exceptional jurist who is committed to the Constitution and her community. I know her personally and I admire her dedication to the law and public service. Her professionalism is widely admired across my state. She, and the nation, have waited entirely too long for her leadership. 
   "A minority in the Senate has blocked her confirmation to the U.S. Court of Appeals for nearly four years. These obstructionists have done so even though - when she was re-elected to the Texas State Supreme Court in 2000 with 84 percent of the vote - every major newspaper in Texas endorsed her candidacy. They have done so even though the American Bar Association unanimously rated her 'well-qualified.' They have done so even though this vacancy is a judicial emergency - open since January 23, 1997. They have done so, even though she received more than the 50 votes every time the motion to proceed has come to a vote on the Senate floor. 
   "They have gotten away with obstructing by exploiting the filibuster and denying Justice Owen a direct vote. Now, unfortunately, we must take action to ensure President Bush's nominees are getting the up-or-down vote they deserve. 
   "Over a year ago I announced my support for the 'Constitutional Option.' This would finally grant President Bush's nominees their Constitutional right to a vote. It would also preserve the right of every senator to advise and consent on presidential nominees. And it would not affect the legislative filibuster. 
   "If certain senators have differences with the president's nominees, they can voice them with their vote - just as the American people did when they re-elected President Bush and Republican majorities in the House and Senate."
 
 