SEN. HUTCHISON ISSUES STATEMENT ON FUTURE OF AMTRAK
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) submitted a statement today at the Senate Commerce Committee's Surface Transportation and Merchant Marine Subcommittee hearing on Amtrak funding. The subcommittee met to discuss the Bush Administration's proposed budget for Amtrak. Sen. Hutchison reinforced her strong support for increased funding for passenger rail. Hearing witnesses included Department of Transportation General Counsel Jeffrey Rosen and Inspector General Kenneth Mead, as well as Amtrak Chairman of the Board David Laney and Amtrak President and CEO, David Gunn.  
   Senator Hutchison objected to the unfair dispersal of transportation funding. The budget for Fiscal Year 2004 included more than $30 billion for highways and $24 billion for aviation. The federal transit program received more than $7 billion, which is seven times the funding received by Amtrak. The lack of appropriate funding for Amtrak has lead to decreased services and a greater potential for accidents. 
   "For 30 years, Amtrak has been kept on the back burner. Federal investment in rail infrastructure is dwarfed by spending on the other modes of transportation," said Senator Hutchison, a Member of the Commerce Committee. "Amtrak's budgets get increasingly tight, and service for our constituents suffers." 
   The current funding proposal for Amtrak is unfairly biased in favor of the Northeast rail lines. Last year, Amtrak spent $400 million in capital expenses on the Northeast Corridor, which was not recouped through ticket sales. On the rest of the national system, Amtrak spent just $300 million. Honest accounting reveals the Northeast Corridor loses money similar to long distance trains. 
   A efficiently run Amtrak could add huge tourism opportunities in Texas, since we have both the Texas Eagle and Sunset Limited lines going through five major metropolitan areas of our state. 
   "I believe we should either commit to dramatically improving Amtrak for the entire country, or abandon the pretense of a national system," said Senator Hutchison. "My motto for passenger rail is 'national or nothing.' I am hopeful this committee will keep in mind the need to provide service for the entire nation."
 
 