SEN. HUTCHISON HELPS SECURE FUNDING FOR HURRICANES RITA, KATRINA EXPENSES FOR TEXAS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Senate has approved the third emergency supplemental bill that includes funding for Texas in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. It will now be sent to the House for approval, possibly as early as tomorrow, then to President Bush to be signed into law. 
   Sen. Hutchison's major effort is to "assure Hurricane Rita victims are not forgotten as we work to meet the requirements of Katrina victims," said Sen. Hutchison, a conferee for the DOD Appropriations Bill. "Texans have opened their doors and their hearts to their neighbors in need. While we are proud to help in difficult times, Texas must be reimbursed for its expenses. This is the latest positive step in that direction and we will continue to work for additional future funding if circumstances require." 
   Sen. Hutchison helped secure Texas' eligibility for the following in the supplemental bill:
   * $645 million for cost of educating displaced students (authorized up to $6,000 per- student and $7,500 for special needs students); 
   * $350 million for the Army Corp of Engineers for repairs and dredging in hurricane-affected states; 
   * $125 million in grants for the Department of Labor for displaced workers; 
   * $550 million in Social Services Block Grants; 
   * $90 million for Head Start for children displaced by hurricanes; 
   * $11.5 billion for Community Development Block Grants in hurricane-affected states; 
   * $390 million for Section 8 housing vouchers; 
   * $125 million for state and local law enforcement assistance; 
   * $2.75 billion for highway, road and bridge repairs; 
   * $441 million for Small Business Administration Disaster Loan Program; 
   * $4.5 million for manufacturing extension centers; 
   In an effort to keep these emergency necessities from adding more to the deficit, the bill is fully offset - or paid for - by reallocating existing FEMA funds and making a one-percent across-the-board cut in federal spending. However, Sen. Hutchison personally ensured exemption from the cuts for the Department of Veterans' Affairs.
   Also passed in the Deficit Reduction Act today:
   * $2 billion in federal Medicaid relief for Katrina victims including 100 percent funding for the uncompensated care fund. 
   Below is a summary of action Sen. Hutchison has taken on behalf of Texas in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita:
   September 1: Led a congressional delegation trip to the Houston Astrodome relief shelter to visit with evacuees; 
   September 5: Visited the Dallas Convention Center relief shelter;
   September 6: Hosted a conference call with Texas community leaders to discuss their needs; 
   September 8: Hosted a Texas congressional delegation meeting which included 17 members of the Texas delegation;
   September 8: Sent a letter to President Bush on the need for swift legislative action to speed relief. Also spoke with Education Secretary Spellings, CMS Administrator McClellan and OMB Director Bolton;
   September 9: Sent a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee on the need for legislative action to speed relief efforts;
   September 10: Toured Department of Emergency Management in Austin with Vice President Cheney; 
   September 12: Hosted second conference call with communities to discuss their needs;
   September 12: Introduced five Hurricane Katrina-related bills to address reimbursement needs;
   September 14: Announced bipartisan Senate Finance Committee relief bill which incorporated major portions of the Senator's Medicaid relief bill; 
   September 14: Announced Dr. Mark McClellan, Administrator of CMS, called to tell her Texas would receive a full five-month waiver for Medicaid matching funds which ensures the state 100 percent reimbursement for evacuee medical services;
   September 17: Visited Austin Convention Center with Sen. Cornyn and local education officials;
   September 19: Met with evacuees, relief support organizations and area religious leaders with First Lady Laura Bush in Houston Convention Center;
  September 20: Met with OMB Director Bolton on Katrina relief and reimbursement;
   September 22: Senator Hutchison's education reimbursement bill passed the Senate;
   September 24: Traveled to Austin to tour the Texas Department of Public Safety Operations Center with President Bush;
   September 26: Traveled to Port Arthur, Beaumont and Nacogdoches and met with FEMA Director David Paulison and Rear Admiral Hereth in Texas;
   October 4: Met with Homeland Security Secretary Chertoff to discuss Katrina and Rita;
   October 5: Met with University of Texas Medical Branch President Dr. John Stobo to discuss damage to UTMB and possible federal support;
   October 18: Met with Governor Rick Perry to discuss the state's response to the hurricanes;
   October 24: Met with Jim Mulva, CEO of ConocoPhillips, to discuss hurricane damage to Gulf facilities and its impact on the industry;
   November 1: Met with Houston Mayor Bill White to discuss response to Katrina and Rita;
   November 1: Co-sponsored an amendment to the Budget Reconciliation Bill to provide for Katrina education funding;
   November 7: Sent a letter to Senate Appropriations chairman requesting reimbursement in supplemental for expenses incurred by Texas for Rita and Katrina;
   November 14: Sent a letter to Texas House members to urge them to pass education relief for Katrina-evacuee students in Texas schools;
   November 18: Initiated a Texas delegation letter to Director Paulison requesting an extension of the Dec. 1 deadline for communities to move evacuees from hotels to apartments. Effort was successful and the date was extended to January 7;
   November 21: Traveled to Tyler, Jasper, Newton and Polk Counties to meet with officials to discuss response to Rita;
   December 8: Sent a letter to House and Senate Appropriations Committees requesting CDBG funding for Texas;
   December 12: Sent a letter to House and Senate committees requesting housing tax credits for Rita and Katrina;
   December 16: Secured $3.5 million in low-income housing credits, the designation of Hurricane Rita-hit counties as a "Difficult Development Zones" and secured employer retention tax credits.
 
 