SEN. HUTCHISON COMMENTS ON DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY CHERTOFF'S VISIT TO BORDER REGION
  Texas' senior Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today made the following statement on U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff's meeting with Texas border mayors and county judges in Laredo, Texas. Secretary Chertoff announced he would make a visit to Texas' border region during a January 17 meeting Sen. Hutchison hosted in her Washington, D.C. office with the secretary, Sen. John Cornyn and Texas border mayors.  
   "I am pleased that Secretary Chertoff is in Laredo today to meet with mayors and local officials in the region that will be most impacted by border fencing. He has responded to my requests to involve local and state officials in fencing decisions and his visit today demonstrates his commitment to seek their input. These communities have borne the heavy financial burden from illegal immigration and must be part of the solution as we work to secure our borders."
   On November 17, 2006, Senators Hutchison and Cornyn sent a joint letter to Secretary Chertoff urging DHS officials to meet with local leaders to discuss security issues, including plans for future border fence location and construction. A copy of the November 17 letter is included below:
   November 17, 2006
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff
  Secretary
  Department of Homeland Security
  Washington, D.C. 20528
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   As Congress and the Department of Homeland Security consider the most effective way to secure the borders of our nation, we urge you to schedule a time to meet with the Mayors and local leaders of the communities along the United States-Mexico border in our great state of Texas.
   We feel strongly that the residents of the border region should have an opportunity to present directly to you their comments on this important issue. Their perspective is unique and valuable and their opinions deserve consideration as the Administration seeks to implement provisions of the recently passed Secure Fence Act - provisions that directly impact the quality of their lives.
   We look forward to working with you to schedule this meeting in Texas or in Washington as soon as possible.
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison, U.S. Senator
  John Cornyn, U.S. Senator
 
 