SHUTTLE MISSION CAPTURES AMERICAN SPIRIT
  Our nation's spirit is captured in the mission of NASA, to explore, to discover and to understand. The launch of Space Shuttle Discovery on July 4 - the first-ever Fourth of July launch - allowed for a simultaneous celebration of our past and our future. For 13 days, Discovery's crew confirmed the strength of NASA, and when the shuttle returned home safely on July 17, our nation beamed with pride.
   Texas has long played a role in the success of our space program, from the establishment of NASA's headquarters at the Johnson Space Center in Houston to the thousands of Texans who have contributed to the program's 48-year history. Discovery's six-person crew - a seventh astronaut remained aboard the International Space Station - included mission specialists Mike Fossum and Stephanie Wilson, who followed in the footsteps of 39 other brave graduates from Texas colleges and universities to travel into space. Specialist Fossum earned an undergraduate degree from Texas A&M and a master's degree from the University of Houston at Clear Lake, while Specialist Wilson earned her master's degree from the University of Texas. 
   Space Shuttle Discovery's successful mission took place in the wake of improved shuttle safety procedures, and the program is now in position to complete the assembly of the International Space Station over the next 18 launches. I enthusiastically support completing the space station and equipping it to conduct further research. In August, the Space Shuttle Atlantis will deliver another major part of the space station structure, an additional solar array to provide more power for scientific experiments.
   Research conducted on the International Space Station and on shuttle missions over the past 25 years has proven the benefits of the unique scientific laboratory of space. Freed from the restraints of Earth's atmosphere and gravity, scientists can conduct experiments leading to advancements in areas ranging from fire control to potential sources of energy, as well as medical technologies and physiology that will benefit all of us on Earth.
   NASA has led humankind's exploration of space, but also has helped lead in scientific exploration of all kinds. As Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Science and Space, I work to ensure proper funding levels are authorized for all of NASA's worthwhile endeavors.
   President Bush has announced a new Vision for Space Exploration, which will see us replace the Space Shuttle with a new Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) that could transport our astronauts to the moon and eventually to Mars. We must continue our crucial leadership in the field of space exploration and scientific research, as well as intelligence gathering and use of satellites for national defense.
   On July 13, I joined with Senator Barbara Mikulski in passing a bipartisan amendment to provide NASA with emergency appropriations. This will allow NASA to implement recommendations of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board and provide relief for NASA facilities damaged by Hurricane Katrina. Vital research was being cut to fund emergency repairs, and this funding will restore core scientific missions for science. 
   We must keep the dream of exploration of other worlds alive. With the help of increased funding, NASA can continue to expand our base of scientific knowledge while inspiring Americans - and especially our young people - to go into science professions. Just as manifest destiny led American settlers into the West, our thirst for scientific knowledge will lead us into the far reaches of space.
 
 