SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE ASSISTANCE FOR WILDLIFE DAMAGE
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today announced that Mike Johanns, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, has established Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) guidelines which will bring critical assistance to livestock producers in the Texas Panhandle. These guidelines will help cattle producers in 27 north Texas counties and six Oklahoma counties by allowing producers to remove dry grass in, and move cattle to, CRP acreage to address the wildfire effects.  
   "The extensive destruction of these wildfires has cost Texas farmers and ranchers about a million damaged acres and thousands of livestock," Sen. Hutchison said. "This flexibility will allow non-affected producers within these counties to come to the aid of their neighbors who are in desperate need of assistance." 
   CRP participants in the Texas and Oklahoma counties will be able to voluntarily remove excess dry grass cover on CRP-enrolled land to reduce fire potential. In addition, many livestock producers in affected counties which are CRP participants will be granted permission to move cattle to CRP land for the next 60 days on a case-by-case basis, while they begin repairing fences.
   "We appreciate Sen. Hutchison's hard work in securing these CRP acres," said Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association President Dick Sherron.
   "This will be a great relief to those producers who have been affected by these devastating fires," said Texas Cattle Feeders Association Chairman John Gillcrist.
   Farm Service Agency (FSA) officials will work with local public safety officials to comply with fire regulations and FSA county offices will grant authority for CRP participants to remove the dry grass for the next 30 days. Producers can bale CRP grass to create firebreaks and reduce potential fire threats. The controlled burns are subject to local oversight and any cover removed must be destroyed or donated to local livestock producers whose rangeland or pastureland has been destroyed by the wildfires. 
   The 27 affected Texas counties included are: Armstrong, Briscoe, Carson, Castro, Childress, Collingsworth, Cottle, Dallam, Deaf Smith, Donley, Gray, Hall, Hansford, Hartley, Hemphill, Hutchinson, Lipscomb, Moore, Motley, Ochiltree, Oldham, Potter, Randall, Roberts, Sherman, Swisher and Wheeler. The six affected Oklahoma Counties included are: Washita, Canadian, Jefferson, Custer, Cleveland and Osage.
   The USDA will not penalize participating producers for the value of removed forage.
 
 