SEN. HUTCHISON HELPS HISTORY COME ALIVE FROM MILAM TO MADISONVILLE ON EL CAMINO REAL TOUR
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) began a three-day tour today traveling El Camino Real de los Tejas highlighting its place in Texas history and commemorating its recent designation as a National Historic Trail. Sen. Hutchison worked for three years to achieve the historic designation - the only new trail approved in the 108th Congress - which was signed into law by President Bush on October 18, 2004.  
   "It is truly rewarding to visit these historic sites and travel El Camino Real as our ancestors did after the hard work that went into earning the National Historic Trail designation," Sen. Hutchison said. "Texans take great pride in their state history. We are gathering along this trail to celebrate our history that serves as the foundation of the Texas we know and love today."
   El Camino Real de los Tejas was a corridor of trails used by settlers, immigrants, Native Americans and the military. The trail is a combination of routes totaling nearly 2,600 miles, from the Rio Grande near Eagle Pass and Laredo to Natchitoches, Louisiana. It also served as a path for such Texas heroes as Davy Crockett and Sam Houston, who fought in the struggle for Texas' independence from Mexico. 
   On this, the first day of El Camino Real tour, Sen. Hutchison made stops in Milam, San Augustine, Nacogdoches, Alto, Crockett and Madisonville. A brief description of each historical stop is listed below:
   MILAM, SABINE COUNTY
   Sen. Hutchison was joined by local elected officials, civic leaders and historical society representatives as she addressed a crowd at El Camino Real City Park in Milam. Records show Milam, located prominently on El Camino Real, was incorporated in 1837, distinguishing it as the first incorporated town in Sabine County and perhaps all of East Texas.
   SHARP FAMILY CABIN, SAN AUGUSTINE COUNTY
   Sen. Hutchison's own family history is rooted on this trail. Sen. Hutchison stood on the porch of the Sharp Family Cabin as she read a letter from her great-great grandmother, Martha Hall Sharp, for whom the cabin is named. In fact, San Augustine was established as a municipality under her great-great grandfather, the alcalde of Nacogdoches. The town was abandoned in 1836 during the "Runaway Scrape," but citizens returned to their homes after the victory at San Jacinto.
   DURST TAYLOR HOUSE, NACOGDOCHES
   Sen. Hutchison arrived on horseback for the Durst Taylor House Visitors Center groundbreaking ceremony in Nacogdoches. This historical site holds personal historical significance for Sen. Hutchison. It was the home of Laurence, one of the sons of her great-great-grandparents, Charles S. and Anna Maria Taylor. While Charles was at Washington on the Brazos signing the Texas Declaration of Independence, his wife and four children fled with other Nacogdoches residents during the "Runaway Scrape," most likely along El Camino Real. All four children died during that period.
   CADDOAN MOUNDS STATE PARK
   Park directors led Sen. Hutchison on a tour of the Caddo Indians historic site that was the most sophisticated civilization in prehistoric Texas 1,000 years ago. The Caddo tribe used El Camino Real as they traveled to present day Louisiana. The site commemorates the tribe that dominated life in the region for 500 years and gave Texas its name. The Caddos welcomed early Spanish explorers as "teysha" meaning "friend." The Spanish changed the word to "tejas" which eventually became Texas. 
   MONROE-CROOK HOUSE, HOUSTON COUNTY
   Town lore records Davy Crockett camped at this point along the trail in January of 1836 on his way to San Antonio. When Houston County was established in 1837, Andrew Edwards Gossett and his father, Elijah, who donated land to the county, named the settlement in honor of Crockett.
   MADISON COUNTY HISTORICAL MUSEUM, MADISONVILLE
   Madisonville, named after our fourth president, James Madison, was founded in 1853 as the county seat of the newly organized Madison County. It was selected because of its central location and proximity to fresh water. The water attracted El Camino travelers and, by 1870, it developed into an agricultural trade hub. By 1870, the town had developed into an agricultural trade center with a population of 98. Today the historical town is home to a diverse economy that is proud of its past with a local hotel listed in the National Register of Historic Places.
 
 