TEXAS VS. ILLINOIS: SENATORS BET ON WORLD SERIES
  Today, Texas Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and John Cornyn (R-TX) challenged Illinois Sens. Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Barack Obama (D-IL) to a friendly, bi-partisan wager on the outcome of the 2005 World Series Championship. The "red state vs. blue state" match up intensifies the already heated rivalry. The Senators representing the World Series Champions will receive a basket of products from the opposing team's home state. 
   By winning the National League Championship last Wednesday, the Houston Astros became the first baseball team from Texas to go to the World Series. Three days earlier, the White Sox won the American League Championship for the first time in nearly half a century. If victorious, the Chicago players will be the first White Sox to wear the Championship ring in 88 years. Both teams are eager for a tickertape parade.
   "I have so many fond memories of cheering for the Astros as a reporter and a state representative from Houston," said Sen. Hutchison. "I remember when the Astros, then named the Colts, beat the Chicago Cubs in 1962 during their first Major League game and when Nolan Ryan became the first player to reach 4,000 strikeouts in a career at the Astrodome in 1985. Now the Astros have reached a new milestone in their history by winning the National League Championship and are going to the World Series. Our Houston Astros have made all Texans proud by winning the National League pennant and giving the Lone Star State a team to cheer for in the World Series."
   "I'm confident that the Astros' World Series debut will be one to remember. When the pressure's on, this ball club knows how to get the job done," U.S. Sen. John Cornyn said. "I'd like to congratulate the players, the team's leadership, and all the fans in Houston and across the state."
   "No matter who they rooted for all season long, today every baseball fan in Illinois is pulling for the White Sox as they attempt to bring home to Chicago the city's first World Series championship in 88 years," said Senator Durbin.
   "We are all extremely proud of what the White Sox have accomplished and everyone in Chicago will be cheering when they bring the championship home," said Obama. "And as I've told my wife many, many times, the White Sox are 1 and 0 in games where I throw out the first pitch. So all I'm saying is that if Ozzie calls, the arm is rested and ready."
   Game 1 of the World Series will take place on Saturday, October 22 at U.S. Cellular Field.
 
 