REVENUE SHARING WILL ENCOURAGE NEW DEVELOPMENT
  America has been blessed with bountiful natural resources, and developing these vast resources is critical to our long-term economic and national security.
   Considerable deposits of oil and natural gas are sitting near our own coasts, yet we remain dependent upon foreign sources of energy because we are unwilling to utilize our own natural energy reserves.
   Our country now imports 65 percent of the crude oil we use, leaving us susceptible to fluctuations in the global market. To meet our expanding needs, we are forced to rely upon volatile and politically unstable countries whose support for America's efforts in the War on Terror is benign at best. 
   Some of the rogue leaders who export oil and gas to the United States are in fact terrorist sympathizers. Continued dependence on these foreign sources jeopardizes our security and plainly makes no sense.
   Earlier this month, Congress took a critical first step toward increasing domestic energy production by passing the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006. This bill opens 8.3 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico for oil and gas production while providing a political path forward to accessing additional energy reserves off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts that remain off limits.
   While this bill will immediately expand oil and gas exploration, a less obvious, but perhaps even more important, part of this legislation is an innovative revenue-sharing program between the federal government and states that feel the impact of such resource development. This revenue-sharing program is a model for future nationwide offshore energy exploration and development proposals.
   Over the next several years, as Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama enjoy tremendous economic and environmental benefits from this bill, other states will be encouraged to allow the offshore exploration and development that our nation desperately needs.
   Newly accessible areas in the Gulf of Mexico known as leases 181 and 181 South are expected to contain more than 1.2 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. This is enough oil to fuel 87 million cars per year and enough natural gas to heat and cool 6 million homes for the next 15 years, or six times our current annual Liquefied Natural Gas imports.
   In 1981, Congress enacted a moratorium on offshore drilling, and oil and natural gas production is currently prohibited in 85 percent of America's territorial waters. This has impeded our ability to inventory undeveloped areas that likely contain untapped resources. However, state legislatures beholden to anti-exploration special interests will soon witness an influx of revenue to Gulf Coast states for environmental protection.
   When production begins in the newly opened areas, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama will receive income through federal revenue sharing. Private companies that sign production leases with the federal government will pay royalties on minerals extracted from the Gulf of Mexico. Each state will then receive an equitable share of these revenues, which must be used to protect important national ecosystems and prepare for unforeseen natural disasters. These funds will support projects such as wetlands restoration, hurricane protection, beach enhancement and infrastructure construction to preserve our coastlines.
   I anticipate that millions of dollars each year will be directed to our state. Beginning in 2007, Texas will receive a guaranteed 10 percent of eligible production revenues from within leases 181 and 181 South, and beginning in 2017, Texas will receive between 21 percent and 28 percent of eligible revenues from new production in Gulf of Mexico planning areas outside leases 181 and 181 South.
   Revenue sharing is a strong incentive for states to participate in resource development, because each state can earn revenues proportional to the development off its shore. For example, Virginia's Legislature has shown an interest in allowing additional access to areas off its coast.
   In the Minerals Management Service's current draft for its Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas program for 2007-2012, a small area off Virginia's coast is the only non-Gulf Coast area in the lower 48 states under consideration for exploration. But with a revenue-sharing proposal such as the one created in the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act, Virginia has an added incentive to expand this area.
   Additional state legislatures, from Georgia to Maine on the Atlantic seaboard and California to Washington on the Pacific coast, will likely be more willing to consider offshore production if their state is eligible for revenues.
   States that provide our nation with a secure energy supply should be compensated for doing their part. Access to undeveloped energy sources is important to all Americans, because we must become more energy independent.
   To bring down the cost of gas for our cars and heat for our homes, we must promote alternative renewable sources of energy. This takes time. As we invest in new energy, we must not neglect our own resources.
   New technology allows us to protect the environment by digging deeper without disrupting the surface. We now have a path to follow that will provide both tangible and obvious benefits to states and to the nation.
 
 