SEN. HUTCHISON APPLAUDS SUCCESS OF NATIONAL HISPANIC LEADERSHIP SUMMIT
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), the chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee, applauded the success of the National Hispanic Leadership Summit in Washington, D.C. Sen. Hutchison sponsored the event with Sen. Mel Martinez (R-FL) 
   "Bringing together Hispanic leaders and our federal officials for an open dialogue and exchange of ideas is vital to our nation's continuing efforts to address the most pressing issues affecting our families, communities, and nation," said Sen. Hutchison, Summit organizer. 
   The two-day conference provided a forum for approximately 350 Hispanic participants from across the country to discuss a range of policy issues with members of the United States Congress and the Administration. The conference participants were nominated to attend by their member of Congress.
   Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) addressed the delegates and welcomed them to the summit. Sen. Martinez joined Sen. Hutchison to update participants on the accomplishments of the 109th Congress; then he led a session on ideas for comprehensive immigration reform. Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-TN) spoke on education opportunities, Sen. Michael Enzi (R-WY) outlined plans for expanded access to affordable, quality health care, and Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) discussed legislative priorities for economic growth. Participants engaged in informative question and answer sessions following each panel.
   Several members of President Bush's administration addressed the Summit's attendees, including keynote speaker U.S. Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez. Dr. Emilio Gonzalez, Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, spoke on immigration services reform; Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni, Director of The National Institutes of Health, addressed efforts to reduce minority health disparities; and Sara Martinez Tucker, Under Secretary, U.S. Department of Education, updated attendees on the President's education programs.
 
 