SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES FEMA TO EXTEND HOTEL, MOTEL EVACUEE DEADLINE
  Texas' senior Sen., Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), today announced the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has extended the deadline for evacuees to move out of hotels and motels beyond the original December 1 deadline.  
   U.S. Department of Homeland Security Deputy Secretary Michael Jackson called Sen. Hutchison this afternoon to say the extension would run at least until Dec. 15 with the possibility of extending it until January 7. In order for the extension to last until Jan. 7, the state will have to provide a plan by Dec. 15 to FEMA detailing how it will transition evacuees from hotels and motels to alternative lodging by the January deadline. 
   "I applaud FEMA for heeding my call and doing what's right for the victims of Hurricane Katrina and the state of Texas," Sen. Hutchison said. "I will work with our cities to ensure we have a plan in place so we can continue to take care of our neighbors in need."
   Sen. Hutchison last week wrote a letter - with all senators from Texas, Florida, Louisiana and Georgia signing the letter as well - to FEMA Director David Paulison asking him to extend the Dec. 1 deadline. Eight states in total are eligible for the extension including Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Georgia, Tennessee and Arkansas. Sen. Hutchison's letter is below:
   November 18, 2005
   Director R. David Paulison
  Federal Emergency Management Agency
  500 C Street, SW
  Washington, DC 20472
   Dear Director Paulison:
   The recent hurricanes drastically impacted the lives of countless Americans, and their devastating effects will be felt for years to come. Many cities across the country are still reeling from the unprecedented influx of evacuees who were left with no place to call home. 
   We recognize the necessity and importance of finding long-term housing solutions for displaced citizens; however, we have some concerns with FEMA's decision to set December 1st as the deadline for placing all evacuees remaining in hotels/motels into more permanent housing situations. As you are aware, there are many issues that must be addressed by local authorities to meet this goal in an effective and timely manner. Several cities are dealing with such large numbers of evacuees that it may not be feasible for them to comply with the current deadline. Also, as the holiday season approaches, we do not want to see those who have already lost so much be left homeless or returned to shelters. We ask that you grant an extension to the December 1st deadline for communities with particularly large concentrations of evacuees to allow for their transition into safe and stable long-term housing.
   Thank you for your consideration of this request.
   Sincerely, 
  Kay Bailey Hutchison
 
 