SEN. HUTCHISON\'S HURRICANE KATRINA EDUCATION BILL PASSES SENATE
  The Senate today passed legislation introduced by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, to provide emergency relief funding for costs associated with providing primary and secondary education to evacuee-students. 
   "The Senate has brought relief one step closer to the states who have opened their doors and their hearts to the victims of Katrina," Sen. Hutchison said. "States like Texas have graciously accepted thousands of evacuee-students into their schools. But Texas school districts' budgets are already stretched. They need help putting teachers in place and buying textbooks to best educate the new students without disruption of services to residents." 
   The thrust of Sen. Hutchison's legislation allows FEMA to transfer emergency relief funds from its "Disaster Relief Fund" to the Secretary of Education to cover education expenses for schools - such as buying textbooks - teaching evacuee-students. Thus far, federal red tape has prevented FEMA from accessing these resources for the costs. Currently, there are an estimated 45,000 evacuee-students enrolled in Texas schools. 
   "Cutting federal bureaucratic red tape is critical to the relief efforts," Sen. Hutchison said. "Our potential to get the job done right is being bogged down in the long halls of bureaucracy and that needs to end." 
   Sen. Hutchison's legislation consists of the following: 
   Section 1 - Definition of Student Affected
   The bill defines "student affected by Hurricane Katrina" as a student who resided or was enrolled in a school on August 22, 2005 in an area for which a major disaster was subsequently declared as a result of Hurricane Katrina. 
   Section 2 - Education Expenses
   FEMA, at the discretion of the Secretary of Homeland Security, would be able to transfer emergency relief funds from its "Disaster Relief Fund" to the Secretary of Education to cover education-related expenses for Katrina evacuee-students. The funds could be used to cover the cost for personnel, instructional materials such as textbooks, and operational costs incurred by schools educating evacuee-students. 
   Section 3 & 4 - Availability of Funds/ Advanced Notification of Congress
   Sections 3 and 4 would allow the Department of Education to carry over to FY06 funds which would otherwise expire on September 30, 2005. The Secretary of Education would be restricted to using the funds only for Katrina-related education expenses. Congressional notification requirements would be reduced from 15 days to 3 in an effort to speed emergency relief. 
   Section 5 - Sunset Provision
   All provisions in the bill would sunset not later than September 30, 2006. 
   Following conference calls with communities, meetings with President Bush and the Texas Congressional Delegation, and discussions with top federal relief officials including Secretary Spellings, Sen. Hutchison has formulated legislative fixes to bureaucratic roadblocks to more swiftly address the needs of dislocated victims and ensure Texas communities are adequately reimbursed. 
   Below is a wrap-up of action Sen. Hutchison has taken:
   September 1: Visited the shelter in Houston Astrodome relief shelter; 
   September 5: Visited the Dallas Convention Center relief shelter; 
   September 6: Hosted a conference call with Texas community leaders to discuss their needs; 
   September 8: Hosted a Texas Delegation meeting which included 17 members of the Texas Delegation;
   September 8: Sent a letter to President Bush on the need for fast legislative changes to speed relief. Also spoke with Sec. Spellings, Administrator McClellan and Director Bolton;
   September 9: Sent a letter to Senate Committees on the need for fast changes to speed relief efforts; 
   September 10: Toured Department of Emergency Management with Vice President Cheney; 
   September 12: Hosted second conference call with communities to discuss their needs;
   September 12: Introduced five Hurricane Katrina-related bills to address reimbursement needs;
   September 14: Announced bipartisan Senate Finance Committee relief bill which incorporated major portions of the senator's Medicaid relief bill.
   September 14: Announced Dr. Mark McClellan, Administrator of CMS, called to tell her Texas would receive a full five-month waiver for Medicaid matching funds which ensures the state 100 percent reimbursement for evacuee medical services;
   September 17: Toured Austin Convention Center with Sen. Cornyn and local education officials;
   September 19: Met with victims, relief support organizations with First Lady Laura Bush;
   September 20: Briefed by OMB Director Josh Bolton on Katrina relief and reimbursement. 
   September 21: Spoke with White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card, FEMA Director R. David Paulison and Michael Jackson, Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to ensure emergency responders are ready to act swiftly if needed.
 
 