SEN. HUTCHISON: LOOKING BACK AT CONGRESS IN 2005
  With Congress finishing its legislative business for the year, it is a good time to look back at what has been accomplished since the 109th Congress convened in January. It was a challenging year. Our troops in Iraq and elsewhere around the globe needed our support as they fought the war on terror. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita brought devastation to our Gulf Coast. Our country's economy and finances needed attention. And it was important to look to long-term improvements in our nation's energy policy and highway system, as well as making some overdue reforms to our legal system. 
   Our troops are at the top of our list because we must fully support the men and women who make our freedom and prosperity possible. We appropriated funds to provide our troops with the resources they need and to equip them with advancements in body armor and weaponry, giving them every possible edge in their task of defeating the terrorists' assault on America's freedom.
   We also worked to take care of our veterans at home, providing an additional $1.5 billion to the Department of Veterans Affairs. This extra money was necessary to provide for the health care needs of veterans of past wars and those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.
   Then we turned to recovering from the damage done by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. I was so proud of my fellow Texans who responded to Hurricane Katrina with such generosity and compassion, taking in people in need and giving substantial sums of their hard earned money to help others get back on their feet. In Congress, I took the initiative to ensure that our state and local governments will be reimbursed for the expenses they incurred while providing for evacuees' shelter, health care, and education, and to assure that communities affected by Hurricane Rita receive the federal assistance so desperately needed.
   As the session concluded, Congress approved funding that will be available to reimburse Texas for its hurricane-related expenditures. Spending was reduced in other federal programs in order to provide this assistance in a fiscally responsible manner.
   While taking care of these high priorities, we worked to put the federal budget in order. As a result of the economic growth generated by previous tax cuts, we were fortunate to have brought in record levels of revenue. We used that money to pay for much of the nation's emergency spending and then turned our attention to eliminating wasteful spending and reducing the rate of growth in federal expenditures. At year's end, the House of Representatives and the Senate had passed legislation that would reduce projected spending by almost $40 billion.
   We looked to the future in health care. The biggest improvement in health care will be increasing the number of people covered by health insurance. I support association health care legislation that will help small businesses band together when purchasing health insurance for their employees, giving them the same purchasing power advantage as larger businesses. This will help them provide health care to more employees at an affordable cost. This bill is pending for next year.
   Preparing for the future also means developing our transportation system, and Congress passed a landmark transportation bill. This bill will fund construction designed to ease congestion on the roads, create a substantial number of jobs and increase safety on our highways. The bill provides more than $14 billion dollars for Texas over the next five years.
   Last July, we passed the first national energy plan in a generation. As our Texas farmers know, when you plan for the future, you can't just plant one type of crop. The new energy law focuses on applying new technologies to wind energy, solar power, ethanol and hydrogen fuel cells to reduce oil consumption and protect the environment. At the same time, the energy bill will help keep the price of fuel down by promoting domestic development of oil and gas reserves. It also encourages the design and deployment of clean coal technologies, taking advantage of one of our most abundant natural resources.
   Congress moved forward with dramatic legal reform. We passed class action reform to help end the culture of frivolous lawsuits which has cost American workers, businesses and families millions of dollars each year. The legal structure for class action previously encouraged lawyers to sue even in cases where the lawsuit had little merit and would bring almost no benefit to their clients. Some lawyers were taking advantage of the system and consumers ultimately paid the price because businesses were forced to include the potential cost of such legal judgments in the price of their goods and services. With class action reform, Congress has restored a measure of sanity to the legal system and helped foster a climate that will encourage entrepreneurship and innovation. 
   Perhaps our most important change to the nation's legal system was placing a great leader at its helm. By confirming Chief Justice John Roberts we have found a brilliant and wise judge who will keep our highest court firmly grounded in the Constitution for decades to come. The new chief justice impressed numerous Senators on both sides of the political aisle, and our nation is fortunate to have him upholding the rule of law for the foreseeable future. 
   Though much was accomplished in the first half of the 109th Congress, much remains to be done in the session that lies ahead. Immigration reform, tax relief and, of course, continued efforts to strengthen our national security will be top priorities in the New Year.
 
 