TEXAS INDEPENDENCE DAY
  The story of the Battle of the Alamo is known throughout Texas and is part of American lore. The bravery exhibited by the 189 courageous soldiers who fought there is an unforgettable part of our state's history, and thousands of visitors from around the world travel to the site each year in appreciation of this historic stand.
   The sacrifice made by Colonel William Barret Travis and his men, who were outnumbered 10 to 1 by advancing Mexican forces, made General Sam Houston's ultimate victory possible soon thereafter at San Jacinto. As cries of "Remember the Alamo!" were delivered during the final battle of the Texas Revolution, General Houston and his men secured independence for Texas. 
   Though Colonel Travis and his soldiers were willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for Texas, they knew without reinforcements they would not be able to withstand the much larger Mexican army. In a final letter to all Texans shortly before the fall of the Alamo, Colonel Travis wrote:
   Fellow citizens and compatriots: I am besieged by a thousand or more of the Mexicans under Santa Anna
   - I have sustained a continual bombardment and cannonade for 24 hours and have not lost a man - the enemy
   has demanded a surrender at discretion, otherwise, the garrison is to be put to the sword, if the fort is taken
   - I have answered the demands with a cannon shot, and our flag still waves proudly from the wall - I shall never surrender or retreat. 
   Then, I call on you in the name of liberty, of patriotism and of everything dear to the American character, to come to our aid, with all dispatch. The enemy is receiving reinforcements daily and will no doubt increase to three or four thousand in four or five days. If this call is neglected, I am determined to sustain myself as long as possible and die like a soldier who never forgets what is due to his own honor and that of his country - Victory or Death. 
   William Barret Travis, Lt. Col, Commander
   Colonel Travis' words are those of a true patriot, as they personify the willingness of Texans to stand up and fight for freedom. He inspired his countrymen to fight on to ultimate victory and independence.
   While the Alamo was under siege in San Antonio, the Texas Declaration of Independence was drafted and signed in Washington-on-the-Brazos, creating the Republic of Texas. On that day, March 2, 1836, a convention of 54 men, including my great-great grandfather, Charles S. Taylor, laid the groundwork for a new nation that would one day become the Lone Star State.
   As we celebrate Texas independence on March 2, I am honored to recognize our history by reading this incredible letter into the Congressional Record each year on the floor of the United States Senate. Senator John Tower initiated the tradition of reading Colonel Travis' letter on the Senate floor. As Texas' senior U.S. senator, I have continued this practice with pride, and I hope future Texas senators will do so as well.
   Texas Independence Day honors the brave men and women who struggled, sacrificed, and persevered in the name of liberty. Let us reflect on their heroism with a thankful heart, while also showing gratitude to the courageous young Texans who continue to stand on the front lines in defense of freedom even today. The spirit of service and valor has been passed to our sons and daughters in uniform, and the future of our blessed state and our nation is in good hands with them.
 
 