SEN. HUTCHISON COMMENTS ON PRESIDENT'S STATE OF UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, tonight made the following comments in response to President George W. Bush's State of the Union address: 
   "President Bush tonight addressed the War on Terror and domestic priorities on the minds of many Americans. He continued his steadfast message that we must remain committed to winning the global War on Terror. Our nation's security is strengthened by defeating terrorists in Iraq and abroad before they attack us again on our own soil. I support his call for increasing the size of our active Army and Marine Corps.
   "Improving education and health care, reforming immigration and strengthening our energy independence were all issues I was pleased to hear addressed in the speech. The president emphasized the importance of our nation's leaders working together in a bipartisan way to deliver results for the American people. All of us must commit to this to achieve our common goals. 
   "Americans want to see our broken immigration system fixed and our borders secured. Congress should provide the president with a comprehensive immigration solution that secures our borders and includes a temporary worker program going forward that maintains the integrity of our borders and keeps our economy strong.
   "Achieving independence from foreign sources of energy is an economic and national security priority for our nation. I was pleased that the president devoted a substantial portion of his speech to the need to develop alternative sources of fuel. Democrat proposals to raise taxes and increase regulatory burdens on domestic producers will not bring us closer to energy independence. Providing tax relief to support alternative energy sources is a proactive solution that ultimately benefits our national security. 
   "I look forward to learning more about the president's health care initiative. The plan he announced tonight is based on competition to hold down costs and help extend coverage to more Americans.
   "The president discussed the importance of strengthening America's competitive edge through education, particularly in the vitally important fields of science, engineering and technology. Our growing weakness in this area will have an impact on our nation's future and warrants national attention. I have been working with my colleagues in Congress and educational leaders in Texas to enhance interest in the hard sciences. We must provide new incentives for teachers who are important in addressing this challenge."
 
 