WE CAME CLOSE TO LOSING THE TEXAS LONGHORN
  For those of us who love Texas history, nothing is more sobering than pausing to consider how close we often come to losing parts of our heritage. This is why I worked hard to secure National Historic Trail designation for El Camino Real De Los Tejas, the network of trails traversing Texas from Louisiana to Mexico. It could easily have been lost if we did not take steps to protect it.  
   Throughout our history, Texans have had to act to preserve our historical heritage. 
   The best example of this is the Alamo, which was on the verge of being sold to a group of easterners who wanted to build a hotel on the site. Clara Driscoll stepped in to help at the last minute to buy the property. She, Adina de Zavala and the Daughters of the Republic of Texas preserved the Alamo for all of us. 
   Another Texas icon, the longhorn steer, also came perilously close to extinction in the early 20th century. After Columbus discovered the New World, the Spanish brought their long-horned Andalusian cattle to the West Indies, but it was not until 1521 that six or seven of them were brought ashore in Mexico. Longhorns first arrived in Texas when Coronado headed north with 500 head of cattle on his fruitless search for El Dorado. Many of his cattle scattered and formed wild herds which multiplied in Texas. By the 1800s, Mexican cattle ranchers and the first cowboys - known as vaqueros - were herding hundreds of thousands of animals in an area north of the Rio Grande, but generally south of San Antonio and the major mission settlements. 
   After Moses Austin secured rights for Anglo settlers to come to Texas, the newcomers brought many Northern European breeds to Texas where they bred with the longhorns. This produced the Texas Longhorn, larger and heavier than his Mexican cousin, but still retaining the qualities which allowed him to cover long distances, thrive on poor forage and adapt to extreme heat and cold. 
   Their endurance and hardiness allowed them to multiply in Texas. As many as 10 million longhorns roamed our state, and their most valuable product not beef, but hides and tallow (the rendered fat used to make candles, soap and lubricants). This changed with the advent of the Gold Rush in California. Several Texas cattlemen drove herds all the way to California to provide the prospectors with fresh beef. Others drove cattle north to Missouri, while some cattlemen near the coast took advantage of steamships to generate profits by shipping cows to New Orleans. 
   But the heyday of the cattle drives would wait until after the end of the Civil War when beef overtook pork as America's favorite meat. Entrepreneur Joseph G. McCoy almost single-handedly revolutionized the Texas cattle industry when he grasped that the railroads allow fast shipment of cattle to the booming industrial cities of the northeast. He commissioned Jesse Chisholm to mark the famous Chisholm trail to make it easier to drive cattle north to railheads he constructed to expedite transportation. 
   In 1867, O. W. Wheeler and his partners bought 2,400 steers in San Antonio and made the first trip up the trail. By 1871, 35,000 cattle made the long trip up the Chisholm Trail and the numbers of cattle driven on the trail climbed each year. By the time an 1885 Kansas quarantine law banning Texas steers killed the trail drives, more than five million cattle and one million mustang horses had made the trip. 
   With the end of the drives, which put a premium on the longhorn's ability to walk long distances and endure hardship, other breeds which matured earlier and put on weight faster began to grow more popular. Soon the once-numerous longhorns were reduced to several small scattered herds. 
   Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge Forest Ranger William Drummond was inspired by the preservation of the American Bison at the national park. The buffalo, which once numbered over 60 million, had been reduced to less than 1,000 by the turn of the century. Charles Goodnight, who had made his fortune with Texas Longhorns, was one of the key figures in introducing 15 bison to the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Reserve in 1907. In 1927, with the support of many Texas cattlemen, 30 head of longhorns were introduced to the park as well. Today the park maintains a herd of 525 bison and 300 longhorns. 
   Over time, other cattlemen began raising longhorns, often using animals descended from the Wichita herd. By 1964, the Texas Longhorn Breeders Association of America was founded in Fort Worth to help promote the breed. Today, the Association reports that more than a quarter million registered Texas longhorns are being raised throughout the country. 
   Whenever I see a Texas Longhorn, I see a vital part of Texas' colorful history and am grateful for those forward-thinking individuals who took action in the 1920s to save this living part of Texas' proud past from extinction. Part of my goal as an elected official is to save other parts of Texas' heritage as well.
 
 