CELEBRATE AMERICA ON INDEPENDENCE DAY
  Texans know how to celebrate Independence Day. From fireworks displays in public parks to backyard cookouts with family and friends, Fourth of July events make this holiday one of the most anticipated days of the year. 
   The history of our nation's birth is familiar to most. In the summer of 1776, our country's first leaders gathered and asked Thomas Jefferson to draft a document declaring our independence from England and King George III. Our country was officially born July 4 in Philadelphia, when the Second Continental Congress ratified this declaration asserting our unalienable rights. The Declaration of Independence is one of the most important documents in history, and the original is on display at the National Archives in Washington, D.C.
   Americans celebrate Independence Day in appreciation of the determination and spirit of our forefathers. Our country's fight for freedom was arduous and difficult, with victory delayed until 1783. These patriots put their money, their property and ultimately their lives on the line for democracy. And now, some 230 years later, our soldiers bravely continue to sacrifice while protecting our freedoms and exporting democracy to the oppressed.
   Today, as our men and women of the armed forces continue to serve with honor and dignity in Iraq and Afghanistan, we must support their mission. Recently some Senators supported legislation to establish a hard deadline for withdrawing our troops from Iraq. I adamantly opposed these amendments, as I cannot think of a worse message to send to our allies as we continue to fight the War on Terror.
   Winning the War on Terror is the great challenge of this generation. Anything less than complete victory will pass along this burden to our children and our grandchildren. If we begin withdrawing our troops before our mission is complete, terrorists will once again be emboldened by our retreat or inaction, just as they were following the attack on the USS Cole, following the bombing of our embassies in East Africa, and following the first attacks on the World Trade Center in 1993.
   Terrorists will be reinvigorated by the knowledge that the way to defeat America is to wait out the storm. They will recruit future terrorists by telling them that Americans cut and run if you just hold out long enough. They will say that Americans do not have the stamina or the political will to engage in a long battle. And a future battle may be waged on our shores rather than in the deserts of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan.
   To establish a timetable for redeploying any of our troops from Iraq would be handing the enemy our playbook. We would be declaring, for the entire world to hear, that our commitment to winning the War on Terror has an expiration date. Had the Continental Congress established a timetable for winning the American Revolution, General George Washington may have been forced to wave a white flag and abandon our struggle for freedom. Similarly, there cannot be a timetable for winning the War on Terror.
   Independence Day is a time to remember our country's beginnings. Our commitment to freedom has never wavered, as America will never shrink from her responsibilities. On July 4, stand a little taller, wave our flag a little more proudly, and sing the national anthem a little louder.
 
 