SEN. HUTCHISON COMMENTS ON PASSING OF FORMER TEXAS SEN. BENTSEN
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today released the following statement on the passing of former Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen: 
   "Lloyd Bentsen was a great Texan who served our nation admirably as a senator and secretary of the Treasury. He was very kind to me when I was elected to fill his seat in the Senate and brought great credit to Texas during his public service tenure. I hope all Americans keep his family in their thoughts and prayers."
   SENATOR HUTCHISON INTRODUCES RESOLUTION HONORING FORMER SENATOR LLOYD BENTSEN
   Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today drafted a resolution honoring the life of former Texas Senator Lloyd Bentsen. The resolution, which was introduced by Senators Hutchison, John Cornyn (R-TX) and the Senate Majority and Minority Leaders, has been "hotlined" and is expected to pass as early as tonight. 
   RESOLUTION
   Relative to the death of Lloyd Bentsen, distinguished member of the United States Senate.
   Whereas Lloyd Bentsen was born in Mission, Texas on February 11, 1921, to the children of first generation citizens of the United States;
   Whereas Lloyd Bentsen began his service to the United States as a pilot in the Army Air Forces during World War II;
   Whereas, at the age of 23, Lloyd Bentsen was promoted to the rank of Major and given command of a squadron of 600 men;
   Whereas because of his heroic efforts during World War II, Lloyd Bentsen was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, the highest commendation of the Air Force for valor in combat, and the Air Medal with 3 Oak Clusters;
   Whereas, after his service in the military, Lloyd Bentsen returned to Texas to serve as a judge for Hidalgo County and was then elected to 3 consecutive terms in the House of Representatives;
   Whereas after a successful business career, Lloyd Bentsen wanted to return to public life;
   Whereas, in 1970, Lloyd Bentsen was elected to serve as a Senator from Texas, and did so with distinction for 22 years;
   Whereas the illustrious career of Lloyd Bentsen also included a Vice Presidential nomination in 1988;
   Whereas Lloyd Bentsen retired from the Senate in 1993 to serve as the 69th Secretary of the Treasury;
   Whereas Lloyd Bentsen was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1999 for his meritorious contributions to the United States;
   Whereas the record of Lloyd Bentsen demonstrates his outstanding leadership and his dedication to public service;
   Whereas Lloyd Bentsen will be remembered for his faithful service to Texas and the United States; Now therefore, be it
   Resolved, That the Senate honors the life and legacy of Lloyd Bentsen; and extends its warmest sympathies to the family members and friends of Lloyd Bentsen; and when the Senate adjourns today, it stand adjourned as a further mark of respect to the memory of the Honorable Lloyd Bentsen.
   SENATOR HUTCHISON REMARKS ON THE SENATE FLOOR ON THE PASSING OF LLOYD BENTSEN: http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/kbh05_23_06.mp3.
 
 