MEETING KATRINA\'S CHALLENGES WITH COMPASSION AND RESPONSIBILITY
  Texans have once again demonstrated our state's legendary courage and hospitality in their response to Hurricane Katrina. As first responders, Texans ventured forth, placing themselves in physical danger for people they had never met. Our citizens have opened their homes, pocketbooks, and hearts to the victims of this tragedy. Community leaders at all levels have stepped forward, eager to ease the burdens of our neighbors. As your Senator, I am working to help Texas meet Hurricane Katrina's challenges with both compassion and responsibility.  
   Texans were present at all stages of the Katrina response. As the storm bore down on the Crescent City, Texas volunteers stood ready. When the full extent of the damage became clear, hundreds of Texas police officers, firefighters, medical professionals, and utility workers immediately went to the affected areas. Our elite urban search and rescue team, Texas Task Force One, and the Texas Army National Guard were quickly deployed to Louisiana. 
   Our men and women in the disaster zone are not the only heroes of this catastrophe. Texas churches, charities, and schools have raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for the Red Cross, Salvation Army, and other relief funds. The plate has been passed in communities across the state, and record donations continue to be collected. 
   Officials estimate that over 375,000 displaced Americans now reside in Texas, in shelters and in private homes. More than 45,000 affected students have enrolled in Texas public schools. We welcome our new friends with open arms, and now we move to couple compassion with fiscal responsibility. 
   I moved swiftly to mitigate the Katrina crisis. On September 6, I held a conference call with affected Texas communities. We discussed their growing financial needs as they took in evacuees. Two days later, Congress approved a large relief package. On September 8, I hosted an emergency meeting with members of the Texas Congressional Delegation. They added their support to a letter I sent President Bush, urging vigorous legislative action to aid the relief effort. I also proposed a package of bills in the Senate, seeking to ensure Texas is reimbursed for its unique efforts. 
   We must remember that education is a top priority for both Texans and the families uprooted by Katrina; and we must not allow the quality of our schools to decline. Recently, the Senate passed my bill permitting FEMA funds to be allocated for the education of evacuee children; it will help continue our investment in the citizens of tomorrow. Without the money to hire more teachers and operate added school facilities, many Texas communities would be overwhelmed by additional costs. 
   Shelters like those I visited in Houston, Austin, and Dallas are not inexpensive operations. I am working in the Senate to cover the cost of maintaining these shelters, including transportation, police, food, and water. A great many Texans have given supplies to shelters from their own closets and pantries, but the cost of relief is still high. I am working to change details of the process so that a portion of the funds Congress has released to FEMA would be available to fully pay for Texas shelters. Already, the Committee on Homeland Security has approved my legislation that would enable FEMA to reimburse communities, as well as individuals, for the purchase of emergency supplies. 
   Many of Katrina's victims are elderly or require special healthcare. Texas is home to some of the most advanced medical facilities in the world, but caring for these victims will be daunting without federal support. One way to cover these costs is to enroll evacuees in Medicaid in the places they have taken refuge, so I have proposed waiving some eligibility requirements for up to six months. 
   As we recognize the great heroism witnessed throughout this disaster, we must also plan for the future. Last January, I introduced a bill to establish a "Rainy Day Fund" in our Federal budget in preparation for future natural disasters. Now, more than ever, we see why moving forward to create such a fund is important. Over the last decade, Congress approved $34 billion of emergency relief funding, but as we have seen, this money is usually added to in the form of supplemental appropriations outside the already strained budget. A permanent, budgeted fund would allow funds to be set aside in advance. While a "Rainy Day Fund" would not protect us from rare disasters on Katrina's scale, we should take action now to avoid the fiscal shock of predictable future emergencies. 
   Texas proved once again that our hearts are as big as our state. We welcomed our neighbors into our homes without hesitation or reservation. Texans did not wait for red tape to clear before taking decisive action. 
   Texans have recognized the truth of Winston Churchill's statement that, "we make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give." In government, we must harmonize our compassion with responsibility.
 
 