SEN. HUTCHISON: DTV BORDER BILL CLEARS KEY COMMITTEE
  U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), today announced that legislation she introduced to address the unique concerns of South Texas and other border residents regarding the digital television (DTV) transition has been unanimously approved by the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee. The Digital Television Border Fix Act of 2007, S.2507, establishes a process for broadcasters along the border to apply for FCC permission to continue both analog and digital broadcasting for a short time after the transition, which will take place at midnight on February 17, 2009. 
   "The lack of awareness about the approaching DTV transition may leave many Texans unprepared," Sen. Hutchison said. "The major concern is that residents who continue watching stations from Mexico rather than taking steps to prepare for the transition may not receive AMBER Alert and Emergency Alert System messages."
   At midnight on February 17, 2009, federal law requires full-power broadcasters in the United States to cease analog broadcasting and to broadcast in digital format exclusively. The lack of analog broadcasting after this date poses special challenges for border communities. Sen. Hutchison's legislation allows broadcasters along the border to continue analog broadcasts for five years, but maintains Federal Communications Commission (FCC) authority to deny stations in the affected area the ability to simulcast in both analog and digital if it does not serve the public interest or causes interference with DTV stations or public safety. The legislation applies only to stations within 50 miles of the common border with Mexico.
   When the DTV transition occurs, customers who rely on rooftop antennas or "rabbit ears" to receive television broadcasts will have to subscribe to a "pay" television service, purchase a television with a digital tuner, or acquire a converter box for each analog television in their home to continue receiving American television. At the same time, "free" analog television signals originating in Mexico will remain available to border residents.
   The slow progress of education efforts on this issue and the expense of these preparations may discourage many households from participating in the transition. If this occurs, it could pose an unnecessary and avoidable public safety risk.
   "I am pleased the Commerce Committee has moved this legislation forward to ensure that Texans living along the border will not lose access to public safety communication messages sent through television stations," said Sen. Hutchison.
   With committee approval, the Digital Television Border Fix Act may now be placed on the calendar for consideration by the full Senate. Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) is the chief co-sponsor of this legislation.
 
 