SENS. HUTCHISON, MIKULSKI INTRODUCE RESOLUTION COMMEMORATING 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF KOMEN FOR CURE
  Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) today introduced a resolution recognizing the 25th anniversary of Susan G. Komen for the Cure. Founded in Dallas, Texas in 1982, the movement has become the world's largest grassroots network of breast cancer survivors and activists fighting to save lives and find a cure. 
   "Susan G. Komen for the Cure has emerged as a global leader in the fight against breast cancer and this resolution commends the significant strides it has made for women world wide," Sen. Hutchison said. "Breast cancer affects not only those who suffer from it, but also their friends and loved ones. I am proud to join the millions of activists who are committed to this movement and finding a cure."
   "I'm so proud of Susan G. Komen for the Cure and their tireless efforts in the fight against breast cancer over the past 25 years. Their hard work has been changing and saving lives for a quarter century - supporting the research to find a cure, ensuring quality care for patients, and fighting for the lives of women diagnosed with breast cancer at every stage," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD). "Together, we have helped women gain access to safe and quality mammograms, and breast and cervical cancer screenings. That's why I introduced this resolution with Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, to honor all that this foundation does for breast cancer patients and survivors everywhere. Each of us can make a difference, but together we can make change."
   Sens. Hutchison and Mikulski have worked together on critical cancer issues before Congress. On April 20, President Bush signed into law legislation they introduced to reauthorize the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program. Susan G. Komen for the Cure has been a strong supporter of the program which makes critical breast and cervical cancer screenings and post-screening diagnostic services available to low-income, uninsured and underinsured women. 
   Nancy G. Brinker founded Susan G. Komen for the Cure in honor of her sister whom she lost to breast cancer. It has more than 100,000 activists in 125 cities and communities, mobilizing more than 1,000,000 people every year.
 
 