TEXANS TALK TOUGH ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
  Today, Texas products and services compete in a world market. Communications and transportation have dramatically increased the flow of people, goods and ideas. In addition, we are engaged in a war against terrorists in what once seemed like distant lands, but the stakes could not be closer to home. They struck our homeland on 9-11, and they seek to do so again. 
   Foreign policy is very much on Texas minds, as I discovered in my annual Listening Post survey. In the third and final poll, respondents provided opinions on a host of international questions, including our priorities in Iraq, redeployment of troops overseas, our policy in the Middle East, and the role of NATO.
   As Iraq prepares for its first free elections in its 4,000 years of history, the United States mission in that country has our overwhelming support. Texans by a 7-to-1 ratio in this survey approve of maintaining U.S. forces in Iraq instead of withdrawing them immediately. They said we should leave the troops there as long as necessary to improve security and ensure the success of democracy. Very few suggested giving the United Nations a greater role, while a large majority supported efforts to get other nations to provide more assistance and forgive debts incurred by Saddam Hussein's regime.
   Marc, who lives in Houston, states, "We should start pulling out now," while Matthew from League City, opined, "I was not in favor of the war in Iraq, but now that we are there, we are obligated to do everything in our power to make the transition to democracy successful."
   Several of you were emphatic about keeping UN influence to a minimum. Jerry, from Graham said, "Tell the UN to take a hike. The United Nations should not be involved in any decision regarding our national security."
   Many of you support efforts to reduce Saddam-era debt, a priority for President Bush as well. He has secured the agreement of a 20-nation group including Europe, the United States and Japan to forgive 80 percent of the $42 billion Iraq owes those countries.
   Reaction to President Bush's announcement of restructuring the basing of American forces abroad was also interesting. Redeployment of half of our overseas troops was 12 times as popular as the option to delay this redeployment. The option of postponing the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) review of domestic installations was only half as popular as moving troops home.
   I worked hard for the global restructuring to more effectively utilize our forces and better position them to meet present and future threats. In fact, a bipartisan panel I established recently reported that we can save taxpayer money and provide our troops better training and housing facilities in domestic bases than we can in cramped overseas installations.
   Kit, from Midland, says, "Remove all our forces from Europe. They don't want us there anyway."
   Respondent views on our Middle East policy showed a real divergence. Most supported concentrating resources to dismantle terror groups such as Hamas and al Qaeda, but many also said we should set up multilateral discussions to curb Iran's nuclear weapons program, and tie foreign aid to the level of support the recipient provides for the United States. A smaller, but still significant, number propose we host new peace talks between the Israelis and Palestinians.
   Paul, from Dickinson, echoes many respondents when he says "Let Israel handle the Palestinians," while Gordon, from Richardson, argues, "Our support for Israel seems to be a major basis for terrorist activities."
   The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was formed after World War II to contain an aggressive Soviet Union, but with the collapse of communism, some say it is obsolete. Most of you said NATO members should jointly take the offensive against those nations or regimes posing a threat. Almost as many added that NATO countries should jointly participate as peacekeepers in Iraq and Afghanistan.
   I will use these comments and insights in the new 109th Congress as the Senate deliberates on legislation affecting our foreign affairs. I appreciate the time you took to reply to the survey and hope I will continue to hear from you.
 
 