SEN. HUTCHISON URGES MAJORITY LEADER FRIST TO HOLD VOTE ON PORT SECURITY BILL
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, today sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) urging him to hold a vote on her Shipping Container Security Act. 
   First introduced in 2004, Sen. Hutchison reintroduced her legislation, S. 376, in 2005. Sen. Hutchison urged immediate action on this national security issue in her letter to Sen. Frist following the debate over a United Arab Emirates company planning to take over operations of several major U.S. ports. Key provisions of Sen. Hutchison's legislation are listed below.
   Highlights of Sen. Hutchison's port security legislation:
   * Require all foreign countries shipping goods to the U.S. to grant access to U.S. inspectors so that containers headed to the U.S. are able to be inspected at their port of origin;
   * Develop and implement a comprehensive plan to increase the number of containers inspected as they enter the U.S;
   * Direct the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to design a tracking system that would enable DHS to monitor the transport of cargo within the U.S. until it reached its final destination. 
   A copy of the letter follows:
   February 24, 2006
   The Honorable William H. Frist, M.D.
  Majority Leader 
  United States Senate
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Leader Frist: 
   In light of the recent agreement to allow Dubai Ports World, a United Arab Emirates-controlled company, to operate at six U.S. port facilities, I urge you to act expeditiously to bring S. 1052, a comprehensive package of transportation security improvements, to the floor for immediate consideration. 
   The Senate Commerce Committee approved this bill last November. The legislation includes provisions from my bill, S. 376, the "Shipping Container Security Act." My legislation would: 
   * Require all foreign countries shipping goods to the U.S. to grant access to U.S. inspectors so that containers headed to the U.S. are able to be inspected at their port of origin; 
   * Develop and implement a comprehensive plan to increase the number of containers inspected as they enter the U.S.; 
   * Direct the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to design a tracking system that would enable DHS to monitor the transport of cargo within the U.S. until it reached its final destination. 
   We must strengthen safety and security standards for port facilities in our country, and debate on S. 1052 would give the full Senate an opportunity to do so. If this is not possible, I want to work with you to find time in the Senate for consideration of my port security provisions contained within the committee-approved bill.
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison
 
 