BE PREPARED FOR DIGITAL TV CONVERSION
  On Thursday, Feb. 7, an AMBER Alert message flashed across TVs all over Texas, as the Emergency Alert System (EAS) broadcast information on a 5-year-old Austin boy who had just been abducted.
   Thankfully, the boy was safely recovered 13 hours later and returned to his family. 
   For more than 40 years, variations of the EAS have worked with broadcasters, cable companies, and satellite providers to inform the public of emergencies. Today, it warns citizens about severe weather, helps mobilize communities to recover kidnapped children, and enables the government to address the nation in the event of a national emergency.
   In just under a year from now, on Feb. 17, 2009, the nation's full- power broadcasters (large TV stations covering multiple cities) will switch from an analog to a digital broadcasting format.
   The transition to digital television, or D-TV, will free up broadcast spectrum for important safety activities that will increase the nation's ability to respond to terrorist attacks and national disasters.
   Digital broadcasting will continue to transmit emergency messages, but some of the spectrum space will be reallocated to implement a nationwide public safety communication system to support police, fire departments and other first responders. The challenges of Sept. 11, 2001, and during Hurricanes Katrina and Rita illustrate how badly this capability is needed, and the 9/11 Commission recommended a nationwide public-safety system in its final report to Congress.
   So what does the D-TV transition mean for you?
   In Texas, more than 20 percent of homes have older television sets and receive over-the-air programming using antenna or "rabbit ears."
   These households will need converter boxes to change digital broadcasts into an analog format so their TVs can display public safety and emergency broadcasts.
   If a television only has an analog tuner, it will continue to work until analog broadcasting stops at midnight on Feb. 17, 2009. After the transition, consumers can keep their analog TVs if they obtain a converter box.
   Each television that is neither outfitted with a digital tuner nor connected to a cable or satellite service requires its own converter box. D-TV converters will be available nationwide at electronics stores and other U.S. retailers.
   The transition poses special challenges for border communities. Last year, I introduced legislation that allows broadcasters along the southern U.S. border to continue analog broadcasts for five years, but maintains Federal Communications Commission (FCC) authority over broadcasts, based on public interest.
   To help defray costs, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration will issue up to two $40 coupons per household to go toward the purchase of converter boxes. Consumers may apply for their coupons until March 31, 2009 by calling 1-888-DTV-2009 (1-888-388-2009) or by visiting www.dtv2009.gov.
   Cable or satellite TV subscribers may not be affected by the D-TV conversion, but consumers should contact their providers to make sure service will not be disrupted. Many newer televisions are already equipped with a digital tuner and will not require a converter box to function after the transition.
   I encourage consumers to arm themselves with information and prepare for the transition. There are a number of resources available to help consumers get ready.
   Information is available at www.dtv.com or www.dtvanswers.com. To speak with someone by phone, call 1-888-CALL-FCC (1-888-225-5322).
   Not since the conversion from black-and-white to color television in the 1950s, or from multiple party line telephones to private household lines nationwide, has the U.S. communications industry undertaken such sweeping change.
   However, with the right information and preparation, consumers can have a smooth transition and continued access to the public information that helps keep us all safe.
   Kay Bailey Hutchison is the senior U.S. senator from Texas.
 
 