DR. ROBERT GATES - A CALL TO DUTY
American military personnel are bound by core values of duty, honor, and country. General Douglas MacArthur eloquently articulated this during his famous address to cadets at West Point in 1962, and the next civilian leader of our armed forces certainly understands the meaning of these values.
 The nomination of Dr. Robert Gates to become U.S. Secretary of Defense is an inspired choice by President Bush. Dr. Gates, the current president of Texas A&M University, stands ready to answer our nation's call. Dr. Gates had not anticipated returning to government service. He said he had never enjoyed any position more than being president of Texas A&M University. However, in wartime, he said he could not refuse the president's request. 
 Over the last 40 years, Dr. Gates has gained experience that makes him uniquely qualified to serve as our 22nd Secretary of Defense and to provide leadership that America needs to achieve victory in the War on Terror. He has been a commissioned officer in the Air Force, serving in the Strategic Air Command, and has held numerous positions within the intelligence community, including Director of Central Intelligence and Deputy National Security Adviser. Most recently, he was a member of the independent Iraq Study Group currently assessing our mission in Iraq. 
 Dr. Gates has worked for six presidents representing both political parties, and his nomination has received bipartisan support from members of the Senate. His ability to build consensus among those with different political viewpoints, as well as his experience working with military and civilian military leaders, will be extremely valuable attributes in his new post. As President Ronald Reagan's Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, he was instrumental to our victory in the Cold War. As Deputy National Security Adviser to President George H.W. Bush, he played a key role in pushing Saddam Hussein's armies out of Kuwait in Operation Desert Storm.
 President Bush recruited Dr. Gates in January 2005 to become Director of National Intelligence, but Dr. Gates could not leave Texas A&M until he had accomplished more of the goals he set when he became president in 2002. Last year, Texas A&M launched a $275 million construction campaign, and the university has hired more than 350 new faculty members under Dr. Gates, expanding the size of the faculty by 25 percent. During his tenure at Texas A&M, the sixth-largest university in America, African-American student enrollment increased by 86 percent and Hispanic student enrollment increased by 48 percent. 
 When he was introduced by President Bush on November 8, Dr. Gates explained his decision to return to government service. He said, "The United States is at war, in Iraq and Afghanistan. We're fighting against terrorism worldwide. And we face other serious challenges to peace and our security. I believe the outcome of these conflicts will shape our world for decades to come. Because our long-term strategic interests and our national and homeland security are at risk, because so many of America's sons and daughters in our armed forces are in harm's way, I did not hesitate when the president asked me to return to duty."
 Texas A&M's loss is truly our nation's gain. I strongly support Dr. Robert Gates' nomination as Secretary of Defense, and I look forward to working with him to win the War on Terror. We must continue pursuing terrorists abroad and modernizing our forces to address the threats of the 21st century.
 
 