PRESERVING OUR HERITAGE
  As a fifth generation Texan, I've grown up hearing the tales of my family's heritage and their adventures in Nacogdoches and San Augustine before Texas became a state. Texas is steeped in a rich history. Throughout the Lone Star State are hidden treasures answering questions about our identity and our origins.  
   Today, our culture continues and every day we write another page in Texas history books. As time goes by, we gain new insights and perspectives on that unique past, which is why preservation efforts are so imperative. Our nation recently took a major step towards advancing this important endeavor. 
   We have the Hispanic culture and history brought by both Spanish explorers and Mexican colonists. But even before that, were Native Americans. Known as a cultural crossroad to many Indians, Texas has hosted hundreds of tribes, clans and families over several hundred years.
   They were as diverse in culture as the geography of our state. Some tribes such as the Comanche, fought against the early Texas settlers. Others like the Lipan-Apache tribe, occasionally formed alliances with the Texans in campaigns against other Indians. The Tonkawa, Karankawas, Caddos and other tribes are simply known for agriculture, fishing and hunting. Some tribes still call Texas home.
   Recently, the Smithsonian Institution helped protect this important piece of Texas and American lore by introducing its 16th museum - the National Museum of the American Indian (NMAI) - in Washington, just steps from the U.S. Capitol. The NMAI was chartered by Congress in 1989 and is dedicated to the life languages, literature, history and arts of the Native peoples of the Western Hemisphere - the only national museum of its kind. It is also the last museum to be built on the National Mall. 
   Its September opening was a unique cultural moment which brought together tribes and native communities from across the Western Hemisphere. There were representatives from tribes as diverse as the Chickaloon Native Village of Alaska, the San Carlos Apache tribe of Arizona, and the Tapirape of Brazil that marched along the mall in a dazzling display of elaborate, colorful native costumes and a cacophony of drums. The six-day celebration was an emotional and triumphant milestone in their long-standing quest for the national recognition they so rightly deserve.
   The five-story curvilinear building is made of rough limestone that evokes natural rock formations and is set in a four-acre landscaped site that includes a wetlands area and 40 boulders known as "grandfather rock." The building's special features - an entrance facing east toward the rising sun, a prism window and a 120-foot-high atrium called the Potomac - were designed in consultation with many Native Americans over a four-year period.
   An electronic photo montage greets visitors in 150 Native languages, conveying the significant presence and diversity of Native peoples throughout the Americas. With 800,000 artifacts representing over 10,000 years of history and more than 1,000 indigenous peoples of the Western Hemisphere, there is much to appreciate.
   Three major exhibitions will be complemented by a contemporary art exhibit and landmark works of art - historic and contemporary - placed throughout the building. More than 200 works of art will be displayed along with drawings, notes and sketchbooks from well-known Native artists, such as George Morrison and Allan Houser. My friend, Republican colleague and renowned jewelry designer, Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell of Colorado, has loaned the museum a collection of approximately one hundred pieces of his unique Native American work. The assortment includes the Painted Mesa style he originated and the bolo tie he made for President George W. Bush. Through its compilation of exhibition galleries and education programming, visitors can embrace the culture that still lives within our nation and among our fellow citizens. 
   The desire to protect our heritage is a value rooted deep in the hearts of Texans. The more we know about yesterday, the more we understand about today. I am committed to preserving our history to benefit this and future generations.
 
 