SENS. HUTCHISON, CORNYN, REP. EDWARDS CONTINUE FIGHT FOR WACO VA HOSPITAL
  As City of Waco Task Force representatives gather to prepare a strong testimony in support of the Waco VA Hospital, Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), John Cornyn (R-TX) and Reps. Chet Edwards (TX-17) extended an invitation to Veterans Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson for him to personally visit the Waco campus. The invitation was made during an April 20 meeting with the Secretary in Sen. Hutchison's Washington, D.C. office. He agreed to visit as soon as possible.  
   "The Waco VA Hospital's care for local veterans spans many decades. I look forward to Secretary Nicholson's visit so he can see for himself everything the community-oriented facility has to offer," Sen. Hutchison said. "The Waco campus has tremendous potential for expansion to offer even more services. I am encouraged Secretary Nicholson has demonstrated a willingness to listen to the local community's concerns." 
   "In our meeting with Secretary Nicholson, I emphasized the importance of Waco's contribution, aided by the strong support of the local community, to ensuring Texas veterans get the health care they need and have earned through their service to our nation," Cornyn said. "I appreciate Secretary Nicholson's efforts on behalf of our veterans, particularly his work to improve and expand access to health care. I'll continue working with him and my colleagues in Congress to ensure that Texas veterans are properly repaid for defending our freedom." 
   "I appreciate Secretary Nicholson's open mind and focus on quality of care issues for our veterans," said Rep. Edwards. "I am confident that when Secretary Nicholson sees firsthand the dedication to quality of care at the Waco VA, he will be impressed by Waco's commitment to a win-win solution." 
   Sen. Hutchison organized the meeting with members of the Texas delegation and Secretary Nicholson in her office to urge support for the Waco VA Hospital. The meeting is part of an ongoing effort to strengthen Waco and two other Texas VA hospitals that have been cited for downsizing or closure as part of a VA feasibility study. The study is set to be finalized in 2006. Secretary Nicholson told the delegation members he would visit the Waco campus in the very near future, possibly as soon as next month.
 
 