HONOR THE TEXAS FLAG
  As students return from summer vacations, many will soon begin learning Texas history as part of their curriculum. Texas pride is instilled in us at an early age as we learn about our state's history in school. As we grow, so does our pride. This is evident by the fact that a Texan is never far from a Texas flag. 
   Whether flying above the Texas Capitol or hanging in the homes of displaced Texans around the world, our flag conveys how we feel about our state. Texas' identity as the Lone Star State is represented in our flag's design, which has always reflected our independence.  
   Our flag's history dates back to 1836, but it has not always looked as simple and classic as it does today. The original Texas flag featured a gold star in the middle of a blue field, while other early Texas flags contained a blue field featuring a white five-pointed star and the word "TEXAS" embroidered between the star's points.
   The dimensions and colors of our current flag were adopted and specifically defined by the Texas Congress when Texas was a republic in 1839: a blue, vertical stripe on the left side of the flag comprises one-third of its width, red and white horizontal stripes are each equal to half of its length, and a white, five-pointed star is in the center of the blue stripe - the Lone Star. Folklore explains the red stripe as representing the bloodied ground in Texas' battle for independence from Mexico. State legislation passed in 1933 qualified the flag's colors as blood red, azure blue and white, representing bravery, loyalty and purity, respectively. In 1993, these colors were changed to "Old Glory Red" and "Old Glory Blue" to mimic the colors of the U.S. flag.
   Because our current flag is such a recognizable image, many do not realize that it is only one in a line of six flags that have flown for our state. The "Six Flags Over Texas" - the Kingdom of France, the Kingdom of Spain, the Mexican Federal Republic, the Republic of Texas, the Confederate States of America, and the United States of America - all represent different eras, and the legacy of each flag contributes to our state's culture. This unique heritage resonates not only in our diversity but also in our varied styles of music, art, food and culture.
   Texans take great pride in our flag - especially when they see one outside Texas. In the U.S. Senate building in Washington, D.C., a large Texas flag is displayed at the end of the hallway in front of my office, and few visitors leave without taking pictures with this flag. I regularly observe families crowding around the flag to recite the Texas pledge, "Honor the Texas flag; I pledge allegiance to thee, Texas, one and indivisible."
   The Texas flag has a special mystique. When I visit Texans serving abroad in the armed forces, I frequently notice the display of the Texas flag. Texas soldiers speak of the aura surrounding the flag and its ability to heighten morale and arouse camaraderie. This is the essence of our flag. Not long ago, I had the opportunity to tour Afghanistan and visit with soldiers bravely defending America in the War on Terror. Upon arriving, I was moved to see a Texas flag waving proudly in that war-torn country.
   Our state flag has even been to space. In 1972, NASA astronaut Charlie Duke took a Texas flag to the moon. When he served as lunar module pilot of Apollo 16, the fifth manned lunar landing mission, a Texas flag was stowed behind his seat. This flag is currently on display at the Texas State History Museum in Austin as part of the "It Still Ain't Braggin' If It's True" exhibit.
   Our flag has a deep history and strength. It has a special place in our state's lore, and it represents the pride of Texas wherever it is displayed.
 
 