SEN. HUTCHISON SPEAKS AT SUSAN G. KOMEN FOR CURE 25TH ANNIVERSARY RALLY, ANNOUNCES PASSAGE OF COMMEMORATIVE RESOLUTION
  Speaking at a Capitol Hill rally to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Susan G. Komen for the Cure, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) announced today the passage of a Senate resolution she introduced with Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) commemorating the anniversary. Sen. Hutchison was awarded the movement's Connie Mack Lifetime Achievement Award for her leadership on cancer-related issues at an April 25th reception. 
   "Susan G. Komen for the Cure has emerged as a global leader in the fight against breast cancer and this resolution commends the significant strides it has made for women world wide," Sen. Hutchison said. "Breast cancer affects not only those who suffer from it, but also their friends and loved ones. I am honored to receive the Connie Mack Lifetime Achievement Award and join the millions of activists who are committed to this movement and finding a cure."
   "I'm so proud of Susan G. Komen for the Cure and their tireless efforts in the fight against breast cancer over the past 25 years. Their hard work has been changing and saving lives for a quarter century - supporting the research to find a cure, ensuring quality care for patients, and fighting for the lives of women diagnosed with breast cancer at every stage," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD). "Together, we have helped women gain access to safe and quality mammograms, and breast and cervical cancer screenings. That's why I introduced this resolution with Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, to honor all that this foundation does for breast cancer patients and survivors everywhere. Each of us can make a difference, but together we can make change."
   Sen. Hutchison has been a leader on important cancer issues before Congress. On April 20, President Bush signed into law legislation she and Sen. Mikulski introduced to reauthorize the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program. Susan G. Komen for the Cure has been a strong supporter of the program which makes critical breast and cervical cancer screenings and post-screening diagnostic services available to low-income, uninsured and underinsured women. In February 2007, Sen. Hutchison also introduced the Breast Cancer Research Stamp Reauthorization Act to extend the sale of the stamp for another two years. Under current law, sale of the stamp will expire on December 31, 2007. 
   Nancy G. Brinker founded Susan G. Komen for the Cure in honor of her sister whom she lost to breast cancer. Started in Dallas, Texas in 1982, it has grown to become the world's largest grassroots network of breast cancer activists mobilizing more than 1,000,000 people every year.
 
 