HIKE THROUGH THE NATURAL BEAUTY OF TEXAS
  While there is so much I love about Texas, it is the connection between the people and the land that makes it special. The land influences everything from the crops our farmers cultivate to the way people think. I suspect our land, with its big skies and wide-open spaces, is one of the things that have contributed to so many Texans turning big dreams into reality.  
   In past articles, I have written about our state's rich history, but Texas's natural beauty was the magnet that drew the early settlers. Texas holds a diverse collection of landscapes, from beautiful beaches on the coast to majestic mountains out west. One of the best ways to absorb a bit of the land is to go for a hike on one of our many trails. 
   The Panhandle and North Texas are known for their plains, but they are anything but plain. This is where many easterners first encounter the tumbleweeds and vistas that tell them they have finally reached the true West. The big skies make for some of the most beautiful sunsets in the world and make it possible to watch powerful storms roll in from a distance. 
   Some of the most breath-taking sites, and some of the most scenic trails, are in the canyons. The Caprock Canyons have over 90 miles of trails snaking through a landscape bursting with color: the whites, reds, and browns of the canyons contrast with the deep-blue sky and the green vegetation. There, you can hike and catch sight of the state's largest herd of bison. You can also venture out to Lake Meredith, which provides abundant bass and walleye fishing. Or you can mosey on over to Possum Kingdom Lake to fossil hunt or to watch the turkey vultures soar overhead near Morris Sheppard Dam. 
   Over to the east, in the Piney Woods, is a national treasure: Big Thicket. This area has been called "America's ark" because of the great diversity of its wildlife. As a crossroads of many different environments, from deserts to swamps, Big Thicket may be the most biologically diverse area in the world. In fact, Big Thicket's abundant assets have earned it a spot on the United Nations' short list of Biosphere Reserves in the world that deserve protection. It has at least 85 different types of trees and over 300 different varieties of birds. I and many others are working to increase this preserve by adding new land each year. 
   Down along the 600 miles of Texas's Gulf coastline are some incredible beaches. A gem of the Gulf of Mexico, Padre Island, has gorgeous sand dunes. One of my favorite childhood treks was also on the Gulf Coast. My family used to take the ferry from Galveston to Bolivar to visit my grandmother in Beaumont. My brothers and I would climb up to the top of the ferry and stand tall to let the wind and the water blow in our faces. If you venture down to Corpus Christi, a rainy day will not spoil your appreciation of nature because you can always take a hike in the Texas State Aquarium. Experienced divers can swim through Texas's aquatic beauty by taking a deep water dive in the Flower Garden Banks, a series of pristine reefs south of Galveston Island. 
   On the way down to the Valley, Laguna Madre offers an opportunity to check out the lagoons and enjoy fly-fishing. In the Valley, the abundant wildlife provides both excellent bird-watching and great game hunting with everything from hares to javelinas. And no one should miss the quiet beauty of the desert around the Rio Grande. 
   In Central Texas, there are refreshing hikes in the Hill Country that showcase its greenery, rivers, and natural rock formations. During hot summer days, you can rest in the shade of the numerous cedar trees or go for a swim in the natural swimming pool at Barton Springs. In Enchanted Rock Natural Area, there is a nice four-mile hike through rock outcroppings. Some ancient tribes believed one of the outcroppings was haunted because of the strange noises heard from the granite at night. 
   Finally, out in far West Texas lies some of the most majestic mountains in the country. You can hike on some of the 280 miles of trails in Big Bend and Guadalupe National Parks. And there is even a way to appreciate Texas's natural beauty at night; just pay a visit to McDonald Observatory where astronomy enthusiasts can enjoy the "darkest night skies in the continental" United States. 
   Even this relatively short hike through just a handful of the state's treasures reveals that Texans have been blessed with a great deal of natural beauty.
 
 