THE STATE OF THE UNION
  During the State of the Union address, President Bush articulated his vision to extend our prosperity and faithfully protect our security. As the 110th Congress moves forward, I will remind my colleagues in the Senate that we all share the desire to leave a prosperous America for future generations. 
   As America fights a global war against terrorists, it is absolutely critical that we never waver from our commitment to victory. There is no match for the might of our military or the professionalism and bravery of our servicemen and women. The only way we can fail is if we lose the will to finish the job. I support President Bush's call to increase the size of our active Army and Marine Corps, as a larger and stronger military will reduce the stress to our guard and reserve and to those in active service now. Adding an additional 92,000 active soldiers to our military does more than strengthen our readiness. It sends a loud and clear message to both our enemies and to our own men and women in uniform that when additional manpower and resources are needed, we will do what is necessary to be a ready fighting force. 
   Protecting our national security also requires sound domestic policy. Our immigration system remains broken, and porous borders continue to pose a threat. Americans are united in their desire for Congress to send the president legislation that contains a comprehensive immigration solution. This bill must secure and maintain the integrity of our borders and include a temporary worker program that keeps our economy strong. 
   We must also continue our pursuit of energy independence. Meanwhile, some members of Congress aim to raise taxes and increase regulatory burdens on domestic producers. I oppose such measures because they would have the counterproductive effect of pushing domestic producers overseas, thus reducing our domestic supply and making us increasingly dependent on foreign energy sources. I support solutions such as providing tax relief to develop alternative energy sources, as well as increasing domestic oil production in environmentally sound ways. 
   Texas remains a leader in alternative sources of energy. Our state produces the most wind energy in the nation and is home to an increasing number of ethanol and biodiesel plants. With 367 miles of shoreline along the Gulf of Mexico, Texas also has a close proximity to an abundant supply of alternative energy resources that are ripe for development. In particular, the Coastal Bend region is uniquely well-suited to provide energy from wave and tidal energy, biofuels, and solar energy. As technology continues to advance, we must explore the vast potential of these sources.
   Providing affordable access to health care for those Americans currently without coverage is another worthwhile effort that I support. I look forward to learning more about the president's health care initiative, which is based on competition to hold down costs, tax cuts, and other measures to extend coverage to more Americans.
   Sustaining our place in the world also requires strengthening America's competitive edge through education - particularly in the vitally important fields of science, engineering and technology. I have been working with my colleagues in Congress and education leaders in Texas to enhance commitment to the hard sciences. We must also provide new incentives to encourage our bright young minds to become teachers and educate the leaders of tomorrow.
   There is no doubting the confident spirit of America. By working together in a bipartisan way our nation's leaders can achieve our common goals and deliver results to our citizens. I am eager to hear your thoughts on the state of our union and on the proposals outlined in President Bush's address.
 
 