SEN. HUTCHISON REQUESTS BORDER INCIDENT INVESTIGATION
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff requesting a full investigation into the Monday border incident where Texas law enforcement officers faced off with men dressed as Mexican Army soldiers. She also urged a thorough analysis on what preventative measures should be addressed by Congress in securing our nation's borders from suspected drug smugglers and terrorists, including a report on the effectiveness of virtual and physical fencing. The letter is below: 
   January 26, 2006
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff
  Secretary
  Department of Homeland Security
  Washington, D.C. 20528
   Dear Secretary Chertoff:
   On Monday, January 23, 2006, Texas law enforcement officers encountered suspected drug smugglers who were dressed as Mexican Army soldiers on the U.S. side of the Rio Grande near Nelly's Crossing, about 50 miles east of El Paso, TX. Of the three vehicles involved, one was abandoned, one was stuck in the Rio Grande and set ablaze, and the third escaped. The abandoned vehicle, a Cadillac Escalade that had been reported stolen from El Paso, was said to have contained 1,477 pounds of marijuana. Dressed in camouflage uniforms, the suspects appeared to be Mexican Army personnel with several mounted .50 caliber machine guns more than 200 yards inside the U.S. border.
   I am deeply concerned over this incident as well as similar reported occurrences along the U.S.-Mexico border. According to Homeland Security reports, Mexican military units or imposters have crossed into U.S. territory 216 times since 1996. On December 30, 2005, U.S. Border Patrol Agents near Brownsville, TX, received gunfire from the Mexican side of the border; and in November the Hudspeth County Sheriff's Department reported confronting more than six men dressed in Mexican military uniforms who were allegedly trying to bring in more than three tons of marijuana across the Rio Grande River. These incidents are of great alarm to our national security and must be addressed.
   I request a full investigation into this latest matter, as well as the other incidents of suspected Mexican soldiers on U.S. soil, and report to Congress the details and confirmation of whether or not Mexican military officials have been involved in these cases. I also request you provide Congress a report with statistics on the frequency, amount, and volume of drugs crossing our northern and southern borders each day. Moreover, I urge a thorough analysis on what preventative measures should be addressed by Congress in securing our nation's borders from suspected drug smugglers and terrorists, including a report on the effectiveness of virtual and physical fencing.
   Make no mistake - this is only a symptom of a much larger problem. Even after 9/11, our nation's borders remain porous. We must take bold action in securing our borders, and I look forward to working with you on this matter to ensure the safety of our nation.
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison
 
 