SEN. HUTCHISON PASSES A&M, GALVESTON PROJECTS IN DHS APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Texas' senior Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today secured $26 million in combined funding for two important Texas projects in the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations bill, which passed the Senate by a vote of 89-4. 
   In the Senate-passed bill, the National Emergency Response and Rescue Training Center (NERRTC) at Texas A&M University is slated to receive $22 million in anti-terrorism funding for Fiscal Year 2008.
   "The Texas A&M training center is a first-rate facility that provides critical training to America's first responders," said Sen. Hutchison. "This funding will help Texas A&M continue to operate this facility and improve training programs."
   As one out of five members of the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium, NERRTC provides effective anti-terrorism training and education for emergency workers and senior officials. Sen. Hutchison made a May 2006 visit to the center, which integrates Texas Engineering Extension Service training facilities and experienced instructors to give emergency responders unsurpassed training and technical assistance. Since Fiscal Year 1998 Sen. Hutchison has helped deliver $131.6 million in federal funding for NERRTC.
   The other project is the Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge, which is slated to receive $4 million to be replaced.
   "This is critical funding to replace a vital commercial transportation link for the Texas Gulf Coast region," said Sen. Hutchison. "Billions of dollars of cargo move through this bridge every year and it must be replaced to protect public safety and ensure economic security."
   The Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge is the only rail link to Galveston Island and crosses the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway (GIWW). The GIWW is a vital transportation conduit for industries along the Gulf Coast, including the various oil refineries. The bridge was declared a hazard to navigation by the Coast Guard and must be replaced. The appropriations funding will be used to construct a replacement Galveston Causeway Railroad Bridge. Sen. Hutchison previously secured $2 million for Fiscal Year 2007 toward replacing the bridge.
   The Senate and House must reconcile their different versions in a conference committee before legislation can be sent to the President for his signature.
 
 