VISITING TROOPS IS AN INSPIRING EXPERIENCE
  Every year on Memorial Day we pause in remembrance of the men and women of the armed forces who have given their lives serving our country. This national holiday provides a reprieve from the routine of everyday life. Amid family gatherings, backyard barbecues and community events, we pay our respects to those who have paid the ultimate price in the defense of our nation.
   Keeping our troops in your thoughts and prayers lifts the spirit of those in uniform, but delivering well wishes personally means much more - to you and to them. I recently had an opportunity to visit Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C., and personally express my gratitude to the brave servicemen and women there. Most had been injured while serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   When I look into the eyes of soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines who have confronted danger, I am moved by their enormous level of dedication. Observing the pride and dignity with which our military men and women wear their uniforms is a powerful experience.
   As Chairman of the Senate's Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, I have a strong relationship with the military and I am familiar with their needs and way of life. But when I go to Iraq, Afghanistan, Bosnia, or a base in Texas, it is the personal conversations with young soldiers that continue to inspire me every time I hear from them firsthand what they are going through. I also swell with pride, for them and for our country, when they voluntarily proclaim their willingness to again answer our nation's call.
   On this particular visit to Walter Reed Army Medical Center, I was joined by members of the Houston Astros baseball team. The Astros were in town to play a series against the Washington Nationals, and they generously gave time to visit with and sign autographs for soldiers in the medical center. Many people look up to professional athletes, and the appearance of the Astros brightened the day for many patients. Yet, and the Astros agree with me, the true stars are those who wear a different uniform - that of the United States.
   Hearing soldiers' stories is inspirational. There is no wavering in the hearts of soldiers, and their inner strength is unmatched. When you witness this testimony firsthand, you are reminded of how minor the inconveniences of everyday life are.
   At Walter Reed, I met a young solider from El Paso who recently returned from Baghdad with a serious leg injury. Having already endured numerous surgeries over the past five months, he still has more operations to come, followed by several months of rehabilitation. But his spirit is strong, and I was honored to thank him for his service to America. Another soldier in a wheel chair, who told me he was from Ohio, said his dream is to attend the University of Texas. I was delighted to learn of his interest in my alma mater.
   These soldiers' willingness to do a job that frequently places them in harm's way in the name of protecting our nation and our way of life inspires me to do all I can in the Senate to serve their interests and provide them with the care and support they need.
   Speaking with soldiers is an incredibly fulfilling experience, and one I encourage you to pursue. Our gratitude reminds them what they are fighting for, but we are the ones touched by the encounter.
 
 