SAVING FOR YOUR HEALTH
  It comes as no surprise that health care costs are on the rise. If you've been to the doctor recently, you know that simple procedures and regular check-ups can cost hundreds of dollars, making healthy living more expensive than ever. In fact, over the last decade health care costs have risen at a faster rate than inflation.  
   In addition to our work to lower the number of uninsured Americans, we also are looking for creative ways for Americans to cover their health expenditures. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, a limited number of small businesses and self-employed individuals who had health insurance with a high deductible were permitted to make financial contributions to tax-free medical savings accounts to pay for non-reimbursable health care services. 
   Health Savings Accounts
   Last year's bipartisan Medicare Modernization Act included a provision to bring this benefit to even more Americans, establishing health savings accounts (HSAs) to help individuals and families prepare for and pay their health care costs. Think of it as an Individual Retirement Account, or IRA, earmarked for medical expenses with tax-free earnings on the money. Deposits can be easily withdrawn by check or debit card to pay routine medical bills with tax-free dollars. The accounts are designed to help pay for health expenses until insurance benefits kick in and are linked to a high deductible health plan (HDHP). For example, if you are hit with a medical emergency and have to come up with a $1,000 deductible, you can withdraw the money from your HSA to cover the cost until your insurance takes over. 
   These savings accounts have several advantages for qualified individuals and families. Foremost, it allows you to save money for future medical expenses, whether you become unemployed, retired or incur long-term care expenses. Because the accounts are personally owned, you control how much money to put into the account and how to use it, as well as whether to invest any of the money in the account and which investments to make. In addition, the account is transferable if you change jobs or residency and the money can be rolled-over from year-to-year to be used for future health care expenses. You can even take a tax deduction for contributions made to your HSA.
   Who Can Open a HSA?
   Any American can open a HSA if they meet the following conditions:
   * You must also have coverage under a HDHP. 
   * You cannot have any other health insurance coverage except the HDHP, but you can have other types of insurance like specific injury insurance, accident, disability, dental and vision care, or long-term care insurance without being disqualified. 
   * You cannot be eligible for Medicare. 
   * You cannot be claimed as a dependent on someone else's tax return. 
   How Much Can I Contribute?
   Just as with an IRA, there are limits to how much you can contribute to a HSA. Contributions of $2,600 can be made annually by individuals who have health plans with a minimum deductible of $1,000 and out-of-pocket expenses not exceeding $5,000. Families may invest $5,150 each year if they have catastrophic health insurance that has a minimum deductible of $2,000 with out-of-pocket expenses not exceeding $10,000. Individuals between the ages of 55 and 65 can make annual "catch-up" contributions of up to $500 in 2004, with annual increases of $100 until the limit reaches $1,000 in 2009. 
   Health Savings Accounts can be set up with any financial institution such as a bank, credit union, or insurance company. If you're looking to start a HDHP, contact your current health insurance carrier, licensed insurance agent, or the Texas Department of Insurance to find out which insurance companies offer HDHPs in your area.
   For more information on HSAs, please view the Department of Treasury website at http://www.treas.gov/offices/public-affairs/hsa. If you have additional questions, contact the Treasury via email at hsainfo@do.treas.gov or call 
  202-622-4HSA.
 
 