SEN. HUTCHISON, REP. PETERSON TEAM UP TO KEEP EXISTING FEDERAL INTERSTATES TOLL-FREE
  U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee, and U.S. Representative John E. Peterson (R-PA), met today and announced that they will work together to secure a provision in the conference report to the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill that would allow states to opt-in to a one year prohibition of the tolling of existing interstate highways. Under their proposal, individual states would be allowed to toll newly constructed road or lanes, but not existing federal highways already paid for with taxpayer money. 
   "The interstates were originally intended to connect our nation in a seamless and free network, facilitating the flow of commerce and safeguarding national security," Sen. Hutchison said. "I think that taxpayers will protest the tolling of interstates, and take away the free system that they have already paid for. To do that would be wrong. I think one of the things the congressman and I will do is try to make sure that people are aware that this is something that could happen."
   "In Pennsylvania, as the negative facts about tolling I-80 continue to surface, the court of public opinion - like the 2005 PennDOT study - is increasingly opposed to this job-killing scheme. The stakes - Pennsylvania jobs and our state's long term economic competitiveness - are too high not to stop this proposal. The national precedent that Pennsylvania and Texas would set, toll existing federal freeways, is truly dangerous. I will continue to do everything in my ability to achieve the goal of keeping our freeways free, as they were intended, and look forward to working with Senator Hutchison on this vitally important issue. I was encouraged by the meeting today with Sen. Hutchison. I look forward to working with her on this vitally important issue of keeping our freeways free." said Peterson.
   Sen. Hutchison and Rep. Peterson agreed they will push for a national prohibition of tolling existing interstate highways leading up to the next highway authorization bill, which will be considered by Congress in 2009.
 
 