SEN. HUTCHISON COSPONSORS BILL TO INCREASE INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH, INNOVATION, EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Science and Space, is an original cosponsor of the National Competitiveness Investment Act which was introduced today in the Senate. The legislation includes provisions to maintain and improve the United States' innovation in the 21st Century. The bill was introduced by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NM). 
   "It is in the best interest of both our national and economic security for America to remain a leader in scientific research and education," Sen. Hutchison said. "This bill renews our national focus on strengthening key areas of research, education and innovation. It also increases essential NASA funding to support basic research and to foster new innovation."
   The bill increases research investment by doubling funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF) from approximately $5.6 billion in Fiscal Year (FY) 2006 to $11.2 billion in Fiscal Year 2011. It increases the Department of Energy's Office of Science funding over 10 years, from $3.6 billion in FY 2006 to over $5.2 billion in FY 2011. 
   As chair of the science and space subcommittee, Sen. Hutchison worked to include key NASA language in the bill. It directs NASA to increase funding for basic research and fully participate in interagency activities to foster competitiveness and innovation, using the full extent of existing budget authority.
   The bill also strengthens educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and critical foreign languages. It authorizes competitive grants to states to promote better coordination of elementary and secondary education with the knowledge and skills needed for success in post-secondary education, the workforce and the U.S. Armed Forces. Another key provision focuses on strengthening the skills of thousands of math and science teachers. It establishes training and educational programs at summer institutes and increases support for the Teachers Institutes for the 21st Century Program at NSF.
 
 