SEN. HUTCHISON DEMANDS UP-OR-DOWN VOTE ON TEXAS SUPREME COURT JUSTICE OWEN, OTHER JUDICIAL NOMINEES
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today spoke on the floor of the Senate demanding an up-or-down vote on Texas Supreme Court Justice Priscilla Owen and other judicial nominees who have been obstructed by the minority in the Senate. Sen. Hutchison also commented on the "Constitutional Option" for voting on judges. Excerpts of her statement follow: 
   "Priscilla Owen was nominated to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals four years ago - four years ago. She has been serving on the Supreme Court of Texas for four years while awaiting her confirmation by the U.S. Senate, yet she has actually had the votes to confirm her in the United States Senate four times. Four times she has received a majority. ...
   "This is really not a debate about Priscilla Owen. This is not a debate about this woman who has an impeccable record and an impeccable academic background... I think it is about the Constitution and the requirement of advise and consent. The minority has changed the Constitution by filibustering judicial nominees for the first time in the history of the U.S. Senate. For the first time in the history of the U.S. Senate - over 200 years - we saw in the last session of Congress a filibuster of almost one-third of President Bush's Circuit Court nominees. No president has ever received fewer of his Circuit Court nominees than President George Bush. ...
   "For 70 percent of the last century, the same party controlled the Senate and the White House, but there was no use of partisan filibuster on nominees to prevent an up or down vote. ...
   "It is not the rule that is being changed in this debate. It is the precedent of the United States Senate for the last 200 years that was changed in the last session of Congress by requiring 60 votes for confirmation of judges. ... Two hundred years of Senate precedent is being torn apart. ...
   "A majority vote ensures the balance of power between the president's right to nominate and the Senate's role to give advice and consent. We are not only changing the tradition of the Senate with the filibuster of judicial nominees, we are changing the balance of power that was clearly set out in the Constitution and which has been one of the strengths of our democracy. ...
   "I would like for the tradition of the Senate for 200 years to be upheld without any need for a rule change. For 200 years, Democrats and Republicans have agreed on this principle."
 
 