SEN. HUTCHISON SUPPORTS KEY FINDINGS OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE
  Below are excerpts from comments delivered on the Senate floor today by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference. Sen. Hutchison emphasized the importance of the release of the National Intelligence Estimate key judgments. Previously leaked selective excerpts contrast sharply with conclusions that could be drawn from reading the key judgments in totality.
   "What the report clearly shows is what the President is trying to do and that our strategy in America is the right one. We must continue to pursue the terrorists without equivocation, without a lessening in commitment, without any hesitance. And we must not be diffident in our efforts to wipe them out if they are going to attack Americans and other freedom-loving people in the world. 
   "The major point that the President is trying to make - and most of us in Congress agree with - is that we have a very, very long-term commitment to enlightening the people who are living under the regimes that would treat women as if they are subhuman, that would treat their own people who might be of a different sect as if they are lesser people. They are treating each other with the same vehemence, violence and inhumane treatment as they are trying to do to Americans.
   "I want to talk about the report. I want to put in the record some of the key elements that were not leaked to the press. They are very important to understanding this issue. Here are some of the key parts of the report under the key judgments section of the National Intelligence Estimate. 'United States-led counterterrorism efforts have seriously damaged the leadership of al Qaeda and disrupted its operations. Greater pluralism and more responsive political systems in Muslim majority nations would alleviate some of the grievances jihadists exploit.'
   "It is really verifying that education and the attempt to bring self-governance to the Middle Eastern countries that do not have it are the right approach.
   "The report goes on to say, 'Should jihadists leaving Iraq perceive themselves, and be perceived, to have failed, we judge fewer fighters will be inspired to carry on the fight.' Let me reemphasize what they are saying here in their estimate. Should the terrorists be perceived as failing, they would have fewer recruits for their continued terrorist activities.
   "Continuing to read excerpts from the report, 'Exposing the religious and political strait jacket that is implied by the jihadist propaganda would help to divide them from the audiences they seek to persuade. Recent condemnations of violence and extremist religious interpretations by a few notable Muslim clerics signal that a trend that could facilitate the growth of a constructive alternative to jihadist ideology is peaceful political activism.'
   "That is exactly what the strategy of the United States has been. It is a strategy of Muslim clerics stepping up to denounce violence against other Muslims. It is exactly what we are seeing emerge as this national intelligence estimate has revealed.
   "Mr. President, this is a war we cannot lose. We have stopped communism from taking over the world. We have stopped socialism from taking over the world. We will not allow terrorists to take over the world if we are worth anything as leaders in this country. And the president of the United States is resolute on this issue. Congress must stand with him. We must not allow selective leaks of internal intelligence advisories to be misconstrued to say that vigilance against terrorism is a losing proposition."
 
 