MOTHER'S DAY IS TIME FOR APPRECIATION
  May is a time to celebrate beginnings. As the weather warms and flowers bloom, the arrival of summer is on the horizon. The end of the school year has students looking forward to vacations, while others are anxious to graduate and begin the next phase of their lives. 
   This month also offers an opportunity to observe one of my favorite holidays, Mother's Day, which this year falls on May 14. We cherish the love and nourishment of our mothers.
   Mother's Day is a time to remember the lessons our mothers taught us that we follow throughout our lives. Mothers are the first teachers of the leaders of tomorrow. Mothers share knowledge with their children and love them unconditionally. My mom was a huge influence in my life and always encouraged me to follow my dreams.
   Many of our country's wisest leaders reserved their highest praise for their mothers. Our first President and the father of our country, George Washington, said of his mother, Mary, "My mother was the most beautiful woman I ever saw. All I am I owe to my mother. I attribute all my success in life to the moral, intellectual and physical education I received from her."
   President Abraham Lincoln said of his stepmother, Sarah, "All that I am or ever hope to be, I owe to my angel mother." And President Theodore Roosevelt said, in honor of his mother, Martha, "The mother is the one supreme asset of national life; she is more important by far than the successful statesman, or business man, or artist, or scientist."
   Though Mother's Day was not nationally recognized until 1914, it has roots from many years before. In 1858, an Appalachian homemaker named Anna Jarvis organized Mothers' Work Days. In 1870, Julia Ward Howe, who wrote the "Battle Hymn of the Republic," issued a proclamation calling for a Mother's Day for Peace.
   Anna Jarvis passed away in 1905, and in 1907, on the two-year anniversary of her passing, her daughter (also named Anna) helped organize a Mother's Day celebration at her mother's church in West Virginia. Other states soon started celebrating the day, and on May 8, 1914, President Woodrow Wilson issued a proclamation designating the second Sunday in May as Mother's Day.
   Mother's Day is also an opportunity for mothers to share in the achievements and accomplishments of their children. A happy and successful child inspires a special sense of pride in a parent. Mothers are there to share in the rites of passage that children experience, from your child's first words and first day of school to their first job and first love.
   I was once told by a telephone company executive that the industry's busiest day of the year is Mother's Day - fittingly so.
 
 