AN AGENDA FOR BETTER AMERICA
  As great a nation as America is, there are always areas we need to address to manage changes in our economy and society. To that end, I recently joined my Senate colleagues to announce a "top ten" legislative agenda for the 109th Congress to set clear goals for the next two years to try to make our country a better place. 
   First, we are going to beef up our national security and support our military families. I am committed to expanding our resources to respond to bioterrorism and to acquire better technology to help the Department of Homeland Security detect, prevent, and apprehend terrorists. The families of those soldiers making the ultimate sacrifice for freedom deserve our eternal gratitude. So we will work to increase the military death benefit to $100,000.
   Our top domestic priority is to preserve and strengthen Social Security for future retirees. According to the 2004 Report of the Social Security Board of Trustees, beginning in 2018, the program's benefit payments will exceed the amount of payroll taxes being collected. The time to act is now, because every year we delay makes the cure that much more painful. I support President Bush's plan to offer younger Americans voluntary, personal accounts and we will consider other proposals to ensure this venerable program is there for generations to come.
   Also high on our list is legislation to make our tax code fairer, more efficient, and much simpler. Over the past decade the length of the federal tax code has increased by 48 percent, requiring the average American to spend 23 percent more time filing the forms. We must do better. Adopting a less complex tax system will achieve greater tax fairness and be a significant boon to our economy.
   Promoting strong families is another priority. When we passed family tax relief in 2001, including a greater child tax credit and relief from the marriage penalty, we did so under the constraints of a 10-year limit. Those tax cuts were among the most effective ever passed and generated significant economic growth. Working families really saw the difference in their disposable income. So we want to make this permanent. People need to know that in 2011, they're not going to have to pay $1,500 more, on average, because the marriage penalty is back. As a Texan, I will also work to keep the sales tax deductible from federal income taxes.
   No list of legislative goals would be complete without a comprehensive energy bill. To boost our national and economic security, we must increase domestic energy production as well as our energy efficiency. A good start would be to enhance incentives for alternative energy such as wind, solar, and clean-burning coal.
   We also want to sustain the job creation momentum we started with passage of tax relief in each of the past four years. Congress should make these tax cuts permanent to reduce the tax burden on individuals and small businesses and free up investment to create new employment opportunities for all Americans.
   Our fellow countrymen also need to be fully prepared to compete in the 21st Century. Learning is a life-long process. From pre-school Head Start programs to improvements in primary and secondary education, we want to encourage accountability and results. Addressing the cost of higher education and providing incentives for Americans to enter the teaching profession are key aspects of our agenda as well.
   An additional item on our list is to rein in out-of-control class action lawsuits, which prop up costs for consumers and harm the economy. This legislation would establish federal jurisdiction where the amount in controversy exceeds $5 million and any member of the plaintiff class is a citizen of a different state than the defendant.
   We must address problems in our health care system. This includes measures to make vaccines more readily accessible, improve public health preparedness, and increase the availability of affordable health care coverage through association health plans and expanded health savings accounts.
   We want to promote families and protect children. The Child Custody Protection Act would strengthen state parental notification laws by making it a federal offense to transport a minor across state lines to circumvent these statutes.
   We have a lot to do in the 109th Congress. Together, we can get the job done, which is why my number one priority is always listening to my Texas constituents and representing their views in Washington.
 
 