FUELING OUR FUTURE
  Anyone who has paid at the gas pump this summer knows that our country is facing an energy crisis. Global demand for energy continues to grow, and our supplies are struggling to keep up. Basic economics teaches us that if supply cannot meet demand, prices escalate.
   The Senate is addressing this reality with the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006. This legislation can make a short-term impact on the cost at the pump for American consumers while decreasing our dependence on foreign sources of energy. 
   For too long Congress has refused to cultivate our own natural resources, including those in the Gulf of Mexico. The bill recently brought before the Senate, which I co-sponsored, makes available 8.3 million acres of oil and gas reserves in the Gulf of Mexico. Areas opened for exploration by this bill are estimated to contain 1.26 billion barrels of recoverable oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. The oil will fuel 87 million cars per year, and the gas production amounts to six times our annual Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) imports, enough gas to heat and cool six million American homes for the next 15 years. This increase of supply will greatly ease the price pressures we are all feeling and help protect us from energy shocks caused by geopolitical events beyond our control.
   Since 2001, the price of oil has increased 150 percent, and America's yearly natural gas bill has risen from $50 billion to $200 billion. To lower costs, we must increase our own domestic supply by expanding current production and using technological resources to develop alternative fuel sources.
   Opening areas in the Gulf of Mexico is a positive step forward, but there remain other domestic sources we are not tapping. In 1996, Congress approved exploration in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), only to have President Clinton veto this legislation. Had ANWR been opened 10 years ago, we would be producing an additional one million barrels daily - the same amount our country imports everyday from Saudi Arabia.
   Environmental risks to Alaska are greatly exaggerated. ANWR is as large as South Carolina, and drilling would be limited to an area the size of Houston's Bush Intercontinental Airport. ANWR is also not the pristine forest many believe it is. Instead, the area where drilling would occur is a barren, isolated, frozen plain without forests or streams.
   Solving our energy crisis also requires the development of alternative sources of energy. Texas has contributed heavily to our nation's production of oil and gas, but we are also leading the nation in alternative energy sources. This month, Texas surpassed California in producing the most wind energy; our capacity is enough to power 600,000 medium-sized homes a year. 
   Last year's energy bill included a mandate for 7.5 billion gallons of ethanol by 2012. Texas has 450,000 vehicles with the ability to run on ethanol fuel, more than any other state. Recently, H-E-B grocery announced that five of its gas stations will begin selling ethanol this year, and soon there will be 17 gas facilities with E-85 (ethanol) pumps in our state. Four ethanol plants under construction in the Panhandle (in Sunray, Dumas, and two in Hereford) will produce approximately 300 million gallons of ethanol each year.
   In May, I attended the groundbreaking of the nation's first large-scale biodiesel plant in Galveston. This plant will produce 20 million gallons in its first year, with the potential to produce 100 million gallons per year - more than double the current production of biodiesel in the United States. 
   Texas is once again a pioneer in finding new energy sources. We are increasing energy supplies to the nation and helping reduce our dependence on foreign sources, which currently account for over 60 percent of our supply. As recent events in the Middle East illustrate, such dependence is both an economic and national security risk. Not only will expanded domestic production create jobs and improve our economy, it will also insulate us from fluctuations in the global market.
   If Congress allows production of our own natural resources, we can stand on our own while also protecting our environment and strengthening our economy. I am proud that Texas is at the forefront of this transformation.
 
 