SEN. HUTCHISON COSPONSORS PASSENGER RAIL BILL
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Commerce and Transportation Committee, signed on as an original cosponsor of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2005, introduced today by Sen. Trent Lott (R-MS). A leader on Amtrak issues, Sen. Hutchison worked to ensure that the six-year Amtrak authorization bill addresses her primary concerns with the nation's passenger rail service.  
   "This bill sets a system of quality and on-time service standards to increase confidence and ridership, helping our national rail system survive for the long-term," Sen. Hutchison said. "Passenger trains must be given the same treatment as freight trains when vying for rail access. Systematic delays breed frustration and force passengers to turn elsewhere for their transportation needs. Our rail system must evolve or it will wither on the vine." 
   With a commitment to more efficient service, the bill calls on the Surface Transportation Board (STB), the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), Amtrak and operating freight railroads to develop standards for measuring service, quality and on-time performance of intercity trains. 
   Based on language in past Amtrak bills introduced by Sen. Hutchison, the bill requires the STB to issue a quarterly on-time service report. If a train's on-time performance record falls below 80 percent for two consecutive quarters or fails to meet other requirements set by the FRA, the STB must investigate the cause. The bill, for the first time, gives the Board the authority to enforce priority access if it determines freight trains are not providing priority access to Amtrak as required under law.
   In addition, the bill establishes a competitive bid program. Administered by the FRA, the program allows freight railroads or private operators to bid for long-distance trains. States planning to use operators other than Amtrak to provide state-supported services will be given access to Amtrak facilities in order to operate.
   Sen. Hutchison successfully changed bill language so that performance standard criteria will place a greater emphasis on a route's interconnectivity of states in all regions of the nation served by Amtrak. This language will stress the need for long distance train service in Amtrak's national network.
 
 