SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES RENEWABLE ENERGY LEGISLATION
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, today will introduce the Creating Renewable Energy through Science and Technology (CREST) Act. The legislation will provide a comprehensive, coordinated national research effort to spur the development of renewable energy. 
   "A comprehensive strategy to unleash the power of free minds and free markets so we can explore and produce energy in America will strengthen our national security and solidify our global economic leadership," Sen. Hutchison said. "With its renowned research institutions and vast supply of untapped renewable energy resources, Texas is poised to invent the breakthrough sources that will help fuel the world in the 21st century."
   The CREST Act establishes and authorizes funding for a Council on Renewable Energies (CORE). The Council will advise Congress on national renewable energy strategy, research and development, including offshore wind production, solar power, geothermal, alternative biofuels and wave energy. It will also facilitate collaboration across federal agencies and departments on executing national renewable energy objectives.
   Texas is the largest producer of wind power in the nation and also holds vast untapped energy sources such as solar, waves and biomass. In addition, Texas' nationally recognized colleges and universities throughout the state are ideal to serve as leading research institutions for alternative energy. 
   "My CREST legislation will provide a comprehensive national research effort to spur the development of renewable energy," Sen. Hutchison said. "Continued exploration of oil and gas production is a critical component to achieving energy independence. At the same time, we must focus on developing renewable technology to help reduce our dependence on foreign oil."
   The bill directs the CORE to be established within the National Science Foundation. It would be comprised of department heads from research institutions, industry representatives, state officials and the U.S. Departments of Energy, Agriculture, Commerce and the National Atmospheric Administration and Office of Science and Technology Policy.
   An op-ed by Sen. Hutchison on her CREST legislation was published today in the Dallas Morning News and can be accessed by following this, visit http://www.dallasnews.com/sharedcontent/dws/dn/opinion/viewpoints/stories/DN-hutchison_28edi.ART.State.Edition1.44314f1.html.
 
 