BATTLESHIP TEXAS
  In 1998, the blockbuster film, Saving Private Ryan, brought the grim realism and horror of World War II to movie screens around the world. It was the first time many Americans had seen in explicit detail the trauma, violence and bloodshed experienced by their fathers and grandfathers. The film forever etched the dramatic tale of the Greatest Generation on our collective conscience. This year marks the 60th anniversary of D-Day, offering the perfect opportunity to commemorate the heroes of the war and Texas' role in it. 
   D-DAY
   The invasion of Normandy, arguably the most significant battle of World War II, began on the evening of June 5, 1944. More than 150,000 men, a fleet of 5,000 ships and landing craft, 50,000 vehicles, and 11,000 planes sat in southern England, poised to attack secretly across the English Channel along the coast of France. Five beaches, code-named Utah, Omaha, Gold, Juno, and Sword, were selected as invasion sites for the largest amphibious landing in history. 
   In the early morning of June 6, thousands of Allied paratroopers landed behind enemy lines, securing key roads and bridges on the flanks of the invasion area. As the sun rose on the Normandy coastline, the soldiers began their invasion, traveling to the beaches in small landing craft lowered from the decks of larger ships anchored in the Channel. The attack on four of the beaches went according to plan, but the battle at Omaha Beach proved to be one of the fiercest battles of the war. Of the more than 9,000 Allied casualties on D-Day, Omaha accounted for nearly one-third. The invasion was directed by Texas-born General Dwight D. Eisenhower, as Commander of the Allied Expeditionary Force.
   Ultimately, Allied soldiers would secure the beach and fight their way inland. The victory was a dazzling display of military strategy and logistical planning that heralded the demise of Nazi tyranny. The battle at Normandy will forever embody the heroism, bravery and sacrifice of our soldiers. 
   USS TEXAS
   Among the ships to support the Normandy invasion was the Battleship TEXAS. The vessel is the only surviving battleship to serve in World War I and World War II and it has proudly rested at the San Jacinto Battleground State Historic Site in La Porte since 1948.
   TEXAS was christened on May 18, 1912, the second battleship to be named for the Lone Star State. The launch was caught on motion-picture, in what was believed to be the first such ceremony to be filmed. The TEXAS served in the Atlantic Fleet during World War I and was present at the surrender of the German Imperial Fleet in 1918. After modernization in 1927 it would serve as the flagship for the commander in chief of the U.S. Fleet. In the early 1940s it accompanied Allied landings in North Africa, and on D-Day it was the flagship for the bombardment group supporting the Allied landings on Omaha Beach. After being damaged by German shore guns, the ship was repaired and continued its support of the war efforts, supporting landings at Iwo Jima and Okinawa. The ship was retired in 1946 after more than 34 years of naval service. It became the nation's first memorial battleship and a national historic landmark. 
   VISIT HISTORY
   After years of being moored off the Houston Ship Channel, the TEXAS was in need of repair. In 1990, after being fully restored it was permanently berthed at La Porte, where it is maintained by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. The ship has provided students young and old with the opportunity to experience a part of our nation's history. TEXAS is open for tours at the San Jacinto Battleground Historic Site, located 22 miles east of downtown Houston. 
   This year, as we commemorate the 60th anniversary of D-Day and celebrate the opening of the National World War II memorial, let all Texans recall the bravery of the Greatest Generation, and how their sacrifice helped secure our freedom. 
   Visit www.wwiimemorial.com for information about the newest addition to the National Mall, and visit www.tpwd.state.tx.us to find out how your family can make the USS TEXAS a summer destination.
 
 