SEN. HUTCHISON ADDRESSES TEXAS MUNICIPAL LEAGUE CONFERENCE
  Today, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) was awarded the Distinguished Congressional Service Award at the Opening General Session of the Texas Municipal League's (TML) Annual Conference in Corpus Christi. 
   Sen. Hutchison was honored as the first recipient of the TML's Distinguished Congressional Service Award for her work to protect city government's authority, while supporting these local municipalities with help from the state and federal government. She is the first federal official to be recognized by the TML.
   "I am honored to be the first recipient of this award," Sen. Hutchison said. "TML works hard to support Texas cities through educating local governments and advocating important legislation to state and federal officials. I am working to address several key issues affecting local municipalities and will continue fighting for their interests." 
   Sen. Hutchison addressed several legislative priorities, including funding for first responders, the transportation bill, light rail and the American Jobs Creation Act legislation that President Bush signed into law last week. As a strong advocate for homeland security funding, Sen. Hutchison worked to provide Texas towns more than $154 million in federal grants for fiscal year 2004, approximately $13 million more than the previous year. The funding included $87.3 million in state homeland security grants and $25.9 million for law enforcement terrorism prevention. Sen. Hutchison also successfully worked with her colleagues on a bill that would overhaul the state homeland security grant programs in order to ensure states receive resources based on assessments of risks and vulnerabilities. The new system would combine a population based calculation with a new component to distribute funds based upon on a detailed threat assessment. Sen. Hutchison worked to ensure Texas receives a fairer share of funding by reducing the guaranteed levels for smaller states and including the Gulf of Mexico in the new calculation; initially the bill only specified the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. 
   "With thousands of miles of coastline and the second largest population, Texas needs a more equitable share of homeland security funding to protect our state and its borders. I am pleased these changes are in the bill and I will press my colleagues to include the language in the final legislation," Sen. Hutchison said. 
   Sen. Hutchison also discussed the American Jobs Creation Act, which ended 18 years of tax inequity by reinstating the state sales tax deduction for Texans. The bill allows taxpayers to choose between deducting their state and local income taxes or sales taxes on purchases made during 2004 and 2005 on their federal income tax returns. After introducing the bill in the Senate, Sen. Hutchison held a bipartisan rally with fellow members of Congress and sent a letter to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Ranking Member Max Baucus (D-MT) signed by every Senator from an affected state urging conferees to support the initiative. "This is a major victory for Texans," Sen. Hutchison said. "The legislation corrects this inequity for two years and I will continue to work with my colleagues to make this provision permanent. After working on this issue for ten years, my colleagues have recognized this is a matter of simple fairness and will give the Texas economy a shot in the arm."
   The two day conference is expected to have approximately 1,600 attendees. The TML is a voluntary association of 1,070 cities. Since its formation in 1913, the TML's mission has remained the same: to serve the needs and advocate the interests of its members.
 
 