ASTROS' SEASON ANOTHER FIRST FOR TEXAS
  Throughout the history of our great state, Texans have enjoyed many firsts. This year marks another such occasion as we proudly pay tribute to the Houston Astros, the first baseball team from Texas to make it to the Major League World Series. 
   I have many fond memories of cheering for the Astros in Texas as a student, reporter and senator. I remember when the Astros - then the Colt .45s - beat the Chicago Cubs in 1962 in their first Major League game and when Nolan Ryan became the first Major League pitcher to reach 4000 strikeouts in a career at the Astrodome in 1985. This year the Astros reached a new milestone in their history by winning the National League Championship.
   I know the 2005 season will be among my most cherished. I called Drayton McLane - the owner of the Astros - after most of the playoff games to let him know I was cheering from Washington for my home state team.
   The Astros have enjoyed a great season, which has been characterized by overcoming tough obstacles on their rise to the top. As a team, they have risen above many challenges including injuries, slumps and personal family matters.
   Coming into the regular season we were missing four of our key players from last year's playoff run against the Cardinals. Carlos Beltran, our center fielder, went to the Mets; Jeff Kent, our second baseman, to the LA Dodgers; Lance Berkman, our left fielder, was injured and out for the first part of the season; and Jeff Bagwell, our first baseman, was also injured and on the sidelines for the majority of the year. 
   Late in the regular season, tragedy struck the family of one of the players. On September 14, Bess Clemens, Roger's mother, passed away, ending a long battle with emphysema. Despite his profound loss, and being sleep deprived from staying up with her, Roger Clemens took the mound, dedicated the season to her and brought home a win for the Astros that night against the Marlins.
   The Astros began this season with an infield and an outfield that had many holes. The team filled those holes with a free agent and rookies. They rose to the challenge and the season ended with one of those newcomers a candidate for Rookie of the Year.
   Though many were skeptical about the Astros' chances this season, the team stayed true to the "never say die" Texas attitude. Before long, things began to turn around for the Astros, and the fans that never stopped believing.
   With so many challenges to Houston this year, including opening our doors to thousands of Hurricane Katrina victims and Hurricane Rita that struck our area, the Astros' success was a welcome celebration. These Astros embody the good character and moral decency of all Texans. Astros players contribute much to the community.
   Throughout the peaks and pitfalls of this season, the Astros exemplified the spirit of Texas. Texas' first baseball team won its first pennant race and will forever hold its place in history as the first team in Texas to make it to the World Series. Thank you Houston Astros. I look forward to next season and accomplishing another first - bringing home the title.
 
 