TEXAS' ENERGY LEADERSHIP, NOW AND FOR FUTURE
  For generations, Texans have taken great pride in our energy resources. Oil and gas production has fueled our state's growth and success. Yet, even in the 21st century, almost 75 percent of our electrical power is produced by burning the same fossil fuels our grandparents relied on. As alternative energy sources become more practical, we must expand our traditional leadership into these areas as well. By broadening our energy portfolio, we will strengthen our economy, safeguard our environment, and reduce our dangerous national dependence on foreign oil.
   One of the most promising of these alternatives is clean, safe and cost effective nuclear power. According to the Nuclear Energy Institute, it is the least expensive method of electric production at 1.7 cents per kilowatt hour. It does not produce potentially harmful air pollutants and employs virtually unlimited fuel sources. Advances in technology have made our homegrown nuclear power safer and more efficient than ever, and reduced the amount of waste they produce. More than 100 plants currently operate in 31 states.  
   Last week, NRG Energy, Inc. announced they had filed America's first application for a new nuclear power plant in almost 30 years. If approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, NRG's planned reactors in Bay City will use some of the safest new technologies and are expected to produce at least 2700 megawatts of electricity. That's enough to power more than 2 million Texas homes! Construction of the plant is also expected to generate $9 billion in economic benefit for Bay City and Texas.
   Power companies recognize the potential of nuclear technology, but for too long, the federal approval process for new plants has been prohibitively expensive and fraught with red tape. This has effectively halted the expansion of nuclear power in the United States, while other nations, like France, derive as much as 78 percent of their electricity from clean and safe nuclear plants.
   NRG's announcement is the result of legislation I strongly supported, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT). The Act streamlined the application process and provided meaningful incentives, like production credits and loan guarantees, for the construction of nuclear facilities. Since the signing of EPACT, 25 new reactors have been planned for sites all across America. Firms like NRG are stepping forward to provide new sources of safe, clean and abundant electrical power. Their initiative demonstrates important progress, but should be only the beginning of our renewed investment in nuclear energy.
   Presently, only about 10 percent of Texas' electricity comes from nuclear power. But judging by our past achievements in alternative energy, I know we can lead the way in this arena, too. Texas recently surpassed California as the top producer of wind energy in the nation. We have proven that wind generation is both practical and economically viable. Texas researchers are also taking a leading role in improving solar power, biofuels and even wave energy sources.
   These exciting technologies are driven by our most valuable natural resource-the power of American ingenuity. I introduced the Creating Renewable Energy through Science and Technology (CREST) Act of 2007 to capitalize on this asset and create a comprehensive, coordinated national research effort. Texas' research institutions are ideally situated to be leaders in this endeavor.
   Oil and gas will always be vital to our state and nation, but we must also explore the vast, untapped energy potential of our other resources. I will continue to advocate for increased use of underutilized assets like nuclear power that will help maintain Texas' energy leadership and America's energy security for generations to come.
 
 