TO THE MOON, MARS, AND BEYOND
  Since Alan Shepard became the first American to travel into space in 1968, our nation has sent men to walk on the Moon, robots to chart the surface of Mars, and spacecraft to explore the far reaches of the universe. Driven by a spirit of exploration and discovery, the developments of the past few weeks remind us of the breadth and scope of our space program.
   Today we are on the verge of an exciting new phase of exploration. The recent return of Space Shuttle Discovery to Earth capped a period of accomplishment for NASA. In early December, NASA announced its intentions to establish a permanent settlement at the south pole of the moon. A few days later, NASA scientists announced that a spacecraft orbiting Mars had discovered compelling evidence of water on Mars within the past seven years. And on December 9, Space Shuttle Discovery launched into the night sky on the latest mission to the International Space Station (ISS). 
   During NASA's 117th space shuttle flight, Discovery's seven-person crew rewired the ISS to establish a permanent electrical system. This new, more reliable power source will protect the groundbreaking scientific experiments being conducted in this unique national laboratory.
   Planning is underway to send astronauts back to the moon for the first time since 1972, and the proposed lunar settlement will serve as a ground station of sorts for future space travelers. NASA's goal to establish a permanent base on the moon is part of the long-range Vision for Exploration announced by President Bush in January 2004.
   NASA intends to build habitat and research facilities on the moon. The location currently under consideration is near the moon's south pole at the rim of the Shackleton Crater, aptly named for the legendary Antarctic explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton. As we develop self-sustaining habitats on the moon, we will use it as a base for observing both the Earth and the heavens beyond, and as a staging base for eventual human exploration of Mars.
   We have long been interested in Mars, and this lunar station may very well lead to more extensive understanding of the red planet. We hope to one day send human crews to the surface of Mars, and until that is possible, we will continue to study the planet through orbiting reconnaissance spacecraft and the Mars rovers, Spirit and Opportunity. Images provided by these hardy rovers allow for a far better understanding of the Martian environment.
   New before-and-after images taken from orbit suggest the potential flow of liquid water on the Martian surface. This could be an enormous discovery that would increase the possibility of finding existing, primitive forms of single-cell life at or near the surface of Mars. 
   We are entering an exciting time for our space program. The enactment of the NASA Authorization Act of 2005, which I drafted, allows for the initial testing of the launch systems to replace the space shuttle as the principal means of sending humans and cargo into space. Over the next three years, we will see the completion of the ISS and its transition to a fully functional national laboratory. We will also see the development of a host of privately-financed commercial ventures to explore and utilize the region of space closest to the earth, including some intended to help support the use of the ISS. By the middle of the next decade, we will witness the early landings of probes and sampling missions as we finalize our preparations to return humans to the moon's surface by 2020.
   The drive to explore and discover has resulted in constant human progress. Our space exploration has yielded enormous, specific benefits to us on Earth. We have seen important, life-saving medical breakthroughs in diagnostic tools and treatments for disease. Through the unique weightless environment of the shuttle and the ISS, we are acquiring a new understanding of the structure of cells and proteins that will be key to developing new drugs and cures for diseases. The development of new technologies and manufacturing techniques has created entire new industries on Earth.
   By expanding human civilization into the solar system, we may discover new sources for fuel and energy. Our work in space is truly an investment in mankind's future and in the improvement of the quality of life on Earth. The achievements of the next half-century promise to be even more astounding than the revolutionary advances we have witnessed since NASA's creation in 1958.
 
 