PROGRESS IN THE WAR ON TERROR: A FIRST-HAND REPORT
  Last week, I traveled to Iraq, Pakistan, and Afghanistan to evaluate the War on Terror, discuss diplomatic strategies with foreign leaders, and visit our brave troops. Undeniably, we are making dramatic progress in all those countries.
   Thanks to the leadership of General David Petraeus and the courage of our servicemen and women, the gains in Iraq have been particularly impressive. The murder rate in Baghdad has plunged by 80 percent, and Al-Qaeda has been routed in every neighborhood. Iraqi forces have formally taken control of security across much of the country, and violence is at its lowest level since 2003. Roadside bomb attacks have receded to a three-year low, while discoveries of "weapons caches" have more than doubled in the last year. The Iraqi Security Forces have grown to 440,000 trained and equipped. 
   There have also been noteworthy political developments in recent weeks. The Iraqi parliament has passed two laws that should go a long way toward bringing the Sunnis more fully into the governing process, and achieving national reconciliation. The first is a partial amnesty for political prisoners, 80 percent of whom are Sunni, in an effort to achieve reconciliation among the different sects. The other is a $48 billion national budget that allocates government revenue - about 85 percent of which is from oil - to the provinces, allowing more local control, and less from the central government. Taken together, the recent military and political news out of Iraq provides further evidence that our strategies must be determined by events in theater, not timetables set by politicians 6,000 miles away.
   In Baghdad, I also visited a local police station to witness the embedding of U.S. troops and Iraqi police. The Iraqis are taking more responsibility as they are being trained. As that transition moves forward, it will be a major step toward decreasing the U.S. presence in Iraq.
   While I was in Baghdad, I visited with Texas troops from Dyess Air Force Base, Fort Hood, the Red River Army Depot, and others from the Texas State National Guard. I always treasure the opportunity to speak with our state's heroes and personally thank them for their tremendous service. Although they remain confident of victory and morale is high, many troops are concerned about V.A. benefits when they return home. I will continue to do everything I can to make sure their needs are met once they leave the battlefield. A grateful nation must care for our fighting men and women even after the guns fall silent.
   In Pakistan, I met with President Pervez Musharraf and also the head of the opposition party that led in the recent elections. During these discussions, I expressed my hope that Pakistan and the United States can continue to build our partnership in the fight against terrorism. In addition, I encouraged the Pakistani leaders to work together to resolve their disputes, and put together a coalition government to strengthen the democracy. A stable, democratic, and terror-free Pakistan is in everyone's interest.
   I also traveled to Afghanistan, where I received military briefings at Bagram Air Force Base and met with many of our courageous service members.
   Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Guardsmen have sacrificed greatly to keep us safe and free, and we must continue to support them as they complete their mission. If we allow al-Qaeda to assume control of Iraq or Afghanistan, the terrorists will escalate their attacks against America and other free countries. Given the high stakes, a premature withdrawal from that part of the world would be short-sighted, irresponsible, and detrimental.
   Looking ahead, we must maintain our resolve to win the War on Terror, using the military to hunt down terrorists wherever they live, while also using diplomacy in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Iraq to promote peace and democracy in that region. Although some politicians may call for surrender, I remain committed to victory, so that future generations may experience the same freedom that past generations gave to us.
   Kay Bailey Hutchison is the senior U.S. Senator from Texas.
 
 