CONGRESS MUST CONSIDER THE RULE OF LAW AS IT REVIEWS NOMINEES FOR THE SUPREME COURT
  Whenever I have visited an emerging democracy, I have noticed consistency on two points: first, everybody easily understands the need for democratic voting and free speech; second, they have a much harder time understanding the rule of law, which is just as essential for a democracy to function. 
   I once met with members of the Russian Duma and emphasized how eager Americans were for Russia's fledgling democracy to succeed. One member replied, "No you don't. Americans are not investing here."  
   I replied that for American companies to invest, there has to be an independent judiciary and respect for the rule of law, so the state cannot easily confiscate private property. This was extremely difficult for the Russian parliamentarians to understand. 
   We have grown up in the United States in a society of laws, not of men. We take that concept for granted. In most emerging democracies, the rule of law is an alien idea, almost incomprehensible. But if you want democracy to succeed, it must harness the two concepts of individual rights and majority rule - and it can do this only through respect for the rule of law. 
   The rule of law involves four basic requirements: Equality under the law; a respect for individual rights; an independent and honest judiciary; and transparent court proceedings. 
   This concept was built into our Constitution which established the judiciary as a co-equal branch with the legislative and the executive. Because of this, the Supreme Court can strike down laws through "judicial review" if it decides the law violates our supreme law, the Constitution. 
   Judicial review provides courts with a great deal of power which some people believe has been abused. Some believe the courts have taken judicial review so far that some judges are legislating from the bench rather than interpreting and implementing the laws passed by elected representatives. If the public begins to view the courts simply as a different avenue for partisan political contests, instead of a fair arbitrator of legal questions, their faith in the impartial rule of law will erode. 
   This would be an unhealthy development. Many times in our history, court rulings have been unpopular, but the general respect accorded to the law allowed the public to accept its decisions. 
   The importance of the courts explains why we must take the replacement of retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor very seriously. The Senate has a responsibility to examine the president's nominees closely to determine whether they are qualified by experience, knowledge and temperament to sit on the high court. 
   The Constitution says Congress should ascertain whether the nominee is qualified and fair, not fight to make sure he or she has a certain set of approved views on a laundry list of hot-button political issues. If this process is perceived by people as a partisan contest, it will only serve to diminish the respect the people have for the justice the court is expected to deliver. This could further erode the respect for the rule of law which buttresses our government and legal system. 
   This concept is so important to the stable functioning of representative government that I joined with the Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law to establish a Rule of Law program to bring jurists and officials from developing countries to the United States. The hope of all who participate in this program is that our foreign guests will build their understanding of the rule of law, and help this vital principle take root in their countries and foster the growth of strong and stable democracies around the world.
 
 