SEN. HUTCHISON ADDRESSES TEXAS HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE
  At the Texas Hospital Association's (THA) leadership conference in Austin, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) discussed legislation she introduced to better support teaching hospitals and her efforts to pass the medical liability reform bill. 
   Sen. Hutchison reaffirmed her commitment to America's teaching hospitals and promised to continue her efforts to address their financial distress. These hospitals have higher costs due to expenses associated with training future health care professionals and treating numerous uninsured patients. Due to these additional expenses, teaching hospitals receive Indirect Medical Education (IME) reimbursements to help with inpatient care. Sen. Hutchison led the fight to increase IME payments. She introduced legislation this year to permanently establish the IME rate at 6 percent. The legislation would give the 61 teaching hospitals in Texas approximately $188 million annually, providing nearly $3.1 million per hospital. If Congress does not enact her legislation, teaching hospitals in Texas stand to lose more than $14.3 million annually beginning in fiscal year 2008.
   "America's teaching hospitals serve a vital role in training future medical professionals and providing invaluable care for countless patients. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Health and Human Services, I am committed to enhancing our nation's health care system. Uncompensated treatment is a heavy financial burden on these centers. By maintaining IME payments at a set rate, we will help ensure our nation has the best medical facilities and health practitioners for years to come," Sen. Hutchison said.
   Sen. Hutchison also noted that physicians are being forced to limit their services or retire, due to skyrocketing insurance premiums. Quality patient care is being threatened across the board, particularly for Ob/Gyn practices. "We've been working to pass legislation to ensure patients have access to medical services, but partisan delay tactics have put the effort on hold. It's time to bring this crisis to an end," Sen. Hutchison said.
   The Texas Hospital Association, founded in 1930, represents more than 85 percent of Texas health care organizations. The THA offers career-developing programs for health care professionals and serves as a resource on Texas hospitals' patient and financial data.
 
 