VETERANS DAY IS A DAY TO REMEMBER SACRIFICES
  From the brave last stand at the Alamo in 1836, to rugged Monte Casino during World War II, to the desert sands of Iraq, Texans have earned a reputation for not backing down in the fight for freedom even when it may cost them their lives. It is to honor these brave soldiers that we celebrate Veteran's Day, and take time to remember so much given on our behalf. 
   Texas has our nation's third-largest veteran community, according to the 2000 census. Over 1.7 million of our 26.5 million veterans live in the Lone Star state. Texas is also home to a large number of defense facilities, with over 114,000 military personnel stationed in our bases. Texans serve around the globe, on land, sea and air, defending this nation and all who value freedom. As we pay our respects this Veteran's Day, I hope we will also pause to show them our gratitude as well.
   I try to express my thanks to our veterans by doing my part in Congress, where I serve on the Veterans Affairs Committee. There I have worked with my colleagues to ensure we provide our veterans the best possible resources and care. In recent years, we've passed a range of legislation that addressed the needs of our veteran community: the Veterans' Opportunities Act, which created new life insurance and health care benefits for up to two million eligible spouses and children of veterans; the Homeless Veterans Comprehensive Assistance Act that authorized $1 billion to aid homeless veterans and prevent others from becoming homeless; and the Veterans Education and Benefits Expansion Act, which authorized more than $3.1 billion over five years to expand and increase educational, housing, burial and disability benefits.
   Earlier we introduced legislation to assist Medicare-eligible veterans struggling with the costs of prescription medications. And, we have continued to pass strong Defense and Military Construction appropriations bills to ensure our troops are fully equipped to face the enemy.
   Fighting in distant lands can be lonely and trying for troops who miss home. Yet every day we see more evidence of a "can do" spirit and Texas ingenuity to help bridge the gap between our troops and their loved ones. Eighteen-year-old Victor Roger's dad proudly saw him graduate from high school in Belton even though his father is serving in Baghdad. Several enterprising high schools in the Fort Hood vicinity hooked up a video system to allow proud parents and their children see each other on graduation day. If anyone wants to talk about family values, they should look at our men and women in uniform.
   And speaking of values, it is good to know that the courage that burned in the soldiers of the Alamo still shines brightly. Sgt. Pamela Osbourne used to call her husband Rohan almost every day from her supply depot in Baghdad. Her last conversation with her husband is poignant. "Hold your head up, baby," she said. "I'm coming home. Even if I come home in a box, you should know that I did it for you. Take care of the kids. Stay strong. And remember that I love you."
   Unfortunately, she and a fellow soldier were killed the next day in a mortar attack. Sgt. Osbourne joined the ranks of those veterans who have died so we may remain free. An immigrant who came to our country at age 14, she had two goals; to become a citizen and to serve in the Army. In fulfilling her dream, she made that ultimate sacrifice.
   Her devotion to her adopted country reflects the fierce loyalty which makes America the greatest nation on earth. This Veterans Day, Americans pay tribute to those extraordinary men and women who in every war have unfailingly answered the call to duty. Their memories will remain part of the fabric of our nation forever. To our veterans and their families: Thank you and God bless you.
 
 