SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES NEW PROGRAM TO ENHANCE AMBER ALERT SYSTEMS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) joined SBC Communications, Inc. Chairman and CEO Ed Whitacre today as the company announced a donation through the SBC Foundation of $1 million to provide technology grants to enhance law enforcement's management and dissemination of Amber Alerts. 
   Sen. Hutchison enacted legislation last year to establish a nationwide communications warning network for child abduction cases. This program was inspired by the Amber Alert system that originated in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, when broadcasters teamed with local police to develop an early warning system to help find abducted children. The system was established as a legacy to 9 year-old Amber Hagerman of Arlington, Texas, who was kidnapped and murdered in 1996.
   "I am a strong supporter of the Amber Alert system and worked to promote its benefits both in Texas and Washington," Sen. Hutchison said. "This grant initiative will be a valuable companion to my bill implementing a nationwide alert system. Accurate and timely information is essential when searching for a missing child. History shows that acting quickly in the hours after an abduction can make all the difference. This program will give Texas law enforcement new allies to help them return kids safely to their homes. I deeply appreciate SBC's generosity and continued commitment to public service."
   SBC Communications worked with 13 states to organize a new network paging system that sends these alerts to SBC technicians in the field. SBC has pledged its support to statewide alert plans in Texas, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Kansas, Missouri, Nevada, Ohio, Oklahoma and Wisconsin, and the company is working to initiate the program in Indiana and Michigan. The company is further supporting the Amber Alert system through the national $1 million SBC Excelerator Amber Alert grant from the SBC Foundation. This program is invitational and intended for law enforcement agencies in each of the 13 SBC states with responsibility for the Amber alert programs. The participating states may receive funds for projects that use technology to disseminate and manage Amber Alerts.
 
 