MEDICARE STRIDES FORWARD INTO THE NEW YEAR
  When the confetti falls and toasts are made to the New Year on January 1, 2006, Medicare prescription drug coverage will begin. Prescription drugs have revolutionized healthcare. Many illnesses that previously required regular and expensive trips to the doctor or even surgery now can be treated by taking prescription drugs. Heart bypass surgery can cost $60,000-80,000. It risks further endangering a patient's life, can be a traumatic experience, and requires substantial time for recovery. But the advent of many new prescription drugs has eliminated the need for many people to undergo serious procedures by lowering cholesterol before such surgery is needed. 
   Preventing the full onset of heart disease and other illnesses simultaneously improves an individual's health and lowers the total cost of treatment. Most health insurance plans help pay for such drugs. Yet, many people have found that when they retire and move from their employer's insurance coverage to Medicare, they lose their prescription drug coverage.
   In Texas, 57 percent of the Medicare population - primarily anyone 65 or older - was without prescription drug coverage. They were forced either to pay out of pocket for drugs their doctors recommended or to wait until their condition worsened and required surgery.
   Recognizing the need to change the status quo, President Bush and Congress discussed ways to provide our seniors with better healthcare options at more reasonable prices. Congress passed the Medicare Modernization Act and the president signed it into law. The centerpiece of this act, the Prescription Drug Benefit, more than doubles the number of people with drug benefit coverage, jumping from 43 percent of the Medicare population to 96 percent. 
   The new prescription drug coverage, referred to as Medicare Part D, increases the focus on preventive care and disease management. It is expected to reduce seniors' annual pharmaceutical spending by more than 50 percent. Under the act, insurance companies and other private companies are working with Medicare to negotiate discounts on drug prices. Those with the lowest incomes will not have to pay a monthly premium or annual deductible. Others will have an average monthly premium of approximately $32 and an annual deductible of $250. 
   Some critics claimed that the plans offered would not be affordable. But the increased competition has resulted in greater savings for consumers, making plan costs more reasonable. Monthly premiums are 13.5 percent lower than originally anticipated, with beneficiaries in Texas having access to at least one plan with premiums below $20 per month. 
   Under current estimates, the new coverage will save a typical individual 44 percent on their out-of-pocket spending on prescription drugs. Low-income individuals will save substantially more.
   To maximize your benefits, take a moment to learn about your options and consider which plan will benefit you the most. There are a number of websites designed to help you compare. The place to start is www.medicare.gov. There you will find the different plans available in Texas, as well as the deductible and fees associated with that plan. You can even enter a list of drugs you take regularly, enter your dose of each drug and have the website create a list of plans that offer your drugs.
   If you do not have internet access or you have trouble using the website, you might visit your local library, where a librarian can assist you in navigating the site. Consider consulting your local pharmacist; some pharmacies will look at your current prescriptions and help you with your choices. Alternatively, you can learn about the new benefits by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). (TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048.) You can also obtain information from the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213 or by visiting www.socialsecurity.gov.
   The sooner you sign up for the prescription drug program, the sooner you can start exercising your program benefits. Those who sign up by December 31, 2005 will have their coverage start on January 1, 2006. Even people who already have coverage under their current plan should at least look into the new options to see if they can do better. Those currently holding a Medicare-approved discount drug card will see that card expire on May 15, 2006. And individuals presently eligible who fail to sign up before that date will see their premiums rise.
   Begin to investigate your options now to avoid higher costs later.
 
 