REDUCING INCOME INEQUALITY THROUGH EDUCATION
  During a recent speech in New York City, President Bush brought much-needed attention to the issue of income inequality in America. For the past 25 years, the distribution of income has become more disproportionate, and the reason is clear. While we have an economy that increasingly rewards education, too many young Americans have not been able to seize available educational opportunities.
   Success in the 21st century requires advanced skills, and our government has a responsibility to ensure that every citizen has an equal opportunity to reach the highest development of their individual abilities. Specifically, we must recharge our education system so the next generation of American workers can compete and excel in a highly competitive global economy. 
   This month, I am speaking at the Statewide Education Summit in Austin on how we can improve our education system, and in turn, strengthen our economic competitiveness. This conference is organized by the Texas Public Education Reform Foundation, which has been a strong leader in promoting positive change in our state's education system, from K-12 and beyond. By collaborating with educators, business leaders, and public officials, the foundation serves as a common voice for school improvement efforts.
   A key topic at this year's education summit is the No Child Left Behind Act, which is scheduled for Congressional re-authorization this year. This effort is rooted in the principle that high academic standards and accountability are the best means to raise student performance. I believe that our own experience in Texas - as one of the first states to adopt a standards-based system - has proven that this is the right approach. 
   I am committed to working with state educators to improve the No Child Left Behind legislation. In particular, I believe we need to cut red tape and bureaucracy, restore flexibility, and move the decision-making power out of Washington and closer to parents and teachers. Going forward, we need to liberate teachers and parents in each of our states while preserving the high academic standards and accountability that are at the heart of No Child Left Behind. I am confident that if we mend, but not end, No Child Left Behind, it can continue to produce positive results in our schools.
   There are other ways to improve America's education system. I have taken a lead role in the National American Competitiveness Initiative, a bipartisan effort to increase research investment and strengthen educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and critical foreign languages. Our legislation would provide incentives for students to major in these critical areas and teach in high school and for current teachers to advance their educations in their teaching subject by getting graduate degrees.
   This initiative also establishes partnerships between national laboratories and local high schools to build centers of excellence in math and science education. I have initiated similar efforts in Texas, where universities come together to form centers of excellence and collaborate rather than compete.
   During the 109th Congress, I supported the authorization of additional Pell grants. More than $4.5 billion over five years in bonus grants are now available to Pell-qualified students who study math, science or foreign languages deemed critical for our national security. President Bush's new budget proposes to increase the annual Pell grant next year by $550, to a maximum of $4,600, and I will support this expansion when it comes before the Senate.
   Education has always been a gateway to economic success in America. But as technology develops and global competition increases, education is even more critical for young people to advance. We want to significantly reduce the income inequality gap and give more of our citizens a chance to share in the American dream.
 
 