SEN. HUTCHISON ISSUES STATEMENT ON BUSH'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today issued the following statement in response to President Bush's State of the Union address: 
   "President Bush laid out an ambitious and comprehensive plan to make the United States a safer and more prosperous nation over the next four years. Tonight he displayed the vision and leadership that the American people expect and deserve in our President. Clearly, his second term will be devoted to making the state of our Union stronger than it has ever been.
   "First and foremost, our commander-in-chief will see the war on terrorism through. The Iraqi people recently demonstrated their courage and commitment to democracy. Those elections delivered a significant blow to the terrorists and a victory for liberty and self-government in the Middle East. The United States will continue to help protect the Iraqi people until their security forces can take over.
   "The President is also right to make strengthening Social Security a top priority. The addition of voluntary, personal accounts will allow younger workers to earn a greater rate of return and make this successful program even better. He committed that current and near retirees will receive all of the benefits they have been promised.
   "There are a number of other domestic priorities that deserve our support. To ensure continued prosperity, we need to extend and make permanent tax relief, especially from the marriage penalty; we need common sense legal reform to plug this drain on our economy; and we need a national energy policy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and to create jobs at home.
   "On November 2nd, the American people made clear their disdain for partisan politics. In this new Congress, I am hopeful we can work together to address some of the most pressing issues facing our nation. Tonight President Bush charted the course and I look forward to working in Congress to support his agenda."
 
 