A SOVEREIGN IRAQ
  From the moment the first bomb dropped in Baghdad last March marking the launch of Operation Iraqi Freedom, our nation's dialogue has centered on seeing the mission through to a successful end. Since declaring a date for the official transfer of power, American and Iraqi diplomatic and military leaders have been preparing the nation for the June 30th handover.  
   Late Night Surprise
   However, on June 28, we awoke to the news that sovereignty had traded hands during the night - two days ahead of schedule and under a cloak of secrecy. The early transfer was an inspired step and a testament to how far the budding government has come under the newly minted leadership of President Ghazi Al-Yawer and Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. 
   Officials cited security concerns and the threat of attacks by insurgents as the principal reason for the change and, in addition, the new Iraqi government said they were ready to take the reins of their nation's future. Iraqis had already been in control of all ministries, from defense to electricity, and this official transfer was the final symbolic act, dissolving the Coalition Provisional Authority and solidifying Iraqi control. The swiftness and ease with which the handover took place was an early, hopeful sign that the interim government was prepared to run the country.
   The U.S. goal in Iraq was never one of occupation. The goal was the removal of Saddam Hussein and the threat he posed to the U.S. and the entire free world. Within hours of the departure of Iraq's acting administrator, Paul Bremer, the new U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, John Negroponte, landed in Baghdad and took his seat as our nation's envoy to the fledgling Republic. 
   A New Beginning
   In a Washington Post column that ran hours before the handover, Prime Minister Ayad Allawi clearly captured the vision for the nation's future when he wrote, ''We want a free, democratic Iraq that will be a source of peace and stability for the region and the whole world." Yet within that same breath of optimism, he also recognized the enormity of the task that lies ahead. "The challenges are great, and the stakes are high, both for Iraq and the world. We must not underestimate the magnitude of the task that lies ahead. Despite the hardships, we Iraqis are determined to work together and assume responsibility for our country. ... With these efforts, God willing, Iraq will take its rightful place among the free and prosperous nations of the world."
   To move forward with these goals the interim government has outlined the following goals:
   * Establish security
   * Address the dire economic situation
   * Develop a strong and independent judicial system
   * Accelerate the nation's political process and march toward democracy
   These four goals will not be met overnight and they won't occur without international support. U.S. troops will remain in Iraq in an effort to achieve the first goal and assure the remaining can take root. It is our hope that other nations who have stood on the sidelines will see the progress in Iraq and step up to the plate. We did receive welcome news that the North American Treaty Organization (NATO) has agreed to help train Iraq's security forces, but it is also time for NATO to send troops to support the critical mission of stopping the terrorists. 
   It is clear that we have more work to do, most notably to stamp out the treacherous attacks against innocent Iraqis and U.S. soldiers. But, with this important transfer of power, we are closer to establishing a fully democratic Iraq and sending an unequivocal message to the terrorists that their tactics will fail and their time is up.
 
 