SEN. HUTCHISON COMMENTS ON DEDICATION OF WORLD WAR II VETERANS MEMORIAL
  Senate floor statement of Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison:
   MRS. HUTCHISON. Madam President, last weekend thousands of Americans flocked to our National Mall to pay tribute to the "greatest generation." It was the dedication, as we all know, of the World War II Memorial.  
   It has now been 59 years since the end of the Second World War, and at long last our Nation has a place that honors the 16 million who served in our Armed Forces, the more than 400,000 who died, and the millions who supported the war effort here at home. 
   I was touched that those who served at home also were honored because that war brought our Nation together as we had never seen before, and perhaps since. 
   I can think of no more appropriate honor than to recognize their commitment, dedication, and sacrifice with a permanent memorial to the men and women who fought to secure our freedom and stamp out Nazi tyranny.
   Today we are honoring those Members of this esteemed body who fought for our freedoms in World War II. Of the 114 Senators who have served in the war, I have been privileged to serve with 15 of them. Six are here with me today. 
   DANNY AKAKA served in World War II with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as a welder-mechanic. 
   ERNEST HOLLINGS graduated from The Citadel in 1942 and received a commission from the U.S. Army. He served as an officer in the North African and European campaigns in World War II, receiving the Bronze Star and seven campaign ribbons. 
   FRANK LAUTENBERG enlisted in the Army straight out of high school and served in the Army Signal Corps in Europe during World War II. 
   TED STEVENS, during World War II, was a pilot in the China-Burma-India theater, supporting the Flying Tigers of the 14th Air Force. He received two Distinguished Flying Crosses, two Air Medals, and a medal awarded from the Republic of China. Today he is chairman of the Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Committee. 
   JOHN WARNER entered the Navy at age 17, and served on active duty in World War II. He went on to serve as a marine in the Korean War, and served in the Department of Defense for 5 years during the Vietnam war. Later, he served our country as Secretary of the Navy, and now serves as the distinguished chairman of the Armed Services Committee of the Senate. 
   DANNY INOUYE served in combat with the legendary "Go for Broke" unit in World War II, achieving the rank of captain and earning the Nation's very highest award for military service, the Congressional Medal of Honor. He also earned a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart with cluster. He is the ranking member on the Defense Appropriations Committee. 
   Two of Texas' recent Senators, Lloyd Bentsen and John Tower, were both proud Texans and veterans of World War II. 
   Three of our Nation's Commanders in Chief, who served in the Senate - Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon - also fought as part of the "greatest generation." 
   For anyone who has read Tom Brokaw's book "The Greatest Generation," the stories of those who fought the bitter and brutal fight and then returned home to their families and went about their lives as if it were no big deal are today still sources of great inspiration to all of us because they had the commitment to do what was right, to answer the call to duty, to return without a complaint, with no second guessing, no protests. That was the mark of the "greatest generation." 
   Some of them went back to the factories and the fields, and back to their desks, and they did not even expect praise or admiration. Some went into public service. Those we have mentioned today did and are doing a wonderful job carrying the mantle of public service. They brought with them the scars of war, and they carry the mantle of freedom. 
   Bob Dole, with whom all of us served as well, what a great leader and what a great hero of World War II. 
   Strom Thurmond, once chairman of the Armed Services Committee, served, at the age of 40, in World War II and had to miss the 50th anniversary of D-day because his son was graduating from high school. What a legend. 
   I am honored to stand here and look around this fabulous room, these hallowed halls, and pay tribute to every one of you who gave me the right to stand here, and who will be forever in my heart because you are continuing to do so much for our country. I want you to know I believe without the great leadership you provided, neither my children nor I would know the freedom we know today. We do stand on the shoulders of giants, and we salute you.
   Madam President, my distinguished colleague, the Senator who is the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said I forgot President George Bush, who also was a hero in World War II. That is certainly a huge omission, and I apologize, and thank you, I say to the Senator, for letting me set the record straight.
 
 