SEN. HUTCHISON CELEBRATES ANNUAL TEXAS INDEPENDENCE DAY TRADITION
  Texas' senior Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) continued her annual Texas Independence Day tradition of reading a letter from Alamo Commander Col. William Barret Travis on the U.S. Senate floor.  
   Colonel William Travis, commander of the besieged Alamo, wrote the letter to the people of Texas during the fight for Independence. The tradition of reading this letter to the United States Senate on Texas Independence Day began with the late John G. Tower who served in the Senate between 1961 and 1985.
   "It is an honor to carry on the tradition of reading William Barret Travis' letter from the Alamo on the 171st anniversary of the signing of the Texas Declaration of Independence. The document is rooted in my own family history-signed by my great-great-grandfather, Charles S. Taylor, and his friend Thomas Rusk, who first held the Senate seat that I now hold," Sen. Hutchison said. "Texans are raised with the same honor and tradition that was forged by our ancestors and the Texas flag still waves as proudly today as it did over the wall of the Alamo 171 years ago." 
   The letter follows:
   "Fellow Citizens and Compatriots: I am besieged with a thousand or more of the Mexicans under Santa Anna. I have sustained a continual bombardment and cannonade for 24 hours and have not lost a man. The enemy has demanded surrender at discretion, otherwise, the garrison is to be put to the sword, if the fort is taken. I have answered the demand with a cannon shot, and our flag still waves proudly over the wall. I shall never surrender or retreat.
   Then I call on you in the name of Liberty, of patriotism, of everything dear to the American character, to come to our aid with all dispatch. The enemy is receiving reinforcements daily and will no doubt increase to three or four thousand in four or five days. If this call is neglected I am determined to sustain myself as long as possible and die like a soldier who never forgets what is due his honor and that of his country-Victory or Death.
   - William Barret Travis, Lt. Col. Commander."
 
 