SEN. HUTCHISON CELEBRATES ANNUAL TEXAS INDEPENDENCE DAY TRADITION
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today continued the annual Texas Independence Day tradition of reading a letter from Alamo Commander Colonel William Barret Travis on the U.S. Senate floor. Sen. Hutchison also spoke about the recent commissioning of the U.S.S. San Antonio - the first of nine planned amphibious assault ships in the new San Antonio class - as an example of Texas' historical role in fighting for freedom. Sen. Hutchison is the sponsor of the ship and spoke at its commissioning.  
   Colonel William Travis, commander of the besieged Alamo, wrote the letter to the people of Texas during the fight for Independence. The tradition of reading this letter to the United States Senate on Texas Independence Day began with the late John G. Tower who served in the Senate between 1961 and 1985.
   "Today is Texas' 170th anniversary of the signing of the Texas Declaration of Independence, a document signed by my great-great-grandfather, Charles S. Taylor, and his friend Thomas Rusk, who first held the Senate seat that I now hold," Sen. Hutchison said. "We celebrate Texas Independence Day every single year because we know that fighting for freedom has made a difference in what Texas is." 
  The letter follows:
   "Fellow Citizens and Compatriots: I am besieged with a thousand or more of the Mexicans under Santa Anna. I have sustained a continual Bombardment and cannonade for 24 hours and have not lost a man. The enemy has demanded surrender at discretion, otherwise, the garrison is to be put to the sword, if the fort is taken. I have answered the demand with a cannon shot, and our flag still waves proudly over the wall. I shall never surrender or retreat.
   Then I call on you in the name of Liberty, of patriotism, of everything dear to the American character, to come to our aid with all dispatch. The enemy is receiving reinforcements daily and will no doubt increase to three or four thousand in four or five days. If this call is neglected I am determined to sustain myself as long as possible and die like a soldier who never forgets what is due his honor and that of his country-Victory or Death.
   - William Barret Travis, Lt. Col. Commander. "
   The motto of the U.S.S. San Antonio contains words from Colonel Travis' letter, "Never retreat, never surrender."
 
 