TEXAN VIRTUE IN RESPONSE TO NATURAL DISASTER
  Texas is a state affected by many natural disasters. We have everything from hurricanes and flash floods to draughts and tornadoes. Natural disasters kill people and destroy property. They also reveal something about who we really are down deep.  
   Whenever natural disasters are looming, our first effort is do whatever we can to protect the people they threaten. After the event, we try to help those affected recover and move on with their lives. We also want to take a step back and see what we lessons we can learn. We need to examine the event and determine what measures will minimize the harm from similar events in the future. 
   Texas has been hit by some powerful hurricanes such as Bret in 1999, Alicia in 1983, and Allen in 1980; but the most powerful hurricane to hit the state in the twentieth century was the one that slammed into Galveston in 1900. According to some estimates, that storm had winds of 100 mph that peaked as high as 150 mph. It killed over 8,000 people, 25 percent of the population, and destroyed more than 3,600 homes on Galveston Island. Some Texans displayed remarkable courage: four men spent hours in a row boat pulling people from debris-filled water saving as many as 200 lives. After the storm, the city built a six-mile-long seawall that was later extended. 
   Growing up in Galveston County, I lived through Carla and other hurricanes. I have never forgotten the experience of driving to my parents' house because we had not heard from them. Telephone service was out, so we packed our car with water and other supplies and drove to their home. As we approached, we saw more and more of the hurricane's destruction. Finally, we reached their battered house, and fortunately found them unharmed. 
   Texas also has also had to deal with some devastating tornadoes. Back in 1997, we had a fierce tornado in Jarrell. The funnel cloud was as big as three-quarters of a mile wide and had winds of well over 200 mph. It killed 27 people in a town of just 700, destroyed at least 50 homes, including one entire subdivision. People described cars being flung about in the air. One place the tornado crossed the road it ripped off 500 feet of asphalt. Before dissipating, the tornado had caused $20 million in damage. Our countrymen showed us their generosity, sending $1.3 million and over 400 volunteers from 15 states to help Jarrell recover. 
   Dealing with these disasters has made Texans both tough and compassionate. Whenever people encounter adversity, they are forced to make a decision about how to respond. So often, Texans have stood tall, displaying virtue in the heat of the moment. When battered by a hurricane, Texans have increased their resolve, battling the elements to survive. When threatened by funnel clouds, they have reacted with bravery and risked their lives to save the lives of others. And after the moment of danger has passed, they have showed kindness and generosity in helping neighbors get back on their feet. 
   Recently, hurricane Katrina barreled up the Gulf Coast, striking our neighbors, and dealing them a powerful blow. Approximately 80 percent of the city of New Orleans was covered in water, and thousands of people suddenly found themselves homeless and with no one to turn to. In the midst of this great misfortune, my heart was warmed by the many Texans who opened their arms and their homes to their fellow Americans. Public institutions, many churches and charities, and numerous individuals provided food, shelter, and money for those escaping the hurricane's devastation. In one story that was particularly touching, a Texas couple who had just moved into their new home took their old home off the market in order to provide shelter to a family of nine in the months ahead. In another part of Texas, one company offered about 40 vacant apartments in a retirement community, plus food, transportation, and housekeeping for no charge. 
   Know that when I am working in Washington, you repeatedly make me proud to be from the Lone Star State. I am honored be your senator. When I am working with other senators, it is not unusual for me to look over and see a confident gleam in their eyes because they know that, when the chips are down, they have a true friend in Texas. 
   There are still ways that you can help our neighbors who have been hurt by hurricane Katrina. While all assistance is appreciated, generally donations of money are more helpful than donations of food and clothing. Money can be used to buy exactly what is most urgently needed, including perishable food and medicine. Donations of money also save the costs of transporting goods to where they are needed most. Some reliable charities include the Salvation Army (www.salvationarmyusa.org/USNSAHome.htm), Church World Service (www.churchworldservice.org/news/katrina/), and the American Red Cross (www.redcross.org/). Donations of time and energy also provide important assistance and give you a meaningful connection to those you are helping. As of this date, three of our major cities are setting up huge sites for hurricane evacuees. To volunteer, call your local Red Cross office. 
   Finally, do not forget to be prepared for a natural disaster yourself. Be sure you have survival kits in your home and car, and you refresh them from time to time with new food and batteries. For specific suggestions on what to put in survival kits, go to www.fema.gov/rrr/emprep.shtm. Also, be sure that you follow the directions of local government officials, especially their warnings to evacuate when necessary.
 
 