SEN. HUTCHISON: EXPLORATION, DISCOVERY, AMERICA'S FUTURE
  Among the bills that received final approval from Congress in the hours before it adjourned for the year was legislation to authorize continued funding for NASA. It was the first time in five years Congress has spoken so emphatically in support of the vision for the next generation of space exploration and research, including affirmation of the goal to put a permanent base on the moon. 
   The authorization bill provides a policy blueprint for NASA. I believe it is significant that an overwhelming number of my colleagues in the House of Representatives and the Senate recognized that the pathways of exploration and discovery outlined in the legislation merited their endorsement.
   By supporting the bill, Congress has placed a stamp of approval on completion of the International Space Station and on moving forward with the transition to a new generation of crew exploration vehicles. In addition, NASA now has Congressional guidance on its activities related to research, science, education and aeronautics. 
   But perhaps most important, passage of the legislation - and the implicit support for the science and engineering expertise contained within it - may be seen as evidence of Congress' determination to address one of the most important challenges looming in front of our nation.
   America's preeminence since World War II has rested upon the bedrock of its economic dominance. Our economy, in turn, has depended upon a continued flow of technological and scientific advances for its strength. Increasingly, the edge that we have enjoyed in such a crucial area is being challenged by other nations. If we do not meet this challenge, not only will NASA's leadership be at risk, but so will America's.
   Thankfully, leaders from our political, business, scientific and academic communities are beginning to tackle this problem. The National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the Institute of Medicine, have created the "Committee on Prospering in the Global Economy of the 21st Century." The committee is expected to soon release the final version of its study "Rising Above the Gathering Storm."
   The committee cites a number of what it terms "worrisome indicators" that point to the decline in educational emphasis on science and mathematics. For example, in 2004, China graduated about 500,000 engineers and India 200,000. Here at home, we had only 70,000 such graduates.
   U.S. 12th graders have performed below the international average of 21 countries on a test designed to measure general knowledge in mathematics and science. In 2007, for the first time, the most advanced high-energy particle accelerator will not be in the United States. In a prepublication summary, the committee notes that it is "...deep(ly) concerned that the scientific and technical building blocks of our economic leadership are eroding at a time when many other nations are gathering strength." The committee urges our nation to "... prepare with great urgency to preserve its strategic and economic security." 
   My colleagues and I are ready to act on a number of the recommendations made by the committee. This issue is not political; it is not partisan. There is already emerging in Congress a willingness to embark on a serious effort to ensure that America maintains creative leadership in the world. 
   We will make an effort to recruit annually 10,000 science and math teachers in middle and high school, offering four year college scholarships as an incentive. New training and education programs will be developed to strengthen the skills of current teachers and additional federal resources will be allocated for research activities in the hard sciences. 
   I will continue to write about this important initiative as the year progresses. Few policy debates will be more important to our country's security and our children's future. As Chairman of the Space and Science Subcommittee in the Senate, I intend to push for America's leadership and superiority to continue through this century.
 
 