PROTECTING OUR CHILDREN ONLINE
  The expansion of the Internet has ushered in a world of unlimited opportunity. Nearly 80 percent of Americans are online, and almost two-thirds use the Internet at home. The Internet provides businesses access to new markets, students access to new ideas, and friends and family members access to one another. The ease and speed with which information travels today is unprecedented - and is getting faster everyday. Along with the many advances offered by the Internet, however, we must confront the new and daunting challenges it brings.  
   As our children are exposed to the Internet at an early age, predators are a dangerous threat to their safety. There are thousands of predators prowling online at any given moment, and each year, one in every five children receives an unwanted sexual solicitation online.
   This is a frightening reality which we must confront as explicit material becomes increasingly available online. Since 1996, the FBI has documented a 2,000 percent increase in the amount of child pornography on the Internet, and 25 percent of all children have been exposed to unwanted sexually explicit material, according to a study conducted by the Department of Justice. These numbers are alarming, and we must act to protect our children so they can safely use the Internet as an educational tool without being in danger.
   I am currently co-sponsoring the Internet SAFETY Act to shield our children from these aggressive predators. This legislation provides law enforcement officials with additional resources to prosecute adults who create and distribute child pornography. Under this bill, it will become a federal crime to produce or knowingly facilitate transmission of child pornography and to financially support or operate child pornography sites. It will also increase existing penalties for child pornography, child prostitution and sex trafficking.
   The Department of Justice's Project Safe Childhood Report, published in May, outlines the most dangerous ramifications of the increasing child exploitation via the Internet. In addition to posting offensive graphics and vulgar videos, Internet predators are now attempting to lure children into face-to-face meetings. Each year, one in 33 children receives a sexual solicitation to meet the predator in person. Unfortunately, only one out of four targeted children reports such an advance to their parents.
   The Internet SAFETY Act creates an Office on Sexual Violence and Crimes against Children within the Department of Justice to further support the protection of our children. The Department of Justice will also provide over $14 million this year to support regional Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Forces. This national network of 46 ICACs, which includes a unit in Dallas and a newly created unit serving South Texas, cooperatively targets online child pornographers.
   Prosecuting Internet pornographers not only reduces the amount of sexually explicit material currently available online but also prevents countless children from being exploited as the subject of future images. Clearly the children forced to participate in such despicable acts suffer great physical, emotional and psychological harm.
   There can be no higher priority than ensuring our children's safety. The opportunities offered by the Internet are great, but so is our responsibility to maintain a safe and secure environment for our children, who are growing up in an age of unprecedented technology. In protecting them, the Internet SAFETY Act also protects our future.
 
 