SEN. HUTCHISON PROTECTS CHISHOLM, GREAT WESTERN TRAILS
  Texas' senior Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today introduced S. 2255, legislation requiring the federal government to conduct a study to determine the feasibility of adding the Chisholm and Great Western trails to the National Trails System. Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) and Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) are original cosponsors of the bill. 
   "The Chisholm and Great Western Trails are an important part of Texas' history and America's story," Sen. Hutchison said. "These trails helped develop Texas' economy and establish its livestock industry. They must be preserved for future generations to understand how Texas and neighboring states grew in to what they are today."
   According to the National Park Service, the National Trails System is a network of scenic, historic, and recreation trails created by the National Trails System Act of 1968. These trails provide for outdoor recreation needs, promote the enjoyment, appreciation, and preservation of open-air, outdoor areas and historic resources, and encourage public access and citizen involvement.
   Sen. Hutchison's legislation requires the U.S. Department of Interior to study adding the Chisholm Trail segments from near San Antonio, near Cuero, TX to Fort Worth, TX and Duncan, OK, and alternate segments used through Oklahoma to Enid, OK, Caldwell, KS, Wichita, KS and Abilene, KS and commonly used segments running to alternate destinations in Kansas, to the National Trails System.
   The bill also requires a study on adding the Great Western Trail from the vicinity of San Antonio, north-by-northwest through near Kerrville and Menard, TX, north-by-northeast through the area near Coleman and Albany, TX, north through the area of Vernon, TX to Doan's Crossing, TX, northward through or near the vicinities of Altus, Lone Wolf, Canute, Vici and May, OK, and north through Nebraska to Ogallala. The Department of Interior will also have to identify the point at which the Great Western Trail originated south of San Antonio.
 
 