ENSURING A HEALTHY FUTURE AMERICA
  American businesses are competing with countries from all over the world. We believe firmly in free trade, and we know Americans can compete successfully with all nations. Free trade brings us low-priced goods from foreign markets at the same time it opens those markets for our goods and services.  
   We recognize that this means that we compete with foreign businesses that pay their workers much less. While this seems to put us between a briar patch and a boar hog, we will continue to be successful for many of the reasons we became a world superpower: ingenuity, hard work, and flexibility. We are unparalleled when it comes to making new discoveries and utilizing those discoveries in new products. To ensure our success, we need to increase our commitment to research in the hard sciences. 
   Science and invention have always been among America's great strengths. Inventor, scientist and statesman Benjamin Franklin has been described as "the first American." Thomas Edison's light bulb and Alexander Graham Bell's telephone are products of American ingenuity that have revolutionized the entire world. Americans also created the personal computer, the artificial heart and the sewing machine. Numerous Americans have won Nobel prizes in the sciences. 
   From 1998 to 2003 Congress doubled the budget for the National Institutes of Health. We recognize the benefits of medical research are two-fold. It leads to new advances in the struggle against disease, improving and extending people's lives. Their research also provides our economy with valuable new products and services that our businesses can export all over the world. 
   Congress's increased investment in NIH has born substantial fruit. Consider just a small portion of our harvest from doubling its budget. In 2003, NIH announced the successful completion of the human genome project. NIH-funded teams sequenced the three billion DNA letters of the human genome--one of the most remarkable feats in medical history. This accomplishment will help scientists turn the tide against cancer, diabetes and other diseases. The knowledge gained from the project assists doctors in predicting individuals' predisposition to specific illnesses by examining their genetic makeup. 
   Congress's increased funding has also advanced our defense against a serious terrorist weapon--anthrax. NIH has funded scientists who have determined the three-dimensional structure of anthrax toxins, helping with the development of antitoxins. As a result, doctors may eventually be able to neutralize anthrax in the later stages of the disease, something previously impossible because antibiotics are not effective against it at that point. 
   If you avoid the doctor because you do not like injections, you will be pleased to hear that NIH researchers have improved the delivery of drugs through the skin. They have found ways to increase the effectiveness of skin patches to deliver medication. Microneedles can be added to patches, improving absorption of a drug without causing any pain. And these are just a few of the results of our NIH investments. 
   Despite being a long-time leader in many areas of research, the United States risks falling behind in basic science research--the fundamental discoveries that lead to great leaps forward in so many fields. At a time when China, India and other countries are devoting substantial resources to research in the hard sciences, we are starting to lose our focus. 
   Increasingly, our industries have had to look abroad for engineers and others they need to compete. Our universities are not nurturing scientists in the numbers we need to lead the world through the next century. Researchers used to flock to America to carry out their work in our unique atmosphere of freedom and financial support, but more and more, they are finding tempting offers closer to home. If we do not redouble our efforts, researchers from abroad may stop coming here to do their groundbreaking work; and we may find a scarcity of Americans prepared to undertake it in their place. 
   Recently, I took over as Chairman of the Commerce Subcommittee on Science and Space. My mission is to reverse this trend. We need to take our NIH success and mirror it in other areas of science. Congress needs to focus on promoting research in biology, chemistry, and physics. I propose we increase the National Science Foundation budget to pave the way for our future success. 
   Some people will argue that we should not be increasing our spending on science after the damage done by hurricanes Katrina and Rita. We do need to cut spending to pay for Gulf rebuilding, and we especially need to cut government waste. Nonetheless, we should not cut our investment in science. To do so would be to eat the seed corn of tomorrow's most important crops. Now is precisely the time to focus on developing the parts of our economy most likely to bring in future revenue, especially when--in addition to bringing dollars and jobs--this research improves people's lives. 
   We also need to direct the NSF's focus firmly to the hard sciences. Recently, the NSF proposed expanding its research on human and social dynamics for 2006. I don't want the NSF to stray from concentrating on biology, chemistry, and physics, and instead, devote funds to social science research. That is not where we should be directing its resources at this time. 
   Under my chairmanship, in addition to increasing the NSF budget, I want the Foundation to focus more on the hard sciences. With that investment added to the hard work, ingenuity and dedication of our scientists and students, we will create both healthier people and a healthier economy in the future!
 
 