SENS. HUTCHISON, CORNYN RECOMMEND MILLER FOR FEDERAL JUDGE, DEGABRIELLE FOR U.S. ATTORNEY FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT
  Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and John Cornyn (R-TX) today recommended that President Bush nominate Gray Miller to fill the state's Southern District federal judicial seat in Houston and Don DeGabrielle to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District.  
   "We are pleased to recommend two respected Houston lawyers to serve in the federal judicial system," Senators Hutchison and Cornyn said. "We know they will serve our nation with honor and we are proud to recommend them to President Bush." 
   Gray Miller currently serves as a senior partner at Fulbright & Jaworski in his native city of Houston. Before coming to the firm, he was an officer with the Houston Police Department as he worked his way through the University of Houston School of Law. Miller was named a "Texas Super Lawer" by Texas Monthly magazine and has been recognized by "Who's Who in American Law" and "The Best Lawyers in America." He is widely considered one of the world's leading maritime lawyers. 
   "Pulling from his experience as a police officer, Gray Miller will bring a unique perspective to the federal bench," Sen. Hutchison said. 
   "Gray Miller is a fine legal mind and will bring to the Houston bench outstanding experience from his accomplished legal practice," Sen. Cornyn said. "He's exceptionally well qualified and will serve Texas well in the Southern District." 
   Don DeGabrielle currently serves as the First Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District. He first joined the U.S. Attorney's Office in 1986. DeGabrielle served as Chief of Trials in the Orleans Parish District Attorney's Office in Louisiana. Before that, he was a special agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). In 2001, DeGabrielle volunteered to be sent to South Africa by the U.S. Department of Justice to act as a law enforcement advisor to the government. 
   "Don DeGabrielle was an outstanding First Assistant to U.S. Attorney Michael Shelby," Sen. Hutchison said. "His leadership was instrumental in transforming an office in need of new direction. He has devoted his life to public service and is intimately aware of the issues facing the Southern District." 
   "Donald DeGabrielle will be an excellent U.S. Attorney," Sen. Cornyn said. "He has extensive prosecutorial experience with demonstrated results and has shown superior managerial skills in his current position in the Houston U.S. Attorney's office. I am confident he will serve this District well in his new position." 
   The senators' recommendations will be delivered to President Bush for his consideration. Both must be confirmed by the full U.S. Senate.
 
 