THE NEW YEAR WILL BRING IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS
  New Year's is not just a time for ringing out the old year and ringing in the new. It is a time to reflect on how far we have come over the past twelve months, and where we are going. 
   This past year saw some obvious highlights, not the least of which was the sight of a young Afghan woman casting the opening ballot in that nation's first democratic elections. Some thought it would never happen, yet Afghanistan is heading in a new direction toward peace and prosperity after years of violence and oppression.
   In 2005, we are on track to see the same momentous occurrence in Iraq. This storied land, home to the world's most ancient civilization, will see its first free and fair elections as her people establish a democracy. Will there be setbacks and problems? Possibly. But what we do know is this: for decades, this was a nation that knew only tyranny and dictatorship, without hope and without freedom. For the Iraqi people, this New Year offers unprecedented and enormous promise. The ouster of a Saddam Hussein regime known to support terrorism is due to the brave men and women in our armed forces who are fighting alongside stalwart Iraqis to defend liberty. We should stand shoulder to shoulder with the friends of democracy in Iraq in the upcoming year. I think our efforts will bear significant dividends in the years ahead and deal a blow to terrorists worldwide.
   I also believe 2005 will bring welcome developments in our own country. 
   If there is one government program which looks to the future, it is schooling, because public education has laid the foundation of democracy in America. Implementation of the No Child Left Behind Act will continue to provide incentives, funding, and accountability to our public school system. I have also supported grants to many Texas institutions to help our state recruit and retain highly skilled educators to prepare our children to excel tomorrow. We are already seeing gains in education for our children, and these should continue through 2005.
   Texas' colleges and universities will continue making strides as well. I have worked to increase our share of federal research, and hope to see our ranking among the states in R&D funding improve in the coming year. That will translate into more discoveries and advances as well as stronger economic growth in our state.
   One of most important legislative initiatives we shall see in 2005 will be a plan to improve and strengthen the Social Security program and preserve it for future generations. As the Baby Boomer generation retires, the system will be placed under tremendous strain and will eventually become insolvent unless we take steps soon. President Bush has shown courage and vision in addressing this issue now. Delaying action would only make changes that are inevitable more painful to implement.
   Any legislation I support will be based on two bedrock principles. First, the United States will fulfill its promises to present beneficiaries and those who will be retiring soon. Reform will also allow recipients to voluntarily invest a portion of their Social Security payroll tax payments into personal accounts which will provide a better return on investment and offer beneficiaries ownership over their retirement security.
   This subject requires serious study and discussion before Congress takes action, but I am hopeful we will make progress in 2005 to strengthen Social Security.
   America is a land of optimism and opportunity. We remain mindful of our past, but look forward to the future. With this positive attitude, I am confident that together we will make 2005 a year to remember.
 
 