SEN. HUTCHISON MEETS WITH DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY CHERTOFF ON LEVEE FUNDING
  U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Texas senior' Senator, today met with Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to discuss federal funding for a project developed by local elected officials in Cameron and Hidalgo Counties that will repair the levees along the Rio Grande while securing the border. 
   Yesterday Sen. Hutchison sent a letter to President Bush specifically urging that President Bush request sufficient funding through the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) to repair the levees and construct strategic fencing "in accordance with the proposal offered by locally elected officials" working with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
   The President is expected to release the 2009 Federal Budget request on February 5.
   TEXT OF LETTER
   Dear Mr. President:
   In recent months, the local elected leaders of Cameron and Hidalgo counties have collaborated with the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) and the Department of Homeland Security on an outstanding project that will secure our border while also protecting Texas residents from the dangers of flooding caused by natural disasters. I believe their efforts are a model for local consultation on border security initiatives.
   To support their efforts, I have worked closely with my Senate and House colleagues and Secretary Chertoff to help this project receive the necessary funding and assistance to repair the levees along the Rio Grande while also protecting Texas from illegal activity along this section of the border.
   As you prepare to submit the Fiscal Year 2009 budget to Congress, I urge you to request sufficient funding to the IBWC to repair the levees and construct strategic fencing in accordance with the proposal offered by locally elected officials working in concert with the Department of Homeland Security.
   Thank you for your continued assistance and for your consideration of this request.
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison.
 
 