SEN. HUTCHISON REACTS TO PRESIDENT'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today made the following comments in response to President George Bush's State of the Union address: 
   "President Bush tonight outlined a positive vision for our nation. He addressed the key issues challenging our nation and what we need to do to achieve economic, homeland and household security as we move forward.
   "I was especially pleased to see the president devote extensive attention to strengthening America's competitive edge in the areas of science and technology. Reinvigorated student interest in the hard sciences is an economic and national security priority. I have been working with educators to strengthen these areas at the state level and the president's American Competitiveness Initiative is a sign of support for the legislation my colleagues and I have recently introduced in Congress.
   "A 100 percent increase in science budgets over 10 years is a tangible commitment to reinforcing our competitiveness in these areas. This national call to action to promote science and technology capabilities will be pivotal in maintaining our nation's ability to lead the world in research.
   "The president once again emphasized a steadfast commitment to winning the War on Terror. He presented the choice we face in this global battle for freedom and stated we cannot relent until we have silenced the terrorists and the countries of Iraq and Afghanistan are truly free. He was clear on the dangers our weak borders pose and stated we need an intensified approach to ensuring our borders are secure.
   "The domestic policies the president addressed tonight are key issues on the minds of many Americans. Improved health care with an emphasis on personal choice is an issue that will resonate in households nationwide. Tax relief and energy independence are themes that remain a focus of the president and initiatives I fully support. We must make permanent the tax relief policies that have delivered the economic growth we have seen and remain focused on developing new technology and renewable energy sources that are critical to a growing economy and our national security."
 
 