CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS ARE TIME TO GIVE OF OURSELVES
  There is probably no other season which means as much to me and my family as Christmas. I look forward to sharing its festive traditions with my family and children. 
   While the joy of the season is infectious, we can make it more meaningful. Amidst all the celebration, I encourage you to try to make a difference for someone in need in your community. There are many charities deserving your support; here are just a few suggestions:
   The Angel Tree program was established to provide gifts to children whose parents are incarcerated. The name of the child, along with relevant information to help the donor purchase an appropriate gift, is inscribed on a paper angel. Businesses, organizations, and individuals "adopt" the angels and buy gifts for the recipients. If there is not a drive underway in your area, consider starting one yourself. More information is available on the Prison Fellowship's website: www.pfm.org/AM/Template.cfm. 
   Another popular charity is the Marine Toys for Tots Foundation. It provides happiness and hope to disadvantaged children who might otherwise be overlooked this holiday season. Donors provide unwrapped toys which the Marines deliver to needy children. These toys can give a child joy and a positive memory for years to come. 
   The Marine Toys for Tots Foundation is a 57-year tradition of the U.S. Marine Corps Reserves which last year delivered more than 15 million toys to over 6.5 million children. With 13 million children living in poverty, the Toys for Tots Foundation needs donations more than ever. They are also happy to take cash donations, which help the Marines buy toys in bulk at deeply discounted prices and ensure children receive toys appropriate for their age and gender. For more information on the Toys for Tots Foundation and how you might help them, their website is www.toysfortots2004.com.
   The colder winter weather also highlights the need for warmer clothing. Goodwill Industries is engaged in the Samantha's Coat and Clothing Drive to collect coats and other garments for needy children. For more information, or to locate a Goodwill facility in your community, you can visit the Goodwill website at: www.goodwill.org.
   It would not be the holiday season if I did not take time to mention the traditional kettle program of the Salvation Army. The money raised during this effort funds the year-round activities of one of the most cost-effective and respected charities in our country. So, please, make them a priority when you see one of the kettles in your community. For more information about the Salvation Army's activities, you can visit their website at: www.salvationarmyusa.org.
   Though I have singled out four organizations, there are a host of other charities we can help through gifts of cash, food, toys or time. The Junior League, local churches and many others are working to spread Christmas cheer. If you want to participate in the great American tradition of volunteering and need help finding an appropriate activity, consult the USA Freedom Corps, which was established by President George W. Bush to encourage Americans to continue donating their time to worthy causes. Their website, www.usafreedomcorps.gov, matches you with charitable organizations based upon your interests and location. 
   Sometimes the best gift we can provide is a simple helping hand, a greeting, or even a smile to a friend, neighbor or stranger. That kind gesture may seem unimportant, but we should remember that sometimes the greatest gifts only appear to be insignificant, just like that child born to poverty in a horse's stall so long ago in Bethlehem.
   I want to wish all Texans, of all faiths, a joyous holiday season.
 
 