SENS. HUTCHISON, CORNYN ANNOUNCE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY CHERTOFF TO MEET WITH TEXAS BORDER LEADERS
  Texas Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn today announced that U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff has agreed to meet with Texas border community leaders in Sen. Hutchison's Washington, D.C. office. The announcement comes in response to a joint November 17, 2006 letter in which the senators strongly urged Secretary Chertoff and DHS officials to meet with local leaders to discuss security issues, including plans for future border fence location and construction.  
   "I am pleased Secretary Chertoff has agreed to attend this meeting I am hosting with Sen. Cornyn as an opportunity to hear directly from officials from the Texas border region. It is only fair that border fencing decisions be made in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security and local and state officials," Sen. Hutchison said. "They have borne heavy financial burden from illegal immigration on the front lines and must be part of the solution as we work to secure our borders." 
   "Establishing control over our borders must be our first priority. But it should be done in the most thoughtful and efficient manner possible, and it's critical to have input from those who live along the border 365 days a year. Border residents have a good idea about what will work and what will not work as we move to secure our border and restore respect for our laws. I am very much looking forward to joining officials from the Valley and other border areas in order to make certain their concerns are being heard in Washington D.C.," Sen. Cornyn said.
   A copy of the November 17 letter is included below:
   November 17, 2006
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff
  Secretary
  Department of Homeland Security
  Washington, D.C. 20528
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   As Congress and the Department of Homeland Security consider the most effective way to secure the borders of our nation, we urge you to schedule a time to meet with the Mayors and local leaders of the communities along the United States-Mexico border in our great state of Texas.
   We feel strongly that the residents of the border region should have an opportunity to present directly to you their comments on this important issue. Their perspective is unique and valuable and their opinions deserve consideration as the Administration seeks to implement provisions of the recently passed Secure Fence Act - provisions that directly impact the quality of their lives.
   We look forward to working with you to schedule this meeting in Texas or in Washington as soon as possible.
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison, U.S. Senator
  John Cornyn, U.S. Senator
 
 