THREE YEARS LATER
  This month marks the third anniversary of the tragic September 11 terror attacks. That fateful day was the first time since Pearl Harbor that we were assaulted on our own soil and the first strike on the continental United States in over a century. Everyone, even young children, remembers where they were when they heard the terrible news and saw the grisly images. Those terrorist acts have forever changed the American mindset. But despite the losses of that day, Americans have proven they are up to the challenge. Citizens, soldiers and law enforcement have answered the call in the war on terrorism. 
   That we did not see the attacks coming is a collective burden that transcends political parties and falls on all branches of government, past and present. Since that horrible day, we have made tremendous, bipartisan progress to make America far safer. We have designated a new department with the sole mission of protecting our country and nearly tripled homeland security funding. I'm especially proud to have co-authored a law to better safeguard our airplanes - enhancing baggage and passenger screening and expanding the air marshals program. Law enforcement officials estimate more than 100 planned terrorist attacks on our soil have been thwarted since 9/11, from an airplane passenger's simple plot to carry explosives in his shoes, to more complex designs that remain classified for our safety. 
   Abroad and At Home
   Al Qaeda has been chased from Afghanistan and is on the run. In Iraq the brutal Saddam Hussein regime that supported terrorists is no more, though our enemies are making a desperate last stand. We must continue to help establish democratic governments in Afghanistan and Iraq to eliminate safe harbors for terrorists across the globe. We will see this mission through and send a message to terrorists and the world that freedom will triumph.
   Clearly, we have more work to do to better protect our homeland, especially to improve rail and port security. Earlier this year, I introduced legislation that would strengthen and coordinate security measures for cargo shipping and use smart box technology. We must ensure our borders with Canada and Mexico are a priority and have the resources needed to stop would be terrorists while keeping commerce flowing. 
   What Next
   We must also ensure our law enforcement has the tools they need. The PATRIOT Act has helped us thwart terrorist attacks by granting new authority to law enforcement. But this law will expire at the end of 2005 unless Congress acts. We must not let these tools slip away. 
   The September 11th Commission recently proposed a number of changes including a single national intelligence director. Our commander-in-chief must receive comprehensive and accurate national security data, so I will give this recommendation serious consideration. Congress has already held many hearings and I believe more action should follow within the coming months. 
   Moving Forward
   In the three short years since the terrorists struck, we have achieved significant progress. The surprise attack on our country in 1941 created the climate that produced the Greatest Generation. These men and women overcame evil regimes and other hardships with determination and humility. Today we are in the midst of a similar battle. It is a calling we did not ask for but that we have no choice but to accept. Working together, we are on the path to defeat the terrorists, expand freedom and ensure our children and grandchildren enjoy a more secure future.
 
 