HURRICANE RELIEF FUNDS FOR TEXAS APPROVED BY SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today introduced and passed an amendment during Appropriations Committee consideration of the Emergency Hurricane Supplemental bill to provide $350 million to cover education costs related to the hurricanes that struck the Gulf Coast last year. The bill also includes $10 million secured by Sen. Hutchison to help cover law enforcement costs in Texas related to the 2005 hurricanes. 
   "I am pleased my colleagues supported my efforts to help Texas cover the costs of thousands of Katrina students enrolled in our schools. The committee also approved additional funding to help colleges and universities, like Lamar University, recover," Sen. Hutchison said. "While I am pleased Texas is set to receive this critical support, I will continue working to ensure we are reimbursed for the costs of opening our doors to thousands of Hurricane Katrina victims." 
   Sen. Hutchison's amendment to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror and Hurricane Recovery is expected to direct $200 million of the total $350 million in Hurricane Katrina education emergency funding to help fund the costs of Katrina evacuees enrolled in Texas schools. It is estimated that 30,000 evacuee students will be enrolled in Texas schools as of September 1, 2006, and this funding was approved to help cover those costs. The underlying bill already included an additional $100 million obtained by Sen. Hutchison for Katrina-related education costs in Texas.
   Sen. Hutchison also cosponsored an amendment which provides $30 million directed to colleges and universities for costs associated with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Universities along the Gulf Coast, like Lamar University, will be eligible to apply for a portion of that funding.
   Another provision of the bill provides $10 million in law enforcement funds for fire and emergency services and general law enforcement costs associated with the influx of Hurricane Katrina evacuees in the state. The funding is in addition to $20 million already released to Texas in March after Sen. Hutchison contacted U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to secure the funding for Houston from the U.S. Department of Justice. 
   Sen. Hutchison also sought support from the committee for a greater federal share of recovery costs following Hurricane Rita.
 
 