SEN. HUTCHISON WORKS TO GIVE TEXAS FARMERS, RANCHERS ACCESS TO FUNDS IN EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL BILL
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today cosponsored an agriculture disaster amendment to the Emergency Hurricane Supplemental bill and inserted language allowing farmers and ranchers who have experienced losses from the 2006 wildfires to be eligible for funding. Approved by the committee, the amendment includes $611 million for wildfire recovery assistance. 
   "The recent wildfires in Texas took direct aim at the livelihood of our many ranchers and farmers. It is critical they have access to this funding which was originally only intended to assist with losses from 2005 disasters," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am pleased my colleagues recognized the severity of the 2006 wildfire destruction in Texas and agreed to extend these programs and funding."
   The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror and Hurricane Recovery was originally intended to only provide support for 2005 losses. Sen. Hutchison worked with Agriculture and Appropriations Committee members to insert language that allows farmers and ranchers who have experienced losses from the 2006 wildfires to be eligible for assistance.
   Sen. Hutchison worked to extend U.S. Department of Agriculture Programs most critical to Texas farmers and ranchers to cover 2006 losses, including $549 million for the Livestock Compensation Program and $45 million for the Livestock Indemnity Program. In addition, Sen. Hutchison's language inserts funding for the Emergency Compensation Program (ECP) which was not included in the original bill. The new section of the bill provides $17 million for ECP which will help rebuild over 5,000 miles of destroyed fencing. Texans will be eligible to access all of these wildfire recovery funds, totaling $611 million.
   The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror and Hurricane Recovery will now be sent for a vote before the full Senate.
 
 