SEN. HUTCHISON DELIVERS KEYNOTE SPEECH AT 2ND ANNUAL WEST TEXAS LEGISLATIVE SUMMIT
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today discussed legislative accomplishments in the beginning of the 109th Congress and the upcoming congressional agenda as she delivered the keynote speech to West Texas leaders at the 2nd Annual West Texas Legislative Summit.  
   "I am proud of the Senate's success in passing legislation that will reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy and improve our transportation infrastructure," Sen. Hutchison said. "Texans will see the benefits of this legislation as our share of funding is increased by nearly $800 million. That is a significant funding increase to be put to use for Texas roadways, railways, bridges and other transportation improvements across the state. Work on other key issues awaits our return and I look forward to even more historic accomplishments." 
   The West Texas Legislative Summit is held to develop a list of legislative priorities for the western half of the state of Texas, focusing on education, resources and politics. Sen. Hutchison discussed passage of the first comprehensive energy policy in over a decade, a surface transportation reauthorization bill and the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), opening trade to new markets. The future of Goodfellow Air Force Base was highlighted and the important contributions it will make to the intelligence community now that it has survived the Base Realignment and Closure recommendation list. 
   Sen. Hutchison also discussed legislative priorities before Congress when it reconvenes in September. A swift and fair confirmation of U.S. Supreme Court nominee Judge John Roberts and permanent repeal of the Death tax - set to expire in 2010 - are among the pending issues she highlighted. Sen. Hutchison played a leading role in finding additional funding to secure our nation's borders and $1.5 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs for Fiscal Year 2005. At the summit, she discussed the need to pass the Fiscal Year 2006 appropriations bills and new immigration measures to further secure our borders.
 
 