SENATE ACCOMPLISHMENTS
  I always look forward to August because it affords me an opportunity to travel across the state to meet with Texans and listen to their concerns. This allows me to share with Texans what has been accomplished this year in Washington, D.C., and what I will be working to achieve in the fall when Congress reconvenes.
   There is no higher priority than protecting our national security, and this year the Senate took a significant stride toward that goal by renewing the PATRIOT Act. In addition to improving investigative tools that help thwart terrorist attacks, several new provisions were added to improve our nation's ability to secure our ports. Texas needs this additional protection because among all states, we have the most ports of entry, as well as the largest number of ports designated "high-risk" by the Department of Homeland Security. The PATRIOT Act provides law enforcement officials with critical tools to stop terrorists while supporting collaboration between law enforcement agencies. 
   The Senate also authorized funds to support and supply the men and women of the armed forces defending our country in the War on Terror. Despite efforts by some members of Congress to prematurely abandon our mission, I stood resolutely with 85 other senators and sent a message to our troops and our allies that we will never abandon them. America has never turned its back on its commitments, and we will leave Iraq only when the generals on the ground and Iraq's elected officials say our presence is no longer required. As recent events in the Middle East demonstrate, our foe is tenacious and determined to destroy democracy all over the world. I will remain a proud supporter of our troops and their mission of protecting America and freedom.
   Economic reforms approved by the Senate have sustained the strength of our economy. Tax cuts passed by Congress and signed into law by President Bush have created over 5 million jobs in the past three years, while cutting taxes by $70 billion. We cut entitlement spending by $100 billion over 10 years and froze non-defense, non-homeland security spending. The tax cuts once again demonstrated that lowering the tax burden on working families can spur the economy, as tax receipts have increased nearly 35 percent since 2003. Lower taxes mean more growth. Taxpayers use the extra money in their pockets to invest, spend and save. Economic growth has produced increased federal revenues, thus reducing the deficit at a faster than expected rate. We are now ahead of schedule to meet the President's 2004 goal of cutting the budget deficit in half by 2009.
   Americans suffering from the rising cost of energy will benefit from the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006, legislation I co-sponsored that recently passed the Senate. By opening 8.3 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico for oil and gas production, we will further protect our national and economic security by reducing our dependence on foreign sources of oil. This legislation further benefits Texas by providing our state with royalties from newly opened areas. Texas has financed and supported extensive Gulf Coast oil and gas exploration and refining, and these royalties will help preserve our environment while creating jobs related to increased exploration and production.
   Enhancing educational opportunities has been a priority. By increasing Pell Grants, the Senate provided additional aid to students. Congress authorized more than $4.5 billion over five years in bonus grants available to Pell-qualified students studying math, science or foreign languages determined to be critical for our national security. In addition, the Senate provided $100 million for a new Teacher Incentive Fund to provide additional compensation to teachers who make a measurable impact on raising student achievement. We must invest in our children's future to maintain our position in the global market and ensure our continued competitive advantage.
   Finally, I made sure that Texans affected by Hurricane Rita were treated fairly by the federal government by introducing and passing an amendment to the Senate Emergency Supplemental bill. My amendment raised the federal reimbursement rate for Hurricane Rita damage claims in Texas to a 90 percent federal, 10 percent state rate. The new reimbursement rate will save hard-hit Texas counties nearly $200 million. This bill also provided Texas with $235 million for education costs associated with Hurricane Katrina victims who relocated to our state.
   Much has been accomplished in the Senate this year, but there is much more to do this fall on behalf of Texas and the nation. I look forward to discussing these issues with many of you this month.
 
 