SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES RICE UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR HONORED WITH ANNUAL O'DONNELL AWARD
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) announced today Dr. Antonios G. Mikos, Professor of bioengineering and chemical and biomolecular engineering at Rice University, is a winner of the second annual Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award for engineering. The O'Donnell awards are given to young researchers in each of the fields of science, medicine and engineering and are announced annually at The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST) conference. Sen. Hutchison is the founder and serves as the honorary chairman of TAMEST, which is holding its 4th annual conference in Austin January 4-5.  
   "Dr. Antonios Mikos' research has advanced some of the most exciting and dynamic areas of biomaterials science," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am pleased that TAMEST has recognized his good efforts that exemplify the goals and purposes of the O'Donnell award."
   Sen. Hutchison first announced the creation of the new Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award at the 2005 TAMEST conference. Established to recognize outstanding scientific achievements of the state's up-and-coming researchers, the award is supported by a $2 million endowment and will provide three annual grants of up to $25,000 to pioneering academics in the fields of science, medicine and engineering. Award recipients are selected by TAMEST. 
   The 2007 Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award winners for science and medicine are: Dr. Zhijian "James" Chen, professor of molecular biology at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas and Dr. David J. Mangelsdorf, chair of the Department of Pharmacology at UT Southwestern. 
   In 2000, after learning that Texas universities ranked sixth nationally in federal research and development dollars, Senator Hutchison set out to obtain for the state a greater share of those funds. Her strategy focused on three parts: hosting annual conferences in Washington to help academics identify new research opportunities, encouraging colleges and universities to establish centers of excellence to specialize in unique fields, and urging the schools to jointly pursue projects. 
   TAMEST consists of the state's 11 Nobel Laureates and 200 plus members of the Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences dedicated to increasing national awareness of and funding for research and development (R&D) at Texas colleges and universities. 
   Dr. Mikos' biography is listed below:
   Dr. Mikos received his Dipl. Eng. (1983) from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece, and his Ph.D. (1988) in chemical engineering from Purdue University. He was a postdoctoral researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Harvard Medical School. He joined Rice University in 1992 as an assistant professor. Milos' research centers on the synthesis, processing and evaluation of new biomaterials for use as scaffolds for tissue engineering, as carriers for controlled drug delivery, and as non-viral vectors for gene therapy. His work led to the development of novel orthopedic, cardiovascular, neurological and ophthalmologic biomaterials. Mikos' awards include the Distinguished Lecturer Award of the Biomedical Engineering Society, the Marshall R. Urist Award for Excellence in Tissue Regeneration Research of the Orthopaedic Research Society, and the Clemson Award for Contributions to the Literature of the Society for Biomaterials.
 
 