SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES TWO UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SOUTHWESTERN PROFESSORS HONORED WITH ANNUAL O'DONNELL AWARDS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) announced today Dr. Zhijian "James" Chen, professor of molecular biology at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center is the winner of the second annual Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award for science. Dr. David J. Mangelsdorf, chair of the Department of Pharmacology at UT Southwestern is the winner of the O'Donnell award for medicine.
   The O'Donnell awards are given to young researchers in the fields of science, medicine and engineering and are announced annually at The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST) conference. Sen. Hutchison is the founder and serves as the honorary chairman of TAMEST, which is hosting its 4th annual conference in Austin January 4-5.  
   "Dr. James Chen and Dr. Davis Mangelsdorf are exemplary scientists whose achievements mirror the successes of UT Southwestern and our state," Sen. Hutchison said. "Their research has opened important new possibilities for fighting disease and developing new treatments. These awards are tributes to their accomplished work."
   Sen. Hutchison first announced the creation of the new Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award at the 2005 TAMEST Conference. Established to recognize outstanding scientific achievements of the state's up-and-coming researchers, the award is supported with a $2 million endowment and will provide three annual grants of up to $25,000 to pioneering academics in the fields of science, medicine and engineering. Award recipients are selected by TAMEST. 
   The 2007 Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award winner for engineering is Dr. Antonios G. Mikos, J.W. Cox Professor of bioengineering and chemical and biomolecular engineering at Rice University. 
   In 2000, after learning that Texas universities ranked sixth nationally in federal research and development dollars, Senator Hutchison set out to obtain for the state a greater share of those funds. Her strategy focused on three parts: hosting annual conferences in Washington to help academics identify new research opportunities, encouraging colleges and universities to establish centers of excellence to specialize in unique fields, and urging the schools to jointly pursue projects. 
   TAMEST consists of the state's 11 Nobel Laureates and 200 plus members of the Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences dedicated to increasing national awareness of and funding for research and development (R&D) at Texas colleges and universities.
   Biographies for Dr. Chen and Dr. Mangelsdorf are listed below:
   Dr. Chen, a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator, received his Ph.D. in 1991 from the State University of New York at Buffalo and completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies. He joined UT Southwestern in 1997. Chen's work focuses on cellular signaling in the immune system, particularly by a protein called ubiquitin. Known as the "Kiss of Death" for its role in targeting other proteins for destruction, ubiquitin was thought to have only one molecular function. Through his meticulous biochemical methods, Chen discovered an unanticipated second function of ubiquitin in activating proteins. The idea, initially controversial, has now become widely accepted. His insights into ubiquitin are providing potential new targets for the development of novel therapeutics to fight off infection by common viruses such as hepatitis C, West Nile and influenza.
   Also a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator, Dr. Mangelsdorf holds the Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science. He graduated from Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff with a bachelor's degree in aquatic biology and chemistry. He earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from the University of Arizona in Tucson and completed his postdoctoral studies at the Salk Institute for Biological Sciences. Mangelsdorf is an internationally recognized researcher in lipid biology and has made major contributions to the understanding of the machinery that controls the metabolism of cholesterol. His research focuses on nuclear receptors, proteins that turn genes on and off in the body. His work highlights potential new targets for the development of drugs to fight disease.
 
 