HONORING THE GREATEST GENERATION
  This Memorial Day weekend, thousands of Americans descended upon the National Mall in Washington, D.C. to pay tribute to the Greatest Generation and celebrate the dedication of the World War II Memorial. It has been nearly 59 years since the end of the Second World War, and at long last our nation has a place that honors the 16 million who served in the Armed Forces, the more than 400,000 who died, and the millions who supported the war effort here at home. 
   Following 11 years of fundraising, public hearings and construction the memorial finally stands stoic and respectful of its historic surroundings, nestled between the Lincoln and Washington monuments on the Mall. Representative of the importance the American people placed on this memorial is the fact that it was primarily funded through private donations - $195 million to be exact, including $16 million from the federal government.
   The Memorial is an amazing structure - beautiful, strong and representative of the great heroes of World War II. The Memorial Plaza, a wide open expanse that encourages visitors to wander freely and enjoy the site, and the Rainbow Pool are the principal design features of the memorial. The bases of granite and bronze are adorned with the military service seals of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Army Air Forces, Coast Guard and Merchant Marine. A series of bronze panels along the entrance depict America's war years, at home and overseas. Visitors can reflect upon the memorial while sitting on the benches that align the outside structure.
   Adorning the north and south ends of the plaza are two 43-foot arches representing battles won in both the Atlantic and Pacific theatres. Here four bronze American eagles hold a suspended victory laurel to memorialize the triumph of the World War II generation. Below the arches is the World War II victory medal, surrounded by the years "1941-1945" and the words "Victory on Land, Victory at Sea, and Victory in the Air."
   Outlining the entire memorial are fifty-six granite pillars representing each state and territory from that period to celebrate the unprecedented national unity during the Second World War. To show the power of this extraordinary bond, a bronze sculpted rope connects every pillar. These pillars are strategically placed so that the center of the memorial is open, allowing ample space for viewing into and across the site.
   Within a commemorative area at the western side of the memorial lies a field of 4,000 sculpted gold stars called the Freedom Wall, representing the more than 400,000 Americans who gave their lives. During the war era, the gold star was the symbol of family sacrifice.
   One of my favorite aspects of the exhibit is a quote engraved upon the memorial's wall from Colonel Oveta Culp Hobby, a native Texan who served as director of the Women's Army Corps (WAC). The WAC was created to enlist women as auxiliaries for noncombatant duty in the U.S. army, where they served in roles such as medical technicians and secretaries in all the theaters of war. Col. Hobby's words were chosen to commemorate and pay tribute to the effort and sacrifice of American women during the war era. The inscription reads, "Women who stepped up were measured as citizens of the nation, not as women. This was the people's war and everyone was in it."
   The World War II Memorial is a masterpiece of both art and history. It will inspire future generations of Americans and deepen their appreciation of what this great generation sacrificed and accomplished in securing freedom and democracy. Above all, the memorial will stand as an important symbol of American national unity, a timeless reminder of the moral strength and great power that can flow when a free people are united together in a common and just cause.
   If you or someone you know helped win the war, whether a veteran or someone on the home front, that person is eligible for the World War II Registry. Names in the Registry will be forever linked to the memorial's symbolic representation. To register visit www.wwiimemorial.com.
 
 