TEXAS SENATORS URGE SECRETARY RICE TO HELP ELIMINATE MEXICAN WATER DEBT TO U.S.
  Texas Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn today sent the following letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging the secretary to use her March 10 meeting with her Mexican counterpart to address elimination of the Mexican water debt to the United States: 
   March 4, 2005
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice
  Secretary of State
  U.S. State Department 
  2201 C Street, NW
  Washington, DC 20520
   Dear Secretary Rice:
   It has come to our attention that you are planning to meet with Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez to discuss several issues between our nations. We urge you, at this meeting, to discuss Mexico's remaining water debt under the U.S. Mexico Water Treaty of 1944 and to seek a resolution. The U.S. Mexico Water Treaty of 1944 obligates Mexico to allow for an average of 350,000 acre-feet of water to flow into the Rio Grande annually during five-year cycles. In return, the U.S. is to allow for an average of 1,500,000 acre-feet of water to flow to Mexico from the Colorado River.
   The United States has continually met its obligations under the treaty. In recent years, however, Mexico has failed to comply. This disregard for the treaty by the Mexican government has cost South Texas nearly $1 billion in economic damages, 30,000 regional jobs and a decline of more than 100,000 acres of farmland. Meanwhile Mexico's domestic agriculture production has flourished with U.S. treaty obligated water, while the Rio Grande Valley has lost out. Though Mexico has met its obligation in the current cycle, Mexico carries a debt of 733,975 acre feet of water owed to the U.S. This is a particularly opportune time for Mexico to make up its arrearage, since there is ample water reserves in storage in Mexico now to fulfill its back obligations.
   The water challenges we have encountered in South Texas have demanded strong leadership and commitment. Senator Cornyn and I have met with several Mexican officials over the past couple of years to urge compliance in the strongest terms. Since 1999, I have introduced two key pieces of legislation which Congress has passed. This legislation, combined with the $7.6 million I secured in appropriations, has assisted South Texas water conservation efforts. In 2002, I obtained $20 million to compensate South Texas producers for their losses from non-fulfillment of treaty obligations. Additionally, we worked to utilize the resources of the North American Development Bank by making conservation funds of $40 million available to water districts. Yesterday, I introduced additional legislation in a continuing effort to assist south Texas producers to conserve more water. Senator Cornyn and I are committed to continuing our efforts in this area.
   We urge you to press for the fulfillment of Mexico's remaining water treaty obligations while they have the available water in storage. The Rio Grande Valley, the State of Texas, and the United States have suffered severe losses, and the Rio Grande Valley's economic viability and livelihood depend upon this water. The U.S. must seize this opportunity to finally resolve this longstanding issue. 
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison
  John Cornyn
 
 