SENATE PASSES HURRICANE, EMERGENCY RELIEF FUNDS FOR TEXAS
  The full Senate today passed the Emergency Hurricane Supplemental bill which includes several provisions secured by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. The provisions - amendments Sen. Hutchison successfully introduced and passed in the Appropriations Committee last month and on the Senate floor this week - total over $1.5 billion for Texas in funding related to Hurricanes Rita and Katrina and the recent wildfires. 
   "I am pleased the Senate supported my efforts to help Texas recover from our recent, devastating natural disasters," Sen. Hutchison said. "It is critical that Texans receive this vital support for education, law enforcement, FEMA reimbursement and wildfire recovery. I will work with the House in conference committee to include my Senate provisions." 
   The first of Sen. Hutchison's provisions to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror and Hurricane Recovery provides $350 million for Hurricane Katrina education emergency spending to help defray the expenses of Katrina evacuees enrolled in Texas schools in the fall. It is estimated that 30,000 evacuee students will be enrolled in Texas schools as of September 1, 2006. The underlying bill already included an additional $300 million obtained by Sen. Hutchison for Katrina-related education costs in Texas for this school year - bringing the two-year total to $650 million. 
   Sen. Hutchison also co-sponsored an amendment to the bill which provides $30 million directed to colleges and universities for costs associated with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Universities along the Gulf Coast, like Lamar University, will be eligible to apply for a portion of that funding. 
   Another provision she added to the bill provides $10 million in law enforcement funds for fire and emergency services and general law enforcement expenses associated with the influx of Hurricane Katrina evacuees in the state. The funding is in addition to $20 million already released to Texas in March after Sen. Hutchison requested the funding for Houston from the U.S. Department of Justice. 
   Also, Sen. Hutchison introduced and passed an amendment this week which raises the federal reimbursement rate for Hurricane Rita damage claims in Texas to a 90 percent federal, 10 percent state rate. The new reimbursement rate would save Texas counties nearly $200 million. 
   "Hurricane Rita didn't discriminate along state lines and neither should the federal government. It is only fair that East Texas communities receive the same reimbursement rate as Louisiana parishes directly across the river recovering from the same hurricane," Sen. Hutchison said. "Texas was also significantly affected by the thousands of Hurricane Katrina victims who sought refuge in our state. This amendment will ensure Texas is treated fairly for their outlays for both Katrina and Rita." 
   Currently, the standard FEMA reimbursement rate for damage claims is 75 percent federal with a 25 percent contribution from the state and local government. The administration has the authority to modify the percentage to allow for a lower state contribution. The reimbursement rate in Louisiana was raised to a 90-10 percentage rate following Hurricane Katrina. The new rate applied to Hurricane Rita damage in Louisiana as well, while Texas was only receiving the 75-25 percentage rate for damage caused by the same hurricane. 
   Also, Sen. Hutchison inserted language in the bill during committee markup allowing Texas farmers and ranchers who have experienced losses from the 2006 wildfires to be eligible for funding. Prior to Sen. Hutchison's action, only the 2005 fires were covered. Approved by the committee and passed today in the overall bill, the amendment includes $611 million for wildfire recovery assistance. 
   "The recent wildfires in Texas took direct aim at the livelihood of our many ranchers and farmers. It is critical they have access to this funding which was originally only intended to assist with losses from 2005 disasters," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am pleased my colleagues recognized the severity of the 2006 wildfire destruction in Texas and agreed to extend these programs and funding."
 
 