UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS ESTABLISHES SEN. HUTCHISON CHAIR IN LATIN AMERICAN LAW
  Leading U.S. and Mexico officials today celebrated a new University of Texas (UT) Law School center dedicated to enhancing academic collaboration between the Americas. The Kay Bailey Hutchison Chair in Latin American Law will create a center and a programmatic chair to foster greater academic research and faculty and student exchanges to collaborate on issues, including trade, investment and the rule of law. 
   U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Ernesto Derbez joined U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) at a lecture inaugurating the Hutchison Chair, as well as focused on international relations and trade issues between Latin America and the United States. UT President Larry Faulkner and UT School of Law Dean William Powers also gave remarks during the event. 
   "As a graduate of this prestigious institution, I am especially honored to have this chair endowed in my name and to establish another center of excellence that will be built at the University of Texas. This initiative will help us better understand and appreciate our Latin American neighbors' societies and legal systems and will enhance trade and development between our countries," said Sen. Hutchison. 
   "The Kay Bailey Hutchison Chair in Latin American Law will be the centerpiece of the Law School's many programs focusing on Latin American law and trade. It will help students and faculty work on projects, conferences, and exchanges that focus on Latin America. By doing that, it will help the Law School become one of the premier centers in the United States for studying Latin American law. And it allows the Law School to Honor Senator Hutchison, who is a great friend of the Law School and its most distinguished graduate," said Dean William Powers.
   Sen. Hutchison has been a strong proponent of establishing centers of excellence at Texas universities, like the UT Law School Latin America program promises to become. When universities specialize and institute centers of excellence in fields of science, medicine, agriculture and engineering, they gain experience and knowledge other schools cannot match. These institutions generate more breakthroughs and become magnets for the best minds in particular disciplines, which attract federal research grants to help them build their expertise. This initiative represents both Senator Hutchison's and the college's commitment to strengthen the academic and cultural relations among the countries of the Western Hemisphere. It will also foster better communication by promoting faculty and student exchanges and leadership symposia between UT and Latin American universities.
   Founded in 1883, the UT School of Law is one of the oldest law schools in the nation. With an enrollment of fourteen hundred Doctor of Jurisprudence (JD) degree candidates, it is also one of the nation's largest law schools. In addition, the Law School offers a Master of Laws (LLM) program for graduates of foreign law schools, and another for American lawyers on doing business in Latin America.
 
 