OUR OWN NAVY - NO OTHER STATE HAS ONE
  There are many reasons why Texas is unique among the 50 states but one of the most interesting is the fact that our state, alone, had its own battle-tested navy and continues to have an existing, albeit honorary, navy today. 
   Texas has had three navies in its history. The First Texas Navy was formed to fight during the battle for independence from Mexico. This fleet was decommissioned after independence was won but continuing threats from Mexico led to the bitterly contested creation of the second navy.  
   The Second Texas Navy, commanded by a brash young naval officer by the name of Edwin Moore, held off threats from Mexico to the young Texas Republic. However, squabbles over naval funding led to the decision to "rent" out the fleet to the breakaway province of Yucatan as it fought Mexico's central government. Texas' two sailing ships, the Austin and the Wharton, scored a spectacular victory at Campeche during May in 1843 by driving away a Mexican fleet containing what was, at that time, the world's mightiest warship, the 1,100-ton iron steamer the Guadalupe. This was the only time in history that a sailing ship defeated an iron steam-powered warship. 
   Not long after that battle, the Second Texas Navy was decommissioned, but Moore gained a place in Texan's hearts. In 1867, Moore County in the Panhandle was named in Moore's honor. 
   The Third Texas Navy was established in 1958 by Governor Price Daniel, as a commemorative organization to assure the survival of Texas' Naval history, boundaries, water resources and civil defense. 
   Ironically, the Third Texas Navy is by far the strongest of the three, for her flagship is the Battleship Texas, which fought in both World Wars I and II and is now berthed at the San Jacinto Monument in La Porte. She flies the flag of Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, who was born in Fredericksburg, Texas. The Texas navy now includes World War II vessels including PT-309 in Galveston, PT-305 which is being restored, the submarine U.S.S. Cavalla in Galveston and the famous aircraft carrier U.S.S. Lexington, which is moored at Corpus Christi. Other WWII ships include a Liberty Ship, the Edwin W. Moore built in Houston and named after the Second Texas Navy commander, and the U.S.S. Orleck, a Gearing class destroyer built in Orange, which has now returned to its birthplace to serve as a museum. 
   The oldest ship in the Texas navy is the Elissa, a tall sailing ship built in 1877. She now calls Galveston home. 
   Texas' navy also includes an honorary roster of active duty ships serving with the United States Navy and the Coast Guard. These include the nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, the USS Eisenhower and USS Nimitz, and several nuclear-powered submarines, the Houston, City of Corpus Christi and the Dallas. The USS Texas is brand-new and will be part of the Virginia class of submarines. 
   One of the best known ships in Texas' navy is the U.S.T.S. Texas Clipper II, which up until June of this year, was the Texas State Maritime Program's training ship. It replaced the Texas Clipper I, which was sunk to provide an artificial reef 25 miles off the coast. The Texas Clipper II started life as the U.S.S. Chauvenet in 1970 and was converted to serve as a maritime classroom in 1996. This year, she made her last voyage before being delivered to the government of Panama. Her place is being taken by a newer and much larger vessel, the U.S.S. Sirius, which will be given a new name at a christening ceremony planned for this November. I have been invited to christen her. 
   This would be my second christening of a Texas ship. I was honored to christen the first in its class of a versatile and powerful amphibious assault ship, the U.S.S. San Antonio, named after a vessel in the Second Texas Navy which was lost to a hurricane. I asked, of course, that the sparkling wine used to christen the ship come from a Texas vineyard, but I had forgotten how strong we make things in our state. I walloped the bow of the ship two times with the bottle without affect. On the third try, the bottle exploded, dousing me with sparkling Texas wine. Some newspapers quipped afterwards that I christened myself. 
   I cannot tell you how much it meant to me to play a small part in launching another vessel which will defend America and build on Texas' heroic naval traditions. In November the new floating classroom will take its place in our state's naval history. I look forward to meeting the newest member of the Third Texas Navy's fleet.
 
 