SEN. HUTCHISON VISITS JOHNSON SPACE CENTER FOR BRIEFING BY NASA ADMINISTRATOR
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Science and Space, today met with NASA Administrator Michael Griffin at the Johnson Space Center for a briefing on the status of Shuttle Discovery as it prepares to conclude its mission and return early next week.  
   "Administrator Griffin and the dedicated NASA team at Mission Control only reaffirmed my confidence in NASA and America's successful future in space," Sen. Hutchison said. "Discovery has had some complications, but our brave shuttle crew has overcome those problems and demonstrated new repair techniques that will be valuable assets for future missions. I have high expectations for NASA's bold and promising future and look forward to Discovery's safe return." 
   Sen. Hutchison congratulated Administrator Griffin on a successful return to flight launch and the information gathered through new safety testes and procedures. The mission enabled unprecedented repair techniques to be conducted by the crew and the delivery of new materials to the International Space Station (ISS) which will be an unparalleled research facility once completed. 
   Sen. Hutchison introduced NASA reauthorization legislation which passed through the full Senate Commerce Committee on July 23. The bill authorizes NASA for Fiscal Years 2006 through 2010, provides a legislative framework for a national space exploration policy, requires completion of the International Space Station (ISS) and establishes a policy that the U.S. maintain uninterrupted access to space. The legislation also designates the U.S. segment of the ISS as a national laboratory facility and requires the administrator to outline operations and functions of ISS national laboratory activities. 
   "With a bold vision, our future in space has unlimited potential," Sen. Hutchison continued. "We can't waiver in our commitment to space exploration and its critical contribution to our national security and technological advancements."
 
 