SEN. HUTCHISON ADDRESSES TEXAS FARM BUREAU CONFERENCE
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today delivered remarks at the 72nd Annual Texas Farm Bureau Conference held in Waco, Texas. Sen. Hutchison stressed the importance of tax relief needed to strengthen the growing economy and the passage of comprehensive energy legislation, both issues significant to Texas' agriculture industry.  
   In her remarks, Sen. Hutchison highlighted passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, a significant accomplishment after years of delays. The energy bill is a sweeping energy research and development program. It will improve energy efficiency and increase utilization of renewable energy resources including ethanol and wind. 
   "The legislation is a balanced energy plan and a positive step forward in addressing America's increasing energy needs and lessening our dependence on foreign sources of oil," Sen. Hutchison said. "By stabilizing energy prices, it will help ease the burden on America's farmers and ranchers, stimulate our economy and spur job creation."
   Sen. Hutchison also addressed key issues before the organization of farmers and ranchers. She discussed her support for the protection of personal property rights and Congress' role in protecting those rights. In addition, she discussed the success of the 2002 Farm Bill and the work ahead as Congress begins the groundwork on the 2007 Farm Bill. 
   Sen. Hutchison reiterated her commitment to permanent elimination of the Death Tax along with broad tax reform. She noted the growing state of the economy and the primary role tax relief has played in recent positive economic indicators.
   "I have made permanent elimination of the Death Tax one of my top priorities in the Senate," Sen. Hutchison said. "Texans are proud of our agriculture industry. The Death Tax is an unfair burden on farmers who work hard to make a living and want to pass their successes along to new generations of farmers."
 
 