SEN. HUTCHISON BRINGS 3RD ANNUAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CONFERENCE TO HOUSTON
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today delivered the opening remarks at the third annual meeting of The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST) held January 5 and 6. As Honorary Chairman of the Academy, Sen. Hutchison also announced the recipients of the first annual Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award, recognizing cutting-edge research in Texas. 
   "The O'Donnell awards will be an annual occasion to celebrate scientific success and propel future progress. Edith and Peter O'Donnell are true champions of our state and national efforts in these fields, Sen. Hutchison said. "We have made great strides in scientific research that will bring new funding and new research minds to Texas."  
   Sen. Hutchison first announced the creation of the new Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award at the 2005 TAMEST Conference. Established to recognize outstanding scientific achievements of the state's up-and-coming researchers, the award is backed by a $2 million endowment and will provide three annual grants of up to $25,000 to pioneering academics in the fields of science, medicine and engineering. Award recipients chosen by a TAMEST selection committee. 
   The 2006 Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award Winners are: Gerard Karsenty, M.D., Ph. D., Professor of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, Lynn Loo, Ph. D., Assistant Professor in Chemical Engineering, University of Texas at Austin, and Michael Rosen, Ph. D. Professor in Biochemistry and Phamacology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. (Bios are included at the end of the release).
   In 2000, after learning that Texas universities ranked sixth nationally in federal research and development dollars, Senator Hutchison set out to obtain for the state a greater share of those funds. Her strategy focused on three parts: hosting annual conferences in Washington to help academics identify new research opportunities, encouraging colleges and universities to establish centers of excellence to specialize in unique fields, and urging the schools to jointly pursue projects. 
   TAMEST consists of the state's 11 Nobel Laureates and 246 members of the Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences dedicated to increasing national awareness of and funding for research and development (R&D) at Texas colleges and universities. The two-day conference is also designed to facilitate greater collaboration among the state's leading academics and grow the ranks of Texans in the prestigious National Academies.
   In addition to creation of the O'Donnell Award, Sen. Hutchison also announced at the 2005 meeting that, according to the National Science Foundation (NSF), Texas rose to third place nationally with federal R&D expenditures. The NSF recently released new data showing Texas remains solidly in third place with federal R&D expenditures rising in recent years from $909 million to $1.5 billion - a 55 percent increase.
   "This annual gathering of Texas' most acute scientific minds is a clear sign that our state has forged its role as a leader in the fields of science, medicine and engineering," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am that proud academics all over the state are so committed to the diligent work that is critical to our economic and national security."
   The third annual meeting of The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas will feature keynote addresses by Dean Kamen, President of DEKA Research and Development Corporation, Dr. Harvey Fineberg, President of Institute of Medicine, and Dr. Wendy Freedman, Director of Carnegie Observatories. More than 200 scholars, industry leaders, and public officials are expected to be in attendance. The event will also include a series of panel discussions designed to facilitate communication among Texas' leading academics and generate more national recognition and research opportunities. For more information, go to www.tamest.org/conference.
   2006 Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award Recipients 
   Medicine: Gerard Karsenty, M.D., Ph.D. 
   Gerard Karsenty is a Professor of Molecular and Human Genetics at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. Dr. Karsenty received his M.D. and Ph.D. from the University of Paris in 1984. He then was a post-doctoral fellow in the laboratory of Dr. B de Crombrugghe at M.D. Anderson for four years before joining the faculty of this institution in 1990. At M.D. Anderson, Dr. Karsenty began to study skeleton biology and he identified the master gene of bone formation. In 1998 he moved to Baylor College of Medicine where he demonstrated the existence of neural control of bone mass and identified key molecular components of this novel pathway. His findings have opened up new therapeutic horizons for the treatment of osteoporosis. Dr. Karsenty has received numerous accolades for his work including the International Bone and Calcium Research Award (1997), the Research Award of the Austrian Bone and Mineral Research Society (1998), the D. Harold Copp Award from the International Bone and Mineral Society (2001), and the Louis V. Avioli Founder of the American Society of Bone and Mineral Research (2001). 
   Engineering: Lynn Loo, Ph.D. 
   Lynn Loo is an Assistant Professor in Chemical Engineering and a General Dynamics Endowed Faculty Fellow in Engineering at the University of Texas at Austin. Dr. Loo received her Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering from Princeton University in 2001. She then spent a year at Bell Laboratories as a Post-Doctoral Member of Technical Staff before joining the University of Texas. At the University of Texas, Dr. Loo's research lies at the intersection of polymer chemistry and physics, materials science, and solid state electronics. Currently, her work focuses on structural development in organic electrically-active materials and how these structures impact macroscopic electrical properties. She has received many awards for her research, including the Camille and Henry Dreyfus New Faculty Award (2002), the DuPont Young Professor Grant (2003), the NSF-CAREER Award (2004) and the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Young Investigator Award (2005). In 2004, Dr. Loo was selected as one of the Top 100 Young Innovators Under 35 by MIT's Technology Review for inventing nanotransfer printing - a contact printing technique for establishing efficient electrical contacts to mechanically fragile organic materials.
   Science: Michael Rosen, Ph.D.
   Michael Rosen is a Professor in the Biochemistry and Pharmacology Departments at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and an Investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. He received undergraduate degrees from the University of Michigan in Chemistry and in Chemical Engineering in 1987. He then spent a year as a Winston Churchill Scholar at the University of Cambridge doing research on vitamin B12 biosynthesis in the lab of Sir Alan Battersby. In 1993, he received his Ph.D. in Chemistry from Harvard University. He began his independent career in 1996 in the Cellular Biochemistry and Biophysics Program at the Memorial Sloan-Kettterling Cancer Center. In 2001, he joined the faculty of UT Southwestern. Dr. Rosen's research focuses on understanding the structural, biochemical and cell biological mechanisms by which extracellular signals control the actin cytoskeleton. His research has revealed how information flows to drive processes such as cell movement and division. Dr. Rosen's work has been recognized by numerous awards, including the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (1997), Young Investigator Awards from the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation (1997) and the Sidney Kimmel Foundation (1998), and the Boyer Award from the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (2001).
 
 