TEXANS SHARE THOUGHTS ON DOMESTIC AFFAIRS
  Earlier this year I asked for your input on a variety of legislative issues through a series of Listening Posts. These surveys elicited a strong response, and I would like to thank everyone who participated. Texans provided many thoughtful comments and suggestions, and I will keep these in mind as I serve you in the Senate.
   My first Listening Post addressed our government's domestic legislative agenda. Most respondents want Congress to develop a national energy policy that reduces our dependence on foreign oil. One constituent wrote, "A national energy policy that would make us self-sufficient would pay dividends in all areas foreign and domestic." Another said, "We will always be dependent on foreign oil, but we can develop policies to reduce consumption with only minor changes in our standard of living." 
   Many readers also advocated increasing our efforts to develop alternative sources of energy. "Start moving toward more solar and wind power generating clean electric energy," one person replied. "This would help the environment and reduce the importation of oil. We will have to go this route anyway in the future. Oil is a limited resource."
   I am working with my colleagues in Congress to develop a sensible policy to address our country's energy needs. The Energy Policy Act of 2005, which Congress passed last year, is a step in the right direction. This bill offered incentives for development of solar energy, wind, biomass and geothermal renewable sources of energy. Texas has the second-highest potential for wind energy in the nation and will benefit from expanded resources developed through this research.
   Last year, I secured funding for the Texas Tech Great Plains Wind Power Test Facility. This project will test, characterize, and improve grid-connected wind turbines and wind-driven water desalination systems. Such research will create jobs and enhance our renewable energy sources such as wind energy.
   In the realm of taxes, a majority of Texans surveyed agree that tax cuts should continue because they have stimulated the economy. "Reduce taxes and reduce spending," wrote a respondent. "A balanced budget should not be that hard to accomplish." President Bush's 2007 budget request moves in that direction. It proposes making the tax cuts permanent and cutting the deficit in half by 2009. Abolishing the death tax was also popular among Texans, with 74 percent support, and the Senate plans to vote on making its repeal permanent as early as this month.
   Homeland security responses conflicted. Though a majority of Texans want to extend the USA PATRIOT Act, many are also concerned with protecting the rights of private citizens.
   Regarding efforts to improve our educational system, most Texans believe we should focus on improving schools in grades K-12. One reader replied, "We must meet the needs of all students, including many who will not pursue a college education. Too much mandated testing hinders teachers in that they have too little time to actually teach. There is too much teaching to a test. As a retired teacher and now serving on the local school board, this is a very real concern."
   As Chairman of the Senate's Subcommittee on Science and Space, I want us to work on a big-picture solution that will keep the United States at the forefront of science and engineering for decades. A bill I have co-sponsored, the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, invests in both research and education. Our teachers must have the educational background and training they need to be successful, and one way the PACE Act helps is by providing funding for three-year master's degree programs in math and science education for current teachers. We must encourage students to enter engineering and science programs. The PACE Act, if enacted, will award four-year merit-based scholarships to students who want to major in hard sciences and engineering.
   In the next few weeks, I will provide Capitol Comments responding to my Listening Posts concerning foreign affairs and immigration.
 
 