SEN. HUTCHISON ADDRESSES WORLD CONGRESS ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Science and Space, today delivered remarks via video to the 15th World Congress on Information Technology held in Austin. Excerpts of her comments follow:
   "I am pleased that the 15th World Congress on Information Technology chose to host its conference in my home state of Texas. I am an avid supporter of your efforts. The U.S. Congress agreed that it was important to host you in our country and is a sponsor of this symposium.  
   "Since the birth of our republic, Texans have shown a bold, pioneering spirit that has led to great growth and innovation. Today, many of the world's most remarkable minds are answering the questions of tomorrow right here in the Lone Star State.
   "A fine example of Texas innovation is the work being done at The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas, known as TAMEST. Another is the Strategic Partnership for Research in Nanotechnology, known as SPRING, which fosters nanotechnology research in partnerships with some of our major universities with our Nobel Laureates leading the effort.
   "These research efforts are paying dividends for our state and the nation. In 1998, Texas was ranked fifth nationally in federal research expenditures for our institutions of higher education with $908 million. Since that time, Texas has moved up to a strong third, and last year expenditures rose to over $1.5 billion. Our success in Texas can be a model for the nation and the world. ?
   "The spread of democracy and freedom around the world is expedited by the blazing speed of technology. As partners, we have made ignificant progress, but there is still a long way to go. ?
   "Free-trade agreements often provide immediate benefits. Goods and services become more readily available to developing countries following the enactment of a free-trade agreement, specifically in the area of Information Technology. For example, there was an immediate 62 percent increase in U.S. exports of IT equipment to Singapore in just the first year following our free-trade agreement.
   "Exports to American free-trade agreement partners are growing twice as fast as our exports to the rest of the world. Those countries erecting barriers to free trade will only fall further behind. So far, Congress has approved free-trade agreements with 15 countries and the United State Trade Representative is negotiating free-trade agreements with 14 more. These agreements will continue to increase access to new equipment and technology.
   "Today, the size of the microchip is inversely proportional to its might. Many of the visionaries taking part in this conference are responsible for the advances we have accomplished. As the world of technology continues to evolve, the next generation of scientists and entrepreneurs must be prepared to embrace the next generation of ideas. As many of you are aware, Congress is working to update many of our outdated technology and telecommunications laws as technology changes.
   "Supporting excellence in science and engineering is a top priority for me in the United States Senate. As Chairman of the Senate's Subcommittee on Science and Space, I want us to work on a big-picture solution that will keep the United States at the forefront of science and engineering for decades while continuing to collaborate with the rest of the world.
   "I have co-sponsored legislation that invests in both research and education. It increases the budget for research at NASA and the National Science Foundation by 10 percent annually through 2013. It also provides funding for three-year master's degree programs in math and science education for current teachers.
   "Students must also be encouraged to enter engineering and science programs. This legislation awards four-year merit-based scholarships to students who want to major in hard sciences and engineering.
   "We must raise bright young stars in math and science and provide them with the teachers and support that will make them shine. America is blessed to be home to many of the brightest scientists in the world. Many grew up right here in the United States, and others who choose to pursue freedom and liberty are welcomed with open arms. 
   "Future conferences of this sort will be attended by the minds of tomorrow. An investment in their education is an investment in the future. Thank you."
 
 