WITH THE ELECTIONS OVER, AMERICANS MUST PULL TOGETHER
  This November, our nation held an extraordinary election. Voters turned out in record numbers across the country to cast their ballots for the President of the United States, their representatives in Congress, state and local officials and countless ballot initiatives. Every state and territory, from Maine to California, saw voters set new records for turnout. President Bush received 59,246,889 votes while Sen. Kerry received 55,710,448. 
   The elections were just as important to Texans as they were to other Americans. The office of the Texas Secretary of State reports 7,357,837 ballots were cast on November 2, up almost a million from the 2000 presidential election in which Texans cast 6,407,637 votes. 
   When the smoke of battle cleared, we saw that President Bush won a second term in office. As is the case with most elections in our great democracy, we are left with a clear winner and a gracious runner-up. There will be time in the days ahead to examine the results, but what we need to do today is come together as a nation to work for the common good.
   America still faces serious challenges. An implacable and fanatical foe still seeks to kill Americans and to deny 53 million Iraqis and Afghans liberty and self-government. We have planted democracy in those countries and President Bush said he will continue to nurture its growth as we fight and destroy the terrorists who mean all free people harm.
   As part of this effort, President Bush has called for passage of legislation to overhaul the nation's intelligence apparatus. This will improve national security and help our forces find and destroy our enemy.
   President Bush has outlined an ambitious domestic agenda as well. We must continue to improve our education system, create jobs and grow our economy, and work toward greater energy independence.
   He also boldly called for Congress to join him in an effort to strengthen the Social Security system, saying "the cost of doing nothing ... is much greater than the cost of reforming the system today."
   Social Security will soon face tremendous strains when 77 million baby boomers begin to retire. This was an important election issue because Americans know we cannot afford to wait until a financial crisis occurs. The President has proposed allowing taxpayers to voluntarily set some of their payments aside into personal savings accounts, while ensuring current and near-retirees receive the benefits they were promised.
   The President has also announced his intention to continue his program of tax reform, with the goal of simplifying the system and reducing its burden on America's families. Two of the leading proposals are the "Flat Tax" which would replace numerous deductions and tax rates with a single established tax rate, and the "National Sales Tax" which would replace payroll and income taxes with a national sales tax. Both systems have some advantages, and deserve study.
   By any measure, we have a great deal to do. To reach the best solutions, we will need the thoughtful input and cooperation of both Republicans and Democrats.
   This means we have to set aside the passions which often flare up in tough campaigns. One of the most important lessons of this election was the public's rejection of politicians who resort to obstructionist partisan tactics. We are sent to Washington to get a job done. On November 2nd, the public said putting politics before the nation's business is not acceptable. This does not mean we should discard our beliefs or surrender efforts to promote our visions for America. Nobody wants all Americans to think alike. We are a nation of lions, not sheep.
   While we may disagree on certain issues, we share the same goal and responsibility of making this nation a better, safer place. 
   With his generous concession speech, Sen. Kerry noted, "In an American election, there are no losers, because whether or not our candidates are successful, the next morning we all wake up as Americans... In the days ahead, we must find common cause. We must join in common effort, without remorse or recrimination, without anger or rancor. America is in need of unity and longing for a larger measure of compassion."
   This is a good beginning: a fresh start for the new term for our re-elected president.
 
 