DIGITAL TELEVISION ALERT
  On April 7, 1927, a short speech given by then-Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover was sent from Washington to New York as part of the first successful long distance television transmission. Headlines in newspapers the next day beamed, "Television Now Reality," and a new era of American history was born. Eighty years later, we are embracing a new technology that will significantly improve television resolution and quality while also offering many new services. 
   Beginning February 17, 2009, all television programming will be digital, as stations will no longer broadcast analog signals. Digital technology will provide viewers with superior picture and sound, as well as offer multiple programming choices and interactive options. This transition will also make additional broadcast spectrum available for public safety uses and for advanced wireless applications.
   One byproduct of digital television is the ability for a station to multicast multiple signals from the same station at the same time. Among the numerous potential multicast offerings are local options that could include news and weather, foreign language content, and educational programming.
   Furthermore, when all broadcasts become digital, analog spectrum previously used for television will now be dedicated to public safety services. One of the lessons of 9/11 and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita is that emergency first responders, police, and firefighters require improved systems of communication. The transition to digital television will provide these responders with new frequencies to increase interoperability and allow officials from all jurisdictions and levels of government to more easily share information. This will ultimately save lives.
   Remaining analog spectrum will be auctioned by the government to wireless companies, which is expected to generate billions of dollars in proceeds to help reduce the federal deficit. The sale of this spectrum will also lead to the implementation of even more new technologies as services such as wireless broadband becomes available. 
   For many people, digital television is actually already here. Over 1,600 television stations are now broadcasting digital signals, and many consumers are currently enjoying these additional options. One product made possible by digital technology is High Definition TV, which has a far superior picture than standard definition television. HDTV has already changed the way many people watch sporting events on television. Digital technology makes possible crystal clear details previously impossible to see on television. Programs about nature and the outdoors are also vastly improved when viewed with digital technology.
   Since March 1, 2007, all new televisions with screens 13 inches or larger have been required to be capable of receiving digital signals. If you have a converter box, cable or satellite service, you are ready for the arrival of digital television. However, it is important for those who currently receive television over the air to prepare for the digital transition, because their current televisions may not be equipped to receive digital signals.
   Beginning January 1, 2008, all U.S. households will be eligible to request two $40 coupons from the Department of Commerce to purchase two digital-to-analog converter boxes. In the coming months, additional information will be made available by the Department of Commerce regarding how to receive these coupons.
   The technological advances of the past century have produced breakthroughs in medicine and science that have improved our quality of life. Soon television capabilities will also reflect the potential of the 21st century. To learn more about the transition to digital television, please visit www.dtv.gov.
 
 