SEN. HUTCHISON APPLAUDS CONFIRMATION OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE GATES
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today applauded the confirmation of Dr. Robert Gates as the 22nd United States Secretary of Defense. Below are excerpts from comments delivered by Sen. Hutchison on the Senate floor today. She emphasized Dr. Gates' broad and bipartisan experience and praised his sense of duty.
 "Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to speak on behalf of Dr. Robert Gates to become the next secretary of defense. I'm very pleased to stand in support of this great man. I have gotten to know him working with him as president of Texas A&M University and before that as the head of the Bush library there. And I have found him to be the thoughtful visionary leader that is a perfect fit for what we need in the department of defense at this crucial time. 
 "I was very pleased to see the Senate Armed Services Committee overwhelmingly, unanimously approve his nomination and bring it to the floor. I thank Chairman Warner and ranking member Levin for acting expeditiously on the nomination because, of course, when there is a transition in place, you need to have the leader confirmed. Mr. President, American military personnel are bound by core values of duty, honor, and country. General Douglas MacArthur eloquently articulated this during his famous address to cadets at West Point in 1962. Dr. Bob Gates certainly understands the meaning of these values.
 "Dr. Gates had not anticipated returning to government service. He said he's never enjoyed any position more than being president of Texas A&M University. That makes me proud in itself. But in wartime, he said he could not refuse the president's request. Over the last 40 years, Dr. Gates has gained experience that makes him uniquely qualified to serve as our 22nd Secretary of Defense. He stands ready to provide leadership that America needs to achieve victory in the war on terror. 
 "He has been a commissioned officer in the Air Force, serving in the Strategic Air command. He holds a PhD. in soviet history from Georgetown University. He has held numerous positions within the intelligence community, including director of the CIA and Deputy National Security Advisor. In 2002, he did become president of Texas A&M, our nation's sixth largest university. He was also a member of the Iraq Study Group that has just made its report today. He was a member until his appointment as Secretary of Defense. And I think that also has provided him with a good background on what is needed in the issue that he faces so starkly right now, and that is what we do in Iraq.
 "What do we do that allows the Iraqi people to have a government that is stable, a government that cannot be overrun by outside forces, and a government that will be stabilized itself for the good of its own people. I think that Dr. Gates' background is going to be helpful also at this particular time because he has worked across the aisle. He's worked in intelligence, which is not a partisan issue. And so I think that his experience and his ability, acknowledged by all, to work with others is the right formula for leading our Department of Defense and working as one of the president's closest advisors, and I am very pleased that he has accepted this huge challenge. 
 "Texas A&M is a great university, Madam President. It is a university that has a unique spirit and it is a military spirit. So many of our heroes from past wars have graduated from Texas A&M University. So he has kept this military connection, his intelligence connection, his ability to work with others all I think make him the very best choice for the president to make. And I, for one, know this man and am very confident that he is the right choice. 
 "And I look forward to working with him to make sure that we're doing the right thing in the War on Terror, which is bigger than just Iraq. It is Afghanistan, it is all over the world where terrorists are harming people and they are taking away part of the freedom that we stand for. And we don't want that to happen, so we have to beat the terrorists, and I want to beat them where they are, not have them come to America ever again and hurt American citizens and people who live and work in America. I think Bob Gates is the right person to advise and to work with the president, to implement the president's policies, and to bring this war to a conclusion with only one thing to be said, and that is a conclusion that is a victory."
 
 