RENEW U.S. VOW TO LEAD IN SPACE
  On Thursday, the space shuttle Atlantis is scheduled to blast off from Cape Canaveral for what may be one of its final missions. NASA is planning to retire all of its space shuttles as construction begins on its replacement - the safer, superior Orion spacecraft - which will be able to deliver astronauts to the moon, and even to Mars.
   However, even though the shuttle fleet will be retired in 2010, under the current schedule, Orion will not be ready for launch until 2015. This means there will be a five-year gap in which the U.S. will be unable to launch humans into space. By surrendering our leadership in space - even for just a few years - our national security will be at unnecessary risk. 
   For more than half a century, our national leaders have advanced the strong relationship between space and national defense. In 1957, the Soviet Union launched the world-famous Sputnik satellite, which set off alarm bells throughout Washington, and opened a new chapter in the Cold War. In response to that event, not only did we land a man on the moon, we also spawned a research program that led to breakthrough inventions such as the personal computers and the Internet. Over the years, space research has led to other innovations, such as laser surgery, heart monitors and car phones. In a very real sense, our commitment to NASA has been a major boost for both our economic and our military leadership.
   That leadership is now being put to the test. Without the space shuttle, we will have to rely on Russia to get our astronauts and scientists into orbit at a cost of $700 million. On a wide range of issues, including preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons, Russia has proved that it does not have our best interests at heart. While we should maintain our international partnerships, the world's leader in space technology must not fall into a pattern of dependency.
   Rising powers, such as China, are determined to move ahead of us and become leaders in space. Since 2003, when China became just the third country to send a man into space, it has made major strides in its space program, including sending its first probe to the moon last year. It is believed that the Chinese are determined to beat America back to the moon by sending an astronaut there as soon as 2020. A decade or so from now, China's red flag may be flying on the lunar surface.
   The possibility that China could win the space race of the 21st century should concern every American. There is a strong correlation between space research and national security. For example, by using space-based navigation systems, we can guide a missile to within meters of its intended target. This not only allows our military to more effectively hit a target, it also saves civilian lives and limits collateral damage.
   Furthermore, from a scientific and economic perspective, the opportunities for space research have never been greater, and America needs to seize those opportunities. In 2010, the much-anticipated international space station will finally be complete. The station is a research facility that will provide scientists with a unique environment where they can conduct many experiments not possible on Earth.
   For example, NASA is considering placing a sophisticated particle detector on the international space station to learn more about cosmic rays. This research must be carried out in space, where researchers can collect data without the hindrance of Earth's dense atmosphere and gravity. The results could lead to breakthroughs in our understanding of matter and, possibly, new sources of energy.
   However, once the international space station is complete, the U.S. will have to endure a five-year period in which we will not have the capability of delivering our scientists to it. Such a delay makes no sense. Considering the tens of billions of dollars we've already invested in the station, it is essential that Congress take the necessary steps to shrink that gap as much as possible.
   According to NASA Administrator Michael Griffin, an extra $2 billion investment would make Orion operational two years ahead of its current schedule. This seems like a worthy investment for Congress to make. As the chairman of the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations subcommittee, and the former chairman of that subcommittee, we are committed to helping NASA receive a larger share of the federal budget. Right now, NASA consumes less than one penny out of every dollar that Washington spends.
   Considering how much NASA helps our economy, it is reasonable to make NASA a greater national priority. In fact, in its last report, the U.S. Space Foundation estimated the space economy at $180 billion in 2005, with more than 60 percent of that figure coming from commercial goods and services.
   Now, more than ever, the U.S. must increase its commitment to leading the world in outer space. As international competition stiffens, we can't just rest on our laurels. We must be willing to make the necessary investments today to ensure our success tomorrow.
   Until this year, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas was the ranking member of the Space Subcommittee. Sen. Barbara Mikulski of Maryland is the chairman of the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations subcommittee that funds NASA. They wrote this commentary for the Orlando Sentinel.
 
 