A TEXAS GEM IS A MODEL FOR NATIONAL RENEWAL
  This Thursday and Friday, Houston hosts the third annual conference of The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas, known as TAMEST. Academy members are Texans who have been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering or the Institute of Medicine in recognition of their academic and research achievements. TAMEST is helping to shape the future of Texas and the United States. 
   Since the birth of our republic, Texans have shown a bold, pioneering spirit that has led to great growth and innovation. Today, many of the world's most remarkable minds are doing their groundbreaking work right here in the Lone Star State. TAMEST acts as a lens to focus that innovation, maximizing the fruits of the exciting new research being done by our doctors, scientists and engineers.
   Houston is a perfect setting for the conference because this city has led so many bold strides taken by Texas and the United States over the years, and it is the nexus for much scientific work today. Houston was the command center for the United States' leap into outer space, and it will be the focus of our launch into nano-space. By supporting Rice University, the University of Houston, the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center and Baylor College of Medicine, the leaders of Houston have made research excellence and growth a major priority.
   As part of a long-range plan to strengthen our economy, I began working to move Texas to the forefront of research in the United States. In 2002, I helped establish the Strategic Partnership for Research in Nanotechnology (SPRING) to foster nanotechnology research. SPRING is a collaborative effort between Texas universities and the military to create stronger, lighter materials. In 2003, I directed my attention to the creation of TAMEST to encourage our best researchers from various disciplines to become familiar with work done in our Texas institutions and combine their efforts to master bigger projects. In 2004, Houston leaders conceived the Alliance for NanoHealth, which applies nanotechnology to the treatment and cure of disease. That same year, the National Biocontainment Laboratory was launched at UT Medical Branch in Galveston, the first Biosafety Level 4 Laboratory on a university campus in the country.
   At the TAMEST conference, engineers are presenting their impressive work on the latest advances in fuel-cell technology. Scientists are sharing their insights on cutting-edge research in plasma physics, creating new avenues for further innovation. And physicians, such as the preeminent Dr. Michael DeBakey, are elaborating on their successes in medicine, providing a fertile climate for others to join their work and suggest new possibilities for additional research.
   TAMEST and our other research initiatives have been a great success. In 1998, Texas was ranked fifth nationally in federal research expenditures with $908 million. Since that time, Texas has moved up to a strong third. Last year, expenditures rose to over $1.5 billion. Since the advent of our initiatives, important funding has been drawn to Texas: $37.5 million for SPRING over the last four years, $10.4 million for the Alliance for NanoHealth from 2004 to 2006 and $158 million for the National Biocontainment Laboratory. MD Anderson receives more research funding from the National Cancer Institute than any other medical center in America.
   TAMEST should not be just a Texas initiative; instead, it should become the first step in a broader American agenda to redouble our efforts in the hard sciences. America's leadership in scientific research is responsible for its economic success since World War II, but our edge has begun to erode. In 1975, the U.S. conferred 59 percent of the world's doctorates; now it confers just 41 percent. During the same time, China has increased the number of doctorates its students earn from near zero to 12 percent. India has also become competitive, training large numbers of engineers who speak English and often are willing to work for one-fifth the salary of their U.S. counterparts. Our recent trend has been in the wrong direction.
   This new year, 2006, is the time for us to start reversing that trend. TAMEST is a gem for Texas and should be our model for the renewal of American leadership in science, engineering and medicine.
 
 