SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES OVER $2 MILLION IN RESEARCH GRANTS FOR UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT EL PASO TO ENCOURAGE STUDENTS TO PURSUE SCIENCE CAREERS
  Texas' senior Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today announced that the University of Texas at El Paso was awarded $ 2,113,992 in two research grants from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to encourage students to pursue science careers.  
   "The jobs of tomorrow will require a strong background in science and math, and these grants will help today's students get those jobs by encouraging them to pursue scientific careers," Sen. Hutchison said. "UTEP is taking the lead in encouraging students to get into the science, math and engineering fields." 
   A $1,964,912 grant, under the direction of Benjamin Flores, was awarded to implement several initiatives to improve the success of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) students at UTEP. The grant will support peer and team-led learning to help give students a deeper understanding of introductory math and physics concepts. Training in professional skills, such as communication and teamwork will also be offered. Students will also be encouraged to seek careers in science education through an alternative teaching certification program.
   UTEP was also awarded a $149,080 grant, under the direction of Laura Serpa, to re-establish a program to recruit minority students to the geosciences. A similar program existed at the University of New Orleans for 35 years, but was disrupted by Hurricane Katrina. This new effort will be based at UTEP and aimed at minority students displaced from New Orleans by Hurricane Katrina who now live in Texas.
   In October 2006, Senator Hutchison visited UTEP's College of Engineering and toured its research facilities with Mark Yudof, Chancellor of the University of Texas System, James Huffines, Chairman of the Board of Regents for the University of Texas System and Dr. Diana Natalicio, President of UTEP. 
   UTEP, a Hispanic Serving Institution, was named the top engineering school for Hispanics in the United States by Hispanic Business Magazine in both September 2005 and September 2006. According to the Engineering Workforce Commission, UTEP's College of Engineering consistently ranks as one of the top five schools in the continental United States awarding bachelor of science degrees to Hispanics.
   Sen. Hutchison is a senior member of the Commerce Science, and Transportation Committee, which authorizes the NSF, and the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science, which funds the NSF budget.
 
 