SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES FEMA EXPANDS INDIVIDUAL, PUBLIC FLOODING ASSISTANCE TO FOURTEEN TEXAS COUNTIES
  U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has increased the number of counties eligible for public and individual assistance from the flooding that occurred in Texas beginning June 16. 
   "I am pleased FEMA has included these additional counties so Texans in those communities can get the help they need to repair and rebuild," said Sen. Hutchison. "I'll continue working with the federal, state and local government to make sure Texas gets the resources it needs."
   The additional eight counties that are now eligible for Public Assistance (PA) funds are Anderson, Cherokee, Hill, Navarro, Throckmorton, Van Zandt, Walker and Wilbarger. In addition to these eight counties, there are 42 counties currently eligible for IA funds: Archer, Baylor, Bee, Brown, Bosque, Burnet, Callahan, Coleman, Comanche, Collin, Cooke, Coryell, Denton, Eastland, Erath, Fannin, Grayson, Hamilton, Hunt, Jones, Kaufman, Lamar, Lampasas, Llano, Mason, McCulloch, Medina, Menard, Mills, Montague, Parker, Runnels, San Saba, Smith, Starr, Stephens, Tarrant, Victoria, Webb, Wichita, Williamson and Wise Counties.
   PA funds are intended to help repair and restore damaged infrastructure and can be used for debris removal, emergency services related to the disaster, and the repair or replacement of damaged public facilities such as roads, buildings and utilities.
   The additional six counties that are now eligible for Individual Assistance (IA) funds are Guadalupe, Henderson, Nueces, Van Zandt, Walker and Zavala. In addition to these six counties, there are 27 counties currently eligible for PA funds: Archer, Bee, Bell, Brown, Burnet, Cherokee, Comanche, Cooke, Coryell, Denton, Eastland, Grayson, Hamilton, Hood, Lampasas, Llano, Medina, Parker, Runnels, Smith, Starr, Tarrant, Travis, Victoria, Webb, Wichita and Williamson Counties.
   According to FEMA, IA funds can be used for "temporary housing, home repairs, and other disaster-related expenses not covered by insurance. Low-interest loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration may be available to help renters, homeowners, and businesses recover from losses not fully compensated by insurance."
 
 