PEARL HARBOR DAY SHOULD LIVE IN INFAMY AND BE REMEMBERED
  There are only a few events in American history whose significance is so powerful that hearing the date instantly recalls its dramatic impact on our nation. For Americans of different generations, December 7, 1941 and September 11, 2001 represent tragic and historic dates in our history. In the words of President Franklin Roosevelt, December 7, 1941 is "a date that will live in infamy." Sixty-six years later, we honor not only the 2,333 brave service members who lost their lives in the sudden attack on Pearl Harbor, but the 11 million Americans who fought and won the Second World War, and secured freedom for future generations.
   During four years of warfare, young men from cities and small towns, and from so many diverse backgrounds, defeated the armies of two fascist empires, and liberated millions of people in Europe and Asia from the clutches of tyranny, and even genocide. 
   One of the greatest heroes of World War II was Audie Murphy, a farm boy from Kingston, Texas. Almost immediately after the attack on Pearl Harbor, 17-year-old Audie tried to enlist in the military, but the services rejected him for being underage. Then a few months later, he tried again, but he was rejected by the Marines and the paratroopers for being too short (5'5). But he refused to quit. By the time the war ended, Audie Murphy had become the most decorated soldier of the entire conflict - earning the Congressional Medal of Honor, and 32 other citations. Today, we remember Audie Murphy as one of the all-time Texas legends, becoming a famous actor after his heroic service.
   About a decade ago, Tom Brokaw's book "The Greatest Generation" reminded us of the sacrifices that so many others have made to keep our country safe and free.
   After the book came out, I asked myself, "What would our generation do if we were called? If America was ever attacked again, would we, too, stand and fight for freedom?" And then on September 11th, 2001, it happened. A new "date of infamy" was marked on the pages of history. And a new generation of heroes has sprung to action.
   The attacks of 9/11 were a 21st-century Pearl Harbor, and it has pushed America into a struggle that is just as important as any war we have ever fought: the Global War on Terror. Our enemies have already proven that they have no respect for human life. They have vowed to subjugate the world to their radical fundamentalism and to establish a global theocracy based on their corrupted version of Islam. We cannot allow them to succeed.
   As the central front in the Global War on Terror, Iraq and Afghanistan is where the forces of freedom, tolerance and democracy are fighting to defeat the tyranny and oppression of Al-Qaeda and radical Islam. We know from our troops in the field that if we allow the terrorists to win in Iraq or Afghanistan, they will escalate their terror against America and other free countries.
   This war has been costly for America in both lives and dollars, but under the leadership of General David Petraeus, our courageous men and women in uniform have made tremendous progress over the past year. In fact, General Petraeus has recommended a drawdown of troops because conditions on the ground merit such action.
   We should never underestimate the ability of nations to change, and for war to yield to peace. The nation that attacked Pearl Harbor - Japan - is now one of our staunchest allies. In September of 1944, a young Navy pilot named George H.W. Bush was shot down in the Pacific by the Japanese. Over sixty years later, his son, President George W. Bush welcomed Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to the White House.
   Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines have sacrificed greatly to keep us safe and free, and we must support them as they complete their mission. Although some are calling for surrender, I remain dedicated to winning the War on Terror, so that future generations may experience the freedom past generations gave to us.
   The Greatest Generation answered the call of Pearl Harbor. The torch has been passed and our generation must carry it out with the same courage and commitment.
   Kay Bailey Hutchison is serving her third full term representing Texas in the Senate. Sen. Hutchison serves as the Ranking Member on the Senate Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee and is a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
 
 