SEN. HUTCHISON MEETS WITH NEW JOHNSON SPACE CENTER DIRECTOR
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Chairman of the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Science and Space, today met with new Johnson Space Center Director Michael L. Coats to welcome him in his new position and discuss her vision for NASA's future. Sen. Hutchison lauded Director Coats, a former astronaut, and his credentials. He was named to the position on November 7, 2005. 
   "Director Coats brings with him a thorough understanding of the challenge of human space flight and knows first-hand the requirements for crew systems and safety," Sen. Hutchison said. "Director Coats is rejoining the NASA team during the historic year of Shuttle Discovery's successful Return to Flight mission. I look forward to working with him as the Center manages the program to develop the next generation human space flight vehicle." 
   On September 28, the Senate passed by unanimous consent the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Act of 2005, legislation authored by Sen. Hutchison. The legislation authorizes NASA for Fiscal Years 2006 through 2010, establishes a policy objective of uninterrupted U.S. spaceflight capability and requires completion of the International Space Station (ISS). The bill is currently being reconciled with the House version and will then be put before both chambers for a final vote and sent to President Bush to be signed into law.
   "Our national policy will determine the nation's role in future space exploration and its contribution to broad research and our national security," Sen. Hutchison said. "Minimizing the gap in space flight must be a goal if the U.S. wants to be a leader in space exploration."
   The NASA legislation designates the U.S. segment of the ISS as a national laboratory facility. The administrator would be required to outline operations and functions of the ISS national laboratory activities. Sen. Hutchison has acted with a focus on the broad research benefits and capabilities of the ISS.
   In addition, it includes language to ensure NASA completes a balanced science plan and requires a report to Congress every two years. The legislation also provides for the development of a National Aeronautics Research Plan to guide the course of future investments and priorities in this important area of NASA's scientific activities.
 
 