SEN. HUTCHISON OFFERS AMENDMENT TO RESTORE FUNDING FOR FACILITIES FOR U.S. TROOPS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Ranking Member on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today support for an amendment to the FY 2007 continuing appropriations resolution, H.J. Res. 20. The amendment seeks to restore $3.1 billion in funding to implement the recommendations of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) to construct facilities critical to support our troops and their families.
   The following is the text of the letter sent by Sen. Hutchison and her colleagues to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell urging debate and a vote on the amendment. More signatures in support of the amendment are expected and an updated list of these signatures can be provided upon request.  
   February 7, 2007
   The Honorable Harry Reid
  Senate Majority Leader
  United States Senate
  Washington, DC 20510
   The Honorable Mitch McConnell
  Senator Minority Leader
  United States Senate
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Senator Reid and Senator McConnell,
   The Department of Defense is in the process of reshaping our nation's military forces into a more modern and mobile force. A major element of this plan is the stationing of our forces in a more efficient manner. This efficiency is the essence of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's work. The BRAC commission estimated if its recommendations are implemented, it would save U.S. taxpayers over $20 billion. The Department of Defense is in the process of implementing these recommendations.
   In FY 2006, Congress appropriated $1.5 billion to implement the BRAC recommendations. This request was largely for planning and design. In the FY 2007 request, the Department asked for $5.6 billion to begin the moves in earnest. The FY 2006 appropriation of $1.5 billion was used as the base level for H.J. Res. 20, the continuing resolution for FY 2007. However, comparing the request for FY 2007 with the FY 2006 level is not a reasonable comparison. 
   The $5.6 billion in BRAC funding for FY 2007 is directly tied to a very complicated schedule of troop movements. Delaying these projects for even one year will put in jeopardy the return of over 12,000 troops to the United States. These troop units cannot return to the United States if they do not have the facilities in which to live, work, and train. As many as 33 states could be affected by this funding shortfall. In addition, many communities that endured base closures will not be able to implement their redevelopment plans on the current schedule. The economic impact of this is substantial. 
   H.J. Res. 20, as drafted, cuts $3.1 billion of BRAC funding requested by the President and authorized by Congress in the 2007 John Warner National Defense Authorization Act. If we do not provide the needed funding, it will deeply affect all the military services, forcing them to reorder the entire restructuring of our military forces as well as reprioritize the projects included in the FY 2008 budget request just delivered to Congress yesterday. Every action we take, or fail to take, in this area has far-reaching ramifications that affect our war fighters and our success in the War on Terror. 
   The Chief of Staff of every military service and the Secretary of Defense sent letters to Congress asking that BRAC implementation be fully funded. The Department of Defense needs Congress to fund BRAC at a level that provides for the implementation of the recommendations we endorsed. We believe that Military Construction, especially the FY 2007 BRAC recommendations, is essential to our national military strategy. We are asking you to allow us do our part.
   We have crafted an amendment for H.J. Res. 20 that would restore the $3.1 billion needed for BRAC funding. We urge you to allow this amendment to be brought before the Senate for debate and a vote. 
   Sincerely,
   Kay Bailey Hutchison
  Jim Inhofe
  Jeff Sessions
  Saxby Chambliss
  Trent Lott
  George V. Voinovich
  Mike Crapo
  John Cornyn
  Wayne Allard
  David Vitter
  Craig Thomas
  Michael B. Enzi
  Tom Coburn
  Robert F. Bennett
  Sam Brownback
  Jim DeMint
  Mel Martinez
  Jon Kyl
  Pat Roberts
  Jim Bunning
  Max Baucus
  Ted Stevens
  John McCain
 
 