SEN. HUTCHISON: NEW AWARD WILL PROMOTE SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH, EXCELLENCE IN TEXAS
  As the second annual meeting of The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST) concluded Friday, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) called it a success and praised the enthusiasm and contributions of the scholars participating. 
   At today's session the NASA Administrator delivered a luncheon speech and TAMEST members attended panel discussions on medical research and the aerospace industry. As the two-day conference began on Thursday, Sen. Hutchison announced that, according to the National Science Foundation, Texas now ranks third, with R&D expenditures in the state rising in recent years from $909 million to $1.410 billion - a 55% increase.
   Sen. Hutchison also discussed yesterday the creation of a new award to recognize cutting-edge research in Texas. The Edith and Peter O'Donnell Award is backed by a $2 million endowment and will provide three annual grants of up to $25,000 to pioneering academics in the fields of science, medicine and engineering. The winners will be selected by TAMEST and announced at the organization's third annual meeting in 2006.
   "This new award will help demonstrate that, when it comes to scientific research, Texas means business," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am deeply grateful for Edith and Peter O'Donnell for making this initiative possible. This week's conference has been a great success. We're sending a clear signal to scholars across the state and across the country that Texas is a state of science. The work we're doing today will help attract more young minds to these critical fields and build a more prosperous Texas for years to come."
   In 2000, after learning that Texas universities ranked sixth nationally in federal research and development dollars, Senator Hutchison set out to obtain the state greater share of those funds. Her strategy focused on three parts: hosting annual conferences in Washington to help academics identify new research opportunities, encouraging colleges and universities to establish centers of excellence to specialize in unique fields, and urging the schools to collaborate through their complementary centers of excellence to jointly pursue projects. 
   TAMEST consists of the state's 12 Noble Laureates and over 239 members of the Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences dedicated to increasing national awareness of and funding for research and development (R&D) at Texas colleges and universities, facilitating greater collaboration among the state's leading academics and growing the ranks of Texans in the prestigious National Academies. For more information, go to www.tamest.org/conference.
 
 