THE PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURATION IS LIVING HISTORY
  On January 20, Washington, D.C. will host one of democracy's greatest pageants, the inauguration of the U.S. President.
   While the inauguration ceremony, first performed in 1789, seems timeless, it has actually changed a great deal over the years. The first took place a month late in New York City because George Washington was delayed by harsh winter weather. As he traveled to New York, Congress debated the title for the chief executive of the United States. John Adams, Washington's vice president, argued for "His Most Benign Highness" but fortunately for us all, Congress settled on the title we still use: "President of the United States." 
   George Washington's oath came straight from the Constitution: "I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of the President of the United States and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States." He then added, "So help me God," starting a custom followed by every president since.
   The New York state chief justice determined that Washington should swear on a Bible, which set off a scramble to find a copy of the Good Book. When none was found in New York's Federal Hall, a Bible was borrowed from a Masonic lodge a few blocks away. 
   President Washington also started the custom of the inaugural speech. In his second term, he began the practice of having the oath administered by a U.S. Supreme Court Justice.
   The first inauguration in Washington, D.C. was of the third President, Thomas Jefferson, who walked to and from his boarding house to the Capitol for the swearing in. In his second term, he rode on horseback from the Capitol to the White House. A small band played music and a crowd gathered to watch the procession. Thus the inaugural parade was born.
   President Jefferson also held an open house at the White House, a now-discontinued tradition that almost resulted in calamity for Andrew Jackson. "Old Hickory," as the hero of the Battle of New Orleans was known, had to flee from a friendly, but unruly, crowd by exiting the White House through a window. 
   The location of the inauguration has also changed through the years. It was held indoors until 1817, when President James Monroe was sworn in on the east portico of the Capitol. It remained there until Ronald Reagan moved the ceremony to the west side of the Capitol in 1981 to allow more Americans to witness the ceremony in person. 
   Even the date of the inauguration has changed. Congress passed the 20th Amendment of the Constitution in 1933 to decrease the delay between election of a new president and the end of the outgoing president's term by moving the ceremony up from March 4 to January 20. President Franklin Roosevelt was the last president to take his oath on the original date and the first to take his oath on the new. 
   While most Americans believe no inauguration is complete without festive balls, this was not always the case. President James Madison's famous wife, Dolly, presided over the first inaugural ball in 1809. In 1869, President Ulysses S. Grant's inaugural ball degenerated into a food fight. President Woodrow Wilson declined to host any balls because he considered them undignified. Because President Warren Harding opposed the festivities in 1921, unofficial balls were the rule until President Harry Truman revived the official inaugural ball in 1949.
   Because of heavy demand, President Dwight Eisenhower held two inaugural balls, and the numbers have grown ever since. This year, though many balls are being held, the Black Tie and Boots inaugural ball hosted by the Texas State Society is considered "the" inaugural ball to attend. Its tickets sold out online in less than an hour, and those sold by mail were snapped up immediately as well.
   If you are in Washington, D.C. through April, you may want to visit The Library of Congress and see "Presidential Inaugurations," a display of artifacts, documents and photographs from the ceremony's long history. Exhibits like this remind us that the traditions of the Presidential Inauguration are something we can take pride in, whether we are in Washington D.C. or in Washington-on-the-Brazos.
 
 