SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES JUSTICE SCHNEIDER TO CAPITOL HILL
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison today introduced Justice Michael Haygood Schneider, Sr., before a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Judge Schneider, a member of the Texas Supreme Court, has been nominated by President George W. Bush to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas at the recommendation of Sen. Hutchison and Sen. John Cornyn, who chaired the hearing. Below please find Sen. Hutchison's introductory remarks at the nomination hearing: 
   "He has been a judge for 25 years, and has performed in an excellent way in all of his positions. This is an East Texas judgeship so the cities would be Beaumont, Texarkana, Tyler, and Sherman. He has served as a justice on our supreme court since 2002, elected statewide for that position. Prior to that, he was chief justice of the Texas First Court of Appeals, and prior to that, a district judge in Houston as well as a Municipal Judge in West University Place. So he has truly known all the levels of our court system, which I think really speaks well for him. He earned his bachelor's degree from Stephen F. Austin State University in 1965, a law degree from the University of Houston College of Law in 1971, and a Master's of Law degree from the University of Virginia School of Law in 2001. He has been honored as Judge of the Year twice by the Texas Association of Civil Trial and Appellate Specialists.
   "I cannot think of anyone who has the respect that he does, who is seeking a permanent position on the Court. As you and I know, Mr. Chairman, these lifetime appointments are very carefully regarded because once someone has a lifetime appointment, we know that they no longer face the people. But it really gives me pleasure to nominate someone who has gone to the people, who has won elections, who has shown judicial temperament as well as the ability to excel and be overwhelming supported by our state at every level: district, civil, and supreme court, all of which are elected in the state of Texas. So, I recommend him highly. 
   "We all know this is late in an election year, so my question will be to the committee: Will you move swiftly as possible to try to get this nomination ready for the floor? There should not be a controversy and this East Texas Bench needs the seat filled. So it would be helpful if you can move expeditiously.
   "Before I leave, let me also introduce his wife who is here: Mary Schneider. I have known her, also, for at least 25 years. She has been a family friend. She is wonderful. And his son, Michael Jr. is here. We welcome all of them from Texas and look forward to a swift confirmation if possible."
 
 