SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $5.2 BILLION FOR BORDER SECURITY, IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced Congress has approved $5.2 billion for border security and immigration enforcement in the Fiscal Year 2006 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill.  
   Senator Hutchison has been working throughout this year's budget and appropriations processes to secure more funding to protect our borders. When combined with the FY 2005 supplemental spending bill, 1,500 new border patrol agents and 568 support positions will be funded for hire in FY 2006. 
   "We cannot allow our borders to be a weakness as we work to protect our cities, towns and neighborhoods from terrorist threats," Sen. Hutchison said. "Texas and other border states bear a significant burden as the frontline of our nation's defense. I have worked to ensure border patrol funding was made a priority. This new funding is a marked improvement but the work to secure our borders is far from over." 
   In March 2005, Sen. Hutchison and Sen. John Ensign (R-NV) authored an amendment to the Senate Budget Resolution that authorized 2,000 new border patrol agents without increasing nondiscretionary spending. As a FY 2005 Emergency Defense Supplemental bill conferee, Sen. Hutchison helped broker a deal included in the May 2005 emergency defense bill which provided funding for new border agents, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement investigators, detention officers and detention beds. 
   This week, Sen. Hutchison introduced legislation that would give state and local officials expanded authority to arrest, detain and prosecute illegal aliens as well as create a Volunteer Border Marshal Program. 
   "Our borders have been hemorrhaging for too long. It is a national security and safety threat to our nation," Sen. Hutchison said. "Elected officials and residents from border and non-border states alike want to see action to secure our homeland and enforce our laws."
 
 