SEN. HUTCHISON EXPRESSES CONCERN OVER DIGITAL TV TRANSITION FOR BORDER CONSUMERS IN TEXAS
  Today U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), at a Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation committee hearing, told Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Kevin Martin and Acting Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information Meredith Atwell Baker that Texans living along the border have not been adequately prepared for the digital television (DTV) transition that will take place on February 17, 2009. 
   "There's confusion about which households are affected, how to obtain and redeem converter box coupons, and which retailers are carrying the converter boxes," said Sen. Hutchison in her opening statement at the hearing. "We do have public service announcements - and that is important - but I don't think that's nearly enough. I certainly look forward to hearing ideas on other outreach activities that we can conduct as we move into this critical period leading up to the transition. The outreach has revealed some unique challenges in the border region. The Rio Grande Valley has more than 300,000 households and more than one-third of these rely on antennas for reception. Yet, according to the most recent Commerce Department data, only about 10,000 coupons have been ordered for this area."
   As part of her outreach efforts to raise awareness in border communities, Sen. Hutchison has produced public service announcements for television stations serving border consumers, has provided educational pamphlets in English and Spanish in border communities, and in March sent her staff to South Texas to meet with community leaders to answer questions and listen to their concerns about the transition.
   Last year Sen. Hutchison introduced S. 2507, the Digital Television Border Fix Act, which addresses the concerns of South Texas and border residents regarding the DTV transition by giving the FCC the ability to allow broadcasters along the border to continue analog broadcasts for five years, but maintains FCC authority to deny stations in the affected area the ability to simulcast in both analog and digital if it does not serve the public interest. The legislation applies only to stations within 50 miles of the common border with Mexico, specifically including Texas cities Laredo, McAllen, and El Paso. Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) is the chief co-sponsor of this legislation.
   "The legislation that I have introduced will ensure that Texans living along the border will not lose access to public safety communication messages sent through television stations," said Sen. Hutchison.
 
 