TAX EQUALITY FOR TEXAS
  The holiday shopping season is upon us, and over the next few weeks, Texans will spend millions of dollars purchasing gifts for friends and loved ones. Added to each purchase price is a sales tax, which is higher in Texas than most other states. In the past, these purchases were essentially taxed twice - first by the federal government on the earnings used to make the purchase, and then by the state on the purchase itself. However, a bill passed by Congress in the last days of our December session allows Texans to deduct the sales tax from their federal income taxes.
   Extending the state sales tax deduction was one of my top legislative priorities this fall. The Texas Comptroller's Office reported that the sales tax deduction saves a family of four $310 a year, or a total of about $1 billion each year for the state's residents who itemize deductions.  
   Maintaining this deduction is an issue of fairness. Taxpayers in Texas, Alaska, Florida, Washington, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee and Wyoming were set to be penalized had this deduction not been reinstated. In states where revenue is collected through state income taxes, residents have long been allowed to deduct state income taxes on their federal tax returns. From 1986-2004, the residents of states without a state income tax were penalized because of their state's choice to collect revenue through sales taxes.
   Congress approved a two-year sales tax deduction in 2004, but that expired at the end of last year. Had Congress not reinstated this deduction for 2006 and 2007, Texans would have been unfairly penalized again. Thankfully, Congress did and ensured tax equity. However, this unfair limitation is set to return in 2008. I remain dedicated to making this deduction permanent, so Texans are not treated like second-class citizens in regards to paying taxes.
   The tax extenders package included several other measures that benefit our state's students, citizens and businesses. Among them is a deduction for college tuition and fees. This saves families thousands of dollars and allows a greater number of students to attend college each year. It allows those who earn up to $65,000 (or $130,000 for a married couple) to take an educational deduction worth up to $4,000. Families with higher incomes (up to $80,000 for an individual or $160,000 for a couple) may qualify for a deduction worth up to $2,000.
   Another important part of this bill benefits classroom teachers, who will be allowed to deduct $250 for classroom supplies and expenses. Our teachers certainly deserve a break for reaching into their own pockets to improve the learning environment of our children.
   Technological innovation makes crucial contributions to long-term economic growth, and research and development is the lifeblood of innovation. To support this, the research and development tax credit was also extended. Supporting research and development helps American manufacturers and the U.S. economy remain competitive with increased competition from foreign countries and leads to additional American jobs in high-tech industries.
   Low tax rates continue to stimulate our economy and create jobs. The economy has grown for 20 consecutive quarters. In the past year, almost 2 million jobs have been created, and the unemployment rate is 4.4 percent, which is lower than the average rate of the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s.
   I firmly believe that taxpayers know better than the government how to spend their money, and I will continue to support pro-growth policies, because our nation benefits when taxpayers are allowed to keep more of what they earn.
 
 