SEN. HUTCHISON LEADS EFFORTS TO RESTORE MILITARY FUNDING TO SENATE SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Ranking Member on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, today urged action on her amendment to restore $3.1 billion in funding for military facilities for our troops. The $461 billion omnibus spending bill was passed by the House and is currently being considered on the Senate floor.  
   " . . . [the] continuing resolution, strips the base closing construction that will keep the base closing commission results that were adopted by Congress, that are the law of this country, from going forward with the six-year timetable that was set out by Congress. What we have now is a delay . . . it is going to begin to handicap the ability to move troops from overseas that are scheduled as early as this year to move. 12,000 troops will begin the move that is part of the rebasing operation from foreign bases to American bases. 12,000 will not be able to move with all of the amenities that we require," Sen. Hutchison stated on the Senate floor.
   Sen. Hutchison introduced an amendment to the FY 2007 continuing appropriations resolution, H.J. Res. 20. The amendment seeks to restore $3.1 billion in funding to implement the recommendations of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) to construct facilities critical to support our troops and their families. The Democratic Majority Leader is currently preventing any amendments, including the Hutchison-Inhofe military funding amendment from being considered and receiving a vote.
   "I ask that the majority in Congress work with us to accomplish meeting the needs of our military," Sen. Hutchison continued. "I want to just say that the Hutchison-Inhofe amendment is cosponsored by 27 members of our Senate. The cosponsors, besides myself and Senator Inhofe, are Senators Allard, Baucus, Bennett, Brownback, Bunning, Burr, Chambliss, Coburn, Cornyn, Crapo, DeMint, Dole, Enzi, Graham, Kyl, Lott, Martinez, McCain, Roberts, Sessions, Stevens, Thomas, Vitter, Voinovich, and Warner. Mr. President, that's a good number and that's almost one-third of the Senate. . . I believe that we could fully fund our military and the important operations that they are doing. And that's what I think is essential here."
 
 