SEN. HUTCHISON SECURES HURRICANE RECOVERY FUNDS FOR TEXAS IN FINAL EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL BILL
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced that emergency funds for areas devastated by Hurricane Rita and the costs associated with educating Katrina students have been included in the final Emergency Supplemental Conference Report bill. The legislation also includes vital funding for military projects in Fort Worth, Texarkana and Amarillo in support of the War on Terror.  
   "The hurricane recovery funds I secured for Texas in the Senate bill were based on emergency needs and received strong support from my colleagues in Congress," Sen. Hutchison said. "Hurricane Rita didn't discriminate along state lines and neither should the federal government. It is only fair that East Texas communities receive the same reimbursement rate as Louisiana parishes directly across the river recovering from the same hurricane."
   Sen. Hutchison introduced and passed an amendment to the Senate Emergency Supplemental bill which raised the federal reimbursement rate for Hurricane Rita damage claims in Texas to a 90 percent federal, 10 percent local rate. By securing that provision in the final bill, the new reimbursement rate will save Texas counties nearly $200 million. 
   The 23 Texas counties devastated by Hurricane Rita still have not recovered. Some were even considering bankruptcy without federal assistance. "Different reimbursement rates would be unfair and I wanted to ensure Texas was treated fairly," Sen. Hutchison continued. 
   In conference negotiations, Sen. Hutchison also secured $235 million for education costs associated with Hurricane Katrina victims who were forced to relocate, many of them to Texas. The final legislation is expected to be voted on by the House and Senate as early as next week and then sent to President Bush to be signed into law. 
   "Though the average cost of educating a student in Texas is $6,000, the previous appropriations bill provided roughly $4,000 per student. This provision that I secured will help address that shortfall."
   Sen. Hutchison also announced $5.2 billion was provided to the U.S Department for Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) which will help repair and restore housing and infrastructure in hurricane damaged areas. 
   "I am confident that HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson, having taken the time to tour destruction caused by Hurricane Rita in Port Arthur and Beaumont, will ensure that Texas receives its fair share of the CDBG funds. I have spoken with Secretary Jackson this week and he assured me of that." 
   The military portion of the bill includes $227.5 million for continued production of the Boeing C-17 aircraft, largely produced in Ft. Worth, $230 million for the V-22 "Osprey" program manufactured in Amarillo, and $175 million for production of the Bradley Fighting Vehicles used by the U.S. Army. Work on the vehicle will take place at the Red River Army Depot in Texarkana and in York, PA.
 
 