SEN. HUTCHISON INTRODUCES GUEST CHAPLIN TO SENATE
  MRS. HUTCHISON. Madam President, it is my pleasure to introduce our guest chaplain, Dr. Prentice Meador, from Dallas, TX, the minister at Prestoncrest Church of Christ. Dr. Meador hails from Nashville, TN. Our majority leader and Dr. Meador have known each other for a long time.  
   He is a graduate of David Lipscomb College and holds a Ph.D from the University of Illinois. He and his wife Barbara, a registered nurse, have three married children and 10 grandchildren. 
   Dr. Meador served at the South National Church of Christ in Springfield, MO for 14 years before moving to Dallas in 1988. There he started serving as a pulpit minister for the Prestoncrest Church of Christ.
   Not only did our distinguished leader come over to say hello to our chaplain this morning, but also Senator Bond from Missouri, who when he was Governor worked with Dr. Meador on a summit for children. Dr. Meador has been very active in that regard as well. 
   So we came in today, and not only was he there with me as his hometown Senator but also the Senator from Tennessee and the Senator from Missouri came to greet him, which I think shows what a great impact he has wherever he goes. 
   Dr. Meador has in fact adopted a wonderful philosophy of the modern church. He offers grace to imperfect people. He doesn't want to save the world and lose our own families. He offers God to people entangled in the web of today's culture. 
   That take on the urban church has attracted large audiences of young adults. In fact, the average age in his church in Dallas is 28. Dr. Meador has done an excellent job of cultivating their interest by emphasizing relationship building, mentoring, and accountability groups. 
   He is a member of the board of trustees of a great university, Abilene Christian University in Abilene, TX, and he is on the chancellor's council of another great university, Pepperdine University in California. Dr. Meador is listed in "Who's Who in Religion" as well as "Who's Who in the Southwest." He has spoken throughout the world and has given frequent lectures throughout the United States. 
   He is an accomplished author who has written several books, and has been the managing editor of 21st Century Christian magazine starting in 1992. He is a regular television contributor, including as a weekly panelist on the American Religion Town Hall, which is a national program. 
   Dr. Meador has received numerous awards for his leadership and citizenship. It is an honor to have him with us today. 
   I was so pleased to be able to be with him this morning. We had a good visit at our prayer breakfast about what we do in the Senate. I thank Dr. Meador for sharing his blessing on us at a very important time in our country.
 
 