SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES DATE FOR USS SAN ANTONIO COMMISSIONING AT NAVAL STATION INGLESIDE
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today announced that the date for the USS San Antonio (LPD 17) commissioning ceremony at Naval Station Ingleside has been set for January 14, 2006. Former President George H.W. Bush agreed to deliver the keynote address at the request of Sen. Hutchison. 
   "As the sponsor of the USS San Antonio, I was proud to christen this mighty vessel and I am looking forward to the commissioning ceremony at Naval Station Ingleside," Sen. Hutchison said. "I know the entire region will come together to honor the USS San Antonio and her crew. As the most advanced amphibious assault ship ever built, the USS San Antonio will help ensure our sailors have the equipment and the technology necessary to successfully complete their mission and return home safely."
   The USS San Antonio is the first of nine planned amphibious assault ships in this class and will replace the older LPD 4 class. This entire class of new ships will now be referred to as the San Antonio class. The LPD 17, christened by Sen. Hutchison in July 2003, will hold 361 officers and crew and can accommodate up to 800 troops. The ship will help ensure the Navy and Marine Corps have the naval expeditionary forces - ships, aircraft, weapons and systems - to conduct a range of missions around the globe.
   The commissioning will be organized by USS San Antonio Commander John Padfield, Richard "Tres" Kleberg, III, Chairman of the Commissioning Committee and Co-Chairman Jim Berg, Former San Antonio Spurs star and Honorary Chairman David "The Admiral" Robinson as well as local leaders and city officials. 
   "It's a great honor for the city of San Antonio and the entire state of Texas that such a leading-edge ship for the United States Navy will be named USS San Antonio," said Mr. Kleberg. "We are working with many dedicated volunteers from all over the state to put together a Texas-sized celebration for the commissioning ceremony. We want to give the USS San Antonio a big send-off and are excited about joining Sen. Hutchison in making this a memorable event for the officers and crew and a moment of great pride for our city and state."
   In keeping with the rich tradition of naming ships after U.S. cities, Secretary of the Navy John H. Dalton named the first of the new ships after the city of San Antonio, the site of the battle of the Alamo that became the rallying cry for Texas' heroic struggle for independence from Mexico in 1836.
   The 300-year-old tradition of commissioning a ship marks her entry into active Navy service. When the commissioning pennant is broken at the masthead, the ship takes her place alongside the other active ships of the Fleet.
 
 