DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA
  These are busy days in the United States Senate. Following August recess, members of Congress returned to Washington, D.C., armed with comments provided by our constituents. During the past month, I had the opportunity to visit with Texans throughout our state. In the remaining weeks Congress is in session before November's elections, I will continue my work on issues important not only to our state but vital to our nation.
   We must ensure our armed forces have the equipment and support needed to properly secure our nation. The Senate recently passed a Department of Defense appropriations bill that provides our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines with critical supplies necessary to prosecute the ongoing war against terror. It is essential that we give our servicemen and women everything possible to do the job of protecting freedom. This bill increases benefits, delivers a much-deserved pay raise for military personnel, upgrades equipment, and funds key readiness programs critical to America's national security. 
   As Chairman of the Senate's Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, I believe it is important to prioritize housing for families and base infrastructure modernization. Veterans of our armed forces deserve our continued support once they leave military service, and this includes resources to ensure proper care for those who have proudly served our nation.
   An integral aspect of defense is the security of our nation's ports. Texas is home to 29 ports, including four of the 10 busiest in the country. We are working to secure our ports and improve our methods for inspecting containers and materials at the point of origin before they enter U.S. water. For years I have focused on more stringent port security. Key parts of my legislation, the Intermodal Shipping Container Security Act, will be incorporated into a comprehensive port security bill making its way through Congress this month.
   America's strength is drawn not only from our military, which is the finest in the world, but from the participation of our citizens. Every two years, federal elections provide the American people with an opportunity to express themselves and have their voices heard.
   Through writing weekly Capitol Comments, I enjoy sharing with Texans my views on important issues facing our state and country, as well as commenting on topics that are truly Texan. I also conduct surveys to hear your views on the issues our country faces. However, this will be my final Capitol Comment until after November's elections, as Federal Election Commission rules prohibit this form of communication within 60 days of Election Day, which this year falls on Nov. 7. 
   It is important to exercise your right to vote. Historically, more than half of eligible voters do not vote in mid-term elections. In 2002, only 37 percent of eligible voters across the nation turned out, and in Texas that number was even lower at 29 percent.
   This is a distressing sign at a time when our country continues to support emerging democracies around the world where many are experiencing the right to vote for the first time. In Iraq, 60 percent of eligible voters participated in their country's constitutional referendum last October despite threats of danger and violence. Iraqis were willing to risk their lives to enjoy the powerful and intoxicating feeling of being part of the democratic process.
   By voting, you play a direct role in the selection of the men and women whose policy decisions affect the quality of your life and your pursuit of happiness. And not incidentally, you also send a message to those throughout the world who look to America as the most shining example of freedom.
 
 