SEN. HUTCHISON ANNOUNCES SECURITY FUNDING ELIGIBILITY FOR TEXAS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced several Texas cities and ports are eligible for security funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Infrastructure Protection Program (IPP). The IPP includes a number of individual grant programs that target specific areas vulnerable to terrorist attacks, such as ports and mass transit.  
   "Our nation's ports and transit systems are vital to the global economy and our way of life," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has prioritized risk analysis in determining funding eligibility. Our nation's security is enhanced when risk and need trump politics in distributing homeland security dollars." 
   Texas ports and agencies are eligible for funding under the Port Security Grant Program (PSGP), the Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP), and the Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP).
   The PSGP emphasizes increased awareness of port vulnerability and protection from improvised explosive devices and other non-conventional methods of attack. Based on risk analysis, greater Houston area ports-Houston, Galveston, and Texas City-have been designated Tier 1 and may apply for a collective total of $15,720,981 in security funding. The ports of Beaumont and Port Arthur, also Tier 1, may apply for a collective total of $10,961,035. The ports of Corpus Christi, Brownsville, Freeport, Matagorda and Victoria are also eligible to apply for funding.
   The TSGP provides funding for the protection of critical mass transit operations including bus, rail and ferry systems. Transit systems in the Dallas, Ft. Worth and Arlington areas are eligible to apply for program funding.
   The BZPP is designed to build security and risk-management capabilities at critical infrastructure sites, such as chemical facilities, nuclear and electric power plants, dams, stadiums and financial institutions. Designated sites within Texas are collectively eligible to apply for up to $2,810,000.
 
 