HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO AN AMERICAN INSTITUTION
  One of America's greatest institutions, the United States Army, celebrates its 231st birthday this month. On June 14, 1775, the delegates of the Second Continental Congress took a bold step by voting to create a military that would protect and serve the new union of states. Our Army has certainly grown over the years, from approximately 15,000 soldiers at its creation to over 1.1 million soldiers today.
   America's founding fathers could not have foreseen what an impressive and enduring institution they were establishing so many years ago. The Army's birthday offers an opportunity to honor our men and women in uniform and remember those who have fought for our great nation. For more than two centuries, the Army has defended the United States and the principles upon which our republic was founded. The Army has a tradition of service, excellence and dedication, with core values of loyalty, duty, respect, honor, integrity and courage.  
   One of the Army's greatest victories came on June 6, 1944 - D-Day - when a force of 150,000 Allied soldiers led by General Dwight D. Eisenhower stormed the beaches of Normandy in Operation Overlord. Each year on June 6, we recognize the anniversary of D-Day, a day of hope and courage when many Americans sacrificed their lives to free our allies from the shadow of tyranny and ensure such oppression never darkened our lands.
   The invasion at Normandy reminds me of the threats to freedom and liberty we currently face and how important it is for us to achieve victory in the War on Terror. I am proud of the American people's resolve to stand up for freedom wherever it is in danger, and I am grateful for the men and women of the United States Army and other branches of the military for turning that resolve into action.
   Among the brave soldiers who stormed the Normandy beaches over 60 years ago was a Texan named James Earl Rudder. As Commander of the Second Ranger Battalion, he steadfastly led his men up the cliffs at Normandy despite being wounded twice in the ascent. If you haven't visited the cliffs scaled by those men that day, try to do it. It was amazing that any of them made it under heavy enemy fire.
   By the end of WWII, James Earl Rudder had risen to the rank of Colonel. Upon his return to Texas, he remained active in the Army Reserves as he began a career in public service. He eventually became Major General of the Army Reserves and later President of the Texas A&M University System.
   The most decorated solider of WWII was Audie Murphy, from Farmersville, Texas. Rejected by the Navy, Marines and Army paratroopers because, at just 5 feet 5 inches tall, he did not meet their height requirements, Audie Murphy joined the Army and built a record that has never been surpassed. He earned 33 awards and dedications, including the Congressional Medal of Honor, and was credited with killing over 240 enemy soldiers. 
   The Texan tradition of service that Audie Murphy and James Earl Rudder helped to uphold continues today. Texas boasts the most active duty troops in the Army, as well as the largest overall number of active duty servicemen and women. Texans in the Army National Guard and the Army Reserves outnumber soldiers from any other state. There are more U.S. Army bases within our state borders than any state in the nation. These numbers do not simply reflect our state's size. They are a testament to the respect our state has for military service and the fact that Texans hold the defense of freedom dearly.
   A story of Texan bravery and self-sacrifice that is deeply moving for me is the rescue of Private Jessica Lynch. In 2003, after the 507th Maintenance Company based out of Fort Bliss was ambushed in Operation Iraqi Freedom, Private Lynch was taken captive by Iraqi forces. In a noble display of bravery, special operation forces risked their lives to force entry into the hospital where she was and take her to safety. This dedication to our military's credo of leaving no soldier behind exemplifies the value our country places on human life.
   In honor of the Army's birthday, please take a moment to remember its awe-inspiring history, the sacrifices of its members from Texas and its continuing tradition of excellence.
 
 