SEN. HUTCHISON PAYS TRIBUTE TO FORMER PRESIDENT REAGAN
  Senate Floor Speech of Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison:
   MRS. HUTCHISON. Madam President, I rise today to pay tribute to an American legend, President Ronald Reagan. Like all Americans, I was saddened to learn of his passing over the weekend. I had left our Republican State convention at a time when it was moving across the floor that he might be in his final hours. Of course, all of us started reminiscing. It was a moment of great loss, but yet a recollection of his humor, his contagious optimism, and the historic accomplishments he made for our country really were comforting and engendered so many wonderful moments.  
   Although I was not a Member of this body while he was in office, I have lived and served under his conservative principles and ideologies. He was in his political prime when I was just beginning in politics. During his first campaign, my husband Ray was chairman of the Texas Republican Party and spent many hours traveling with him across Texas. In 1992, I was honored to be temporary chair of the Republican National Convention in Houston, TX, when he delivered his very important message that turned out to be his goodbye to America. It was there that he left us with these final thoughts: 
   Whatever else history may say about me when I'm gone, I hope it will record that I appealed to your best hopes, not your worst fears, to your confidence rather than your doubts. My dream is that you will travel the road ahead with liberty's lamp guiding your steps and opportunity's arm steadying your way. ..... May each of you have the heart to conceive, the understanding to direct, and the hand to execute works that will make the world a little better for your having been here. ..... My fellow Americans, may every dawn be a great new beginning for America and every evening bring us closer to that shining city upon a hill. 
   At a time of great despair in our Nation, Ronald Reagan came into office and restored hope. He was an unequaled champion of freedom, smaller Government, and market-oriented principles. His philosophies guided our Nation to become the economic and military superpower it is today. Of course, he was often called the Great Communicator for his ability to give a rousing speech that could both rally the troops and yet make an individual in the crowd of thousands feel as if they were having a heart-to-heart talk. 
   Beyond his optimism, his confidence, and graceful charm was a man of action who implemented great change in the United States of America. Under his leadership, our Nation sowed seeds of prosperity and reduced regulatory burdens on small business. He lowered taxes for all Americans, including reducing the top marginal rate from an oppressive 70 percent to approximately half that, offering new incentives to create wealth and jobs and rebuild America. 
   He encouraged Americans to embrace their own destiny and realized that Government was not the answer to social ills; people were. Good people working in concert to better their communities and their fellow man could accomplish far more than bureaucracy, from his vantage point. 
   Perhaps most important, President Reagan took the steps to ultimately win the cold war. He pursued peace through strength and achieved an overwhelming victory that was inconceivable to a generation that was raised with fallout drills and backyard bunkers. 
   Who can forget the famous challenge he laid down when he cried, "Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall"? They were indeed great, dramatic words but more importantly words of action. Two and a half years later, what once seemed a permanent divider through the heart of Berlin was torn down piece by piece, section by section, until it was reduced to a pile of rubble. 
   Visitors to the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, DC, can view a section of that wall donated by the people of Berlin in honor of the President and in recognition of his leadership. The segment, which is over 9 feet high and weighs almost 3 tons, is from a section of the wall near the Brandenburg Gate where President Reagan issued that challenge. It stands as a stark reminder of the great shift in global politics that spread freedom in Europe and encouraged new generations to pursue democracy. 
   Today, we again find ourselves in a fight for freedom. This generation, like their World War II grandparents and cold war parents, has been called to stand and fight for freedom. Today, we are grappling with a new threat: global terrorism, an enemy with no borders, no uniforms, no respect for traditional rules of war, and more importantly no respect for human life. 
   World War II took bitter years of fighting and sacrifice. The cold war took decades of dedication and patience. This battle against terrorism requires all that and more. The question is: Will our generation meet the test? Will we have what it takes to win the peace? I believe we do. I believe the strength, perseverance, and patriotism that Ronald Reagan embodied will help see us through. 
   In 1987, he addressed a joint session of Congress saying: Let it never be said of this generation of Americans that we became so obsessed with failure that we refused to take risks that could further the cause of peace and freedom in the world.
   Since learning of his passing last weekend, elected officials, former Cabinet members, and newspapers across the world have been penning eulogies, remembrances, and tributes to the beloved President. 
   James Baker, his former Chief of Staff and Treasury Secretary: 
   President Reagan restored America's source of pride and confidence in itself. He was a wonderful person to work for and a truly great President. His willingness to stick to his principles changed the world. 
   Former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher: 
   He will be missed not only by those who knew him, and not only by the nation that he served so proudly and loved so deeply, but also by the millions of men and women who live in freedom today because of the policies he pursued. To have achieved so much against so many odds and with such humor and humanity made Ronald Reagan a truly great American hero. 
   Secretary of State Colin Powell, who served as his National Security Adviser, said: 
   President Reagan fueled the spirit of America. His smile, his optimism, his total belief in the ultimate triumph of democracy and freedom, and his willingness to act on that belief, helped end the Cold War and usher in a new and brighter phase of history.
   Mikhail Gorbachev, once Reagan's adversary, called him: 
   A true leader, a man of his word and an optimist ..... He has earned a place in history and in people's hearts. 
   Finally, his Vice President, later our President, George H.W. Bush, has been giving interviews about how much fun he was and how they had lunch every week together and sometimes they would talk substance, sometimes they would talk policy, and sometimes they would just have a good time. They were very close, and yet he never lost that laser beam focus on the big issues, the things that really mattered that would move us one step toward the peace through strength that was his guiding principle. 
   Indeed, his lasting place in the hearts of all Americans has been evidenced by the outpouring of love and admiration that we have seen across the Nation and around the world. Ronald Reagan was a leader who touched people with his words, inspired them with his actions, and led by his example. 
   On November 5, 1994, nearly a decade ago, President Reagan announced to the world that he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, the illness that would ultimately take his life. His poise and hopeful spirit, even in the face of the heartbreaking years ahead, were remarkable. He said:
   ..... Let me thank you, the American people, for giving me the great honor of allowing me to serve as your president. When the Lord calls me home, whenever that day may be, I will leave with the greatest love for this country of ours and eternal optimism for its future. I now begin the journey that will lead me into the sunset of my life. I know that for America there will always be a bright dawn ahead. Thank you, my friends. May God always bless you.
   Standing by his side through good times and bad, his beloved wife Nancy, a beautiful woman, very slight in stature but strong as steel. Theirs was a partnership in every respect and one of the great love stories of our time. Ronald Wilson Reagan was a great President. He left an indelible impression on our country. As we say farewell, our thoughts and prayers are with Nancy and his family. We thank them and we thank the Lord that he gave us Ronald Reagan at a time when our country needed him the most.
 
 