SEN. HUTCHISON HONORS LUBBOCK LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS
  Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today honored Sheriff David Gutierrez and Captain Antonio Menchaca of the Lubbock County Sheriff's office with the 2007 National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) Law Enforcement Excellence Award. The awards were presented at the 12th Annual Congressional Breakfast and National Law Enforcement Awards hosted by NCMEC. Sheriff Gutierrez and Captain Menchaca were honored for their work in helping to solve the Joanna Rogers case. 
   "I am proud to honor Sheriff Gutierrez and Captain Manchaca. They are honorable representatives of the Lubbock community and I am proud to recognize their service today," Sen. Hutchison said. "I am currently working to pass new legislation to help prevent abductions of children by family members. It is important we continue to look for ways to protect our most vulnerable."
   On April 4 in Austin, TX, Sen. Hutchison joined First Lady Laura Bush at a ceremony to announce the creation of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children Regional Office in Texas.
   Sen. Hutchison has a strong record on family safety issues. She authored the legislation that created the national AMBER Alert system based on the Texas state system which was signed into law in 2003. Over the past four years its effectiveness has resulted in the return of 230 children to their parents. In 2007, she introduced the Family Abduction Prevention Act to help prevent abductions of children by family members, which account for 78 percent of all abductions. The bill authorizes $500,000 in matching grants for Fiscal Year 2008 to help fund local law enforcement efforts to investigate and prosecute these cases and help states with costs associated with family abduction prevention.
   Sen. Hutchison also cosponsored the Internet Safety Act which was signed into law in 2006 when provisions of the bill were included in the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act. This legislation cracks down on Internet child pornography and related behavior by creating new penalties targeted at those who produce or knowingly facilitate Internet child pornography; expanding penalties for existing child pornography, sex trafficking, and sexual abuse offenses; and increasing resources for prevention and prosecution of child sexual abuse.
 
 