CONGRESS CAN HONOR AMERICA'S HEROES BY PROVIDING IMMEDIATE FUNDING
  On November 11, 1918, after four years of brutal conflict, the guns of the First World War finally fell silent. In America, we marked the occasion as Armistice Day, a celebration of peace that envisioned an end to all wars. Sadly, this vision was a mirage. Future generations of Americans would again march to battle in defense of freedom, and many made the ultimate sacrifice on our behalf. Thankfully, many more returned home to their loved ones and a grateful nation. Today we remember November 11 as Veterans Day, and with solemn pride we pay tribute to the heroes who have given so much to preserve our liberty and our way of life. 
   Our government has a fundamental responsibility to provide for these brave warriors when they leave the battlefield. As your U.S. Senator, I strive to honor our veterans' service. And, as Ranking Member of the Senate Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee, I take special care in crafting legislation that funds the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and important Department of Defense (DoD) projects. I have worked with my colleagues to secure resources for vital initiatives in this year's appropriations bill, including a $66 million state-of-the-art polytrauma treatment facility in San Antonio and a much needed expansion of veteran healthcare services in the Rio Grande Valley. 
   However, recent events in Congress endangered this essential funding for our troops and veterans. Both the Senate and the House of Representatives have passed the appropriations bill, and a joint conference committee has approved text that President Bush has pledged to sign. Yet rather than sending this bill to the president, some of my colleagues sought to attach it to the Labor, Health and Human Services (Labor-HHS) spending bill. They took this step with full knowledge of the president's intention to veto the Labor-HHS bill, and their actions willingly imperiled support for our veterans and active duty service members. Although ultimately unsuccessful, this political maneuvering jeopardized crucial funding for our veterans in a time of war. The bill will now take more valuable time and funding for our veterans has been significantly delayed.
   The Senate's responsibility to our veterans also includes providing capable leadership at the agency they depend upon. For this reason, we must expeditiously confirm the president's nominee to head the VA-retired Army Lieutenant General Dr. James B. Peake. Gen. Peake's career spans over 40 years in the field of military medicine, including four years as Surgeon General of the Army. He particularly understands the needs of Texas veterans, having served as commander of the U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. If confirmed as VA Secretary, he would be the first physician and the first retired General to hold the post. 
   We celebrate Veterans Day to honor and remember the heroes who have fought to defend what we hold most dear. The actions of our government must reflect our gratitude, and our decisions must be worthy of their sacrifices. Please join me by taking time to thank the veterans and active duty troops in your community.
 
 