SEN. HUTCHISON LEADS RALLY FOR STATE SALES TAX DEDUCTION
  Members of the United States Congress, including Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), held a bipartisan rally today to press for correction of an inequity in the federal income tax code. They asked congressional leaders working to reconcile the House and Senate passed JOBS Act legislation to include a provision in the final legislation that would provide all taxpayers the option of deducting state and local sales taxes on their federal income tax returns.  
   The state sales tax deduction is included in the House version of the bill, the result of an amendment offered by Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX). Currently, residents of 41 states can deduct state income tax payments, but Texas is among seven states with a sales tax but no personal income tax. Sen. Hutchison and Rep. Brady led the Texas delegation in a letter strongly urging the conferees to incorporate the full state sales tax deductibility language in any final conference report to the American Jobs Creation Act (H.R. 4520/S. 1637). 
   "I will do everything in my power to correct this disparity in the tax code so that Texans receive equitable treatment," Senator Hutchison said. "For years, I have sponsored similar legislation in the Senate, but the measures did not pass. Now, Congressman Brady's hard work to include this important provision offers the best chance yet to right this wrong. We stand committed to ensuring the state sales tax deduction is signed into law."
   Citizens who pay state and local income taxes receive a deduction on their federal taxes. Before 1986, taxpayers also could deduct their sales taxes. This deduction was eliminated in 1986, affecting 55 million taxpayers living in the seven states with sales taxes but no income taxes. According to the Congressional Research Service, the savings to Texans, if taxpayers could deduct their sales taxes, would be $660 million per year. According to the State Comptroller's office, in 2004 the deduction could save the average Texas family that itemizes $310.
   "Texans shouldn't be taxed on our taxes," Sen. Hutchison said. "Correcting this inequity is a matter of simple fairness and could provide an enormous boost to the Texas economy."
 
 