




















Press Release: PRESIDENT SIGNS HIGHWAY BILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









PRESIDENT SIGNS HIGHWAY BILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Baucus Hails Measure That Will Create Good-Paying Jobs In Montana                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
August 10, 2005
(KALISPELL)  Montanas senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus today praised President Bush for signing into law the new multi-billion highway construction bill that will bring more than $2.3 billion to Montana for highway construction projects. 
Baucus was invited to attend the bill signing but instead spent the day in Kalispell dispensing checks for funding he included in the bill for the Kalispell Bypass and Going-to-the-Sun Road. Baucus, a coauthor of the bill, said the funds will not only help create and keep more than 18,000 good-paying jobs per year in the state but will help make roads safer and more efficient. Baucus bill represents a 44 percent increase for Montana over the last highway bill, which expired in 2003. He said the funds will help make the states roads safer, create jobs, and boost Montanas economy.  This is about creating good-paying jobs for Montana, said Baucus, Montanas senior U.S. Senator. Montana really hit the jackpot with this bill. Were going to provide a shot-in-the-arm to Montanas economy by more than $2 billion over the next few years. This is great news for our economy and another step to creating thousands of good-paying jobs for Montanans.  
Baucus serves a dual role in the highway bill conference committee negotiations. Hes the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which controls highway financing. And Baucus is the key Democrat on the Senates highways subcommittee, which decides how the dollars are spent and where.  In addition to providing Montana with about $355 million per year, Baucus also secured earmarks for specific projects, transit dollars, and millions in research money for the state. Baucus also helped write the 1998-passed highway bill, which pumped more than $1.6 billion into Montanas economy. BAUCUS HIGHWAY BILL FOR MONTANA  
$50 million for the Going-to-the-Sun Road in Glacier National Park.  $30 million for the Kalispell bypass on Interstate 93.  $25 million for the reconstruction of Two Medicine Bridge, east of Glacier National Park $22 million for the Beartooth Highway, near Red Lodge, which was damaged by mudslides.  $20 million for safety improvements on U.S. Highway 2 between Browning and North Dakota. $17 million for improvements to Bench Boulevard in Billings.  
$15 million for improvements on U.S. Highway 93, from Lolo to Hamilton.  $15 million to improve Montana Highway 3 between Lavina and Great Falls.  $10 million for Shiloh Road near Billings.  $10 million for Highway 2 improvements east of Havre.  $10 million on U.S. Highway 2, from Glasgow east to the North Dakota line, to study the feasibility of a four-lane highway. $10 million for Interstate 15 improvements near Helena 
$10 million to improve Montana Highway 78 between Carbon and Rosebud counties.  $10 million to improve U.S. Highway 287, south of Townsend.  $9.6 million to construct S. 323 from Alzada to Ekalaka in Carter County $8 million for the St. Mary's Diversion Project near Browning for a new bridge and to improve U.S. Highway 89.  $8 million for a new interchange of Interstate 90 at Belgrade to provide a direct route to the airport. $8 million to help widen U.S. Highway 93 from Ninepipe to Ronan.  
$7 million for the Billings bypass project.  $7 million for improvements on Montana Highway 28, Lonepine east and west.  $7 million to reconstruct Montana Highway 16 between Glendive and Sidney.  $6 million to improve the rail overpass in Cut Bank.  $6 million to widen Russell Street in Missoula.  $6 million for Swamp Creek east roadway and bridge on U.S. Highway 2 in Lincoln County.  
$5 million for improvements in Bozeman between Babcock and Kagy streets.  $5 million for trails and river access sites around Milltown Dam east of Missoula. $5 million to complete paving and installing guardrails on the Marysville Road near Helena.  $4.5 million for a new Great Falls bypass route from Interstate 15 to U.S. Highway 87. $4 for the Port of Montana and the Silicon Mountain Technology Park near Butte.  $4 million for a parking garage in downtown Bozeman.  
$4 million to reconstruct the Interstate 15 interchange, north of Conrad.  $3 million to develop pedestrian and bike trails in Whitefish.  $1.125 million for bicycle and pedestrian trails around the new Bozeman library.  $7 million for Zimmerman Trail road in Billings $3 million for the Taylor Hill road near Havre  
###








