




















Press Release: BAUCUS ASKED TO APPEAR BEFORE BRAC PANEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        









BAUCUS ASKED TO APPEAR BEFORE BRAC PANEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Senior Senator Tapped To Represent State Before Panel In Portland                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
June 10, 2005
 (WASHINGTON, D.C.) -- As the state's senior U.S. Senator, Max Baucus has been asked to represent Montana before the Base Realignment and Closure Commission in Portland on June 17.    
"This is not only a real honor, but a huge opportunity for us as Montanans," said Baucus, in his fifth consecutive six-year term in the Senate. "We're going to work together to present a united front to keep our flying mission in tact, and possibly pick up a new mission in the process."    
The BRAC Commission, a panel of military experts appointed by President Bush and Congressional leaders, is considering a Pentagon recommendation to realign -- or move -- the F-16 flying mission now housed at the Montana Air National Guard in Great Falls.    
Since those recommendations were published May 13, Baucus, the state's Congressional delegation, Governor, Great Falls Mayor, and community leaders have been lobbying in earnest to keep the mission and land an alternate assignment.    
Baucus will be allotted just 30 minutes to represent the state before the Commission in Portland. He announced today he will share his time with Senator Conrad Burns and Adjutant Gen. Randall Mosley, the head of Montana's National Guard units.    
Baucus is also soliciting input from the members of his own BRAC advisory panel of retired officers, which he's met with weekly via conference call since March. The Governor, Great Falls mayor, and other community leaders are also being asked to contribute to the effort, Baucus said.    
"These very well could be the most important 30 minutes we'll get in this process," Baucus said in a letter sent today to several key figures in Great Falls. "During this process, the input and support that you have provided me has been invaluable as we work to find a solution for Montana's Air Guard. This is a team effort. The best way we can serve the people of Montana is by working together and I would appreciate any further information and assistance from you which will help my testimony before the BRAC Commission."    
The BRAC Commission is holding regional hearings to gather input on the recommendations. The meeting in Portland will give representatives from Oregon, Washington, Montana, and Idaho a chance to plead their states' case. More than 15 of these hearings will be held across the country, in places such as Boston, Salt Lake City, and North and South Dakota.    
Baucus' advisory panel includes (all retired) General Gene Prendergast, General Gary Hindoien, General Doug Henneman, Colonel Pat Pauli, Colonel George Donnelly, and Colonel Ken Van Sickle.  
###








