




















Press Release: BAUCUS SUPPORTS BILL TO GIVE GUARD EQUAL VOICE AT DEFENSE DEPT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 









BAUCUS SUPPORTS BILL TO GIVE GUARD EQUAL VOICE AT DEFENSE DEPT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Bill Would Put The Power Of The Guard In The Hands Of The Guard                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
May 10, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â At a press conference today on Capitol Hill, Montanaâs senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus urged Congress to pass a bill that would empower the National Guard within the Pentagon.    

Baucus, a co-sponsor of the National Defense Enhancement and National Guard Empowerment Act of 2006, said that itâs time for National Guard members to have an equal voice at the Department of Defense. The bill would enable the Guard to have a seat at the table with the other Joint Chiefs of Staff and make decisions regarding its troops and budget.    

The National Guard Empowerment Act has support from both Republicans and Democrats, Baucus said and noted that an identical piece of legislation is being considered by the House.    

âOur brave Montana Guardswomen and men play a vital role in our state and in our nationâs military operations,â? Baucus said. âItâs high time they get the treatment and respect they deserve. This legislation would empower our Montana Guardsmen because they are the ones who know best how to use their resources â such as where to deploy their troops and how to spend their budget.â?    

Baucus was joined today at the press conference by Montanaâs Adjutant General Randy Mosley who is based in Helena.    

âIt was wonderful having Senator Baucus here today demonstrating to not only the nationâs adjutant generals but also the nationâs citizens that he is a strong supporter of the National Guard and the nationâs defense both home and abroad,â? said Gen. Mosley.    

Baucus said that the Guard plays a critical role in Americaâs defense at home and abroad and noted there are many obstacles that prevent the force from reaching its full potential. Earlier this year the Army proposed significant cuts to Guard troop strength. Also, last year during the Base Realignment and Closure Commission process the Air Guard was on the chopping block and neither the Adjutant Generals nor the Governors were consulted about their fate.    

The National Guard has a long history of assisting America's military abroad while providing support and security at home. Since the attacks on September 11, 2001, the National Guard has taken on even greater responsibilities in the realm of homeland security. Also, the Guard has been a tremendous value for the capabilities it provides as one of the nationâs primary military reserves, providing 40 percent of the total military force for around 4.5 percent of the defense budget, Baucus said.     

âFrankly our Guards men deserve to be treated better,â? Baucus said. âThey are true patriots and they have my support 110 percent. Iâm committed to working together with my colleagues in the Senate and House to get this legislation passed.â?    

The National Guard Association, the Adjutants General Association, and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard have endorsed the bill, which is sponsored by Sens. Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont).     

-30-   
###








