




















Press Release: BAUCUS, PRYOR INTRODUCE BILL TO HELP KEEP KIDS SAFE ON THE INTERNET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             









BAUCUS, PRYOR INTRODUCE BILL TO HELP KEEP KIDS SAFE ON THE INTERNET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Senators Say Measure Would Help Parents, Schools To Protect Kids From Adult Material On Web Sites                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
April 11, 2007
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) -- At a press conference on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Senators Max Baucus (D-Mont.) and Mark Pryor (D-Ark.) introduced legislation to help protect children from online pornography by enabling parents, schools, libraries, and others to set Internet browsers to prevent children from viewing Web sites that contain adult material.     
The senators' bill - the Cyber Safety For Kids Act - would require adult Web site operators to include a flag in their Web site which would make it easier for filtering software to block adult material. In addition, the legislation would require Web sites with adult material to have a clean homepage and to have visitors verify their age when they sign onto the Web site.     
"Bottom line, we want to keep our kids safe when they're on the Internet," Baucus said. "Parents and teachers shouldn't worry about their kids when they're on the computer at home or in the classroom. This bill will help keep kids safe and give parents peace of mind."    
If enacted, the Cyber Safety for Kids Act would require the Department of Commerce within 90 days of being signed into law to:    
â¢	Develop an electronic tag for Web sites with sexually explicit adult material and would require those Web sites to use electronic tags when registering or renewing registration. Parents, teachers, librarians, etc. would then be able to set their Internet browsers on their computers to block Web sites with adult material electronic tags.  â¢	Make it mandatory for Web sites with adult material to have a clean homepage.  â¢	Require Web sites with adult material to have visitors verify that they're 18 years of age or older.  â¢	The Department of Commerce would issue civil penalties to Web sites with adult material if they fail to follow the guidelines outlined in the Cyber Safety For Kids Act and enforced by the Department of Commerce.    
Baucus said that the legislation has support from parents, teachers and others who want to protect children from adult material on the Internet.    
The legislation will go to the Senate Commerce Committee before going to the full Senate for its consideration, Baucus said.    

###








