




















Press Release: BAUCUS SAYS NO DEAL AT WTO IS BETTER THAN A BAD DEAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          









BAUCUS SAYS NO DEAL AT WTO IS BETTER THAN A BAD DEAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Senator Speaks Before The American Farm Bureau About International Trade                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
July 11, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â In a speech to the American Farm Bureau Federation Council of Presidents today, Montana Senator Max Baucus told Americaâs top trade negotiator that no agreement before the World Trade Organization is better than a bad deal for Montana farmers and ranchers.  

Using his post as the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade, Baucus has been leading the fight for fair trade agreements for Montanaâs farmers and ranchers. He was joined at the speech by U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab, who heâs been working closely with on the ongoing Doha Round of negotiations in the World Trade Organization.  Trade ministers from around the world met in Geneva, Switzerland at the end of June to try to hammer out an agreement.  

âI stressed that Ambassador Schwab needed to bring home a good deal, one that resulted in real new markets for Montana farmers and ranchers,â? Baucus said. âAnd I made it clear that I would not support a deal that was bad for U.S. agriculture.â?     

Schwab backed away from the negotiating table after other countries refused to make concessions that would level the playing field for American agriculture in the global marketplace.   

âIâm glad she did,â? Baucus said, âbecause no deal is better than a bad deal for Montana farmers and ranchers.â?   

Baucus also talked about his role on the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over taxes as well, and his fight to fully repeal the estate tax in order to protect Montana farmers and ranchers. Though a vote on full repeal recently failed to pass the Senate, Baucus is currently working on a compromise that would exempt more than 99 percent of Montana farmers and ranchers.  

âI feel strongly that any compromise should include special provisions aimed at specifically helping farmers and ranchers pass their land down to the next generation,â? stated Baucus.  

In addition to his position on the Senate Finance Committee, Baucus is the only member of Montanaâs congressional delegation to sit on the Agriculture committee, which will write a new Farm Bill in 2007. Baucus has committed to fighting for programs that will allow Montana producers to continue to produce high quality food, and maintain Montanaâs agricultural heritage.   

-30-  

###








