




















Press Release: BAUCUS: FREE RX DRUG PROGRAMS SHOULD CONTINUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   









BAUCUS: FREE RX DRUG PROGRAMS SHOULD CONTINUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Senator Asks Top Pharmaceutical Companies To Continue Rx Drug Discount Programs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
May 11, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â At a meeting on Capitol Hill today, Montana Senator Max Baucus urged CEOs from the nationâs top pharmaceutical companies to continue programs that provide free or discounted prescription drugs to seniors who could not otherwise afford them.   

At issue are so-called âpatient assistance programsâ? run by pharmaceutical companies that provide free or discounted drugs to people who do not have or are not eligible for drug coverage. As the new Medicare Part D prescription drug plan goes into effect, several companies have said they may drop the low-income drug programs that, in some cases, have existed for more than 50 years.   

Baucus wants the companies to continue the assistance programs in addition to the new Medicare Part D benefit.   

âThese prescription drug programs are vital to people who canât afford their medicine â with or without the new Medicare Part D program,â? Baucus said after the meeting. âThe Medicare drug benefit will help millions of people get their drugs, but the pharmaceutical company programs are every bit as important.â?   

Typically, the private drug assistance programs help people who fall below 200 percent of the federal poverty level, Baucus said.    

âWeâre talking about people who really need help with their medications,â? said Baucus, the highest ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare, the federal health care program for the elderly.   

Some pharmaceutical companies have raised legal concerns about whether or not they can offer the discounted programs alongside the Medicare Part D program. But the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recently ruled that the companies can indeed continue the programs.   


###








