




















Press Release: CHAIRMAN BAUCUS PUSHES MAJOR TAX RELIEF FOR PRODUCERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           









CHAIRMAN BAUCUS PUSHES MAJOR TAX RELIEF FOR PRODUCERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Senator Unveils Plan To Compliment Farm Bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
September 11, 2007
Washington, D.C.)  Montana Senator Max Baucus, chairman of the powerful U.S. Senate Finance Committee, today unveiled a plan to provide billions of dollars in tax relief and disaster assistance to Montanas farmers and ranchers.  Baucus tax package -- proposed to be included in the new Farm Bill -- would provide incentives for conservation, alternative energy production, and create a permanent disaster relief fund.   Agriculture is the backbone of our state, and Im going to doing everything I can to help ease the burden on our farmers and ranchers backs, said Baucus, who is also a senior member of Senate Agriculture Committee. Whether its a few more dollars in their pocket, or knowing that one disaster wont force them to sell the family farm, this package is good for our producers, our state, and our country.  Baucus used his position as Finance Committee Chairman to develop the package, which will free up between $8 billion to $10 billion in revenue that can be used in the Farm Bill, which is set to expire on Sept. 30.   In a statement released Tuesday, Agriculture Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) said I welcome todays comments from Chairman Baucus. As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, as well as Chairman of the Finance Committee, he understands our difficult budget situation and the critical need for the resources that will allow us to craft a successful new farm bill.   Montanas junior U.S. Senator Jon Tester, a farmer from Big Sandy, said Baucus plan will provide a shot in the arm for producers on the ground.  As a farmer, I know firsthand how important the Farm Bill is for Montana producers, said Tester, a third generation farmer. Farmers and ranchers around Montana have been struggling every year with draught making it harder and harder to stay on the farm. With Maxs tax package, permanent disaster relief will finally provide the safety net that our producers deserve and Ill be with him every step of the way to see it come to fruition.  Baucus package would provide the following benefits:   Conservation Tax Credit: While producers now receive cash payments for land conservation efforts, Baucus plan would provide producers with the option of receiving a tax credit in lieu of the cash. By providing tax incentives, Baucus would free up funds from the Farm Bill budget.   Permanent Agriculture Disaster Relief: Instead of infrequent disaster assistance bills, Baucus proposal would establish a permanent disaster relief trust fund to financial assistance to farmers and ranchers affected by natural disasters.   Alternative Energy Tax Incentives: Baucus package will also include a variety of tax incentives for wind, and as well as other alternative energy production to encourage farmers to grow crops used for ethanol, biodiesel, and cellulosic biofuels.   Rural Development Bond: This proposal will create a new category of tax credit bonds for projects such as rural electric and telemedicine, rural broadband and other economic development projects.  Final details of Baucus agriculture tax package will be released in the coming weeks when it will goes before the Finance Committee for consideration.   -30-  
###








