




















Press Release: CHAIRMAN BAUCUS CRACKS DOWN ON IDENTITY THEFT, TAX FRAUD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        









CHAIRMAN BAUCUS CRACKS DOWN ON IDENTITY THEFT, TAX FRAUD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Convicted Felon Testifies At Finance Committee Hearing On IRS Loopholes
April 12, 2007
(Washington D.C.) - With the tax filing deadline rapidly approaching, Montana's senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus today held a hearing in his committee on ways to crack down on financial scams. The key witness at the hearing was a convicted felon who is serving time for identity theft and tax fraud.    
Baucus, chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, was featured this morning in an NBC Today Show report about identity thieves who use personal information to file fraudulent tax returns. "The IRS is not anywhere close to doing what it could and should do. . . in protecting American taxpayers from fraud,"   Baucus said in the nationally televised report. (To watch the NBC Today Show report, click  here .)    
Baucus said that one of his top priorities as chairman is to make sure that taxpayer information is kept safe and secure and that the Internal Revenue Service effectively deters and detects tax filing abuses - by identity thieves, and also by unscrupulous tax preparers who have IRS authorization to file returns for others.     
"Obviously, the IRS can't visit each paid preparer," said Baucus at today's hearing. "That is why it is important for the IRS to have a robust, up-front process so it knows the caliber of those who are authorized to file tax returns, both on paper and electronically.  That's why the IRS must clamp down on the use of stolen identities to file fraudulent tax returns."    
Baucus requested  Evangelos Dimitrios Soukas, a man serving time for identity theft and tax fraud , to participate in today's hearing.  Soukas testified how easy it was to use other people's tax information to file false taxes and receive their refund money.    
"To hijack the personal information of someone is not hard at all," Soukas said today. "In my eyes, it doesn't take an Einstein to file false tax claims.  It is actually pretty easy. If I really wanted to continue in this field I could have safeguarded my true identity and never been caught. What I don't understand is, why doesn't the IRS have some type of security measure by issuing out a pin number or even using a mother's maiden name when filing electronically or even calling in the call center?  There should be some type of extra measure to safe guard the people's tax records, in my opinion."    
IRS Commissioner Mark Everson also testified at Baucus' hearing. Everson talked about the IRS's efforts to oversee preparers and filing season processes and how the IRS plans to ensure that the tax system does not fall prey to tax cheats.     
"I urge the IRS to work harder and crack down on identity theft and false tax report filings," Baucus said. "It's inexcusable that our tax system is abused so easily. I'm committed to working together with the IRS to protect Montanans' and Americans' identities."    
Baucus said the Finance Committee has previously passed legislation to regulate paid preparers of tax returns, and that he intends to bring that bill up again this year. He noted that he'll continue to look at additional measures to protect taxpayers from fraud. 
###








