




















Press Release: BAUCUS: BEEF DISPUTE WITH JAPAN NOT OVER YET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









BAUCUS: BEEF DISPUTE WITH JAPAN NOT OVER YET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Senator Says There Is Still More Work To Do -- Japan Needs To Take All U.S. Beef                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
December 12, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) 창 Montana's senior Senator Max Baucus today praised Japan for lifting its ban on U.S. beef from cattle 20 months and younger, but cautioned that there's still a lot of work to be done to get the Asian country to open its borders to all U.S. beef.    
Japan closed its borders to U.S. beef following a bovine spongiform encephalopathy case that was discovered in Washington state in December 2003. Baucus said that the U.S. has always met international beef standards and noted Montana produces the highest-quality beef in the world.    
"I'm pleased that Japan has taken first steps to lifting its ban on U.S. beef," Baucus said. "Today's announcement that Japan will take U.S. beef from cattle 20 months of age and younger is a good first step, but it is just that 창 a first step. There is still a lot of work to be done. The U.S. 창 particularly Montana beef 창 is the highest quality, safest beef in the world. I'm committed to continue working together with the Japanese so they will fully lift their ban and take all of our world-class beef."    
Baucus is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee as well as the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade.    
In March 2004, Baucus traveled to Japan and met with top Japanese officials about reopening borders to U.S. beef. Later that same year leaders from both countries signed an agreement for Japan to resume trade, however Japan has not lived up to its end of the deal and the American beef market is feeling the effects, Baucus said, noting 30 percent of U.S. beef exports went to Japan before it closed its borders. 
###








