




















Press Release: BAUCUS SEEKS TO INCREASE TRADE WITH CUBA IN FARM BILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           









BAUCUS SEEKS TO INCREASE TRADE WITH CUBA IN FARM BILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Senator Wants MT Producers To Tap Growing Market
June 12, 2007
(Washington, D.C.)  U.S. Senator Max Baucus wants to include language in the new Farm Bill to help Montana agriculture producers sell products to Cuba.   In a letter to Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Baucus, who is a senior member of the panel writing the new farm program, said a bureaucratic ruling from 2005 is preventing certain types of agricultural sales to the island nation.   Prior to 2005, U.S. exporters routinely shipped Montana products to Cuba, transferring title and physical control to the Cuban buyers only after they got paid in full. However, a 2005 Treasury Department ruling now requires Cuba to pay cash before U.S. agriculture products leave the U.S. port.   At the time, Baucus predicted the rule would put a chill on ag trade with Cuba, as agricultural goods paid for by Cuba while still in the U.S. port could be subject to seizure to satisfy private claims against the Cuban government.   Agricultural sales to Cuba have dropped for two consecutive years, wrote Baucus, who has been leading the charge to increase sales to Cuba since the 2005 ruling. Congress expressly intended to allow for cash-basis agricultural sales to Cuba, and yet, since the rule took effect, I am unaware of any more such sales transacted on a cash-basis.  Baucus said that including language in the 2007 farm bill to overturn the Treasury Department rule, and to eliminate foreign banks from the transactions, would make it easier to sell more agricultural goods to Cuba. Baucus indicated that he is currently working on legislation to address these and other restrictions on agricultural trade and travel to Cuba.  Following passage of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act (TSREEA) of 2000, annual U.S. food sales to Cuba reached close to $400 million, placing that nation among the leading 27 export markets for U.S. agricultural products, wrote Baucus, who is chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade.   In September 2003, Baucus secured a first-ever Montana agriculture deal with Cuba that ultimately topped out at $10.4 million worth of Montana wheat, dry beans and peas sales to the island. Baucus returned to Cuba in December 2004 to negotiate a second deal for $15 million.  -30- 
###








