




















Press Release: BAUCUS APPLAUDS IRON MASK COMPLETION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            









BAUCUS APPLAUDS IRON MASK COMPLETION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Senator Helped Secure Funds For Public Access In Elkhorns
July 12, 2007
(Washington, D.C.)  Montana Senator Max Baucus today applauded the completion of the Iron Mask Ranch purchase, which will open up more than 5,500 acres of private land northwest of Townsend to public access for hunting and recreation.  Baucus has been a stalwart advocate for the land deal, which was completed today as 2,472 acres of privately held land were transferred to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management.  Baucus helped secure vital federal funding for the land purchase through Department of Interior spending bills in Congress ($1 million in fiscal year 2005 and $1.25 million in fiscal year 2007.) He also set up the Montana Fish and Wildlife Trust, which was funded from the sale of cabins at Canyon Ferry Reservoir. The Trust kicked in a total of $540,000 for the purchase.  This is a prime example of Montanans working together to protect and enhance our vast open spaces and world class hunting and recreation opportunities, Baucus said. I was proud to be a partner in this effort and Im proud to see this public access dream realized.  Because the property abuts U.S. Forest Service, BLM, and state lands, the transfer will open up thousands of new acres for Montana recreation and public access  forever.  Baucus applauded the team effort. He said federal and state agencies, and groups like The Conservation Fund and the Rocky Mtn. Elk Foundation played a pivotal role in the projects successful outcome.  With millions of acres of ranchland across the West at risk for development, it is critical that we work to protect our most significant landscapes, said The Conservation Funds Montana state director, Gates Watson. The Elkhorn Range contains some of the most important and vulnerable wildlife habitat in Montana. Thanks to the leadership of Senator Baucus and the Montana Congressional Delegation, the commitment of the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation and the support of the local community, we have permanently conserved some of the states vital natural resources and enhanced public recreation opportunities for outdoor enthusiasts.  -30- 
###








