




















Press Release: BAUCUS' BILL WOULD PROVIDE TAX RELIEF FOR MILITARY PERSONNEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









BAUCUS' BILL WOULD PROVIDE TAX RELIEF FOR MILITARY PERSONNEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Senator's Measure Will Strengthen Provisions To Help Put Cash In Troops' Pockets
June 12, 2007
(Washington, D.C.)  Montanas senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus today introduced legislation that would provide tax relief for military men and women and their families.  Baucus Defenders of Freedom Tax Relief Act helps members of the military by providing tax relief for combat pay, retirement savings, or purchasing homes. Baucus bill also includes tax incentives for employers of military reservists and for members of the National Guard who provide assistance to employees who are called to active duty.   Baucus is chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, which is the panel that has jurisdiction over all taxes and revenue.  Our brave military personnel lay their lives on the line every day to protect the freedoms we enjoy as Montanans and Americans  they shouldnt have to fight the tax code too when they return home, Baucus said. This legislation would provide much needed tax relief for our military men and women. Im committed to working together with my colleagues to get it passed quickly.  Baucus Defenders of Freedom Tax Relief Act Would:  Make permanent a provision that allows soldiers to count their non-taxable combat pay when figuring their eligibility for the earned income tax credit, a refundable federal income tax credit that puts cash in the hands of working individuals and families.  Qualified mortgage bonds are available to all veterans to purchase their homes.   Cut taxes for small businesses when they continue paying members of the National Guard and Reserve who are called to duty.  Eliminates red tape for reporting of income when companies continue paying members of the National Guard and Reserve who are called to duty. This makes it easier for reservists to file their taxes and simpler for employers to keep contributing to those employees retirement plans.   Allow the families of soldiers killed in the line of duty to contribute up to 100 percent of survivor benefits to a retirement savings account.   Allow active duty troops to withdraw money from retirement plans and give them two years to replace the funds without tax penalty.   Extend a provision that gives retired veterans more time to claim a tax refund on some types of disability benefit payments.  Make permanent a provision that gives intelligence service employees a longer period of time to meet residency requirements necessary to exclude profits from the sale of their home from capital gains tax, which is often necessary due to frequent deployment.   Give the IRS the authority to treat gifts of thanks from states to veteranssuch as payments of excess state revenueas nontaxable gifts.  Baucus said the Finance Committee is expected to consider the Defenders of Freedom Tax Relief Act this month.  -30- 
###








