




















Press Release: BAUCUS: AGRICULTURE SHOULDN'T BE STUNG BY BEE COLONY COLLAPSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   









BAUCUS: AGRICULTURE SHOULDN'T BE STUNG BY BEE COLONY COLLAPSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Senators Says Bee Disorder Must Be Stopped, Could Cost State Millions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
April 13, 2007
(Washington D.C.) -- A mysterious disorder is destroying the nation's bee population, which is important to agriculture producers. That's why 35 Senators joined Montana Senator Max Baucus, who spearheaded a letter today to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns demanding to know what actions are being taken to stop it.     
The disorder, known as Bee Colony Collapse Disorder or CCD, has affected bees in more than 27 states. Adult bees leave their hive and do not return, presumably dying. The origins or cause of the disease is unknown.    
"CCD is causing terrible losses for beekeepers all over the country. It's a very real threat to honey production here in Montana and to many U.S. crops that need bee pollination," said Steve Park, Past President of the American Honey Producers Association  "We urgently need the USDA's help in understanding and stopping CCD.  Senator Baucus has been a strong supporter of Montana's honey producers for many years and we really appreciate his leadership in fighting CCD."    
"America's beekeepers and their bees are an indispensable pillar of U.S. agriculture," Baucus and the senators wrote. "Our nation's beekeepers provide essential pollination services for over 90 different food, seed, and fiber crops."    
Baucus, a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, and the senators said it's imperative for the USDA to act immediately to find the cause, and cure for Colony Collapse Disorder.    
"We are writing on an urgent basis to ask that you provide us with an expedited report on the immediate steps that the Depart is and will be taking to determining the causes of CCD, and to develop appropriate countermeasures for this serious disorder," the senators said.    
Baucus said that not only will honey production be affected, but all crops that rely on bees for pollination purposes including almonds, soybeans, apples, and blueberries will be destroyed, costing millions of dollars.               
Senator Kent Conrad (D-N.D.), also a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, agreed saying "The significant loss of our bee colonies is having a serious impact on an important sector of our nation's agricultural economy."     
Montana is one of the top six honey producing states.   
###








