




















Press Release: BAUCUS THREATENS TO YANK SUPPORT FOR ASBESTOS BILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              









BAUCUS THREATENS TO YANK SUPPORT FOR ASBESTOS BILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Senator Says Provisions To Protect Residents In Libby, Mont. Must Stay In The Bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
December 13, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)  U.S. Senator Max Baucus (D-Mont.) today threatened to pull his support from asbestos reform legislation if provisions protecting people in Libby, Mont. are removed. 
Baucus fought for months to include his Libby Fix in the Senate-passed Fairness in Asbestos Compensation Act, which aims to reform how asbestos lawsuits are handled across the country.  Baucus, hearing that asbestos bill opponents have attacked the Libby provisions, took to the Senate floor today and threatened to tank the entire bill if people in Libby dont get the compensation they need and deserve.  Baucus is the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. The committee is expected to consider a necessary tax title to accompany the asbestos bill early in 2006. Baucus said today he will do whatever it takes to help protect Libby, including using his influence to hold up the bill in the Finance Committee.  The Senators fix would take into account the unique circumstances surrounding Libby, a small northwest Montana town whose residents were exposed to asbestos fibers by the W.R. Grace Co., which operated a vermiculite mine there until 1990. It would, among other things, provide Libby residents who are sick with at least $400,000 in compensation.  
Hundreds of people have died and even more are sick because of exposure to tremolite asbestos  a unique kind of asbestos found in Libby that creates different health problems than the more common asbestos fibers found in other parts of the country.  Ill yank my support from the asbestos bill in a New York minute if the Libby Fix gets pulled, said Baucus. Ill not only pull my support for the bill, but Ill actively fight to sink it altogether. Baucus Libby Fix includes:  
Libby claimants are exempted from the exposure criteria in the bill  they have to establish that they lived, worked or played within a 20-mile radius of Libby for any 12-month period prior to December 31, 2004;  Libby claimants are exempted from the bills medical criteria; the bill establishes special medical criteria applicable only to Libby claimants. Libby claimants also can choose to have their claims referred to an expert Physicians Panel which will utilize the special medical criteria developed for Libby resident to ensure they are treated fairly.  If the Libby claimants comply with the Libby-specific medical criteria, they will receive a Level 4 award, or $400,000, essentially establishing a floor of compensation of $400,000 for sick Libby claimants 
 Baucus visited Libby in March for the 16th time since 1999. Libby residents told the senator they didnt want him to support an asbestos bill that doesnt include adequate compensation.  
###








