




















Press Release: BAUCUS BLASTS PUBLIC LANDS SELL-OFF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             









BAUCUS BLASTS PUBLIC LANDS SELL-OFF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Senator: Bush Administration Padlock Proposal 'Dead in the Water'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
February 13, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Saying he doesn't support putting a padlock on Montana's hunting, fishing, and recreation lands, Montana Senator Max Baucus today came out swinging against a Bush Administration proposal to sell off more than 300,000 acres of public lands.    
"This plan is dead in the water as long as I'm in the U.S. Senate," Baucus said. "Our public lands shouldn't be sold off the highest bidder. We should be looking at ways to boost access to hunting and fishing lands, not at ways to put more padlocks on more gates."    
Baucus is taking issue with a proposal outlined in President Bush's fiscal year 2007 budget proposal to Congress that would sell off more than 14,000 acres of public land in Montana to pay for the Secure Rural Schools Act, which provides payments to counties for timber-related sales.    
Baucus supports extending the program, which he helped establish in 2000, but not by selling off public lands to do so.    
Baucus sponsored an amendment to the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 that let counties choose between a steady payment and receiving 25 percent of its timber receipts, which have declined in recent years.  At the time, Baucus said Montana would get at least $7 million more per year under the program. In 1999, Montana counties received $6.18 million in funding from revenues derived from timber sales on the national forest lands. The new program brought more than $14.3 million to Montana in fiscal year 2006.    
"Under this new plan, Montana counties get more money, more certainty, and more flexibility.  I'd call that a pretty good solution," Baucus said on October 30, 2000, when then-President Clinton signed the bill into law.    
The 2000-enacted Rural Schools program is set to expire or "sunset" this year. Baucus has co-sponsored legislation to fund the program for seven more years without selling public lands.    
Last year the program received $403 million nationally. The Bush Administration's plan would slash that funding to about $800 million over the next five-year period.    
"The merits of the Secure Rural Schools program are not in question," said Baucus, Montanaâs senior U.S. Senator. "The proposal to sell off public lands is. I'm going to fight this 'padlock plan' with everything I've got."    
The proposal will be debated as part of the fiscal year 2007 budget, which sets a framework for all government spending and appropriations for the coming year.  
###








