




















Press Release: BAUCUS DELIVERS NATIONAL RADIO ADDRESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          









BAUCUS DELIVERS NATIONAL RADIO ADDRESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Senator Pushes To Insure 12,000 Montana Children
October 13, 2007
    (Washington D.C.) Montanas senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus took to the airwaves today where he defended uninsured low-income children in Montana, and across the country.  Baucus delivered the Democratic National Radio address where he continued to build momentum in hopes of overriding the Presidential veto of the Childrens Health Insurance Program.  As chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, Baucus was the lead author of the CHIP bill which would have provided an additional $35 billion to the highly successful program in order to cover an additional 3.3 million low-income kids across the country, including 12,000 in Montana.  The bill passed overwhelmingly in both the House and the Senate, but was then vetoed by the President.  Our new extension of CHIP would increase the number of eligible kids by more than 3 million  including 12,000 in my home State of Montana. Its hard to imagine the President telling millions of parents they dont deserve the same basic care for their kids that the President had for his, Baucus said during the address. But that is exactly what he did. And now its up to Congress to come together and override his veto  In order to override a Presidential veto, Baucus will have to secure a 2/3 vote in both the House and the Senate. When the bill was voted out of each chamber, the Senate had a veto proof majority, gaining 67 votes, but the House fell short by 25 votes.  As chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, Baucus was the lead author of the Childrens Health Insurance Program bill which provides health insurance to children from low-income families. The bill, which received wide support from both Democrats and Republicans as well as governors and advocacy groups, was vetoed by President Bush on October 3.  For all the talk about partisanship and gridlock in Washington, CHIP has been an amazing example of what government can do when we work together. Ten years ago, I was part of a team of Democrats and Republicans who sat down together to create the CHIP program, Baucus said We realized that giving kids the medical care they need isnt a Democratic priority or a Republican priority -- its an American priority,  The bill will now be sent back to the House of Representatives, where it will likely be voted on next week.  The radio address was broadcast nationally, and internationally, by the Associated Press, ABC, National Public Radio, CBS Radio, CNN Radio, C-SPAN radio, the Armed Forces Radio Network, and the BBC Radio network.  The radio address is given in response to the Presidents weekly radio address. Leaders picked Baucus to juxtapose the Presidents position on CHIP   -Text of Baucus radio address, as delivered, is below-  Good morning, this is Senator Max Baucus from Montana. For those of us who are parents, one of lifes greatest privileges and responsibilities is to give our children the chance for a better life than we had. From sporting events, to vacations, to graduations, even first dates, watching our children grow up is the greatest, and at times scariest, experience of our life.    And as a parent there is nothing worse than seeing your son or daughter in pain. In my home state of Montana, a mother named Fawn Tuhy knows this well. When Fawns daughter Abigail was two, Abigail fell down and split her head open. She had to have nine stitches. That same year, Abigails six-year-old brother broke his arm twice. Abigail and her two siblings get good medical care because they are among the six and a half million children covered by CHIP, the Children's Health Insurance Program. CHIP paid for Abigails stitches. CHIP covered her brothers surgery and hospital stay. And, through CHIP, Abigail gets the immunizations and checkups she needs to stay well.    For all the talk about partisanship and gridlock in Washington, CHIP has been an amazing example of what government can do when we work together. Ten years ago, I was part of a team of Democrats and Republicans who sat down together to create the CHIP program. We realized that giving kids the medical care they need isnt a Democratic priority or a Republican priority. Its an American priority.   This year, we worked together again to make CHIP even better. Our new extension of CHIP would increase the number of eligible kids by more than 3 million  including 12,000 in my home state of Montana. Its hard to imagine the President telling millions of parents they dont deserve the same basic care for their kids that the President had for his. But that is exactly what he did. And now its up to Congress to come together and override his veto.  Many Republicans have already committed to stand by their vote for CHIP. But many have not. Now, every Republican must decide whether they will stand with the President and his veto  or stand with our children and their right to a healthy future.  So for Abigail Tuhy, and the 12,000 children from Montana waiting for coverage, and for the millions more from coast to coast who need CHIP, I ask you to tell your Senators and Member of Congress to override President Bushs veto. This is America. All our children should be able to see a doctor. This is Senator Max Baucus from Montana. All the best.    
###








