




















Press Release: CHAIRMAN BAUCUS LAUNCHES UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE PUSH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           









CHAIRMAN BAUCUS LAUNCHES UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE PUSH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Senator Says All Montanans, Americans Have A Right To Quality, Affordable Health Care

 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
March 14, 2007
Washington, D.C.) - Montana Senator Max Baucus, chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, today launched his initiative to get universal health care coverage for all Americans.    

During the first of what could be many Senate Finance Committee hearings on the subject, Baucus today rolled out a 5-point blueprint for fixing the nation's health care programs. Baucus called for universal health care coverage, insurance pooling arrangements, measures to cut costs, an increased emphasis on prevention, and shared responsibility. He said he wants to see every newborn in America sign up for health coverage before he or she leaves the hospital.    

"For too long, Congress has remained idle, as health care costs have spiraled out of control," Baucus said today. "For too long, Congress has done nothing, as the ranks of the uninsured have grown.  The people of Montana and the nation deserve better. Today's hearing is the first step. I'm committed finding a common-sense solution so that all Montanans and Americans receive quality, affordable health care."    

Baucus made clear that he's not endorsing a solely government-funded health care system, sometimes called "single-payer," but rather he says a combination of private and public healthcare entities will likely be needed to cover all Americans.     

"One in six Americans does not have access to health care," Baucus said at today's hearing. "And in my home state of Montana, an even greater percentage of people have limited access to health care:  1 in 5 Montanans lack health insurance.  Businesses struggle to continue to offer health benefits and remain competitive in the face of ever-increasing costs.  Employees grapple with having to pay more for coverage, while getting less care. It's not right and I'm going to work to right this wrong."    

Baucus said that he's studied the proposals for moving towards universal health care and that he's optimistic that a solution can be reached - though it's going to take time and a lot of working together. He said there are five key principles to health care reform.    

Baucus' Health Care Reform Principles    
1) Universal coverage: Baucus said America is the only industrialized country in the world that doesn't guarantee health care for its citizens. He noted changes to America's health care system can't be addressed while leaving a growing portion of the country behind.     
2) Sharing the burden: Neither the employer-based system nor the individual market can fulfill the demand for affordable, portable, quality coverage, Baucus said.  One way to ensure affordable coverage is to create pooling arrangements.  Purchasing pools would bring together large numbers of small purchasers â both individuals and small businesses â and allow them to take advantage of group rates for coverage.    
3) Controlling costs: America cannot sustain its current rate of growth in health care spending, Baucus said, noting any serious proposal must reduce skyrocketing health care costs.    
4) Prevention: American health care tends to address what happens once people are already sick, Baucus said.  By making prevention the foundation of America's health care system, the country can avoid the high costs of treating an illness that has been allowed to progress.      
5) Shared responsibility: Baucus said everybody must shoulder the burden of a new health care system together, not one sector or entity - private or public.      

-30-   
###








