




















Press Release: BAUCUS: BOR DIDNâT GET INPUT ON NEW CANYON FERRY CAMPING PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 









BAUCUS: BOR DIDNâT GET INPUT ON NEW CANYON FERRY CAMPING PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
âNot so Fastâ Senator Says on Camping Trailer Plan at Lake

 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
December 15, 2006
(Washington, D.C.) â Montanaâs senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus says the Bureau of Reclamation should have gathered public input before establishing a new policy limiting the amount of time people can park camp trailers at Canyon Ferry Reservoir near Helena.   

Earlier this year the BOR established a new policy stating that visitors could not bring their trailers to Canyon Ferry to camp for an extended period of time. Prior to this new policy visitors could leave their campers and trailers at Canyon Ferry for an extended period of time, which saves people from having to haul the campers back and forth. Under the new policy visitors can only camp in their trailers for a few days at a time.   

âThat means folks have to pull their trailers out to the lake every time they want to spend a night or two,â? Baucus said. âThat doesnât seem fair to me. Whatâs more, the BOR just slapped this policy into place without getting input from the people who recreate at the Lake. Thatâs not right. And thatâs why we need to put the brakes on this until folks get a chance to weigh in.â?   

Baucus made his concerns clear in a letter to Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Robert Johnson. Baucus wants the agency to hold a public meeting in Helena on the subject as soon as possible.    

âAs with any new Federal policy, the public deserves to have the opportunity to provide comments, recommendations and suggestions,â? Baucus wrote to Johnson. âThese are public lands, and Montanans want to have a say in how they are managed.  As I understand this situation, the new policy for exclusive use was established without public comment in response to perceived problems in other states. I appreciate that your agency is responsible for public sites across the country.  However, each site is unique and has individual issues and new policy needs to be flexible and relevant to each situation.  Working together with communities and individuals who rely on these sites for recreation can produce a plan that ensures maximum access to well maintained, affordable recreation sites.â?  

âIt is of the utmost concern to me that the public have the opportunity to voice their concerns regarding this policy to prevent any irreparable consequences,â? wrote Baucus. âI am requesting that your staff responsible for drafting agency policy schedule a public meeting as soon as possible in Helena to gather the facts of this situation.â?  

Baucus said that heâs committed to working together with the BOR and Montanans to ensure that a common-sense solution is reached for camping at Canyon Ferry.  

âMontanans are outdoors people,â? Baucus said. âWe hunt, we fish, we take our kids out to the lake for the weekend. And we donât take it lightly when access to our public lands is limited.â?  

-30-   

###








