




















Press Release: MEDICARE CHIEF ACCEPTS BAUCUS INVITE TO MONTANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 









MEDICARE CHIEF ACCEPTS BAUCUS INVITE TO MONTANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Senator To Hold Town Hall Meetings In Butte And Great Falls Feb. 22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
February 15, 2006
(Washington, D.C.)  The head of the federal Medicare   program has accepted Montana Senator Max Baucus invitation to visit Montana next week to talk   to residents about the new prescription drug benefit   program. 
Baucus and Dr. Mark McClellan,   administrator of the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services, will host   town-hall meetings in both Butte and Great Falls on Wednesday,   February 22nd. McClellan oversees the new Medicare   Part D program, which will provide prescription drugs to seniors. Montana has more than   150,000 Medicare beneficiaries. The open forums are designed to help   alleviate confusion and answer questions about the new prescription drug plan,   which kicked in on January 1. Im very pleased Dr. McClellan has   accepted my invitation to come to Montana and help answers questions about the   new drug benefit, said Baucus, the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate   Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the Medicare program. Folks are   confused and these public meetings should be a big help. Baucus helped craft the new   prescription drug program in 2003 but has been critical of how its been   implemented, saying the more than 40 different plans seniors have to choose from   is far too many. Id like Dr. McClellan to hear from   folks directly about this program, Baucus said. At the end of the day, its   going to help provide seniors with the drugs they need, but as of now we are   seeing some bumps in the road. 
The forums are free and open to the   public. People are asked to contact Baucus Great   Falls office at (406) 761-1574 or Baucus Butte office (406) 782-8700   for more information. Baucus Rx Drug   Forums Who: Max Baucus and CMS   Administrator Mark McClellan  What: Town hall meetings to discuss   Medicare Part D  When: February 22nd, 2006  Butte  Time: 9 a.m. MST to 10 a.m.   MST 
Location: Maroon Athletic Center,   550 E. Mercury   Street Great   Falls  Time: 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. MST   Location: Montana Electric Co-op,   501 Bay   Dr. 
###








