




















Press Release: BAUCUS LEADS EFFORT TO PROTECT SOCIAL SECURITY FOR RURAL AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  









BAUCUS LEADS EFFORT TO PROTECT SOCIAL SECURITY FOR RURAL AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
New Report Shows Rural Areas Would Be Hit Hardest Under Privatization Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
June 15, 2005
 (WASHINGTON, D.C.) ---- As part of his ongoing efforts to protect Social Security for future generations of Montanans, Senator Max Baucus joined others today at a press conference on Capitol Hill to highlight how vital Social Security is for rural areas and how privatizing the program would create huge benefit cuts.    
Baucus is the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, the panel that has jurisdiction over the federal retirement program for the elderly and disabled. He was joined by other rural-state lawmakers in announcing a new report that shows people in rural areas would take twice the hit to Social Security benefits under the privatization scheme being pushed by the White House. The report, released today by the Institute for America's Future, shows 163,000 or about 20 percent of Montanans depend on Social Security compared to California with 12 percent of Californians depending on the federal program.    
"Folks in Manhattan, Montana should not be put in the same category as folks in Manhattan, New York when it comes to Social Security needs," said Baucus, who Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) tapped to lead the national effort against the privatization plan. "Representing a rural state, I know first hand how important Social Security is to rural folks. A plan that would threaten those benefits or cut benefits is unacceptable. I cannot and will not support a plan that would hurt Montanans or other rural folks."    
Baucus said that momentum continues to build against privatizing Social Security. Groups that play a prominent role in rural areas like Montana such as the National Farmers Union, American Corn Growers Association, and National Family Farm Coalition are strongly against privatization.    
"The more details that come out about the plan to privatize Social Security it becomes more and more evident that it is a bad idea," Baucus said. "I cannot and will not support a plan to privatize Social Security that would create huge benefit cuts and add trillions of dollars to the debt. I'll continue to do all I can to protect Social Security for Montanans and all Americans."    
Baucus, Montana's senior U.S. Senator, has been leading the charge against privatizing Social Security and urging members of Congress and the Administration to work together to strengthen the federal retirement for the elderly and disabled for future generations. 
###








