




















Press Release: BAUCUS BLASTS HOUSE MOVE TO NIX AMTRAK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          









BAUCUS BLASTS HOUSE MOVE TO NIX AMTRAK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Senator Vows Fight In Senate To Save Empire Builder                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
June 15, 2005
(Washington, D.C.) -- Following a U.S. House of Representatives vote to slash funding for Amtrak, Montana Senator Max Baucus said today he will "fight tooth and nail" in the Senate to save the state's Empire Builder, which serves Montana 12 communities.    
"It's an outrage what the House has done," said Baucus, referring to an appropriations subcommittee vote today to slash the rail service program in half. "This funding level is a death knell to the Empire Builder. Anti-Amtrak House members have just picked a fight with the Senate."    
The House appropriations subcommittee set aside only $550 million for Amtrak, when the rail line requested $1.8 billion in federal funding. Amtrak CEO David Gunn said today that funding level would shutdown the rail service. Congress approved $1.2 billion for Amtrak last year.    
The next stop for the spending bill is the full House appropriations committee, on which Montana's Congressman Dennis Rehberg sits.    
"Denny clearly has his hands full," Baucus said. "And I'm committed to helping out in anyway I can on the House side. But I can tell you this isn't going to fly in the Senate. Amtrak is a vital lifeline to our Hi-Line communities."    
Baucus is working to build a coalition of Senators to block the cuts. The Empire Builder route in Montana serves Hi-Line Communities, Glacier National Park, White Fish, and Libby en route from Minneapolis to Seattle.    
"We will not let this war against rural travel stand," said Baucus, the state's senior U.S. Senator and top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee.    
He said it's unfair for more profitable routes in the northeast to be funded at the expense of service in Montana. 
###








