




















Press Release: BAUCUS INTRODUCES ENERGY TAX INCENTIVE PACKAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  









BAUCUS INTRODUCES ENERGY TAX INCENTIVE PACKAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Senator's Measure Would Help Boost Clean Energy Production, Less Dependence On Foreign Oil
June 15, 2007
(Washington, D.C.)  As the U.S. Senate debates a new energy bill, Montanas senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus unveiled his tax incentive package for developing clean energy, which provides incentives for developing clean and green power, alternative vehicles and biofuels, and clean coal technologies.  Baucus is chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over all taxes and revenue. Baucus said he expects the Finance Committee to take up his tax incentive package next week, and that the provisions could ultimately be folded in to the larger energy measure before the Senate.  I want to do all I can to lessen our dependence on foreign oil and boost energy production here at home, Baucus said. This tax incentive package will encourage cleaner, greener energy and will help create more good-paying jobs.  Baucus measure contains a new tax credit for cellulosic ethanol production. It also has new initiatives to promote wind energy, including a new residential tax credit, and incentives for connecting rural wind facilities to the energy grid. Other first-ever proposals include provisions to speed the development of plug-in hybrid vehicles, and provisions to increase the economic viability of capturing carbon from coal.   Baucus Energy Tax Incentive Package Includes:  Boosting Domestic Energy Production:  Extends for two years and modifies the clean energy production tax credit (Section 45) for renewable energy producers, providing a tax credit for every kilowatt hour added to the energy grid. Baucus intends to expand this extension through 2013.   Accelerates depreciation for transmission lines connecting renewable energy facilities (such as wind farms) to the grid. Builders of transmission lines can write off 50 percent of equipment costs in the first year of use.   Creates a new 30 percent investment tax credit for residential applications of wind energy, up to $4000 per recipient.   Increases funding for new clean coal technology projects that will sequester at least 70% of carbon emissions.  Establishes Clean Coal Bonds to encourage clean coal efforts by co-ops, tribes, and municipalities.   Extends through 2010 the 30 percent investment tax credit for residential solar projects (Section 25D), and increases the limit to as much as $4000 per recipient.   Extends through 2010 the 30 percent investment tax credit (Section 48) for solar, fuel cells and 10 percent investment tax credit for microturbines.   Promoting Alternative Vehicles and Biofuels:  Establishes a new tax credit starting at $2500 for buyers of new plug-in hybrid vehicles.  Establishes a new tax credit for the production of cellulosic ethanol, offering up to $1.11 for the first 60 million gallons of production per year up to one billion gallons.   Extends through 2010 the $1-per-gallon biodiesel credit (produced from soy, camelina, and other plant materials) to 2010, with no limit for a single facilitys production.   Extends through 2012 the 30 percent credit (up to $30,000) for installing E-85 alternative energy fueling stations that can service flex-fuel cars running on 85% ethanol fuel.   Extends the small producers credit (those with annual capacity of 60 million gallons or less) for biodiesel and ethanol, which provides a 10 cent per gallon credit on the first 15 million gallons of production.  Boosting Domestic Oil and Gas Production  Promoting Energy Savings:  Extends through 2009 incentives for reducing energy costs in existing homes and increases standards for receiving the credit.   Extends through 2010 incentives for reducing energy costs in new homes and commercial buildings, and increases credit to $2.25 per square foot in commercial buildings.  Extends incentive for producing oil and natural gas from marginal wells.   Permits through 2015 the 50% bonus (first-year) depreciation of investments for facilities increasing the use of nonconventional feedstocks by 25% from domestic resources such as oil sands, tar sands, and oil shale. 
###








