




















Press Release: BAUCUS: BOR TO BOOST FLOWS ON BIGHORN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           









BAUCUS: BOR TO BOOST FLOWS ON BIGHORN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Senator Welcomes Increased Flows On World-class Trout Stream                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
June 15, 2007
(Washington, D.C.)  Montanas senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus today applauded the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation for agreeing to increase flows on the Bighorn River.   Baucus said today that BOR area manager Dan Jewell confirmed that the agency will increase flows from 1,500 cubic feet per second to 1,750 cfs starting late in the day on June 15.  Im pleased the BOR has recognized the importance of the Bighorn River to Montanas economy, Baucus said. This flow level strikes a more equitable compromise between water users in Wyoming and Montana. Its not exactly what we wanted, but it shows progress and gives hope to Montana sportsmen and women, small businesses and our states economy.  Baucus has been an outspoken critic of the BORs management of Yellowtail Dam. Hes led the charge to increase flows in the river, along with Senator Jon Tester, Governor Brian Schweitzer, and Congressman Denny Rehberg. Baucus also praised the work of interested groups including Friends of the Bighorn River, Montana Trout Unlimited and the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks.  Doug Haacke, one of the organizers of the Friends of the Bighorn River (FOBR), a grassroots effort formed to protect the Bighorn, said While the increase of 250 cubic feet per second is modest, and still well below the desired minimums, FOBR realizes we're not out of the drought cycle yet. However, a fishery is only as healthy as its water supply, and any increase is good thing at this point, especially since we've been maintaining absolute minimum flows for a year.  Haacke praised Montana Senator Max Baucus for his steadfast efforts in protecting the river and its vibrant economy. Max has been essential in carrying the message that we've suffered during the drought just like other water users, and that we're just looking for equity amongst the water recreation stakeholders, Haacke said.  While praising the BORs efforts, Baucus urged officials to consider increasing flows even more if weather conditions and water levels allow.  Following multiple years of drought, Wyo. and Mont. have been at odds over water levels in Bighorn Lake and the Bighorn River.  -30- 
###








