




















Press Release: Baucus Fighting to Save Amtrak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  









Baucus Fighting to Save Amtrak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Senator Says Transportation Program Is Vital To Montana Jobs, Businesses, Way Of Life                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
March 15, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) -- Amtrak is too important to communities and jobs across the country to be eliminated, Senator Max Baucus said today during a Capitol Hill news conference.    
As lawmakers grapple with a fiscal year 2006 budget, Baucus and others are fighting to restore funding for Amtrak, which would be eliminated under President Bush's budget request. The rail line stops in 12 communities in Montana, stretching across the Hi-Line, and through White Fish and Libby.    
Baucus joined Senators Lincoln Chafee (R-R.I.),Tom Carper (D-Del.), and Jon Corzine (D-N.J.), as well as rail advocates from across the country, in urging Congress to accept an amendment that would fund Amtrak at $1.4 billion next year.    
"Amtrak is vital to my state of Montana -- it's critical to us," Baucus said at a press conference today. "Ridership is up. It's rising. It doesn't make sense to cut funding for this important transportation system. It does make sense to give full U.S. support and give full financial support to Amtrak. This is about jobs and Montana's economy."    
Earlier this year, Baucus and other senators wrote the Senate Budget Committee urging members to provide full funding for Amtrak. The senators noted that Amtrak's five-year strategic plan that specifies that approximately $1.8 billion will be required for fiscal year 2006 to provide safe and efficient operation of the railroad.    
Baucus noted that Amtrak's "Empire Builder" had an increased ridership of 5.7 percent last year and contributes $14 million annually to the state in economic benefits. In 2004, Amtrak employed 57 Montanans with wages totaling $3.2 million, Baucus said.    
"Amtrak is our lifeblood," Baucus said. "We rely on it to travel around the state for our jobs and to visit our family and friends. Amtrak connects people and businesses. Eliminating this rail system would be devastating to the people and communities of Montana. I'm going to work together with my Senate colleagues to keep this transportation program around for years to come." 
###








