




















Press Release: Baucus Urges Japan to Lift Ban on U.S. Beef                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     









Baucus Urges Japan to Lift Ban on U.S. Beef                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Senator Asks Japan's Ambassador To Use Sound Science In Reopening Trade                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
March 15, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) --Senator Max Baucus, the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate's international trade panel, said today he's confident Japan will reopen its borders to U.S. beef soon.    
Immerging from a meeting he co-hosted with Senate Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley of Iowa, Baucus said Japan's ambassador to the U.S., Ryozo Kato, assured him Japan will make good on its promise to allow beef from cattle younger than 20 months of age into the country.    
Japan, previously the largest export market for Montana beef, imposed a ban on all U.S. beef imports in 2003 after a Washington state dairy cow that originated in Canada tested positive for bovine spongiform encephalopathy. Japanese and American scientists recently recommended lifting the ban on U.S. beef that comes from cows under 20 months of age because it poses no risk of having the disease.    
"We'll keep pushing because exporting our high-quality ag products is key to Montana's economy and jobs on Main Streets," Baucus said. "Our producers have had a rough enough go of it with the drought -- the Japan ban has only added insult to injury."    
Senators Grassley and Baucus arranged the private meeting between the Senators and the Ambassador to allow Senators to have a candid discussion on the status of the resumption of beef trade with Japan.    
"The Ambassador assured us that progress is being made. He said that Japan intends to allow beef from cattle under 20 months of age to enter its borders after its rulemaking process is complete," Baucus said. "I will continue to follow this situation to make sure we get Japan opened up as soon as possible."    
Japan imported $1.3 billion of U.S. beef in 2003 alone.    
"The Japanese are working to lift the ban, but there is a sense -- even among some Japanese -- that the sluggish pace of progress so far is driven more by politics than science," Baucus said. 
###








