




















Press Release: BAUCUS AMEND WOULD BOOST METH-FIGHTING PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  









BAUCUS AMEND WOULD BOOST METH-FIGHTING PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Senator's Budget Amendment Would Reverse Cut To HIDTA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
March 15, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus is offering an amendment to the fiscal year 2007 budget that would reverse a $19 million cut to the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area program, which has helped law enforcement battle methamphetamine in Montana.    
The federal program helps law enforcement officials battle illicit drugs across the country, including in Montana through the Rocky Mountain HIDTA.    
The HIDTA program brought $500,000 to Montana in both fiscal years 2003 and 2004. Funding for Montana increased in fiscal year 2005 to $983,000, and in fiscal year 2006 the state received $1.06 million, when the program was funded nationally at $227 million.     
Baucus' amendment would fund HIDTA at last year's level of $227 million. The Bush Administration has proposed $208 million for fiscal year 2007.    
"That's not enough," Baucus said. "We need every penny we can get to fight meth in Montana."    
Baucus waged a two-year campaign to get Montana into the Rocky Mountain HIDTA, which since 2002 has helped Montana law enforcement officials cut in half the number of meth labs busted in Montana.  The five Montana counties included in the Rocky Mountain HIDTA are Cascade, Flathead, Lewis and Clark, Missoula, and Yellowstone.    
"Meth has exploded in Montana and all over the country," Baucus said. "Cutting the HIDTA program would level a devastating blow to our efforts and would deal a huge setback to the war against meth. We can't afford to lose the ground we've gained."    
Baucus helped lead the charge to save HIDTA last year, when the Bush Administration proposed cutting the program in half.    
"Every where I go, every meeting I have with law enforcement folks in Montana, I hear the same thing over and over again," Baucus said, "meth is the number one problem they face."    
Methamphetamine is a powerful and highly addictive central nervous system stimulant that is associated with violence because it can cause paranoia, aggression, and mood swings.    
Baucus said he expects the Senate to take action on his amendment today or tomorrow. 
###








