




















Press Release: U.S. CHAMBER HONORS BAUCUS WITH 'SPIRIT OF ENTERPRISE' AWARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









U.S. CHAMBER HONORS BAUCUS WITH 'SPIRIT OF ENTERPRISE' AWARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Senator Recognized For Work To 'Spur Job Creation', Boost Economy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
March 15, 2006
(Washington, D.C.) â The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today recognized Montana Senator Max Baucusâ tireless work to create good paying jobs, and boost the economy by awarding him with the prestigious "Spirit of Enterprise" award.    
"It's an honor to receive this award from the U.S. Chamber," Baucus said. "This award goes hand in hand with my number one priority, creating good-paying jobs in Montana."    
According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the "Spirit of Enterprise" was awarded to Baucus based on his voting record on legislation that is pro-economic growth.    
"Max is a leader who has fought for legislation to spur job creation, increase productivity and keep our economy growing," said Thomas J. Donahue, Chamber President and CEO. "We're proud to present him with this award on behalf of America's businesses, both large and small."    
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world's largest business federation, representing more than three million businesses and organizations of every size, sector, and region.    
"I am very grateful to the U.S. Chamber for all the work they do on behalf of businesses, especially in Montana. They really lend a hand, in particular to our small businesses," said Baucus, who has now won the Spirit of Enterprise award several times during his career.    
Baucus is serving in his fifth six-year term, and is the state's senior U.S. Senator. 
###








