




















Press Release: BAUCUS TOURS KATRINA DAMAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     









BAUCUS TOURS KATRINA DAMAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Senator Assesses Relief Efforts in New Orleans, Biloxi, Mobile                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
September 15, 2005
(Washington, D.C.)  Montana Senator Max Baucus today   traveled to the Gulf Coast to assess Hurricane Katrina damage   and relief efforts as he helps craft a federal aid package aimed at rebuilding   the area and helping storm victims. 
Baucus was asked by Senate leaders   to join a small envoy on a visit that is making stops in New Orleans, La.,   Biloxi, Miss. and Mobile, Ala. Baucus was asked to join the Senate delegation   because he is leading Congressional negotiations on a relief package that would   help rebuild the Gulf Coast region and provide the victims of Hurricane Katrina   with health care, housing, employment, and education assistance. The devastation is incredible    its much worse in person than the pictures we see in the paper and on TV  its   amazing, said Baucus, the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance   Committee. Im glad that I have the opportunity to come and see first hand   whats happening here so I can help provide the assistance that is needed to get   these people back on their feet. Also, Im letting people down here know that as   far away as Montana, we're all a part of the process  that Montanans are doing   all they can to help ease the pain and devastation. We're a part of this team   effort. We're very happy to be helpful. 
Baucus was one of 14 senators on the   tour -- seven Democrats and seven Republicans  led by Democratic Leader Harry   Reid of Nevada and Majority Leader Bill Frist   of Tennessee.  In the wake of Hurricane Katrina,   Congress is working on sweeping relief packages to help victims and rebuild the   area. On Thursday, the Senate passed a tax incentive package that Baucus and   Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) wrote to encourage   charitable contributions, house evacuees, and create job opportunities. That   plan is being reconciled with a similar House-passed version and is expected to   be signed by President Bush early next week. The Baucus and Grassley Tax   Incentive Package for Katrina Victims:  Providing a $500 tax   deduction to people who house hurricane victims for at least 60   days; Tax incentives to help   employers keep workers on their payrolls and hire victims of the storm;  Raising limits on   charitable donations of cash, food and books by businesses;  
Allowing the disaster   victims to withdraw money from tax preferred retirement savings accounts without   penalty. Waive laws requiring   that taxes be paid on discharged debts, such as mortgages, when the debts are   forgiven in response to Katrina damage  Also late Thursday night, Baucus and   Grassley introduced their health care relief package to ensure victims of   Hurricane Katrina get access to health care and other assistance. The senators   expect swift passage of the health care package, as early as Monday. The Baucus-Grassley Health Care   Relief Package For Katrina Victims:  Immediate Access to   Medicaid for Displaced Individuals 
Federal Support for   Affected States Medicaid Programs  Prevent cuts to all   state Medicaid programs in 2006 (Montana was set to lose $10   million) Compensation to Affected   Health Providers Waive Medicare Rx-Drug   benefit enrollment penalties Tapping into a $2   billion welfare contingency fund for low-income   families 
Ensure Future Assistance   to Families Waive Hospital Reporting   Requirements in Disaster Areas Fully reimburse   hospitals for Medicare and waive co-payment Extend Unemployment   Benefits by 13 weeks  Baucus is also meeting with American   Red Cross President and CEO Marsha Evans in Biloxi, Miss. and will   present her with $50,000 in donations raised by Suttons Sportswear in   Billings. Suttons sponsored an event Sunday   that drew more than 4,000 people and raised funds to help victims of the storm.   The Gulf Coast Benefit in the parking lot of Sutton's included live music, food,   and raffles. Organizers sold thousands of specialty T-shirts, which made up the   bulk of the contributions to date. 
Upon returning to Washington, Baucus will   explore ways to provide additional assistance to Hurricane Katrina   victims.  
###








