




















Press Release: BAUCUS INTRODUCES BIGHORN RIVER PROTECTION BILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 









BAUCUS INTRODUCES BIGHORN RIVER PROTECTION BILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Senatorâs Measure Would Protect Flows, Fish on World-Class Montana River
January 16, 2007
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) ââ Montana Senator Max Baucus today stepped up his efforts to protect the Bighorn River by introducing legislation that would block officials from further lowering flows out of Yellowtail Dam.   

Baucusâ bill comes on the heels of a standing-room-only  meeting he held Sunday in Billings, where more than 100 anglers and local business owners crowded into a conference room to hear the senior U.S. senator tell officials that current plans to reduce flows are unacceptable.   

The U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, which controls flows on the Bighorn River, plans to set flows at 1,500 cubic feet per second. Fisheries biologists say that flow level would be devastating to fish numbers.  Baucus doesnât want flows to go below 2,500 cfs, a minimum flow to maintain a healthy fishery.  

âThe Bighorn is a lifeline for southeast Montana,â? Baucus said. âThis river is internationally known as one of the best trout streams on the globe. We will not stand by and let it be dewatered. Montana has given enough.â?    

Baucus said maintaining adequate flows in the Bighorn River âspeaks to the soul and pads the wallet,â? noting fishing on the river generates more than $30 million in economic activity every year.   

The Bighorn River Protection Act would do four things, Baucus said.   

1)    Sets preferred minimum flows at 2,500 cubic feet per second (cfs).  
2)    Sets absolute (only to be used in extreme situations) minimum of 1,500 cfs  
3)    States that one of the purposes of the Yellowtail dam project is for the maintenance of a healthy fishery on the Bighorn River. (Currently, the dam is authorized only for flood control and power generation.)  
4)    Requires the BOR to coordinate management of all four BOR reservoirs in the Bighorn watershed.   

Baucus is chairman of the powerful U.S. Senate Finance Committee.   

Montanaâs other U.S. Senator, Jon Tester, signed on today as a cosponsor of Baucusâ legislation.   

-30- 
###








