




















Press Release: BAUCUS BILL WOULD ESTABLISH NEW .XXX DOMAIN NAME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                









BAUCUS BILL WOULD ESTABLISH NEW .XXX DOMAIN NAME                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Senate Also Accepts Senator's Amendment To Establish Cyber Crime Task Force                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
March 16, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) - At a press conference on Capitol Hill today, U.S. Senators Max Baucus (D-Mont.) and Mark Pryor (D-Ark.) rolled out S. 2426 that will protect children from online predators and pornography by requiring Web sites with adult content to have a .XXX domain.    
In related news, the Senate accepted a Baucus amendment to the fiscal year 2007 budget that would establish an Internet Crimes Against Children task force in Montana. The provision calls for $250,000 to help local law enforcement officials crack down on Internet predators.     
Baucus and Pryor's legislation would require the Secretary of Commerce to negotiate with the international NGO-- Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers to develop a special domain name for Web sites with adult content. ICANN is charged with selecting domain names such as .gov, .com, .org, .net, and .edu. Baucus said the U.S. Department of Commerce would fine Web sites that don't comply with the new .XXX domain.    
Baucus said the .XXX domain will help parents use filtering software to keep kids from access pornographic sites. The domain will also help people avoid visiting adult-content sites by mistake, he said.    
"This bill will section off a piece of the Internet neighborhood and confine adult sites to one location," Baucus said. "It will give parents more tools to protect our kids. Parents should not have to worry about their children surfing into Web sites for adults â either on purpose or by accident."    
"While the Internet is an exceptional learning tool, it allows children the same easy access to Web sites about space shuttles as it does for pornography. Turning a blind eye to this problem has allowed the online pornography industry to expand and enabled kids to view adult content at very young ages," Pryor said.  "By corralling pornography in its own domain, our bill provides parents with the ability to create a 'do not enter zone' for their kids."    
The .XXX domain and cyber crime task force are both part of Baucus' Cyber Safety for Kids initiative, which is designed to protect children from adult content on the Internet, sexual predators on the web, and exploitation of minors.    
In addition to introducing legislation, Baucus is holding town hall meetings in Montana with parents, teachers, students, law enforcement officials and others from across the state to talk about ways to protect children from cyber crimes.    
"The Internet is a great resource," Baucus said. "By working together we can help protect our children from online predators and allow them to surf the web safely. I'm committed to working together with Senator Pryor to help pass this important legislation."    
The new Internet Crimes Against Children task force will be based in Montana. Montana is currently part of a regional ICAC based in Utah. Officials tell Baucus the state needs its own crime-fighting unit to combat the growing number of Internet crimes in the state.    
Now that the Senate has accepted Baucus' amendment to establish the cyber crime task force, the provisions will pass along with the fiscal year 2007 budget, likely by the end of the week, Baucus said. The Baucus-Pryor Legislation is likely to be referred to the Senate Committee on Commerce. 
###








