




















Press Release: BAUCUS RAILS AGAINST CUTS TO METH-FIGHTING DOLLARS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              









BAUCUS RAILS AGAINST CUTS TO METH-FIGHTING DOLLARS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Senate Guts Vital COPS, Byrne Grants For Montana Meth Fighting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
November 16, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus today railed against a spending bill that guts programs aimed at fighting methamphetamines in Montana.    
In a speech before the Senate, Baucus said heâll vote against the fiscal year 2006 spending bill for commerce, justice, and science because it slashes funds for the Community Oriented Policing program, or COPS, as well as the Byrne Memorial grant and the Justice Assistance grant programs.    
These programs have been instrumental in the battle against meth in Montana, Baucus said, noting the funding cut will deal a devastating blow to Montana's seven regional drug task forces, especially those in the state's rural areas.    
The Senate was expected to approve the spending bill Wednesday afternoon and then send it to President Bush for his signature.    
"I'm outraged that this bill will make further cuts to critical programs that help local law enforcement fight methamphetamine nationwide," Baucus said on the Senate floor today. "These cuts will have a particularly damaging impact on my state of Montana because we are a rural state with limited resources."    
Although the Senate-passed version of the bill adequately funded the meth-fighting programs, the joint House-Senate conference committee version would cut them drastically, Baucus said.    
That same panel also removed the Senate-passed Combat Meth Act, which will, among other things, require products containing meth-making ingredients to be held behind the counter at retail stores.    
Baucus said the cuts will be particularly painful to the Eastern Montana Drug Task Force based in Miles City, the Tri-Agency Drug Task Force in Havre near the Canadian border, and the Big Muddy Drug Task Force in Wolf Point because they rely entirely on Byrne funding.    
"These task forces also happen to cover some of the most open and rural areas in my state, where meth enforcement is particularly challenging," Baucus said.      
Baucus said the bill cuts the COPS program by one-third, and provides no funding for communities to hire additional police officers.    
In a separate but related move, Baucus also teamed up with Sen. Gordon Smith (R-Ore.) today to introduce a bill that will set national standards for cleaning up meth labs, so Montana law enforcement officials can better clean up the hazardous byproducts associated with meth production.    
"We cannot afford to lose the ground we've gained in our fight to rid meth from Montana communities," said Baucus, who has led a statewide education, treatment, and prevention campaign against the drug in Montana.    
"Everywhere I go, the story is the same," Baucus said, "Montana law enforcement need more resources to win the war against meth  - not less."    
Methamphetamine is a powerful and highly addictive central nervous system stimulant that is associated with violence because it can cause paranoia, aggression, and mood swings. The byproducts of making meth are highly toxic and flammable and require specially trained personnel to clean them up, costing the state of Montana millions of dollars every year. 
###








