




















Press Release: Baucus Praises Senate for Reversing Medicaid Cuts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               









Baucus Praises Senate for Reversing Medicaid Cuts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Senator Vows Fight To Provide Quality, Affordable Health Care For All Montanans                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
March 17, 2005
(Washington, D.C.) --Senator Max Baucus today helped restore drastic Bush Administration cuts to Medicaid, the federal-state program that provides health care to low-income families and people with disabilities.    
Baucus cosponsored an amendment to restore $15 billion in cuts to the program. The amendment to the fiscal year 2006 budget, sponsored by Sen. Gordon Smith (R-Ore.), passed 52-48. The fight isn't over yet, but today's action is "a major victory," Baucus said.    
If President Bush's budget request to Congress is enacted without any changes, Montana could lose up to $130 million in Medicaid funding over a five-year period, Baucus said, noting 2,800 seniors or more than 12,000 children could lose their health care coverage.    
"These cuts would hurt real people," Baucus said during a speech on the Senate floor, where he called the cuts "shortsighted". Baucus is the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, the panel with jurisdiction over Medicaid.    
About 83,000 Montanans are currently enrolled in Medicaid, Baucus said.    
"We scored a major victory today in our efforts to provide quality, affordable health care to all Montanans," Baucus said. "Medicaid is a vital program in Montana. It provides health care for thousands of Montanans who otherwise would not be able to afford it. Providing quality, affordable health care for all Montanans is one of my top priorities and I'm committed to helping make sure that all Montanans have health care coverage."    
Baucus noted that health providers like hospitals and nursing homes across Montana would feel the impact from the budget cut the most.    
"It's completely outrageous that during the economic times that we're in that our state would have to shoulder the burden of paying the federal share for Medicaid," Baucus said. "It's not right. It's not fair. And I'm going to fight these cuts every step of the way."    
For every $1 million Montana spends on Medicaid, more than $4.7 million in new business activity is generated and just over 57 new jobs are created, Baucus said, noting "Montana can ill afford to lose this business revenue and economic development." 
###








