




















Press Release: BAUCUS OUTLINES CHANGES IN THE TAX CODE BENEFITING MONTANA PRODUCERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            









BAUCUS OUTLINES CHANGES IN THE TAX CODE BENEFITING MONTANA PRODUCERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Senator Encourages Montana Farmers, Ranchers To Take Advantage Of Tax Changes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
January 18, 2006
(Washington, D.C.) -- Montana Senator Max Baucus today outlined changes in the tax code that benefit Montanas farmers and ranchers during the 2005 tax season.  
These new changes, which Baucus helped craft as part of a 2004-passed bill to boost domestic manufacturing  also known as the JOBS Act  include a new manufacturing tax deduction for agriculture businesses, relief from the Alternative Minimum Tax, and more time to replace livestock sold on account of drought. Baucus helped craft the new law as the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over taxes. He said many agriculture producers are preparing their 2005 taxes, and that they should look into whether or not they can benefit from the new provisions.  I know how hard Montanans work, and I want to ensure that they keep as much of their income as possible, Baucus said. These new provisions will help many producers avoid an additional tax hit from Uncle Sam. Because this is tax filing season for most farmers and ranchers, Baucus wants to ensure they have this information as soon as possible. He said producers can either contact the IRS, or see a financial planner for more information.  The new tax provisions include: 
 New Manufacturing Tax Deduction: The law allows a 3 percent deduction on 2005 taxes for agricultural production income. The deduction increases over the next several years to 9 percent by 2010. Livestock Drought Conversion: The law doubles the amount of time ranchers have during declared drought disasters to sell and then rebuild their herds without taking a tax hit. The provision also allows ranchers to reinvest into equipment -- instead of replacement stock -- and still avoid paying tax on capital gain. AMT Relief: The bill allows agriculture producers to average out their incomes over a four-year period without losing those benefits to the Alternative Minimum Tax Renewable Energy Incentives: Recent legislation also extended the tax credit for electricity produced from wind and expanded the tax credit to include electricity produced from small irrigation hydropower facilities.  For further information contact the IRS at www.irs.gov or 1-800-829-1040. 
###








