




















Press Release: BAUCUS FIGHTS AGAINST CUTS TO NATIONAL GUARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









BAUCUS FIGHTS AGAINST CUTS TO NATIONAL GUARD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Senior Senator Vows Fight Against Proposed Plan to Cut Guard Units                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
January 18, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus today he said will "fight tooth and nail" against any attempts to cut Army and Air National Guard units, noting a rumored plan by the Defense Department to scale back units would deal a blow to national and state-side defense capabilities.    
Several news outlets, including the Boston Globe and the Wall Street Journal, have reported on a Defense Department proposal that could eliminate as many as 800 Guard positions in Montana.    
During a news conference today, Secretary of the Army Francis J. Harvey confirmed that the Department is considering adjusting the number of combat brigades in the Guard.    
"We decided that it's appropriate to adjust the number of brigade combat teams," Harvey told reporters. "The baseline plan had 34.  We decided that we would make that 28."    
Baucus said if the Defense Department were to eliminate or move a brigade combat team based in Idaho, as reported by the Baltimore Sun, Montana would lose about 800 guard positions. In a letter to Montanaâs Governor and Congressional delegation, Montana National Guard Adjutant Gen. Randy Mosley said losing those positions would cost the state $15.5 million in wages and lost benefits.    
Baucus, who traveled to New Orleans shortly after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast, called the rumored proposal to scale back Montana's Guard resources is an "absurd and foolhardy plan that should never get legs."    
In a Wednesday letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, Baucus highlighted the important role the National Guard is playing in Iraq and highlighted the many benefits a strong Guard program has to the states, including Montana's ability to fight forest fires in the summer months.    
"The National Guard is the backbone of our armed services and troop reductions would be detrimental to the nation and to the State of Montana," Baucus wrote to Rumsfeld today. "At a time when our Guard is already stretched too thinly, we should not be sacrificing manpower."    
Baucus said a "teamwork approach" is needed, noting Governor Brian Schweitzer and Sen. Conrad Burns have also pledged to fight the plan.    
"We showed great teamwork in fighting to keep a flying mission in Great Falls," said Baucus, referring to last year's combined effort opposing a Defense Department plan to relocate the Montana Air National Guard flying mission based at Gore Hill. "Now we need to team up again to protect our guardsmen." 
###








