




















Press Release: CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE: NATIONAL SPOTLIGHT ON BAUCUS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            









CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE: NATIONAL SPOTLIGHT ON BAUCUS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Finance Committee Slated To Vote Thurs On Major CHIP Bill
July 18, 2007
(Washington, D.C.) The national spotlight is shining on Montanas senior U.S. Senator. Max Baucus is taking the lead role in the national debate over childrens health care, shepherding a plan through Congress that will boost health insurance coverage for millions of Americas kids.    Baucus is chairman of the powerful U.S. Senate Finance Committee. Hes crafted a plan with Finance Committee colleagues to renew the Childrens Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, and make a historic investment in childrens health that will cut the number of uninsured children in America by more than a third over the next five years.    We are about to take a historic step forward for children in America, Baucus said. Millions of needy children across the country will get the health care they need and deserve under this plan.    CHIP, which provides health insurance to more than 14,000 low-income Montana families, will expire on Sept. 30 without congressional action.    The Senate Finance Committee will meet Thursday morning to debate and vote on the bill. Baucus expects to garner wide support for the legislation, a product of his brokered agreement with Republican and Democratic leaders on the panel.    We cant fix our nations health care problems overnight  its just too big of a bite to take at once, Baucus said. Thats why we should start with our children, and start by renewing this successful program. At the very least, lets make sure our kids have health insurance. There are too many Montana families who are one bike accident, one fall down the stairs away from bankruptcy. Thats not right.   Baucus plan, endorsed by The Washington Post, will boost funding for CHIP by $35 billion over the next five years, an amount that will provide health insurance to 3.3 million more needy children across the country.    The Finance Committee action will be the first salvo in a likely showdown between Congress and the White House over the program. Shortly after Baucus unveiled is plan Friday in Washington, President Bush vowed to veto the legislation.    Baucus plan is paid for with a 61-cent per pack increase in federal tax on cigarettes, with proportional increases for other tobacco products.   The Baucus plan will substantially increase federal CHIP funding to Montana. It will set aside $27.8 million for Montana in fiscal year 2008, up from the $15.7 million the state got in fiscal year 2007. These funds, combined with technical changes in the bill, give Montana the tools it needs to move forward with its proposed expansion of CHIP eligibility from 150 percent of poverty to 175 percent of poverty.    At 175 percent of the federal poverty level, a family of three makes about $30,000 per year.    In addition to expanding health care to more kids, the bill also provides outreach funds for rural and Native American children and streamlines the Medicaid enrollment process for children living in poverty.   In crafting the bill, Baucus worked with Montana health care providers and state officials to ensure the bill is right for Montana. He held a field hearing of the Senate Finance Committee in Billings on April 4.    Kristin Juliar, director of the Montana Office of Rural Health/Area Health Education Center, said Baucus bill will keep current coverage, expand coverage to additional children, and provide improvements to the program that will result in better coverage of vulnerable populations including pregnant women, and people with unforeseen emergencies.   This bill is critical to the continued coverage of children in Montana, and will offer access to additional children, Juliar wrote in a July 17 letter to Baucus. Montana needs this legislation. Our state has one of the highest rates of uninsured population in the nation.   After the Finance Committee approves the bill, the full Senate is expected to take up the measure this summer.  -30-   
###








