




















Press Release: BAUCUS URGES JAPAN PRIME MINISTER TO RESUME BEEF TRADE WITH U.S.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              









BAUCUS URGES JAPAN PRIME MINISTER TO RESUME BEEF TRADE WITH U.S.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Senator Says Montana, U.S. Beef Is Safe, Highest Quality In The World                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
May 18, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Montanaâs senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus today urged Japanâs Prime Minister, Junichiro Koizumi, to lift his countryâs ban on U.S. beef imports.    

Koizumi is expected to visit the U.S. in June.   

Japan banned U.S. beef after a cow in Washington state tested positive for bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE, in December 2003. Japan lifted its two-year old ban on U.S. beef from cattle less than 20 months of age in December of 2005, but suspended imports again in January after a shipment of Japan-bound veal was found to contain a backbone that posed no risk to human health.   

Baucus is the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, the panel with jurisdiction over international trade policy. In his letter to Prime Minister Koizumi, Baucus said Japanâs decision to lift its ban on U.S. beef should be based on sound science.  

âThe scientific evidence is absolutely clear:  U.S. beef is safe,â? Baucus wrote. âAs all of Japanâs food safety and animal health concerns have been addressed, many Americans are beginning to conclude that other motivations lie behind the continuation of the ban.â?  

Baucus, also a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, has been a leader in the fight against Japanâs beef ban, meeting with Japanese leaders in Japan and bringing them to Montana to see firsthand that Montana an the U.S. produce the safest, highest-quality beef in the world.  

âAs Senator from Montana, a major beef producing state, I have a particular interest in this matter,â? Baucus wrote to Koizumi today. âI personally visited Japan in 2004 to meet with your trade and agriculture ministers.  I hosted a delegation of senior Japanese officials in Montana.  And I submitted comments in Japanese to the Japanese Food Safety Commission (FSC) during its four-week public consultation period last December.â?  

###








