




















Press Release: CHAIRMAN BAUCUS ADVANCES MAJOR ENERGY TAX INCENTIVE PACKAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     









CHAIRMAN BAUCUS ADVANCES MAJOR ENERGY TAX INCENTIVE PACKAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Senator's Measure Will Help Boost Clean Energy Production, Create More Good-paying Jobs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
June 19, 2007
Washington, D.C.)  U.S. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus today advanced a major energy tax incentive package aimed at increasing domestic production, promoting conservation, and boosting alternative energy sources such as wind and ethanol.   Baucus Finance Committee passed the energy tax incentives today. The package, which will help develop clean and green power, alternative vehicles and biofuels, and clean coal technologies, will now be considered by the full Senate this week as part of a broader energy bill.   We have to do more to address climate change, lower gas prices at the pump, and wean America off of foreign sources of energy, Baucus said. My tax incentive package will help boost greener, cleaner energy production and will help create more good-paying jobs in Montana and across the country. This is a significant victory in our efforts to become more energy independent.   Baucus measure contains a new tax credit for cellulosic ethanol production. It also has new initiatives to promote wind energy, including a new residential tax credit, and incentives for connecting rural wind facilities to the energy grid. Other first-ever proposals include provisions to speed the development of plug-in hybrid vehicles, and provisions to increase the economic viability of reducing carbon emissions from coal.  Baucus Energy Tax Incentive Package Includes:   Incentives to develop wind energy  Incentives for clean coal technology to sequester carbon emissions  Incentives to develop solar energy, fuel cells and microturbines.  Incentives to purchase plug-in hybrid cars  Incentives to boost production of cellulosic ethanol   Incentives to produce biodiesel (which can be made in Montana from oilseed crops such as Camelina)   Incentives to install alternative energy fueling stations  Incentives for installing energy efficient appliances, such as hot-water tanks and refrigerators  Incentives for energy efficient homebuilding; and incentives for reducing energy costs in existing homes  Incentives for energy efficient commercial buildings  A detailed summary of Baucus energy tax package is available on the Finance Committee website at www.finance.senate.gov   -30- 
###








