




















Press Release: BAUCUS HONORED AS âCHAMPION OF SCIENCEâ?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         









BAUCUS HONORED AS âCHAMPION OF SCIENCEâ?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Senator Received National Recognition For Strong Support Of University Research                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
July 19, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus today was recognized as a âChampion of Scienceâ? by the Science Coalition based on his unwavering support for university-based science research.    

The Science Coalition is an alliance of more than 400 organizations and institutions, including Nobel Laureates, businesses, voluntary health organizations and scientific societies, led by more than 60 of the nation's leading public and private universities.    

Baucus was presented the award by Montana State University President Geoff Gamble at an honorary breakfast that was also attended by Montana State University Vice President for Research Tom McCoy and University of Montana Vice President for Research Dan Dwyer.    

The Montana University System officials said Baucus has consistently focused on efforts to advance scientific research throughout Montana to help promote economic development. Baucus has also focused on using research to solve major problems in the state, including the tragic asbestos cases in Libby.    

âEverything I do is measured by one yardstick, to do whatâs right for Montana,â? said Baucus, Montanaâs senior U.S. Senator. âTo be recognized for doing that is very special, and I am honored to receive this award.â?    

Baucus has also supported state-of-the-art facilities in Montana to conduct plant and animal bioscience research as well as environmental toxicology.     

The Science Coalition is dedicated to sustaining the federal government's historic commitment to U.S. leadership in basic scientific research.    

Baucus is the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee.     


###








