




















Press Release: CHAIRMAN BAUCUS WORKS TO EXPAND CHIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          









CHAIRMAN BAUCUS WORKS TO EXPAND CHIP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Senator Says Childrenâs Health Insurance Program Vital To Montana Families

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
February 1, 2007
(Washington D.C.) â As part of his ongoing efforts to ensure that all Montana children have quality health care, U.S. Senator Max Baucus today launched his effort to expand the valuable childrenâs health care program that provides coverage to thousands of Montana kids.   

Baucus is chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over CHIP â the Childrenâs Health Insurance Program. Baucus helped write and pass CHIP in 1997. Without congressional action, CHIP will expire on September 30. Baucus said he is committed to using his position to not only renew the program but expand it to insure even more children.   

âCHIP has helped millions of families over the past decade, in Montana and across the nation,â? said Chairman Baucus at a Finance Committee hearing today. âSince 1997, the share of American children without health insurance dropped by a fifth.  For the poorest children, the uninsured rate has dropped by a third.  CHIP has made a dramatic difference. Investing in childrenâs health care is common sense.â?  

Baucus has been a fierce supporter and proponent of CHIP. Baucus noted that in Montana, more than 13,100 children are currently insured under CHIP. Nationwide, CHIP covers more that 6.2 million children.   

Baucus has also called on Montanaâs legislative leaders to expand CHIP eligibility in the state, saying he will work on the federal level to craft a program that boosts enrollment in the state.   

âStill, 37,000 children â one in every six Montana children â are uninsured,â? Baucus said.  âMany of these children live on tribal lands.  We must improve access to health coverage for uninsured children, including outreach and enrollment in Indian country.â?  

Baucusâ hearing today was the first step in working to renew CHIP. Baucus plans to hold additional hearings â including one in Montana. Baucus wants to ensure that the renewal and possible CHIP expansion is right for Montanaâs and the countryâs children.  

âProviding quality, affordable health care for our children is one of my top priorities and Iâm committed to doing all I can to make that possible,â? Baucus said.  

-30-  

###








