




















Press Release: AUCUS: CANYON FERRY CABIN SALES GENERATE $19 MILLION FOR WILDLIFE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               









AUCUS: CANYON FERRY CABIN SALES GENERATE $19 MILLION FOR WILDLIFE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Senator Says Wildlife Conservation Trust Now Accepting Applications For Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
March 1, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)- More than $700,000 is available for wildlife habitat improvement and access to public lands this year through the Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust, U.S. Senator Max Baucus announced today.    
Baucus authored legislation in 1999 that allowed 265 cabin owners to purchase their plots at Canyon Ferry Reservoir from the Bureau of Reclamation. The bill also set up the Conservation Trust to direct proceeds from the cabin sales to non-profit groups to do habitat restoration work and acquire public land access.    
Since grants became available from the Trust in 2004, more than $760,000 have been dolled out to conservation and public lands projects. The Canyon Ferry cabin sales, including interest, have generated nearly $19 million for the Trust, Baucus announced today.    
Baucus said the Trust began accepting proposals for 2006 on February 20. Applications must be postmarked no later than April 7, 2006.    
"We're an outdoors people," said Baucus, a Helena native. "We hunt, we fish, we take our kids camping and hiking. We're just starting to see how important this Trust will be to boosting wildlife habitat and our access to public lands. Iâm very proud of all the folks who helped make this happen."    
Eligible projects must restore and conserve fisheries, wildlife habitat, enhance public hunting, fishing and recreation opportunities and improve public access to public lands. While projects will be awarded statewide, at least half of the awards must go to projects located in the Upper Missouri River Corridor, generally between Holter Lake and the town of Three Forks, Baucus said.    
"Thanks to Maxâs efforts, the joint trust will make available $710,000 in grants for projects that restore and conserve fisheries, wildlife and improve access to public lands. This grant money is a huge boost to recreationalists in our state," stated Bill Orsello, a hunter and the Chair of the Citizens Advisory Board which makes recommendations to the MFWCT.    
Baucus said completed projects funded by the Trust include: acquiring about 20 acres for public access in the Helena National Forest on Crow Creek, near the town of Radersberg; acquiring about 20.5 acres on Whitehorse Creek, west of Townsend; helping acquire 235 acres near Winston, in the Elkhorn Mountains between Helena and Townsend; and acquiring about 71 acres for the Black Bridge Recreation Area near Glendive, to provide fishing access to the Yellowstone River.    
"I am really proud of our Canyon Ferry bill because it let cabin owners purchase their lands and it set up this program to boost hunting and fishing in Montana," Baucus said. "That's a big win for everyone. This just goes to show what we can accomplish by working together."    
For further information or to apply for grant funds, people are asked to contact the Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust:    
Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust  PO Box 1993  Helena, MT. 59624  406-458-0389  fwctrust@mtwf.org 
###








