




















Press Release: NO PUBLIC LAND SELL-OFF UNDER BAUCUS PROPOSAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   









NO PUBLIC LAND SELL-OFF UNDER BAUCUS PROPOSAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Senator Announces Plan To Fund Secure Rural Schools Program Without Selling Public Lands
March 20, 2007
(Washington D.C.) - Montana counties could get a $65-million increase in payments from the federal government under a proposal announced today by Montana's Senator Max Baucus, one of the Senate's most ardent opponents of a Bush Administration proposal to sell of public lands to pay for the Secure Rural Schools program.     
The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act, commonly known as the county payments program, expired at the end of last year. Without Congressional action, 34 Montana counties stand to lose millions in lost payments. The program compensates counties for lost tax-revenue to federal lands, funds that are used to pay for education, road construction, and emergency services. The Bush Administration had proposed selling of as many as 300,000 acres to renew the program, a move that was met with grave resistance in Western states like Montana.     
Baucus today joined Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) in announcing the new proposal, which will have to be included in a supplemental spending bill in the Senate next week. The proposal could change the formula used to distribute funds across the nation in a way that's more fair to all states. Currently, three states - Cal., Ore., and Wash. - receive 75 percent of the total amount available in the program.     
Baucus, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee with jurisdiction over taxes, helped broker the agreement by developing a solution to pay for the program that neither sells public lands nor drives the nation deeper into debt.     
Under the proposal announced today, Montana's share of funding could spike by an estimated $65 million starting in fiscal year 2007 through 2011, for an overall total of as much as $150 million to Montana counties. (see attached spreadsheet.)     
"Our bill will fully fund the rural schools program without selling even one acre of our prized public lands," Baucus said. "Our public lands shouldn't be put up for sale to the highest bidder. The Administration challenged congress to find a way to fund this program and we did. Montana counties will get a real shot in the arm under this program. That's something that will help boost Main Streets across our state."      "We have crafted a lifeboat to keep rural communities afloat," Senator Wyden said.  "It couldn't come at a more critical time."     
Montana County Commissioners Applaud Move:     
"Secure Rural Schools is extremely important to Ravalli and all western Montana and we are very grateful to Senator Baucus for working hard to make sure that the program is funded," said Alan Thompson, Ravalli County Commissioner.    
"Secure Rural Schools program is critical to Beaverhead county, and to take a cut to this funding would make many departments almost go away, and we appreciate Max's work for our small rural communities," Mike McGinley, Beaverhead County Commissioner and second Vice President of MACO.    
"Secure Rural Schools is vital to the Flathead County, and my colleague Commissioner Gary Hall has been working hard to get this funding. We appreciate all of Max Baucus' work to secure these much need dollars," said Joe Brenneman, Flathead Valley Commissioner.    
"Secure Rural Schools program is absolutely vital to our Montana counties, and I want to thank Max Baucus for all his efforts to secure funding for this program," said Yellowstone County Commissioner Bill Kennedy, Chairman of the Rural Action Caucus for the National Association of Counties.      
Here are the Montana counties who qualify for funding: Beaverhead, Broadwater, Carbon, Carter, Cascade, Chouteau, Deer Lodge, Fergus, Flathead, Gallatin, Glacier, Golden Valley, Granite, Jefferson, Judith Basin, Lake, Lewis & Clark, Lincoln, Madison, Meagher, Mineral, Missoula, Park, Pondera, Powder River, Powell, Ravalli, Rosebud, Sanders, Silver Bow, Stillwater, Sweet Grass, Teton, and Wheatland.    
-30- 
###








