




















Press Release: BAUCUS BILL TO CUT NUMBER OF UNINSURED GOES TO BUSH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             









BAUCUS BILL TO CUT NUMBER OF UNINSURED GOES TO BUSH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Senator's Bill Will Direct $1.6 Million To Montana's 'High-Risk Pool'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
October 20, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)  Congress has approved Montana Senator Max Baucus bill that would help curb the rising number of Montanans without health insurance and provide health coverage for those with serious or pre-existing health conditions. Baucus teamed up with Senator Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) to write the State High Risk Pool Extension Act, aimed at extending a grant program for state high-risk pools, funds used to help residents who can't get affordable health insurance because of serious or pre-existing conditions. The grant program expired on September 30, 2004.  The bill, which will direct up to $1.6 million to Montana in fiscal year 2006, passed the House in July and unanimously in the Senate Wednesday. The bill now goes to President Bush for his expected signature.  This bill is about providing quality, affordable health care to Montanans who otherwise couldnt afford it, Baucus said, noting one in five Montanans doesn't have health insurance. The rising cost of health care can be the straw that breaks the camels back for many of Montanas working families. High risk pools are one way we can help. 
Operated by states, high-risk pools help individuals who are unable to obtain insurance because of existing medical conditions. Currently, about 20 states have high-risk pools or are in the process of creating them. The bill authorizes $15 million for 2005 and 2006 for states establishing new high-risk pools. It would extend and boost funding for states that already have risk pools by authorizing $75 million in operating grants for 2006 to 2010. Baucus said Montana could use the funding to either enroll more people into the program or reduce costs for current participants. The measure would build upon a grant program Baucus helped create as part of the major international trade bill of 2002. (As then-chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Baucus was chief author of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act.) The grant-based program directed $638,228 to Montanas high-risk pool in 2003, funds that helped provide health care to 3,123 Montanans.  Its one of my top priorities to make sure that all Montanans have access to quality, affordable health care, said Baucus, the highest ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. Once the president signs this bill, which we expect him to do, more Montanans will have access to the quality health care they need and deserve. 
###








