




















Press Release: BAUCUS BACKS BUSH'S PICK FOR SUPREME COURT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      









BAUCUS BACKS BUSH'S PICK FOR SUPREME COURT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 
September 20, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)  Montana Senator Max Baucus announced   today he will vote to confirm President Bushs pick for Chief Justice of the   U.S. Supreme Court. 
After reviewing Judge John   Roberts credentials and meeting with him privately, I have found that he meets   my criteria for judges. And that is: only the brightest, most objective minds   shall serve on the bench, said Baucus, who acknowledged the decision was not an   easy one. I call 'em as I see them, he said.   Judge Roberts indicated to me personally that he has a healthy respect for   precedent and the hard-won rights of Americans. My only yardstick or litmus   test is whether or not Judge Roberts is right for Montana and America. Ive determined that he is. Baucus met privately with Roberts in   his Washington, D.C., office in July and followed closely last   weeks Senate Judiciary Committee hearings.  
Throughout my career, Ive always   tried to reach across party lines to do whats right, Baucus said. This isnt   about being a Democrat or Republican; its about being a Montanan and American. The Senate is likely to vote on the   Roberts nomination next week. 
###








