




















Press Release: BAUCUS GETS 2-YEAR EXTENSION OF WOOL TRUST FUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 









BAUCUS GETS 2-YEAR EXTENSION OF WOOL TRUST FUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Senator Says Trust Fund Is Critical For Montana Wool Growers
August 21, 2006
(Polson)- Senator Max Baucus today lauded the two-year extension of the Wool Research, Development, and Promotion Trust Fund â the Wool Trust Fund â included as part of the pensions bill signed by President Bush last Thursday.  

âIâm glad we were able to agree to get this done,â? Baucus said.  âThe Wool Trust Fund is so important to Montana wool growers.  Iâve been looking for an opportunity to extend this program.  When I saw that we could do this in the pensions bill, I jumped at the chance to help this important Montana industry.â?  

The Wool Trust Fund provides funding for increasing the competitiveness of American wool through innovative research and marketing promotion.  The Fund has supported breakthrough research into wool fabrics used by the U.S. military and commercial customers, including enzyme treatment for washable wool clothing and new fire retardant wool fabrics.  It has also been crucial to the aggressive marketing of American wool.  Before establishment of the Fund, only 10 percent of domestically produced raw wool found its way to export markets.  Today, approximately 60 percent of U.S. raw wool is exported.  

âWe need to help Montanaâs exporters take advantage of the competitive opportunities out there,â? said Baucus.  âThe Wool Trust Fund has been critical to helping all aspects of the wool industry, especially in Montana, compete and win in the international marketplace.â?  
Baucus, who serves as the highest ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, was integrally involved in the negotiations on the pensions bill.  Baucus helped establish the program in 2000 and first got it extended in 2004.  The current program expires at the end of 2007, but under the provision Baucus inserted into the pensions bill today, the program is set to last until the end of 2009.  

Aeric Reilly, Executive Secretary of the Montana Wool Growers Association in Helena, said he was âthrilled at the news.â?  He added, âMy hatâs off to Max for coming through for Montana yet again.  The Wool Trust Fund has been a real boon for Montana wool growers.  Itâs allowed us to increase production of wool and find new markets, both overseas and here at home with the U.S. military.  I really want to thank Max for fighting for Montana wool growers.â?  

Montana is the sixth largest lamb and wool producer in the United States with 300,000 sheep.  The state produces nearly 2.5 million pounds of wool annually with a very strong pool and cooperative marketing system for wool producers.  

âThe American Sheep Industry Association appreciates the leadership of Senator Baucus with the extension of the Wool Trust programming to benefit sheep producers in Montana and nationwide,â? said Peter Orwick, Executive Director of the American Sheep Industry Association.  âContinuation of the Wool Trust Fund helps sheep producers in Montana and across the United States to expand wool product development and sales of American wool to companies across the globe.â? 
###








