




















Press Release: BAUCUS TO HOLD PUBLIC LANDS MEETING IN MISSOULA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 









BAUCUS TO HOLD PUBLIC LANDS MEETING IN MISSOULA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Meeting will now be held at Missoula Children's Theater, Thurs. 10:30 a.m.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
February 21, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)  To accommodate more people, Montana Senator Max Baucus has changed the location of his public meeting in Missoula to discuss President Bushs proposal to sell public lands. 
The meeting, earlier planned for the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation, will now be held at the Missoula Childrens Theater, 200 N. Adams. The time of the meeting remains the same  Thursday, February 23, at 10:30 a.m. The meeting is designed to gather local input on a new public lands proposal contained in the Bush Administrations fiscal year 2007 budget request to Congress that would sell off more than 300,000 acres of public lands. Baucus has been critical of the proposal, which would sell about 14,000 acres of public land in Montana to pay for the Secure Rural Schools Act, which provides payments to counties with a federal presence. Baucus supports extending the program, which he helped establish in 2000, but not by selling off public lands to do so, he said. The Rural Schools program is set to expire or sunset this year. Baucus has co-sponsored legislation to extend the program for seven more years without selling public lands. Baucus is inviting a wide array of groups and individuals to the meeting, which is free and open to the public. For more information, people are asked to contact Senator Baucus Missoula office at 406-329-3123.  
Baucus Public Lands Meeting Who: Montana Senator Max Baucus What: Town Hall Meeting on Bushs Public Lands Proposal When: Thursday, February 23 at 10:30 a.m. MST Where: Missoula Childrens Theater, 200 N. Adams 

###








