




















Press Release: BAUCUS MEASURE WOULD AID WORKERS HURT BY TRADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  









BAUCUS MEASURE WOULD AID WORKERS HURT BY TRADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Trade Adjustment Assistance Would Be Expanded Under Senator's Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
July 21, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)  Montana Senator Max Baucus today introduced a bill to expand the federal program that helps workers who lose their jobs because of international trade agreements. 
The measure, sponsored by Baucus and Sen. Norm Coleman, R-Minn., would expand the Trade Adjustment Assistance program and make it easier for industries, such as timber companies in Montana, to qualify for direct assistance from the federal government.  For more than 40 years, TAA has been providing retraining, income support, and other benefits to workers who lose their jobs due to trade. In the Trade Act of 2002, Baucus spearheaded the most comprehensive expansion and overhaul of the TAA program since 1974.  Baucus said many workers in Montana have benefited from the TAA program, including workers at the aluminum plant in Columbia Falls.  TAA is an important way to make sure free trade is fair to everyone, Baucus said. Montana has benefited, on the whole, from free trade agreements. But we need to have fallback programs to help our workers if trade hurts them. Baucus said the softwood lumber industry in Canada has hurt small timber mills in Montana. His bill will help make sure people who lose their jobs at timber mills can more easily get the TAA benefits they need and deserve. The Baucus-Coleman bill, called the Trade Adjustment Assistance for Industries Act, would cut red tape out of the process. Baucus said some workers who lose their jobs in industries such as textiles, small electronics, and lumber get the TAA benefits they deserve, while others just down the street may not. His bill will streamline the process.  
Maintaining a well-trained workforce is key to our nations long-term competitiveness and economic health, Baucus said. TAA is a safety net catching those few who lose out from our trade policy choices. This legislation will cut through the red tape so deserving workers face less uncertainty and can be enrolled and retrained sooner.  The following Montana companies have benefited from the TAA program:  Don Pluid Logging, Eureka  Stillwater Forest Products, Kalispell  Owens and Hurst Lumber, Eureka 
Jore Corporation, Ronan  Bayer Pharmaceuticals (multiple locations)  Louisiana Pacific, Belgrade  Columbia Falls Aluminum  Trout Creek Lumber, Thompson Falls  Flying J Oil  Gas, Sidney  Stimson Lumber, Libby  Ultrafem, Missoula 
###








