




















Press Release: BAUCUS: MISSILES SHOULD STAY IN MONTANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         









BAUCUS: MISSILES SHOULD STAY IN MONTANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Senior Senator Working To Ensure Malmstrom's Role Remains Strong In Nationâs Nuclear Defense                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
September 21, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)  During a daylong meeting on Capitol   Hill, Montanas senior Senator Max Baucus and other   today strategized on the future of the nations nuclear missile   force. Over the next several weeks, Defense   Secretary Donald Rumsfeld will begin what is known as the Quadrennial Defense   Review, a process in which the Department of Defense undergoes a top-to-bottom   review of its war-fighting ability. According to reports, the DOD is considering   possible changes to the nations Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles force,   including reducing the number of nuclear-armed missiles. Baucus noted that   Montana is home to 40 percent of the nations   ICBMs  housing 200 at Malmstrom Air Force Base in Great   Falls. The ICBMs should stay at Malmstrom    its that simple, Baucus said. Keeping the ICBMs at Malmstrom is about   keeping good-paying jobs in our state. Its also about ensuring Montana plays a strong   role in our nations defense and military future. 
Baucus and other members of the ICBM   Coalition, senators from other states that house ICBMs, met with top Air Force   and DOD leaders about the future of nuclear deterrence, ICBMs, and U.S.   strategic forces. Baucus and others today also sent   letters to Secretary Rumsfeld and Senate Defense Committee leaders, urging them   to carefully examine QDR recommendations and noting that maintaining the 500   ICBM missile force had a powerful dissuasive effect on potential   adversaries. In combination with the other legs   of the traditional triad, a 500 missile force of nuclear ICBMs has a powerful   dissuasive effect on potential adversaries, Baucus and others wrote. The   continuing value or these forces has been affirmed by the Nuclear Posture   Reviews and other studies, including the 2002 NPRs embedding of these forces in   the New Triad. We must maintain force levels more than sufficient to dissuade   any potential adversary from pursuing parity with our forces. This dissuasive   capability also helps to reduce the risk of regional arms races that could force   our non-nuclear friends and allies to develop nuclear capabilities of their   own. Baucus said that the QDR is in its   final stages and is expected to be presented to Congress in February 2006, once   President Bush outlines his fiscal year 2007 budget. 
 
###








