




















Press Release: BAUCUS MEASURE WOULD BOOST FOOD BANK DOLLARS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









BAUCUS MEASURE WOULD BOOST FOOD BANK DOLLARS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Senator Offers Amendment To Mitigate Katrina Impacts on Montana Food Banks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
September 21, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)  Montana Senator Max Baucus is   offering an amendment to the fiscal year 2006 agriculture spending bill that   would boost funds for food assistance to Hurricane Katrina victims while pumping   an additional $1.5 million to Montana food banks. 
Baucus provision would direct $200   million to the Emergency Food Assistance Program to help food banks, food   pantries, and other charity organizations provide assistance to Hurricane   Katrina victims.  His provision will also provide $251   million in grants to states -- including $1.5 million for Montana -- to replenish   food assistance programs.  Its clear we need to boost our   efforts to help Katrina victims, Baucus said. But in doing so, we need to make   sure our Montana food banks arent hurt in the process.   Thats why Im pushing to provide an additional $1 million for Montana food programs. These programs are administered by   the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Senate is currently working on the   agencys fiscal year 2006 appropriations bill. A vote on Baucus measure could   come by weeks end, he said.  
Aaron Brock, outreach coordinator   for the Missoula Food Bank, said additional dollars are needed and will be put   to good use. Were seeing an increased need all   the time and Hurricane Katrina may increase those needs, Brock said. Any   additional funding will be put to good use and help feed hungry people in   Montana and in Missoula. Were grateful to Senator Baucus for   thinking about anti-hunger agencies here. Baucus is a senior member of the   Senates Agriculture Committee and the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senates   Finance Committee.  
###








