




















Press Release: BAUCUS CRITICIZES PORTS DEAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









BAUCUS CRITICIZES PORTS DEAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Senator Says He Will Support Legislation Halting Sea Port Sale Until Further Review                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
February 22, 2006
(BUTTE) - Montana Senator Max Baucus today criticized the Administration's plan to allow a state-owned business in the United Arab Emirates to take over operations at six major U.S. sea ports, saying he'll back legislation to slow the deal despite a veto threat by the President.    
"I am very concerned about handing over operation of our ports to Dubai Ports World.  We need to further investigate the potential security risks this could raise. Obviously our number one priority is keeping America safe, and that has to be our litmus test for whether or not this is a good idea," Baucus said.    
Baucus said today he'll back legislation, likely offered by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), that would put a moratorium on the deal until more information can be gathered.    
The pending sale would put Dubai Ports World in charge of major shipping operations in New York, New Jersey, Baltimore, New Orleans, Miami and Philadelphia.    
"We need to slow this whole thing down and gather more information," Baucus said. "Our seaports are a critical line of defense when it comes to protecting our homeland.  That's why we need to stop this particular deal until we have more assurances that it won't impact port security in any way." 
###








