




















Press Release: BAUCUS CLASHES WITH BUSH OVER MILITARY PAY BOOST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                









BAUCUS CLASHES WITH BUSH OVER MILITARY PAY BOOST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Senator Says Administration Must Support Pay Increase

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
May 22, 2007
(Washington, D.C.) - News that the White House is opposing a pay increase for the nation's military personnel compelled Montana's Senator Max Baucus to lash out at the Administration on the Senate floor today.      
"Of the billions of dollars that we spend on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, it would seem absurd to oppose this small pay bump," Baucus said. "But that is exactly what the Administration is doing."     
Baucus cited a recent  Boston Globe  report that said the White House is "trying to kill a Democratic plan to increase the size of a military pay raise next year, contending it would be too costly and that members of the armed forces are already sufficiently compensated."    
Baucus said the House Defense Authorization bill includes a one half of one percent increase in military pay above the President's request. For the average new enlistee, this will amount to about $75 per year in extra pay, Baucus said.     
Baucus said the extra dollars could help provide school clothes for soldiers' kids, a family trip to the ballgame, or help with the high cost of gasoline.      
Baucus said salaries for new enlistees start at $15,617 per year, an amount that makes new enlistees with three or more dependents eligible for food stamps.     
"Among the sacrifices we ask of our men and women in harm's way, going hungry shouldn't be one of them," Baucus said.     
In a May 17 letter to the House Armed Services Committee, the President's Budget Director said the pay increase is "unnecessary." The same letter also expressed the Bush Administration's opposition to a $40-per-month increase for the widows of slain soldiers.    
"Again, this is a modest bump in benefits, and pales in comparison to the sacrifice that these families have made," Baucus said.     
"I am asking the Administration to reconsider their opposition to the pay increase and additional survivor benefit," Baucus said. "Supporting our troops is something we can all agree on."     
Baucus' floor speech is attached.     
 Floor Statement of Senator Max Baucus    
            Mr. President, I rise today in support of our troops.    
There are few things as important as the gift of one's labor, love, and life.      
            Our soldiers are asked to make generous sacrifices of these precious commodities every day.     
            Our finest young soldiers work 19 hour days in hot, dry, and dangerous places like Fallujah and Kabul.   They do so because they have a deep love of country. Many of our soldiers make the ultimate sacrifice with their lives.     
              Increasingly we are asking more and more of our soldiers on the front line. In April, Secretary Gates announced that he is extending the tours of duty for active duty soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan from 12 to 15 months.     
Our troops have already accomplished so much. Deposed Saddam Hussein. Toppled the Taliban. And responded to the threats posed by vicious terrorist around the world.     
Our troops have done everything we have asked of them.     
I was disappointed therefore, when I came across a newspaper article this weekend noting that the Administration opposes a modest pay raise for American soldiers.     
The House Defense Authorization bill includes a one half of one percent increase in military pay above the President's request. For the average new enlistee, this will amount to roughly $75 per year in extra pay. School clothes for the kids. A family trip to the ball game. A few tanks of gas, with the prices we're stuck paying.     
The increase is aimed at reducing the gap in pay between comparable military and civilian jobs that stands at about 3.9 percent today. Even after the proposed increases, the gap will still remain at 1.4 percent.    

Of the billions of dollars that we spend on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, it would seem absurd to oppose this small pay bump. But that is exactly what the Administration is doing.     
In a May 17th, 2007 letter to the House Armed Services Committee, the President's Budget Director announced that the pay increase included in the House bill is "unnecessary."    
Mr. President, I believe it is necessary to anything we can to provide for the welfare of our fighting men and women.     
Salaries for newly minted enlistees start at $15,617 dollars per year. To put this in perspective, new enlistees with three or more dependents are eligible for food stamps.     
Among the sacrifices we ask of our men and women in harm's way, going hungry shouldn't be one of them.     
What's more, in addition to opposing the pay bump for soldiers, the Administration letter also announces that they oppose a $40 per month increase in allowances for the widows of slain soldiers.     
Again, this is a modest bump in benefits, and pales in comparison to the sacrifice that these families have made. $40 dollars per month extra won't make it any easier to face another day without a loved one who is lost. But it can help pay the rent. Keep the heat on. And relieve a bit of stress for families facing a new world without their spouse.     
That is why I am asking the Administration to reconsider their opposition to the pay increase and additional survivor benefit. Supporting our troops is something we can all agree on. Republicans and Democrats.     
Mr. President I ask that you reconsider your opposition to increase pay for our soldiers and aid for this war's widows. We may not all agree on what we should do in Iraq going forward, but I believe we can and should reach a simple accommodation on troop pay.    
I yield the floor.    



###








