




















Press Release: CHAIRMAN BAUCUS CALLS FOR INCREASE IN INDIAN HEALTH CARE FUNDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  









CHAIRMAN BAUCUS CALLS FOR INCREASE IN INDIAN HEALTH CARE FUNDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Crow Tribal Chairman Carl Venne Testifies About Need For Funding Indian Health Care                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
March 22, 2007
Washington, D.C.) - Montana Senator Max Baucus, chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, today called on Congress to renew and fully fund the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, which provides health care services to Indians all across the country.    
The Finance Committee has jurisdiction over many of the nation's health care and child welfare programs. Baucus held a hearing in his committee today and said renewing IHCIA would be a priority this year, expressing frustration that the act hasn't been renewed since 1994.     
Baucus also wants to ensure that changes to Indian health care and child welfare programs work for tribes in Montana. That's why he invited Carl E. Venne to testify before the committee. Venne is Chairman of the Crow Tribe of Indians in Montana, as well as Chairman of the Montana -Wyoming Tribal Leaders Council.     
"Our Tribal members suffer from disproportionately higher rates of chronic disease and other illnesses," said Chairman Venne.  "Native Americans have the highest rates of diabetes, heart disease, suicide, and several types of cancer of all other groups in the United States. While the federal government's mission statement for American Indian health care has lofty objectives, in reality the Indian Health Services is unable to deliver health care that is even remotely comparable to the health care available to other Americans."      
In 1976, Congress passed Indian Health Care Improvement Act or IHCIA, which provides Native Americans with access to affordable health care, however it has not been renewed and many people are not getting the health care services they need and deserve, Baucus said.      
"For the last 13 years, we have seen Congress fail to reauthorize the law," Baucus said at today's hearing. "As a result, the current funding level for the Indian Health Service system is only 52 to 60 percent of the need.  That means that in any given year, by the month of June, the only patients who can receive treatment in Indian Health Service hospitals are those with conditions that "threaten life or limb. That's not right and I'm committed to doing something about it"     
Baucus also noted that methamphetamine is having a huge impact on the children welfare system in Indian Country and plans to work on ways to help stamp out meth in tribal communities.    
Baucus expects the Finance Committee to consider IHCIA legislation related to Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP this spring.       
"Last year, Congress came close to reauthorizing IHCIA. This year, let us complete the job," Baucus said. "Let us act like a nation great in riches and power.  And let us fulfill our health-care promises to the first Americans and to their children."    
-30-   
###








