




















Press Release: BAUCUS COMMENTS ON BUSH SPEECH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  









BAUCUS COMMENTS ON BUSH SPEECH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Senator Calls For Collaborative Approach To Health Care, Energy, Iraq                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
January 23, 2007
(Washington D.C.) --  After attending President Bushâs State of the Union Address tonight on Capitol Hill, Montanaâs senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus said he agreed with many of the themes in the speech, including the importance of health care and energy independence, but said the presidentâs approach to Iraq is misguided.     Baucus is chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over many of the nationâs health care programs. In reaction to Bushâs proposals on health care, Baucus said he will examine them closely in the coming weeks and months.     
âThe President is right to recognize that we have to start reforming health care now,â? Baucus said. âWith one in five Montanans without health insurance, we have a big problem on our hands. To get off the ground, his proposals need to do two things: provide new health coverage to people who have none, and better coverage to those who donât have enough.      âWe canât just rearrange the chairs on the deck of our sinking health care system,â? Baucus said. âAnd we can't be careless with the safety net on which millions of Americans currently rely.  In the coming weeks I will move aggressively to renew and expand childrenâs health care coverage through the CHIP program, and Iâll explore pooling arrangements that may extend health coverage to even more Americans. Above all, Iâm committed to working together to do whatâs right for Montanaâs health care needs.â?    
Baucus also welcomed President Bushâs statements on the need for America to be more energy independent, saying he will work as Finance Committee Chairman to pass tax incentives to spur renewable energy sources.     
âI was glad to hear him talk about energy,â? Baucus said. âWe have to do more to wean ourselves off of foreign sources of energy. I want to see more domestic production, conservation, and a big push for renewable sources like wind and ethanol.â?     
Finally, Baucus said he respectfully disagrees with President Bushâs proposal to send more troops into Iraq, saying American troops have performed admirably but that itâs time to start bringing them home.     
âI just think thatâs a mistake,â? Baucus said. âThrowing more combat troops at the problem is not the solution. The current strategy isnât working. We need to shift toward a diplomatic solution, one that will bring our men and women home as soon as possible.â?     
Baucus also reiterated his commitment to working together with Sen. Jon Tester, Rep. Denny Rehberg, and Montana Gov. Brian Schweitzer to move the state forward.    
âIt all comes down to working together,â? Baucus said. âThatâs my top priority: working together to do whatâs right for Montana.â?     

###








