




















Press Release: BAUCUS: SECY. RICE COMMITS TO HELPING TO STOP CLINE MINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        









BAUCUS: SECY. RICE COMMITS TO HELPING TO STOP CLINE MINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Senator Says Senior U.S. Official Will Press Canadian Federal Government For Broad Review 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
April 24, 2007
(Washington, D.C.) - Following a meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Montana's senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus today said that Secy. Rice committed to continue working with Montana officials to stop the proposed Canadian coal mine near Glacier National Park from moving forward and promised to request a broad review by the Canadian Federal government when she meets with her Canadian counterpart in the near future.    
Baucus said that during a meeting in his Washington D.C. office today, Secretary Rice was very sympathetic to the potential dangers of the Cline Mine. Secy. Rice committed to pressing her Canadian counterpart - Foreign Minister MacKay - to have the Canadian Federal government conduct an assessment of the potential effects of the Cline Mine when she meets with him later in the week at a meeting in Oslo, Baucus said.     
"I appreciate Secy. Rice taking the time to meet with me and for working together with me to stop the Cline Mine from moving forward," Baucus said. "And I appreciate Secy. Rice's assistance in pressing for a full Canadian government review on the impact of the proposed Cline Mine - I know that once the review is conducted the Cline Mine will be stopped in its tracks."    
Baucus said the review that he and Secy. Rice are pushing for is through the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act Section 47 - which is a broad review of the potential effects of the proposed Cline Mine.    
Last month, Baucus met with Canada's Ambassador to the United States, Michael Wilson, who confirmed that the Canadian government plans to initiate a federal-level environmental review of the Cline Mining Company's proposal to mine coal near the headwaters of the North Fork Flathead River, which runs into Flathead Lake in Montana. Baucus said Ambassador Wilson did not confirm what kind of review it would be which is why Secy. Rice will follow up next week with Foreign Minister MacKay and noted that the review could delay the proposal for up to three years, Baucus said.    
Baucus also asked Secy. Rice to call for an investigation by the International Joint Commission if the Canadian review is not sufficiently broad in scope.  The International Joint Commission is a panel of both American and Canadian experts charged with preventing and resolving international disputes between the U.S. and Canada. The panel was instrumental, at Baucus' urging, in defeating a similar mining proposal in the same area in 1988.     
Baucus, a leading opponent of the Cline Mine proposal, said there could be devastating effects to Montana's fish, wildlife, and the recreation industry in the Flathead with "zero economic benefits or jobs for Montanans."    
"The Flathead is part of what defines us as Montanans - it's part of our outdoor heritage and I want to do all I can to protect it for future generations to enjoy," Baucus said. "That's why I'm going to continue fighting the Cline Mine tooth and nail."    
The Cline Mine Company recently finished a public comment period on its so-called draft terms of reference, which will outline what Cline must do to produce a satisfactory application and environmental review from the B.C. government.  But members of the Flathead Basin Commission in Montana have said the document doesn't take into account the transboundary effects the mine would have on the State of Montana.    
Baucus is Montana's senior U.S. Senator and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade policy.    
-30-   
###








