




















Press Release: BAUCUS WANTS PERMANENT DROUGHT ASSISTANCE FUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  









BAUCUS WANTS PERMANENT DROUGHT ASSISTANCE FUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Senator Says A Safety Net Must Be In Place For When Disaster Strikes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
July 24, 2007
(Washington, D.C.)  As part of his ongoing efforts to help Montana producers hurt by drought and other natural disasters, Montana Senator Max Baucus wants Congress to establish a permanent disaster assistance fund.   Baucus is chairman of the powerful U.S. Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over all taxes and revenue. He held a hearing of the committee today to explore ways to use the tax code to help agriculture producers.   Im sick and tired of having to go back to the Senate year after year to fight for disaster assistance when it should be a no-brainer, Baucus said. It just makes sense to have a permanent program, so ag producers arent left waiting for Congress to set aside politics and do whats right for the county.   Baucus said that hed like to see permanent agriculture disaster assistance set up in a way thats similar to the highway trust fund, which is used to pay for transportation projects around the country. Currently, farm-state Senators have to fight every year for drought assistance. A permanent fund would ensure the dollars are there for producers when needed.   Earlier this year, Congress passed another ad-hoc disaster assistance package. But for some farmers, it was too little, too late, said Baucus at todays hearing. Producers still do not have any money from disasters 2 years ago. For some producers who had a disaster in the spring of 2005, payment may not come until early 2008. A reliable program that provides immediate assistance is better for agriculture plus it saves taxpayers money in the long run. The costs of ad-hoc disaster programs will be greatly reduced if assistance is immediate.  Baucus is also a senior member of the Senates Agriculture Committee and hes working with that committees chairman, Tom Harkin, on a new Farm Bill.  Baucus today floated the following principles for permanent disaster assistance:   cover all agricultural disasters including grazing losses, specialty crops and livestock deaths due to natural disasters;  compliment, not replace, existing crop insurance;  focus on a farmer or ranchers shallow income losses not covered by crop insurance;  help producers when their anticipated whole farm revenue, based upon historical production, falls below their actual production due to a natural disaster;  provide dependable, timely relief immediately after a disaster.  When a community or an industry is impacted by a natural disaster such as a hurricane or tornado, we extend a helping hand. Agriculture should be not be different, Baucus said. Agriculture is the backbone of our states economy and one way to make sure it stays that way is to make agriculture disaster assistance permanent. I look forward to working together with my colleagues on the Senate Agriculture and Finance Committees on ways to make it happen.   -30- 
###








