




















Press Release: BAUCUS: LIBBY RESIDENTS ARE ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE S.S. DISABILITY BENEFITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        









BAUCUS: LIBBY RESIDENTS ARE ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE S.S. DISABILITY BENEFITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Senator Praises Social Security Administration For Including Tremolite Asbestos-related Disease
May 24, 2006
(Washington D.C.) Montana Senator Max Baucus today announced Libby residents and former Libby residents will now be eligible to apply for Social Security Disability benefits.   

Baucus said prior to todayâs announcement only people suffering from chrysotile asbestosis could qualify for disability benefits. The Social Security Administration did not have disability benefit criteria specific to amphibole asbestosis, the kind of asbestos related disease that the people of Libby and former Libby residents suffer from.  

As part of his ongoing efforts to help Libby residents that are suffering from years of asbestos exposure, Baucus worked together with the Social Security Administration to allow Libby residents and others suffering from exposure to amphibole asbestos to be eligible to apply for Social Security disability benefits.  

âThis is great news for the people of Libby,â? Baucus said. âIâve been fighting for years to help current and former Libby residents get the assistance they need and deserve to help with their pain and suffering. Today weâre able to help provide them some relief.â?  

Libby residents suffering from amphibole asbestosis who were previously denied benefits by the Social Security Administration can now reapply and Baucus said he is urging them to do so.  

Baucus said that more than 1400 current and former Libby residents suffer from amphobile asbestosis due to W.R. Graceâs vermiculite mine that operated in Libby until 1990. Baucus noted that 300 to 500 new cases are diagnosed each year and that more than 200 Libby residents have already died from asbestos-related disease.   

Since news reports first brought the tragedy in Libby to light in 1999, Baucus has helped secure millions of federal dollars for cleanup, health care, and economic development. He was the first high-ranking elected official to visit Libby in 2000, and has visited 17 times since then.  

Baucus helped secure the funds needed to start the Center for Asbestos Related Diseases, commonly known as the CARD clinic, in 1999 from then-HHS Secretary Donna Shalala. The CARD clinic specializes in diagnosing and treating disease caused by tremolite asbestos, Baucus said.  

âPeople from Libby suffer from asbestos-related disease at a rate 40 to 60 times the national average and they suffer from the asbestos cancer mesothelioma at a rate of 100 times the national average,â? Baucus said. âThe people of Libby have suffered enough. Libby residents can count on me to keep fighting for them until Libby is fully cleaned up and all residents receive the benefits they need and deserve.â?  
  For further information contact: The Social Security Administration (406) 755-1015 or 1-800-772-1213;  275 Corporate Drive Kalispell, Mont.  59901 
###








