




















Press Release: BAUCUS' ST. MARY'S DIVERSION PASSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             









BAUCUS' ST. MARY'S DIVERSION PASSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Senator's Provision For Hi-Line Water System, Additional Water Projects Headed To President's Desk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
September 24, 2007
(Washington D.C.)  The U.S. Senate today sent President Bush a bill that includes Sen. Max Baucus $153 million authorization for the aging St Marys Diversion on the Hi-Line.  Baucus secured the funding authorization as part of the Water Resources Development Act, or WRDA, which passed the U.S. Senate today. The bill now heads to President Bushs desk.  Baucus was a lead author and member of the joint House and Senate conference committee, which ironed out differences in the bill.   Baucus inserted the St. Marys authorization language into the bill. The move is the first in a two-step process to get funds appropriated for the project. Once the $153 million authorization is finalized, Baucus and Montanas Congressional Delegation can ask Congress to appropriate the dollars.  We appreciate all of Maxs hard work and dedication in getting this done for St. Marys, said Larry Mires, Executive Director of the St. Mary Rehabilitation Working Group. This authorization will really help us move forward. Its great news for folks along the Hi-line and we commend Max for all he has done.   The 85-year-old St. Marys diversion, which redirects the Milk River to provide water for municipal and irrigation use along the states northern border, is in bad disrepair.   This is a long time coming and Im glad this day is finally here, said Baucus, chairman of the EPW Committees Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the WRDA bill. Having water to drink and use for irrigation shouldnt be a privilege it should be a right, and thats why I fought so hard for the St. Marys project. Its vital to jobs and the economy along the Hi-Line. Weve cleared the first major hurdle for St. Marys. Now well fight to get it the project across the goal line.  The canal delivers water from the St. Mary River at Babb to Glasgow and Nashua, serving three municipalities  Malta, Conrad, and Havre. More than 17,000 Hi-Line residents get their water from the system, and about 150,000 acres of farmland are irrigated by it.  Although the diversion is operated by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, local irrigators have been saddled with funding operations and upkeep.   This is a critical investment for Montanaone that will make one of our most precious resources more accessible to the folks who make their living on the land, said Sen. Jon Tester, who saw firsthand the various water projects across the Hi-Line last month. Max and I are committed to fighting for and getting good projects like this funded to keep water flowing from Cut Bank to Culbertson.  In 2005, Baucus helped write and pass a highway bill that is now helping to fund construction projects across Montana. As part of that bill, Baucus included $8 million for St. Marys diversion.   Baucus has been working with both the Blackfeet and Fort Belknap tribes to protect their interests, as well as local officials, irrigators, and recreationalists on the project for several years.    Baucus also included several other Montana projects in the WRDA Act:    Missoula Riverfront Development: This authorization would go to the Army Corp of Engineers to restore a 45 acres section of land along the banks of the Clark Fork. The funds would go towards restoring the banks, as well as building recreational cites. This provision is authorized at $5 million.   Yellowstone River Protection: This provision would allow the Corps to plan projects on the Yellowstone that are identified in the course of the Cumulative Impacts Study, without having to wait on specific authorization for each project. This provision is authorized at $30 million. Projects would include fish passage, irrigation improvements, bank stabilization, etc.    Intake at Glendive, Montana: The Intake Project consists of two parts: (1) constructing a device which would prevent downstream entrainment of fish into the Lower Yellowstone Irrigation system and (2) enabling fish to bypass the irrigation diversion at Intake during upstream migration. Additionally, the Intake project would open the Yellowstone River just 70 miles upstream from its confluence with the Missouri, creating a 238 mile reach for sturgeon spawning and rearing, much greater than any remaining open reaches between dams on the Missouri main stem.    Missouri River and Tributaries Recovery: This provision authorizes a study funded through the Missouri River Fish and Wildlife Mitigation Program to determine necessary actions to mitigate loss of habitat, recover endangered species, and restore the ecosystem along the Missouri.   -30-  
###








