




















Press Release: BAUCUS' 'LIBBY FIX' CLEARS SENATE PANEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         









BAUCUS' 'LIBBY FIX' CLEARS SENATE PANEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Senator Gets $400k Compensation Floor For Asbestos Victims In Libby                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
May 26, 2005
p> (Washington, D.C.) -- A U.S. Senate panel has passed asbestos reform legislation that includes Montana Senator Max Baucus' provision to give sick residents in the small northwest Montana town at least $400,000 in compensation from exposure to asbestos fibers.  
 After months of deliberation, the Senate Judiciary Committee today passed legislation aimed at reforming how asbestos lawsuits are handled across the country.   Baucus got Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Penn.) to include his so-called "Libby Fix" that takes into account the unique circumstances in Libby and will ensure residents there get the compensation they need and deserve.   The bill is now ready to be considered by the full Senate. Baucus said he is gearing up to protect the Libby provisions as the bill advances.  "This is a huge, giant step forward for the folks in Libby who were poisoned at the hands of W.R. Grace," said Baucus, who has been working on the provision for more than a year. "Now it's time to wage a defensive campaign to get the Libby Fix through the Senate and ultimately to President Bush."  The Libby Fix includes:   Libby claimants are exempted from the exposure criteria in the bill -- they just have to establish that they lived, worked or played within a 20-mile radius of Libby for any 12-month period prior to December 31, 2004;  
 Libby claimants are exempted from the bill's medical criteria if they choose to have their claims referred to an expert Physician's Panel;   The bill would also establish basic medical criteria applicable only to Libby claimants to ensure that the Physicians Panel will treat the Libby claimants fairly;   If the Libby claimants comply with the Libby-specific medical criteria, they will receive a Level 4 award, or $400,000, essentially establishing a floor of compensation of $400,000 for sick Libby claimants;   The language would also provide a mechanism to ensure that if a Libby claimant with a non-malignant asbestos-related disease became sicker, they could apply to the fund again for the higher Level 5 award, which is $850,000.  
 "I think it is really important to recognize that the needs of Libby residents have only been considered in asbestos litigation reform negotiations because Max Baucus had the foresight and the ability to bring this to the attention of Congress again and again," said Milton Datsopoulos, a Missoula attorney working with the legal team representing asbestos victims in Libby.  Baucus visited Libby in March for the 16th time since 1999. Libby residents told the senator they didn't want him to support an asbestos bill that doesn't include adequate compensation.  
###








