




















Press Release: BAUCUS HAILS BEARTOOTH HIGHWAY OPENING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        









BAUCUS HAILS BEARTOOTH HIGHWAY OPENING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Senator Secured $22 Million For Repairs, Praises MDOT For Quick Repair                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
May 26, 2006
(Washington, D.C.) â U.S. Senator Max Baucus today hailed the Beartooth Highway opening for summer visitors and traffic.  

Following damaging mudslides that washed out much of the Beartooth Highway south of Red Lodge last May, Baucus quickly responded by securing $22 million for its repair. The funding was included in the federal highway construction funding bill that Baucus helped write and pass last July.  

Baucus credits Governor Schweitzer and Montana Transportation Officials for getting the road repaired and reopened ahead of schedule.  

âItâs great news that the scenic Beartooth Highway is opening on time this year â itâs great for the community, tourists and our entire state,â? Baucus said. âThe Beartooth Highway is a crown jewel for Montana and the rest of the country.â?  

Baucus, who toured the mudslides and held a community meeting in Red Lodge last May, was a key author of the highway construction bill, which will pump more than $2.3 billion into Montanaâs economy over the next five years.   

Baucus made the case for the funding by highlighting the road as not only a Montana treasure â but a national one as well.   

Montana Department of Transportation officials estimate the total costs of repairs to the road to be about $24 million. Federal highway officials in June released $2 million to begin cleanup and repair efforts, and Baucus secured the remaining funds needed.  

Baucus, in his role as a senior member of the Senate highways panel, also secured more than $19 million for the Beartooth Highway in 1998.   


###








