




















Press Release: BAUCUS: 'SOLID' FARM BILL CLEARS AG COMMITTEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   









BAUCUS: 'SOLID' FARM BILL CLEARS AG COMMITTEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Senator To Add $5B Disaster Assistance Fund On Senate Floor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
October 26, 2007
(Washington, D.C.) Montanas Senator Max Baucus today praised the Senate Agriculture Committee for passing a new Farm Bill that includes a solid safety net for wheat and barley producers, stops Farm Service Agency office closures, boosts alternative energy, and finally implements Country-of-Origin Labeling on meat products.   The panel cleared the bill today unanimously, readying it for full Senate action as early as next week.   Baucus, a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, helped write the new five-year bill, which will serve as a blueprint for agriculture programs across the country.   For more than a year, Baucus traveled around the state holding listening sessions in small Montana communities. And, as the only member of Montanas Congressional delegation on the Ag Committee, held two official hearings of that committee in Great Falls to get input from Montanas producers.   Baucus said the Ag Committees unanimous passage bodes well for the bill on the Senate floor.   This is a big win for Montana, Baucus said. And were going to make the bill even better when it reaches the Senate floor. Weve been negotiating this bill for a long time. Today, the committee did the right thing for producers. Montana farmers and ranchers will come out very well in this bill. They should be pleased. Now were going to take the ball across the goal line.  Baucus helped insert several provisions in the bill for Montana, including a payment boost for wheat and barley; programs to help producers develop alternative energy, and a September 30, 2008 implementation date for the long-awaited Country-Of-Origin law.   Baucus was also successful today in attaching an amendment with Senator John Thune (R-S.D.) to halt Farm Service Agency office closures that are more than 20 miles apart for the life of the Farm Bill.  Provisions Baucus Inserted For Montana Producers:  Farm Service Agency Offices  The 7 FSA offices in Montana will remain open for length of new bill.   Wheat and barley  The bill boosts funding for wheat and barley so those commodities are treated more fairly under the countercyclical program.  Interstate Shipment of State-inspected meat  Allows state-inspected meat to be sold in other states, which will enable smaller packers to compete and sell their inspected meat across the country.  Beginning Farmers and Ranchers  Includes new funding to help encourage more young people to get into farming and ranching.   COOL  Technical change that will enable Country-of-Origin Labeling to be implemented smoothly by September 30, 2008.  Nixes the 5 percent crop insurance surcharge on organic crops  Montana is one of Americas largest producers of organic wheat  Camelina crop insurance  Requires the U.S. Department of Agriculture to establish a pilot camelina crop insurance program so producers can help lesson Americas independence on foreign fossil fuels.   Boosts Funding For Nutrition Programs  School lunch and food stamps is slated to receive a $4 billion increase. Also, creates a program for fresh fruits and vegetables for kids.  On-Farm/Rural Areas Energy Production  Carves out grants to encourage producers to produce alternative energy.   Improves the Conservation Stewardship (or Security) Program  CSP  and provides $1.28 million increase over 5 years.   Bee Habitat  Boosts bee and other pollinator habitat to help combat a sharp decline in colonies.  Baucus also wrote and passed a bill to establish a permanent, $5 billion agriculture disaster assistance fund  so producers facing losses due to drought dont have to return to Congress year after year for assistance. Baucus provision, which passed out of the Finance Committee last week, will likely be included in the Farm Bill when the measure reaches the floor of the U.S. Senate.  -30-  
###








