




















Press Release: PRESIDENT SIGNS BAUCUS BILL TO CURB GUN LAWSUITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                









PRESIDENT SIGNS BAUCUS BILL TO CURB GUN LAWSUITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Senator's Gun Liability Measure Will Protect Gun Manufacturers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
October 26, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus today praised the President for signing his Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act into law, a bill that will help keep gun makers from being wrongfully held accountable for gun crimes.    
Baucus, the lead Democratic author of the bill in the Senate, teamed up with Senator Larry Craig (R-Idaho) get the measure passed. He said that the purpose of the bill is to prevent baseless lawsuits and to protect the rights of gun owners and manufacturers. Baucus noted that the bill had strong support from members from both sides of the aisle â 58 senators cosponsored the measure in the Senate.    
"Today is a good day for Montana and for law-abiding gun owners and users all across the country," Baucus said. "Montana is an outdoors state. Itâs an important part of our stateâs heritage and itâs important to keep that heritage for future generations. We hunt. We fish. We teach our kids how to responsibly shoot guns. That's why I strongly support the second amendment. And thatâs why gun makers should not be held responsible for the acts of criminals."    
Baucus worked with the National Rifle Association to write this legislation and the organization supported the bill that was singed into law today.    
"The Bush administration was a vital ally during debate on Capitol Hill. I would also like to thank Senators Larry Craig and Max Baucus and Congressmen Rick Boucher and Cliff Stearns for doing a yeoman's job as lead co-sponsors of this legislation," said Chris Cox of the National Rifle Association.    
Baucus, a long-time supporter of the second amendment, teamed up with Craig in 2003 to first introduce the measure; however it failed in the Senate because of two controversial amendments that were added at the last minute. Baucus said that both the earlier bill and the bill signed by the President today have the same intent â if a gun is used while a person is committing a crime, the person committing the crime will be held responsible, not the manufacturer. Baucus said this is an important and much-needed piece of legislation for gun manufacturers and law-abiding gun owners alike. 
###








