




















Press Release: BAUCUS: MEASURE TO EMPOWER NATIONAL GUARD PASSES SENATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         









BAUCUS: MEASURE TO EMPOWER NATIONAL GUARD PASSES SENATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Senator Says Legislation Would Give Guard More Say In Its Military Operations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
June 27, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Montana U.S. Senator Max Baucus today praised the Senate for including a measure in the Department of Defense Authorization bill that would empower the National Guard within the Pentagon.    

The Department of Defense Authorization bill serves as a blueprint for how the Defense Department will operate during the next year.    

The measure that was included in the Defense Department Authorization bill that the Senate passed last week, which Baucus co-sponsored, would empower the U.S. National Guard by raising the National Guard Chief to full General and would secure the NORTHCOM deputy position as a National Guard officer. The measure would also grant the Guard the power to deal directly with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Office of the Secretary of Defense.    

âOur Montana guardsmen and women are vital to protecting Montana and our country,â? Baucus said. âAnd they should have a say in what operations they participate and where their resources are used â this measure helps to do just that.â?    

The measure was sponsored by Senators Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and had overwhelming support from both Republicans and Democrats.    

Earlier this year Baucus co-sponsored similar legislation - the National Defense Enhancement and National Guard Empowerment Act of 2006. The Defense Dept. Authorization bill included the majority of the National Guard Empowerment Act of 2006 when it passed the Senate    

âOur Guard personnel are long overdue for the treatment and respect they deserve,â? Baucus said. âThe Guard knows whatâs right for the Guard. And this legislation will enable the Guard to help decide where to deploy their troops and how to spend their budget. Our Guard members are true patriots and they have my full support. They can count on me to work together with my colleagues to make sure this measure stays in the overall bill and is signed into law by the President.â?    

Baucus said that the Guard plays an important role in Americaâs defense at home and abroad and noted there are many obstacles that prevent the force from reaching its full potential. Earlier this year the Army proposed significant cuts to Guard troop strength. Also, last year during the Base Realignment and Closure Commission process the Air Guard was on the chopping block and neither the Adjutant Generals nor the Governors were consulted about their fate.    

The National Guard has a long history of assisting America's military abroad while providing support and security at home. Since the attacks on September 11, 2001, the National Guard has taken on even greater responsibilities in the realm of homeland security. Also, the Guard has been a tremendous value for the capabilities it provides as one of the nationâs primary military reserves, providing 40 percent of the total military force for around 4.5 percent of the defense budget, Baucus said.     

Baucus, the only member of the Montana delegation to co-sponsor the measure, said the House has already passed its version of the Defense Dept. Authorization bill and the two bills will now go to conference committee to iron differences before heading to the Presidentâs desk for his expected signature.    

-30-   
###








