




















Press Release: BAUCUS CALLS FOR COUNTRY-OF-ORIGIN LABELING NOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 









BAUCUS CALLS FOR COUNTRY-OF-ORIGIN LABELING NOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Senator Says Labeling Program Would Help Ranchers, Consumers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
February 28, 2007
(Washington, D.C.) - Montana's senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus, Tom Buis - President of the National Farmers Union and others today held a conference call with reporters to press for country-of-origin labeling to be implemented by September 30, 2007.    
Baucus is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and chairman of the subcommittee on marketing, inspection, and product promotion, which has jurisdiction over COOL.     
In January, Baucus introduced a measure with Senator Craig Thomas (R-Wyo.) that would make country-of-origin labeling mandatory on all meat products starting September 30, 2007 instead of September 30, 2008.    
"It's time for Congress to listen to the thousands of small packers, producers and consumers in Montana and around the country that want COOL now," said Baucus, the only member of the Montana delegation to sit on the Agriculture Committee. "Montana producers have waited since the original COOL law was passed in the 2002 Farm bill to promote their products as, 'Made in the U.S.A.' It's time we implement COOL - we owe to all Montanans and Americans."    
The Thomas-Baucus COOL bill has broad support from farm state senators from both parties. Senators Jon Tester (D-Mont.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Jeff Bingaman (R-N.M.), Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), and Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) also support the legislation. The National Farmers Union as well as 213 other agriculture organizations wrote Congress urging immediate COOL implementation.    
"Montanans have a right to know where the products they buy come from," Baucus said. "I'm committed to working together with my colleagues to get COOL implemented the way it was intended - cost effectively without overburdening producers, packers or consumers."    
The COOL legislation will go to the Senate Agriculture Committee for its consideration, Baucus said and noted that he'll hold hearings on the bill in his subcommittee.    
###








