




















Press Release: BAUCUS HAILS VOTE TO PUT METH INGREDIENTS BEHIND COUNTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        









BAUCUS HAILS VOTE TO PUT METH INGREDIENTS BEHIND COUNTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Combat Meth Act' Passes Senate Committee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
July 28, 2005
(WASHINGTON, D.C.)  U.S. Senator Max Baucus today hailed a committee vote to advance the Combat Meth Act, a measure that would, among other things, put cold and sinus products that have meth-making ingredients behind the counter.  
Baucus joined Sens. Jim Talent (R-Mo.) and Dianne Feinstein to sponsor the Combat Meth Act, which will curb meth production by moving pseudoephedrine and ephedrine, the primary ingredients of the drug, behind the pharmacy counter and require the products be sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician, or approved alternative seller.  The bill would create a uniform federal floor for the regulation of pseudoephedrine and ephedrine, with states allowed to set stricter standards if they choose. All states would be required to review their laws for compliance with the federal legislation. The Senates Judiciary Committee approved the measure today. The bill must now be considered by the full Senate. Because pseudophedrine and ephedrine are found in many over-the-counter cold and sinus medicines such as Sudafed, meth cooks can purchase, or steal the ingredient in large quantities. Similar legislation was passed by the Montana legislature. Putting meth ingredients like Sudafed behind the counter is a common-sense approach to fighting back against meth, said Baucus, who is leading Montanas meth fight in Congress. In all my years, Ive never seen a worse problem facing our close-knit Montana communities. We have to keep working together to crack down on crank. The Combat Meth Act will also provide additional resources to local law enforcement, expand the ability of local prosecutors to bring meth distributors to justice and increase awareness and involvement of businesses that legally sell pseudoephedrine and ephedrine. The bill makes critical funding available to states for additional equipment, training for law enforcement agents and prosecutors to bring legal action against meth offenders and clean-up meth labs, and provides grants to treat those affected by the drug.  
The measure will also help create a Methamphetamine Research, Training and Technical Assistance Center which will research effective treatments for meth abuse and disseminate information and technical assistance to states and private entities on how to improve current treatment methods. Methamphetamine is a powerful and highly addictive central nervous system stimulant that is associated with violence because it can cause paranoia, aggression, and mood swings. The byproducts of making meth are highly toxic and flammable and require specially trained personnel to clean them up.  
###








