




















Press Release: BAUCUS OBJECTS TO CAMPGROUND CLOSURES WITHOUT PUBLIC INPUT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









BAUCUS OBJECTS TO CAMPGROUND CLOSURES WITHOUT PUBLIC INPUT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Senator Wants Forest Service To Hold Nine Public Meetings On New Recreation Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
November 28, 2006
Washington D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus today urged the U.S. Forest Service to hold public meetings on a plan that could lead to campsite closures in Montana.    

The Forest Service is currently working on a facility site master plan, which is a comprehensive look at the nationâs recreation facilities and campsites. Because of budget constraints, Forest Service officials have said the agency is looking at possibly closing campsites as a way to save money. Baucus is concerned because the agency is not required by law to gather public input into these decisions, and he wants to give Montanans a chance to weigh in on the proposal.   

âIâm not going to let the Forest Service make decisions about our campgrounds without full public input and scrutiny,â? Baucus said. âLimiting access to our public lands for hunting, fishing, and camping is something Montanans donât take lightly.â?  

In a letter to Forest Service Region 1 Regional Forester Gail Kimbell, Baucus asked the agency to hold public meetings on each of Montanaâs nine National Forests.  

âMontanans must have opportunities to be involved in decisions that affect developed recreation areas, so that the result takes into account a wide variety of responsible uses,â? Baucus wrote today to Kimbell.  âWorking together with communities that rely on these sites, a long-term plan can be developed that ensures maximum access to well maintained, affordable recreation sites.  It is of the utmost concern to me that local voices be heard throughout this process.  That is why I am requesting that you hold public meetings to discuss these issues on each of Montanaâs nine National Forests.â?  

Baucus noted that public lands play a vital role in Montanaâs economy. Public lands in Montana provide jobs and recreation opportunities such as hiking, hunting, fishing and camping, Baucus said.   

âThe Forest Service needs to reach a solution that maintains maximum access to recreation facilities for Montanaâs outdoor enthusiasts,â? Baucus wrote to Kimbell. âWhile I fully understand current federal budget constraints, the Forest Service ought to strive to enhance access.  Any significant reduction in our developed recreation sites only undermines the Forest Serviceâs mission and our Montana heritage of hunting, fishing, and camping.  Preserving access to serviceable, developed recreation areas is a part of the Montana outdoors experience that we hope to pass on to future generations.â?  

Baucus has a long history of working to protect Montanaâs outdoor heritage for future generations to enjoy. Baucus has worked to expand public land access and has successfully fought proposals to sell off public lands to pay for other programs.  

Baucus said he will continue to work together with the Forest Service to ensure that Montanans get a say on how public lands are managed in the state.  
  Baucusâ letter to Kimbell is attached.  


November 28, 2006  

Ms. Abigail R. Kimbell  
Regional Forester  
USDA Forest Service, Region 1  
PO Box 7669  
Missoula, Montana 59807-7669  

Dear Gail:  

We pride ourselves on our outdoor heritage in Montana.  We are blessed with spectacular mountains, forests, and blue ribbon trout streams.  Public lands in Montana provide jobs and recreation for folks all across the state, and the facilities at the developed recreation sites are important to those users.  I strongly urge the Forest Service to take advantage of community input as they pursue revisions to recreation site master plans.  

As Montanans we value our public lands, and we want a say in how they are managed.  Updating the Forest Serviceâs recreation site facility master plans could result in significant changes to our National Forests.  Region 1 has approximately 1500 developed recreation facilities, and the majority of those are in Montana.  The recreation site facility master plans will determine which facilities to keep, close, or upgrade, as well as look at instituting or increasing user fees at certain sites.  

Montanans must have opportunities to be involved in decisions that affect developed recreation areas, so that the result takes into account a wide variety of responsible uses.  Working together with communities that rely on these sites, a long-term plan can be developed that ensures maximum access to well maintained, affordable recreation sites.  It is of the utmost concern to me that local voices be heard throughout this process.  That is why I am requesting that you hold public meetings to discuss these issues on each of Montanaâs nine National Forests.  

The Forest Service needs to reach a solution that maintains maximum access to recreation facilities for Montanaâs outdoor enthusiasts.  While I fully understand current federal budget constraints, the Forest Service ought to strive to enhance access.  Any significant reduction in our developed recreation sites only undermines the Forest Serviceâs mission and our Montana heritage of hunting, fishing, and camping.  Preserving access to serviceable, developed recreation areas is a part of the Montana outdoors experience that we hope to pass on to future generations.  

I look forward to seeing the results of public comment on this matter, and to working with your office as the process moves forward.  Please contact my office if I can be of assistance.  

With best personal regards, I am  


Sincerely,  



MSB/ws  

###








