




















Press Release: BAUCUS: BONNER MILL WORKERS TO GET ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   









BAUCUS: BONNER MILL WORKERS TO GET ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Department Of Labor Approves Worker Retraining Assistance For Stimson                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
September 29, 2005
(Washington, D.C.)  Displaced workers at the plywood mill owned and operated by Stimson Lumber Co. in Bonner have been approved to apply for assistance from the Department of Labor, Montana Senator Max Baucus, who supported the request, announced today. 
Workers at the plywood plant are now eligible for 24 months of retraining, job search, and unemployment assistance, Baucus said. On behalf of my members of local 3038 wed like to sincerely thank Senator Baucus for all his help standing up for these workers, said Michael Woodworth the United Brotherhood of Carpenters. Baucus helped craft the program -- known as Trade Adjustment Assistance -- that provides dollars for retraining and other measures to help people get back on their feet after being laid off as a result of international trade. In the Trade Act of 2002, Baucus spearheaded the most comprehensive expansion and overhaul of the TAA program since 1974. He is the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senates Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade policy.  Baucus has also consistently fought against the flow of subsidized softwood Canadian lumber, which is thought to have forced the expected Oct. 3 layoffs at Stimson. He introduced legislation in July to expand the TAA program to cover even more displaced workers. This is a direct result of the Canadians not playing fair, Baucus said. We will continue to stand up for Montana timber mills and try to level the playing field on the softwood lumber trade. Until then, this assistance helps tremendously and Im glad I was able to help. 
Baucus lobbied the U.S. Department of Labor to approve the application on behalf of workers at Stimson. He said workers there must now fill out applications on an individual basis to get the aid. Baucus said many workers in Montana have benefited from the TAA program, including workers at the aluminum plant in Columbia Falls. TAA is an important way to make sure free trade is fair to everyone, Baucus said. Montana has benefited, on the whole, from free trade agreements. But we need to have programs to help our workers if trade hurts them.  
###








