




















Press Release: BAUCUS CONTINUES FULL-COURT PRESS TO INSURE CHILDREN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            









BAUCUS CONTINUES FULL-COURT PRESS TO INSURE CHILDREN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Senator In Driver's Seat As Full Senate Opens Debate on Renewing CHIP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
July 30, 2007
(Washington D.C.)- In the ongoing battle to renew a program that provides health care to low-income children, Montana Senator Max Baucus today stood with Montanas children as he opened Senate debate on the Childrens Health Insurance Program.   As chairman of the powerful Senate Finance committee, Baucus has been advancing his plan that would provide $35 billion for the Childrens Health Insurance Program, which provides health insurance to children from low-income families. The funds would provide coverage to an additional 3.3 million kids across the country, including 12,000 in Montana.  Yet, Baucus plan will likely lead to a showdown between the Congress and the White House. Despite veto threats from the Bush Administration, Baucus has garnered a wide swath of support from governors, public interest groups, as well as his colleagues in the Finance Committee, where the measure was approved 17-4.   And today the showdown took center stage as the CHIP bill was brought before the full Senate for debate. Baucus is camped out on the Senate floor this week, leading the debate as Finance Committee Chairman.   Today, we begin debate on a bill to renew and add strength to a program that helps children and infants, the State Childrens Health Insurance Program  CHIP, Baucus said in his speech that opened the debate. Health insurance matters. Children with health coverage are more likely to get the care that they need, when they need it. Because of CHIP, millions of children get checkups. They see doctors when they are sick. They get the prescription medicines that they need.  The Baucus plan will substantially increase federal CHIP funding to Montana. It will set aside $27.8 million for Montana in fiscal year 2008, up from the $15.7 million the state got in fiscal year 2007. These funds, combined with technical changes in the bill, give Montana the tools it needs to move forward with its proposed expansion of CHIP eligibility from 150 percent of poverty to 175 percent of poverty.   CHIP makes sense as an investment, Baucus said A child whos healthy can go to school. A child whos healthy in school is more likely to do well. A child who does well in school is more likely to get a job.  Without Congressional action, CHIP will expire on Sept. 30 of this year. Baucus, who helped create CHIP in 1997, worked with both Republican and Democratic leaders on the panel.   The Senate is expected to finish debate and vote on the bill before adjourning for the August recess at weeks end.  -30-   
###








