




















Press Release: BAUCUS BILL WOULD FUND RURAL SCHOOLS PROGRAM WITHOUT SELLING PUBLIC LANDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       









BAUCUS BILL WOULD FUND RURAL SCHOOLS PROGRAM WITHOUT SELLING PUBLIC LANDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Bill would ensure continued funding for rural schools, communities nationwide                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
March 30, 2006
(Washington, DC) â U.S. Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.) is introducing legislation today that will fund the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act without selling public lands. Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) is cosponsoring the measure.     

The bill will raise $2.6 billion over the next ten years for the rural schools program, commonly known as the county payments law, by closing a tax loophole that allows some government contractors to avoid their tax obligations.  In 2005, Wyden, along with Sen. Larry Craig (R-Idaho) and Baucus, introduced a bill to reauthorize the county payments law for another seven years. The original law is due to expire at the end of this year.     

The Bush Administration is pursuing a controversial proposal to sell as many as 300,000 acres of Forest Service lands to raise about $800 million for the program. Interior Dept. Undersecretary Mark Rey told reporters Wednesday the Administration is moving forward with the land sales plan because âour proposal is the only funding source on the tableâ?  and that Congress has to âassume the burden of coming up with an alternative."    

âOur bill will fully fund the rural schools program without selling even one acre of our prized public lands,â? said Baucus, the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over tax policy. âOur public lands shouldnât be put up for sale to the highest bidder. The Administration challenged congress to find a way to fund this program -- Ron and I just did.â?     

âRural communities throughout the country rely on these payments for top quality schools and infrastructure year in and year out,â? said Wyden. âWe cannot abandon them, and this legislation finds a fiscally responsible way of extending this successful law.â?    

The legislation would provide a steady revenue stream for the county payments law by closing a tax loophole in Federal contracts. Under current law, the Federal government does not withhold taxes owed from government contractors that provide goods and services to the Federal government.  As a result, some contractors donât comply with Federal tax law.     

The Baucus proposal will help close the annual âtax gapâ? by withholding taxes from payments by the Federal government for goods and services delivered by public contractors at a rate of three percent of the payment amount.     

The county payments law, first enacted in 2000, established a six year payment formula for counties that receive revenue sharing payments for the USFS and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) lands. Based on historical timber receipts, the formula established a stable source of revenue to be used for education, roads and various other county services in rural areas.    

Baucus was one of the first members of Congress to condemn the land sales proposal, and heâs held town hall meetings in Montana to gather input on the plan. 
###








