




















Press Release: BAUCUS WANTS INVESTIGATION INTO USDA DROUGHT PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            









BAUCUS WANTS INVESTIGATION INTO USDA DROUGHT PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Senator Says Agency Has Failed To Distribute Disaster Assistance Payments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
September 30, 2005
(Washington, D.C.)  Montana Senator Max Baucus is calling for an investigation into the Agriculture Departments handling of 2004-passed drought disaster assistance payments for livestock producers, saying the agency has failed to distribute payments to producers for nearly a year. 
Baucus today met with the number two official at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, deputy secretary Chuck Conner. He expressed his anger and frustration that the vast majority of Montana producers who have been approved for funds from the Livestock Assistance Program have not received them. This is an outrage, said Baucus, a senior member of Senate Agriculture Committee. We worked hard to pass ag disaster assistance last year. It is absolutely derelict on USDAs part not have disbursed these funds by now. Our producers are still feeling the pain from years of drought and they need their applications approved now. Following his meeting with Conner, Baucus said he is asking the General Accounting Office for a full review of USDAs handling of livestock assistance payments. The GAO is the investigative arm of Congress.  I want to know what the heck is going on here, said a visibly angry Baucus. Im tired of excuses. I want answers. 
Baucus led the fight to pass a $2.9 billion agriculture disaster assistance package that was signed by President Bush in October 2004, but the majority of agriculture producers  roughly 87 percent in Montana-- have yet to receive the aid. Baucus estimates more than $25 million in payments to Montanans are still outstanding. What bothers me is that they (USDA) seem to think this is going smoothly but its not, said Dave Kelsey, a Molt-area rancher and advocate on behalf of producers in Sweet Grass and Stillwater counties in southeast Montana. Kelsey said just seven out of 259 applications have been approved in Stillwater County, and only one out of 98 have been approved in Sweet Grass County. And thats just the tip of the iceberg, Baucus said. This is a problem for folks across Montana. 
The drought aid is meant to help producers who have suffered from a multi-year drought in Montana and much of the West. Producers can choose to apply for assistance for losses incurred in either 2003 or 2004.  Ag producers in Montana are extremely frustrated with USDA, Baucus said, and rightfully so. Baucus said he doesnt fault local Farm Service Agency offices, which are tasked with collecting applications.  This is a problem at USDA, Baucus said. And we are going to get to the root of it.   
###








