




















Press Release: BAUCUS: GE TO OPEN NEW FACILITY IN MONTANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      









BAUCUS: GE TO OPEN NEW FACILITY IN MONTANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
More Than 150 New Jobs Coming To State, Senator Says                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
May 31, 2007
(Billings, Mont.)  Montanas senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus today announced that GE will open an Operations Center in Montana, a move that could bring more than 150 new jobs to the Treasure State.  The news comes after GE officials attended Baucus recent Montana Economic Development Summit in Butte.   Max has been promoting Montana as a great place to do business for years, said Jeffrey Bornstein, vice president and CFO, GE Commercial Finance. And we agree. Thats why were excited to expand our operations and provide a new facility and jobs for Montanans. Montana has great universities, a high quality of life and a tremendous work ethic.   GE is composed of a wide range of technology businesses including electrical generation, healthcare, and aviation. It is also leading financial services firm, and serves customers around the country and throughout the world. The company expects to decide which Montana community to locate the new facility in by the end of the summer.   Bornstein attended Baucus jobs Summit on April 30 and May 1. He was impressed with Montanas work force and quality of life.   I came out to Montana for Senator Baucus' Economic Summit, met Governor Schweitzer, and everything I saw confirmed our desire to expand our operations here. Montana has solid leadership in Helena and in Washington and offers a terrific business environment, Bornstein said.  GE is a global enterprise thats always looking for new places to do business. All the operations well conduct there are designed to enhance the customer experience. Expanding in Big Sky Country also provides us with special business advantages, like time zone differences and added disaster recovery options, he added.   Baucus said the facility will bring about 150 new jobs with benefits, and has the potential to expand to even more.   Im ecstatic that GE is coming to Montana - this is exactly what I was hoping to accomplish with the Economic Development Summit, Baucus said. This new center will be a real investment in our states economy and will bring hundreds of new jobs. This is excellent news for our state.  Baucus designed the Summit to bring together Montanans, and national and international business leaders to find new ways to boost Montana's economy. The Summit featured keynote speakers including Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke, former Treasury Secretary Bob Rubin, Anheuser-Busch CEO August Busch IV, and Microsoft founder Bill Gates (via satellite.) More than 2,500 people attended the two-day event.   -30- 
###








