




















Press Release: BAUCUS AWARDED 'CHIP CHAMPION' BY MONT. PEOPLE'S ACTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         









BAUCUS AWARDED 'CHIP CHAMPION' BY MONT. PEOPLE'S ACTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Senator Recognized For Children's Health Insurance Advocacy
April 3, 2007
(Missoula) - Montana People's Action honored U.S. Senator Max Baucus as a "CHIP Champion" for his outstanding work on behalf of the Children's Health Insurance Program. 	    
Baucus, as chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, is working to renew and expand CHIP, which provides health care to more than 13,000 Montana families who otherwise could not afford it.     
"This is a real honor to be awarded a CHIP champion," said Baucus, who was given a CHIP Story Book, which chronicles real-life stories from Montana families who've benefited from the program. "But the real reward is working to make sure that all Montana children have access to quality affordable health care."    
"MPA is pleased Senator Baucus is taking such a strong stance on protecting healthcare for our children, and we will keep working to make sure all Montanans have access to quality affordable healthcare," said Ray Camburn, a Montana People's Action member.    
Montana People's Action is a diverse organization of low and moderate income Montanans, empowering its members to achieve lasting change for social, economic and racial justice.     
The group is working with Baucus to ensure CHIP is renewed this year. Baucus helped write and pass CHIP in 1997, but without Congressional action the program will expire on September 30th this year.     
Baucus, who's made renewing CHIP his top health care priority on the Finance Committee, has said he not only wants to renew the current program, but expand it as well to reach more low-income kids.     
Baucus recently included $50 billion for CHIP in a Senate-passed budget blueprint. That funding level would double CHIP spending and help cover six million new kids across the country.     Baucus will also hold Senate Finance Committee field hearing on April 4 in Billings to get input from Montanans as he works to renew the program. 
###








