




















Press Release: BAUCUS STANDS UP FOR KIDS, DEFIANT AGAINST BUSH VETO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            









BAUCUS STANDS UP FOR KIDS, DEFIANT AGAINST BUSH VETO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Senator Will Lead Charge To Override Presidential Veto
October 3, 2007
(Washington D.C.)  Shortly after President Bush denied new health coverage for up to 12,000 Montana kids with one stroke of his veto pen, Montana Senator Max Baucus rose up in their defense on the Senate floor today.  Following President Bushs veto of Baucus bill to renew the Childrens Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, Baucus said he will work to garner enough votes in Congress to override the veto.  In order to override a Presidential veto, Baucus will have to secure a 2/3 vote in both the House and the Senate. When the bill was voted out of each chamber, the Senate had a veto proof majority, gaining 67 votes, but the House fell short by 25 votes.  As chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, Baucus was the lead author of the Childrens Health Insurance Program bill which provides health insurance to children from low-income families. The bill, which received wide support from both Democrats and Republicans as well as governors and advocacy groups, was vetoed by President Bush this morning.  During an impassioned speech on the Senate floor, Baucus offered a voice for those who were denied health care by the veto.  There is anger as well, because that is what so many parents in my home state of Montana, and all across America, have a right to feel today, Baucus said Im angry, because working families are angry.  However, Baucus continued by saying that people cant be distracted, and must continue working for Montana, and Americas, children.  We all have a right to be angry  for a minute, Baucus said. And then we have to get back to work for Americas children.  The bill, which Baucus helped broker between House and Senate leaders, would have provided an additional $35 billion for CHIP over the next five years, covering and additional 2.8 million kids across the country, including up to 12,000 in Montana.  This is the fourth veto of Bushs presidency.   -30- 
###








