




















Press Release: BAUCUS WARNS NOMINEE AGAINST PURSUING BLM LAND SALES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            









BAUCUS WARNS NOMINEE AGAINST PURSUING BLM LAND SALES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Senator Extracts Promise From Kempthorne To Consider Alternatives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
April 4, 2006
WASHINGTON, D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus today warned President Bushâs nominee to head the U.S. Department of Interior against pursuing a controversial proposal to sell of Bureau of Land Management lands in Montana to help pay down the national debt.   

During a meeting in his Washington, D.C., office today, Baucus extracted a promise from Idaho Gov. Dirk Kempthorne to consider alternatives to the BLMâs proposal to auction off more than $180 million worth of BLM public lands over the next five years and more than $350 million in land over the next decade.    

The proposal, designed to reduce the federal deficit, is contained in the Bush Administrationâs fiscal year 2007 budget proposal to Congress.   
âI told Dirk that Iâm going to fight him every step of the way if the administration doesnât back away from this land grab,â? Baucus said. âHe heard my message loud and clear: our public lands arenât for sale to the highest bidder.â?  

Traditionally, efforts to consulate fractured parcels of public lands have been in the form of land swaps, resulting in increased access for public lands. Baucus has supported several highly successful land swaps in the past, including the Taylor Fork project and the Gallatin land exchanges that helped boost access for hunting, fishing, and recreation. The Bush proposal would sell the BLM lands outright, with the proceeds going back to the federal treasury and no stipulations on who can buy the land and for what purpose.   

Most of the recent controversy surrounding proposed land sales has been directed to the Administrationâs plan to sell Forest Service land to fund rural schools. Baucus introduced a bill to block the Forest Service plan, but says the BLM proposal is âequally as nastyâ? because Montana hunters, anglers, and agriculture producers value the estimated eight million acres of BLM lands in the state.  

The Interior Department proposal would amend the 2000-passed Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act to increase the amount of BLM lands sold each year. Instead of directing proceeds from those lands sales back to Montana to increase public access, as is the case now, the plan would direct those dollars back to the federal governmentâs coffers.   

The agency has not yet said which particular parcels in which states will be targeted.   

Vowing to continue to fight the plan, Baucus said the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act as currently structured is an important tool in helping to consolidate lands in and around national parks, refuges, and monuments for public access.  

âSelling BLM land to pay down the debt abandons the very public lands the program was meant to support,â? Baucus said. âIt also abandons Montanaâs sportsmen and ranchers that depend on access to our public lands.â?  

President Bush nominated Kempthorne to head the Interior Department, which oversees the BLM, after Gale Norton resigned from the post last month. The full Senate must confirm the nomination.    

###








