




















Press Release: BAUCUS STRESSES WORKING TOGETHER ON FIRST DAY OF NEW CONGRESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   









BAUCUS STRESSES WORKING TOGETHER ON FIRST DAY OF NEW CONGRESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Senior Senator, Montana Delegation Will Work To Boost Stateâs Economy, Move State Forward
January 4, 2007
(Washington, D.C.) â As Congress convened for its 110th session today, Montanaâs senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus said that heâs looking forward to working together with Senator Jon Tester and Congressman Denny Rehberg to create more good-paying jobs, lower health care costs, make education more affordable and boost domestic energy production.  Baucus, the incoming chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee, the panel that has jurisdiction over all taxes, Medicare and Medicaid, Social Security and international trade policy, today walked Senator Tester down the aisle to get sworn in as Montanaâs newest senator.  âItâs an exciting day for Montana,â? Baucus said. âWe made the right decision in sending Jon to Washington and it was an honor to stand with him on the Senate floor today. Now itâs time for Jon, Denny, and myself to roll up our sleeves and get down to work for Montana.â?  Senator Tester is also committed to serving the people of Montana.  "As we open this new session of Congress, Montanans can expect big changes that will make our state a better place for us and for our children,â? said Tester. âWe've got a great team working for Montana in Washington."  Baucus, who has served on the Finance Committee since he was first elected to the Senate in 1978, is the first Montanan ever to chair the panel.     
Baucus said his top priorities for the new year include:     
â¢	Cutting taxes for hard-working Montana families     
â¢	Lowering health care costs and providing quality care to all Montanans     
â¢	Boosting Montanaâs economy and creating more good-paying jobs     
â¢	Making America more energy independent and expanding alternative sources of energy, such as wind, biomass, and ethanol     
â¢	Investing in education so Montana can better compete globally     
â¢	Writing a farm program that boosts Main Streets and rural economies    
â¢	Protecting public lands for hunting and fishing and Montanansâ right to bear arms    
In addition to serving as Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Baucus will also keep his other important committee assignments: Senate Agriculture, which will write the 2007 Farm Bill; and the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction over highway construction funding.   Baucus is Montanaâs senior U.S. Senator. Heâs currently serving in his fifth consecutive six-year term in the U.S. Senate.   âNo matter what I do in the Senate, my yardstick will continue to be whatâs right for Montana,â? said Baucus, a Helena native. I look forward to continue serving my 900,000 bosses.â?     
-30- 
###








