




















Press Release: BAUCUS CALLS FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY PUSH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          









BAUCUS CALLS FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY PUSH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Senator Challenges State's Electric Cooperatives To Develop Wind Energy
October 4, 2006
(Great Falls) â U.S. Sen. Max Baucus today called on Montana's electric cooperatives to help develop alternative energy sources to create jobs and lessen America's dependence on foreign sources of power.     

Baucus challenged members of the Montana Electric Cooperatives association, or MECA, to participate in a national campaign to get America to derive 25 percent of its energy from renewable sources by the year 2005, known as "25x25."     

During MECA's annual meeting today, Baucus, who delivered the keynote address, said the cooperatives can become leaders in boosting Montana's burgeoning wind energy industry. Baucus encouraged co-op members to tap into several new federal incentives to build wind farms, including a new Baucus-sponsored zero-interest loan program known as Clean Renewable Energy Bonds. Thirty seven Montana applications were submitted in April for the new program, Baucus said, noting "Montana can do more."     

Baucus also helped extend a wind energy tax credit in 2005. The tax credit provides 1.9 cents for every kilowatt hour companies produce from wind energy. He said the tax incentive helped build the major wind project at Judith Gap.     

Baucus said America must wean itself off of foreign sources of energy and become energy independent at home.     

"Energy independence means developing a home-grown Montana solution to our energy needs," said Baucus, Montana's senior U.S. Senator. "We can harness the wind's energy and become a national leader in the fight for energy independence. Investing in renewable energy sources will help us break our foreign oil habit and help create jobs at home."     

 Baucus is the highest-ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over energy tax incentives. 
###








