




















Press Release: PHILANTHROPIST, AUTHOR, MOUNTAINEER, TO ADDRESS BAUCUS SUMMIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   









PHILANTHROPIST, AUTHOR, MOUNTAINEER, TO ADDRESS BAUCUS SUMMIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Senator Says Bozeman Resident Will Deliver Keynote Speech                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
October 4, 2007
(Washington D.C.)-- World renowned philanthropist, high-altitude mountaineer, and New York Times bestselling author Greg Mortenson will deliver a keynote address during Montana Senator Max Baucus second annual Faith Summit in Kalispell on Monday and Tuesday.  Baucus 2007 Montana Faith Community Impact Summit will be a venue for leaders motivated by spiritual values, the common good, social responsibility, and a vision for change to work together on issues that affect all Montanans.  Mortenson was a high-altitude mountaineer, who after a failed attempt at the Himalayan peak K2, dedicated his life to building schools, and promoting education and literacy in Pakistan and Afghanistan. He has since started the Central Asia Institute, located in Bozeman, which has helped construct 61 schools and educate more than 25,000 kids. Mortenson also co-authored the bestselling memoir Three Cups of Tea.   Im very excited that Greg is going to be delivering the keynote at the Faith Summit, Baucus said. Greg has really put into action the goals of the Summit: helping our neighbors, working for the common good, and making our state, and world, a better place for our children, and our grandchildren.  In addition to Mortenson, U.S. Senate Chaplain Barry C. Black will return this year as a keynote speaker. Chaplain Black has served as the 62nd Chaplain of the Senate since July 2003.  Baucus Faith Summit -- to run the afternoon of Monday, October 8 and until 5pm on Tuesday, October 9 -- includes panel discussions and grant-writing seminars. Faith Summit invitees include Montanas faith, community and nonprofit leaders, and is free and open to the public. The Faith Summit will also be attended by a number of regional and national foundations.  Last years Faith Summit in Billings drew more than 200 people, and was seen as a first-of-its-kind in Montana. The Faith Summit, which will be held at Flathead Valley Community College, is free and open to the public but Montanans are asked to RSVP by e-mailing rsvp@baucus.senate.gov or by calling Baucus toll free at 1-800-332-6106. Additional information can be found at www.fvcc.edu.   2007 FAITH SUMMIT HIGHLIGHTS   U.S. Senator Jon Tester: Montana Senator Jon Tester will provide remarks to the Summit on Tuesday morning.   Address from Coleen Scanlon: Coleen Scanlon is the Senior Vice President, Advocacy at Catholic Health Initiatives in Denver, Colorado. Colleen has the responsibility for directing the development and integration of a comprehensive advocacy program within one of the largest Catholic health care systems in the country.   Community Service Project: Senator Max Baucus, and other participants from the Faith Summit, will spend Monday afternoon working at the Boys and Girls Club of Glacier Country. During this time, the group will help build playground equipment.   Grant Writing Seminar: In order to help Montana organizations secure grants from national philanthropic groups, as well as the federal government, there will be a grant writing seminar taught by a panel of experts, including representatives from major national organizations, and professional grant writers.   Breakout Sessions: In addition to keynote speeches, a wide variety of break out sessions will be offered to address major topics such as drug abuse, homelessness, and natural disasters.  -30-  ( 
###








