




















Press Release: BAUCUS âOUTRAGEDâ OVER LIBBY REPORT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           









BAUCUS âOUTRAGEDâ OVER LIBBY REPORT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Reports Shows EPA Canât Verify Cleanup Standards

 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
December 5, 2006
(Washington, D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus today said he was outraged by a new report that says the Environmental Protection Agency cannot verify the safety of its asbestos cleanup activities in Libby.   

Baucus asked the EPAâs Office of Inspector General in August to perform an independent analysis of EPAâs work in Libby, a small northwest Montana town that was contaminated by asbestos exposure from vermiculite mining activity.   

âItâs an outrage,â? Baucus said. âHeads should roll at EPA. The people in Libby and the American taxpayers deserve better, much better.â?   

Baucus released the report today. (http://www.epa.gov/oig/reports/2007/20061205-2007-P-00002.pdf)  

The report shows the EPA cannot definitively say its cleanup standards are safe for human health in the community. Baucus has been asking the EPA for a toxicity review since last spring. Such an analysis would set a baseline for environmental cleanup standards and verify that houses and other sites that have been cleaned up are indeed safe.   

âMothers and fathers believed that the EPA was making Libby safe for their children, and their childrenâs children,â? Baucus said. âThe EPAâs work in Libby is morally and ethically reprehensible â it has the potential to bring further harm to community that has already suffered too much.â?   

The report released today was conducted between August 22 and November 22.   

âEPA has neither planned nor completed a risk and toxicity assessment of the Libby amphibole asbestos to determine the safe level of human exposure,â? the report reads. âThus EPA cannot be sure that the ongoing Libby cleanup is sufficient to prevent humans from contracting asbestos-related diseases.â?   

The report also says EPA circulated âinconsistentâ? public safety information in two public information documents: Living with Vermiculite and Asbestos in Your Home.   
The Inspector Generalâs office recommends that EPA âreview and correct any statements that cannot be supported in any documentation mailed or made available to Libby residents.â?   

Baucus said he would do âwhatever it takes to get this situation fixed immediately,â? including directing the EPA to complete a toxicity review through legislation if necessary. He also said he will call for a Congressional hearing into the situation as a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which oversees the EPA.   

âIâm stunned,â? Baucus said. âThe EPA has dropped the ball and let us all down. I expect them to fix this mess. And those responsible for EPA shortcomings should be held accountable.â?   

Baucus has personally visited Libby nearly 20 times since 1999, when widespread asbestos exposure was linked to illness and death in the small northwest Montana community.  

-30-  

###








