




















Press Release: BAUCUS OPPOSES PUBLIC LANDS SELL-OFF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            









BAUCUS OPPOSES PUBLIC LANDS SELL-OFF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Senator Rebukes Bush Administration Proposal To Sell Public Lands
February 5, 2007
WASHINGTON, D.C.) âMontana Senator Max Baucus today came out swinging against a Bush Administration proposal to sell off more than $800 million worth of public lands to help pay for a program that provides payments to counties.     

Baucus is taking issue with a proposal outlined in President Bushâs fiscal year 2008 budget request to Congress that would sell off public land to pay for the Secure Rural Schools Act, which provides payments to counties that include tax-exempt federal lands. Itâs the second land-sales proposal by the White House in as many years. Baucus and other lawmakers helped beat back the land-sale effort last year.     

Baucus supports extending the Secure Rural Schools program, which he helped establish in 2000, but not by selling off public lands to do so. Baucus is working with Congressional leaders on a plan to fund the program this year. The 2000-enacted Rural Schools program expired in 2006, leaving many counties in Montana with a budget shortfall.     

âWeâre going to find a way to fund the Secure Schools program without selling even one acre of public land,â? Baucus said. âAuctioning off our outdoor heritage is not the way to do this. Our public lands in the West are sacrosanct. The President can count on a fight in Congress.â?      

The White House proposal calls on the Forest Service to sell about $800 million worth of public lands. Half, or about $400 million, would be set aside to fund the Secure Rural Schools program for four years, while half would be used for "conservation programs" and administrative expenses, Baucus said, noting $400 million is about 25 percent of what the program needs over four years.     

âThis White House proposal would auction public lands and it wouldnât even fully fund the program,â? Baucus said. âIt makes no sense whatsoever.â?     

The proposal will be debated as part of the fiscal year 2008 budget, which sets a framework for all government spending and appropriations for the coming year.     

-30- 
###








