




















Press Release: BAUCUS TO BLOCK EPA NOMINEES OVER LIBBY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         









BAUCUS TO BLOCK EPA NOMINEES OVER LIBBY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Senator Will Hold Up Nominees Until Agency Expedites Clean-up Study
December 6, 2006
Washington, D.C.) â Montana Senator Max Baucus said today that heâll block all nominees for positions with the Environmental Protection Agency until the agency agrees to expedite a long-awaited study to verify asbestos cleanup efforts in Libby.   

Baucusâ announcement comes one day after the release of a study which showed the EPA cannot definitively say its cleanup standards are safe for human health in the community. The report said EPA should have performed a toxicity study to set baseline standards for environmental cleanup and verify that houses and other sites that have been cleaned up are indeed safe.   

The report said EPA staff requested the study, but agency managers did not approve the request. Baucus has been asking the EPA for a toxicity review since last spring.   

Baucus said heâs placed a âholdâ? on Alex Beehler, whoâs been nominated to be the EPAâs Inspector General, which performs independent reviews and investigations of the agency. He said today heâll hold up all other EPA nominees as well until the agency agrees to perform the study immediately.   

âItâs been seven years and the EPA canât tell us whether or not their cleanup activities are working,â? Baucus said. âThatâs a disgrace. And thatâs why nobody from EPA will move through the Senate until we get this fixed.â?   

Since appointments for high-profile positions in the Bush Administration must be approved by the U.S. Senate, senators often place holds on nominees as leverage to get the agency to take action. Any senator can place a hold, and it only takes one hold to block the nomination from advancing. Administration appointments arenât subject to confirmation in the U.S. House, just the Senate.   

The study released Tuesday also says EPA circulated âinconsistentâ? public safety information in two public information documents: âLiving with Vermiculiteâ? and âAsbestos in Your Home.â?   

Baucus said the EPA incorrectly told people in Libby that the agencyâs cleanup actions had eliminated the risk of getting asbestos-related disease.   

âIn addition to getting this study going immediately, I expect the EPA to correct any public statements theyâve made so folks in Libby know exactly whatâs going on,â? Baucus said.   

Baucus is a senior member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction over the EPA. The report released Tuesday can be found here: (http://www.epa.gov/oig/reports/2007/20061205-2007-P-00002.pdf)  

-30- 
###








