




















Press Release: BAUCUS VOWS FIGHT OVER ESSENTIAL AIR SERVICE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









BAUCUS VOWS FIGHT OVER ESSENTIAL AIR SERVICE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
President Proposes Slashing Rural Air Service In Half
February 6, 2007
Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Senator Max Baucus said today he'll fight President Bush's proposal to slice in half a program that provides low-cost air service to eight Montana communities.          Baucus said the Essential Air Service program needs about $100 million nationally to maintain current service. President Bush's proposed fiscal year 2008 budget would set aside only $50 million for the program.         "That funding level would be a death knell to Essential Air Service in Montana," Baucus said. "We're not going to let that happen. Montanans depend on these flights to see family and friends, get medical attention, and travel for business."          Baucus said for as long as he can remember Presidents have proposed cutting the program. And every year, he said, Montana's congressional delegation has to fight to restore the funding.          Although the White House tried to cut the program again last year, EAS ultimately received $104 million in fiscal year 2007, Baucus said, noting Montana typically gets about $5 million from the program.          The program subsidizes flights to rural areas, keeping the ticket price lower for customers.          Montana has eight airports served by EAS.  Seven of these airports -- Glasgow, Glendive, Havre, Lewistown, Miles City, Sidney, and Wolf Point -- are served by Big Sky Airlines.  SkyWest Airlines provides service to West Yellowstone seasonally.           Baucus stressed that the president's budget request is only a starting-off point in a long debate over federal spending. Congress ultimately sets funding levels for government programs.          -30- 
###








