




















Press Release: BAUCUS PRAISES AIR FORCE TEAM FOR TOURING WHITMORE RAVINE 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    









BAUCUS PRAISES AIR FORCE TEAM FOR TOURING WHITMORE RAVINE 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Senator Says Mtg. With Community Will Help Find A Solution To Prevent Future Erosion Damage

 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
March 7, 2007
Washington D.C.) - Montana's senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus today praised the Air Force for sending an assessment team to Great Falls, Mont., to tour Whitmore Ravine and to meet with Malmstrom officials and community leaders to prevent further damage.    

"I'm pleased the Air Force is giving Whitmore Ravine the attention it deserves," Baucus said. "By touring Malmstrom, they're able to see first hand the damage that's being caused. In life, more than 80 percent is just showing up and seeing with your own eyes. I'm confident we can find a common-sense solution to this problem."    

Runoff from Malmstrom Air Force Base has been eroding the Whitmore Ravine and depositing sediment into the Missouri River for years. To help fix the problem, Baucus asked Philip W. Grone, Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, Installations and Environment in December to dispatch a representative to Great Falls so a plan can be put into action to prevent any further damage from occurring.     

Baucus also requested that the Air Force move up a Water Shed Analysis study from 2008 to 2007. The Water Shed Analysis would help figure out a way to resolve the situation and prevent further damage from occurring, Baucus said.    

Air Force officials came to Baucus' office in January to discuss next steps. During that meeting the military officials agreed to Baucus' requests - to send a team consisting of engineering and environmental experts to Malmstrom to tour the damage and to start the Water Shed Analysis.    

Baucus also requested that the Air Force team meet with community leaders on ways to prevent future erosion damage. The Air Force heeded Baucus' request and are meeting with community leaders today.    

"The folks with their feet on the ground who deal with this problem day in and day out and who have watched the erosion over the years have valuable insight to offer," Baucus said. "I'm committed to working together with the Air Force and the Great Falls community to get this situation fixed as soon as possible."    

Baucus was unable to attend this week's tour and meetings because the Senate is in session in Washington, D.C., but the senior U.S. Senator pledged to meet with his staff and get input from community members following today's tour.     


###








