




















Press Release: BAUCUS FIGHTING MORE CUTS TO AG PROGRAMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        









BAUCUS FIGHTING MORE CUTS TO AG PROGRAMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
President's Budget Would Slash Ag Support Payments By 5 Percent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
March 8, 2006
(WASHINGTON, D.C.) â As a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Montana Senator Max Baucus is urging the Senate Budget Committee not to accept a Bush Administration proposal to cut agricultural programs.    
Last month President Bush presented Congress with his proposed budget for fiscal year 2007. Included in the budget blueprint was a proposal to cut agriculture programs by 5 percent. The across-the-board cut would hit producers' directly in the pocketbooks, Baucus said, noting marketing loans, direct commodity support and counter-cyclical payments to farmers and ranchers would be reduced.    
Baucus and 25 other senators â both Republicans and Democrats â wrote to Budget Committee leaders today, strongly opposing the cuts. The Senate Budget Committee works together with the House Budget Committee to draft Congress' annual budget, which serves as a spending blue print for all government programs.    
"We share your commitment to deficit reduction and look forward to working with you to achieve this goal. But, it is important to consider what U.S. farm policy has already contributed to deficit reduction," wrote Baucus and the other senators.    
In December, Baucus voted against $2.7 billion in agriculture cuts that went into affect for fiscal year 2006.    
Baucus said that Montana and America is fortunate to have a plentiful and affordable food supply and that it's important to maintain and invest in our world-class agricultural industry.    
In their letter, Baucus and the senators said U.S. farm policy for commodities only amounts to 0.76 percent of total federal spending, while helping sustain an economic sector representing 17 percent of the nation's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), generating 25 million jobs and $3.5 trillion in economic activity.    
"Yet while this area of farm policy has already achieved billions in savings, the most recent budget proposal contemplates yet another $9 billion in cuts over the next 10 years from both commodities and crop insurance," the senators wrote. "Additionally, these proposals actually increase the odds of Congress being forced to enact additional emergency assistance in the future.  This level of reduced funding is not acceptable."    
Baucus said agriculture producers and rural communities are already struggling to make ends meet, and that the proposed cuts would deal a blow to Montana's economy.    
"It make no sense to make cuts to an industry that provides so much for our country," Baucus said. "It's about maintaining a safe, abundant and affordable food supply and it's about sustaining jobs. I'll continue to fight cuts to the backbone of our stateâs economy â agriculture â every step of the way."    
The Senate is expected to take up the budget by the end of the month, Baucus said. 
###








