




















Press Release: BAUCUS WORKS TO MAKE RAIL SERVICE MORE AFFORDABLE FOR MONTANANS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 









BAUCUS WORKS TO MAKE RAIL SERVICE MORE AFFORDABLE FOR MONTANANS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Senator Urges Colleagues To Pass Captive Shippers Measure That Would Level Playing Field                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
March 9, 2006
(Washington, D.C.) â At a press conference on Capitol Hill today Montana's senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus urged his Senate colleagues to pass The Rail Competition Act of 2005, which would level the playing field for Montana's agriculture producers and companies who rely on rail transportation to transport their goods.    
Baucus said Montanans pay the highest freight rail prices in the country, noting more than 96 percent of all rail miles are controlled by a single rail carrier in Montana â more than in any other state.    
The transportation measure has broad support from both Republicans and Democrats, Baucus said. Baucus and Senators Conrad Burns (D-Mont.), Tim Johnson (D-S.D.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Byron Dorgan (D-N.D.), Larry Craig (R-Idaho), John Rockefeller (D-W.Va.), David Vitter (R-La.) and Mark Dayton (D-Minn.) teamed up to introduce the measure.         
"It's not right that Montanans are faced with less rail carrier choices and are forced to pay higher rates to send their goods along the rail lines than any other place in the country," Baucus said.  "We need to help our producers and we need to help them now. I urge my Senate colleagues to pass this bill that would bring a competitive balance back to captive rail customers. It's the right thing to do."    
The legislation would clarify existing laws and help the Surface Transportation Board ensure effective competition among rail carriers between destinations.  The bill would also maintain reasonable rates in the absence of competition, maintain reliable and efficient rail transportation service for all rail shippers, and establish a "final offer" decision of rail rate disputes between shippers and railroad companies.    
"Just because folks live in more rural areas, like Montana, they should not be penalized and have to pay more to ship their goods than those in urban areas," Baucus said. "Montanans and others in the Northwestern part of the country have received the short end of the stick for too long. Our farmers, businesses and consumers would greatly benefit from this bill and I'm committed to working together with Conrad and our other Congressional colleagues to do what's right for Montana." 
###








