Congress Adjourns for Fourth of July Holiday, Bennett Introduces Bill to Protect Flag                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  	Bennett is joined by Senator Kent Conrad (D-ND), cosponsor of the bill which secures legal protection of the flag in the face of attempts to deface and damage it. Constitutional scholars at the U.S. Library of Congress have reviewed the Bennett proposal and determined it would withstand constitutional scrutiny.    
  	The Flag Protection Act of 2005 criminalizes desecration or damage of the United States flag under three circumstances. First, when a person damages a flag with the primary purpose and intent to promote violence or breach the peace. Second, when a person damages a flag belonging to the United States. Third, when a person damages a flag belonging to another person.       
	Following are remarks delivered by Bennett in the Senate on introduction of the bill:    
  	Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation on behalf of myself and Senator Conrad that has to do with desecration of the flag.    
  	All of us are angered when we see someone burn or otherwise desecrate the American flag and I think it appropriate that we take such steps as are appropriate to deal with such desecration. Over the years that I have been in the Senate, I have opposed amending the Constitution to deal with this issue for two reasons: First, there are not that many cases of flag desecration as we look around the country, and Iâm reluctant to amend the Constitution to address a non-problem. Flag desecration hit its peak during the Vietnam years but it has virtually disappeared now and occurs ironically, only when debate about the amendment to the Constitution becomes a subject of public discourse. We seem to stimulate flag desecration when we have the debate on amending the Constitution to prevent it. So, for that reason, I have consistently opposed a constitutional amendment on desecration of the flag.      
  	Second, as Iâve studied the matter and spent time with legal experts at the Congressional Research Service at US Library of Congress I have found that there are things that can be done that establishes our reverence for the flag but does not require a constitutional amendment.     
  	I have introduced this legislation before. It has not progressed in the congressional process to the opportunity for a vote and Iâm not sure that it will this time. But I wish to make it clear to my constituents and to others who have concern about this problem, that my objection to a constitutional amendment should not be construed as demonstrating indifference to the issue of reverence for the flag.    
  	Senator Conrad has joined me on this occasion as he has in previous times when this legislation has been introduced and Iâm happy to have him as an original cosponsor on the bill at this time.    
  	I have been interested by the reaction that has come from my constituents as I have held this position over the years.  I remember a conversation with Utahâs most respected pollster just before I cast my first vote on the flag amendment.      
  	He said, âSenator, according to my polls 80 percent of the people of Utah are in favor of a constitutional amendment with respect to the flag, and 60 percent consider it a voting issue. That is, they would be more likely to vote against a candidate who voted against the flag amendment than they would to vote for him.â We talked about it and he asked me what I was going to do. I said, âRegardless of the poll numbers, Iâm going vote against the amendment.â He laughed a little and said, âThatâs what I thought. I think it will stand you in good stead with your constituents who will respect your courage even if they donât agree with your position.â    
  	I was grateful for those words of encouragement and am happy to report that has happened. I quote from a recent editorial in the Salt Lake Tribune which makes this comment: âIf respect for something has to be required by law, then it isnât respect.  If regard for a symbol of freedom has to be imposed by carving a whole out of our basic charter of rights, then it isnât freedom . . . The rare act of torching an American flag is one of two things â pointless or meaningful.  If it is pointless, the worst it can be called is vandalism and it should be treated as such.  If it is meaningful, even full of meaning we donât like, then it is and must remain, constitutionally protected expression.â    
  	Turning to an editorial from the Deseret Morning News : âOnce again, the House of Representatives has passed a constitutional amendment to protect the American flag from desecration.  This is an annual event, almost as predictable as the swallows returning to Capistrano and so, too, is the Senateâs annual ritual of not passing it. . .One of the Senate votes against it belongs to Utah Senator Bob Bennett who normally agrees with much that Senator Hatch supports.  He has said he is unwilling to overturn 200 years of tradition with regard to the First Amendment.  Heâs right.  The Constitution is no place for feel-good amendments that do nothing but restrict freedoms.â    
  	Finally, Mr. President, I share with you the comment that I have had from one of my colleagues.  I will not speak for him but associate myself with his remarks when he said, âWhen my Senate career is over, I donât want the most important constitutional vote that I have cast to be one that weakens the First Amendment.â    
  	With that, Mr. President, I submit this legislation and ask for its referral to the appropriate committee.    
  	The bill will be referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee.    
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/