Bennett Says Vote on Energy Production Good for U.S. Economy and Consumers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
			  	âI support this bill for economic reasons, for environmental reasons, and for long-term planning reasons,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Republican Energy Working Group. âOne year ago we passed bipartisan, comprehensive energy legislation that outlined many bold initiatives; this bill is the next logical step. It is the right bill at the right time and in the right place.â?    
  	The Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act will open more than 8.3 million acres on the Outer Continental Shelf for oil and gas leasing, and calls for 2.5 million to be opened as soon as practical but no later than one year after the date of enactment. It makes available 1.26 billion barrels of oil in the area known as Lease Area 181 and South 181. Bennett noted that right now the world uses 85 million barrels of oil a day, and its capacity to produce oil is 86 million barrels, leaving 1 million barrels excess. Opening this area will double the daily excess of oil.    
  	âThis bill is important, not just for the total amount of oil, but for the amount of increased capacity it will deliver to the world markets when it comes on line. Then, by virtue of that amount of excess capacity above the amount the world is using, the futures price for oil will start to come down,â? added Bennett.    
  	The area is also rich in natural gas with approximately 5.8 trillion cubic feet, which is estimated to be enough to heat and cool nearly 6 million American homes for 15 years.     
  	Bennett noted, âRealizing that there is also enough natural gas in Area 181 to significantly impact the price, lowering chemical and agriculture costs across the board, you must also concede that this area should have been open for exploration and drilling long ago.â?    
  	The bill also includes revenue-sharing provision that will benefit conservation efforts and compensate coastal states, which Bennett says can be dedicated to ecological activities that are good environmentally and economically.    
  	The vote today comes just days before the first anniversary of the passage of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which was signed into law last August. Successes of this legislation include: over 116,000 new hybrid vehicles purchased January 2006; 120 new coal-based facilities in planning stages; and investments in nuclear energy and new efficiency standards.    
  	The bill is now sent to the U.S. House of Representatives for consideration.    
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/