  Utah Firefighters Receive Federal Grants For New Safety Equipment  

	âFirefighters play a vital role in the safety and protection of our local communities,â? said Bennett. âI am pleased this funding will go to these hardworking men and women and provide them with the best possible training and equipment to effectively do their jobs and protect Utah families.â?    

The three fire departmentsâ Laketown Fire District, North Logan Fire and Rescue, and Uintah Fire Departmentâ will receive a total of $281,034 from the USFAâs Fire Operation and Firefighter Safety Program. Information on each grant is listed below:    
    Laketown Fire District							$232,750   This grant will be used to purchase a new fire engine to replace a 1970 truck that has served the volunteer department for over 20 years.  For more information, please contact Laketown Fire Chief Stan Lamborn at (435) 946-3290.         
  North Logan Fire and Rescue						$23,750   This is North Loganâs third federal fire grant to enhance safety equipment for the departmentâs 30 full-time firefighters.   North Logan Fire Chief Jon Keller said, âThese grants help us buy equipment we canât afford ourselves. We hope we never have to use it, but when an incident arises, we will be prepared.â?    For more information, please contact Jon Keller at (435) 755-5739.    
   Uintah Fire Department							$24,534   The Uintah Fire Department will also use this grant to update and replace fire safety and protective equipment.    For more information, please contact Uintah Fire Chief Dave Boothe at (801) 479-0744.    

USFA is an agency in the Department of Homeland Security. The program provides funds for training, wellness and fitness, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. This is the first announcement of Utah fire grants this year. Last year, 11 Utah departments received nearly $1.1 million from USFA. For information on this program, please visit USFAâs website at www.firegrantsupport.com.     

  # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/