Bennett Asks USDA Secretary to Expedite Disaster Designation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 âI toured Washington County following the floods and saw firsthand the dramatic destruction the power of water and the force of nature can leave behind,â? said Bennett, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. âIâm hopeful Secretary Johanns will join me in recognizing the need for aid in this emergency and move quickly with a disaster declaration to help bring assistance to the area.â?  
 Bennettâs call for expedited action by the secretary is in response to a letter sent by Governor Huntsman on January 31, 2005, requesting the disaster designation for the two counties, which experienced significant damage to personal property, community infrastructure, and agricultural lands. Once the secretary makes the declaration, agriculture producers who meet eligibility requirements may apply for low interest loans to help provide economic relief. In addition, Utah farmers, ranchers, and other agricultural producers may qualify for federal assistance approved by Congress in a future supplemental spending bill.   
 Bennett visited Washington County on January 12, 2005, where he assessed the damage and was briefed by local and state officials. He also sent a letter to President Bush on January 21, 2005, in support of the governorâs request for a presidential disaster designation, which makes the state eligible for certain disaster grants and assistance programs. The president signed the declaration this past Tuesday.  

# # #  
 NOTE: Click on the PDF document below for a copy of the letter Sen. Bennett sent to USDA Sec. Johanns. 


      
      Open PDF Document 

http://bennett.senate.gov/