Final Congressional Action Will Send $50 Million to Utah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Next stop the presidentâs desk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  		Of the $50.5 million Bennett requested, $17.3 million will support Utah State Universityâs (USU) renowned agriculture research programs.    
  	âAs we conclude action on the agriculture bill, Iâm particularly pleased with the funding we were able to procure for Utah projects, particularly those at Utah State University, a preeminent agriculture institution,â? said Bennett, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. "Each dollar spent on research helps Americaâs agriculture industry become more efficient and productive. Itâs an important investment with a sizable return."    
  	Funds for USU projects in the Fiscal Year 2006 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Bill include:     
Utah Botanical Center     $900,000 As one of the fastest growing states, Utah may soon be confronted with urban sprawl, a limited water supply, diminishing public open space, and a shrinking resource base for native plants, wildlife, and wetlands. Funds will continue to assist the Centerâs research and education efforts to address these growth-related issues.     
Drought Management Initiative     $800,000 The initiative researches the impact drought has on the agricultural water supply and looks into ways to increase the availability of irrigation water for agriculture producers and ranchers.     
Air Quality Research Program     $1 million Urban expansion into high production agricultural regions is pressuring producers to modify existing practices and reduce offensive or harmful emissions. Funds will continue to support the program, which develops and evaluates the effectiveness of agricultural emissions measurement procedures and determines the environmental benefits of reduced emissions.     
Biotechnology and Genomics Research Center     $1.485 million The research will define, expand, and discover how organisms interact with their environment by extracting information from existing genome sequences in plants, animals, and microbes.   	    
Jack Berryman Institute     $1.5 million Funds will support existing programs, evaluate wildlife disease threats, and address wildlife economics. The Institute is a cooperative relationship with Mississippi State University.     
Vegetation Manipulation Research     $800,000 Funds will be used for an integrated research project â developed by the USU Colleges of Natural Resources, Engineering, and Agriculture, private landowners, and state and federal agencies â that investigates how vegetation manipulation impacts watershed processes.     
Pasture and Forage Research     $225,000 Research focuses on the integration of improved forage species and pastures that will result in a livestock production system that helps maintain the livestock industry.     
Bee Biology and Systematics Laboratory     $1.67 million Lab conducts pollen research, which contributes to farmersâ abilities to produce higher crop yields.    
Herdsman Pilot Demonstration Project     $200,000 Funds will support a pilot demonstration project involving various partners, including USU Extension, to build a dairy operation and train local people in Afghanistan and Pakistan in modern dairy management. Water and soil degradation leads to decreases in agricultural production in these countries.  Enhanced dairy management can lead to enhanced quality and quantity of dairy products and improve their local economy.   	  	  Center for Public Lands and Rural Economies     $300,000 Research is continuing regarding the impact of federal land ownership and policies and impacts upon social services including rural health care and education.    
Poisonous Plant Lab in Logan     $3.53 million Funds will continue research on poisonous plants and its effects on the agricultural industry, particularly range livestock.     
Forage and Range Research Lab in Logan    $3.47 million Funds will continue research on grasses that use water less yet more efficiently, and perform well even when irrigated with poor water quality.     
Plant Gene and Genetic Discovery     $851,000 Funds continue to support the partnership between the USDAâs Forage and Range Research Laboratory in Logan and USUâs Utah Agricultural Experiment Station, which uses plant genetic research to address drought and conservation issues.        
Advanced Scientific Computing Research Education     $545,000 Funds will initiate the development of advanced computational technology in the various fields of agricultural research at USU. The project will eventually bring together technology and human resources from across the nation to provide academic, government and private sector research groups access to advanced computation resources for complex projects.  	  	  	Below are additional Utah projects requested by Bennett in this yearâs bill:    
Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP)     $20 million EQIP administers cost-share conservation projects, such as drought-relief and water quality improvement projects, for Utah farmers and ranchers. Participation is voluntary, but it gives farmers and ranchers an opportunity to implement positive management practices and address threats to soil, water, air and other related resources on their land.    
Predator Ecology Research Station at the Wildlife Research Center     $1.5 million Funds will continue research on large predators of Utah and the Intermountain West, particularly their effects on the livestock industry. The center is located in Millville, Utah.    
Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO)/Animal Feeding Operation (AFO) Pilot Project     $300,000 Continues funding for a non-regulatory program that protects water from CAFO/AFO waste.     
Washington Fields Canal     $3 million Funds will be used to continue necessary improvements to the Washington Fields Canal. The improvements will enhance the water supply by improving water efficiency and conservation.     
Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD)     $246,000 Funds will address the concern about the number of deer and elk in different regions of the U.S., including Utah, testing positive for CWD.     
Coal Creek, Ferrin, Muddy Creek, and Tri-Valley Flood Prevention     Approx. $1.5 million Continues funding for watershed and flood prevention funding.    
Utah Conservation Initiative     $5 million Funding will help meet conservation and natural resources needs statewide.    
Cricket and Grasshopper Control     At least $1 million The spending bill includes a total of $5.5 million for cricket and grasshopper control, with at least $1 million earmarked for Utah.    
National Agriculture Imagery Program, Farm Service Agency     $1.25 million This mapping system aids in monitoring croplands, while also helpful in tracking wetlands, soil erosion boundaries, adjusting and mapping river channels.  The mapping can also be useful for other federal agencies, including public land management agencies.  										  Agriculture Research Services Feasibility Study Utah Valley State College (UVSC) The bill also directs the Agricultural Research Service to conduct a feasibility study regarding the construction of a new greenhouse and herbarium facility for biology and botanical studies at UVSC.    
	  	Additional programs of interest to the state are highlighted below:    
Sage Grouse Habitat and Conservation     At least $5 million The bill directs the secretary of agriculture to spend at least $5 million on sage grouse habitat conservation in affected western states. These resources are intended to help states restore habitat so that the sage grouse remains off the endangered species list. As part of this effort, the secretary may use funds from the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program, a voluntary conservation program that provides assistance to landowners and others to develop upland, wetland, riparian and aquatic habitat areas on their property.     
National Sheep Improvement Center     $1.25 million Funds will assist in the Centerâs mission to strengthen and enhance the production and marketing of sheep, goats, and their products in the U.S.    
Scrapie Eradication     $18.6 million It is estimated that scrapie, a fatal brain disease affecting the nation's sheep flocks and goat herds, costs the sheep and goat industry over $20 million annually in lost export sales, lost productivity, and other costs.  These funds will help accelerate the secretary's program for scrapie eradication.    
Grazing Lands Conservation Initiative     $27.5 million The Initiative is a nationwide collaborative process of individuals and organizations working to maintain and improve the management, productivity, and health of grazing land.  Concerns about invasive species and western grazing lands will also be addressed.   								  	The House passed the conference report last week, and the bill now goes to President Bush for his signature.    
	  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/