  Bennett Requests for $93 Million in Utah Defense Projects Get Senate OK     USU Space Dynamics Lab to receive $5 million for military technology  WASHINGTON, D.C.  Late last night the Senate unanimously approved legislation funding the Department of Defense (DoD) for the next fiscal year, including $93.5 million for key military projects requested by Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah). Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that has jurisdiction over the funding measure, said, This legislation is about investing in our troops, their mission, and the essential gear they need to get the job done. Today we paved the way to ensure that Utahs military installations, educational institutions, and defense contractors have the resources they need to move that mission forward. Included in the spending bill is $5 million for Utah State Universitys (USU) Space Dynamics Lab (SDL). The funding will build upon previously developed technologies that focus on reconnaissance systems and imagery processing. This state-of-the-art equipment will enable soldiers in the field to find, identify, and track moving enemy targets in real time using geo-tracking devices. The SDL is a nonprofit research corporation owned by USU, and has developed revolutionary military solutions including data collection and sensor technologies. This technology will be instrumental in helping to protect our troops in the Middle East from dangerous road side bombs that have taken the lives of many Americans and innocent civilians, said Bennett. In addition to the funding for Utah projects, the spending measure includes a 3.5 percent military pay raise and nearly $1 billion for improved health care for active duty military personnel. The bill also reverses many planned funding reductions to military hospitals.Bennett requested the following projects in the Fiscal Year 2008 Department of Defense Appropriations Act:Testing and Infrastructure Upgrade, Dugway Proving Ground $3.5 millionThe testing program at Dugway will install a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) system capable of testing for chemical and biological agents. Dugway plans to install the LIDAR system and three additional systems that are all networked together into a command control center.Aging Landing Gear Life Extension, Hill Air Force Base (HAFB) $2 millionA major challenge for aging Air Force aircrafts is maintaining landing gear systems. These funds will help enhance existing designs and improve landing gear maintenance operations. HAFB is responsible for 70 percent of DoDs landing gear maintenance work and this funding will provide for continuation of the program. Bennett has secured $11.6 million for the program since 2004Automated Composite Technologies and Manufacturing Center $10 millionThis center will enhance fiber placement processing technologies which are used to build large structures like airplane frames. Military programs throughout the country, such as F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF), have significant demands for fiber-placed products. Funding will be used for equipment at the center.Family of Motors Capability Demonstration $8 millionSuccessful development of this technology will expedite the development of some of DoDs highest modernization priorities, such as next-generation prompt global strike, operationally responsive space, land-based strategic deterrence, and missile defense systems.Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) for Senior Scout $8 millionThis funding will equip Senior Scout units with an ISR system that has the ability to stream data to national databases for real-time analysis. A Senior Scout mission regularly collects massive amounts of valuable intelligence data, which is often not processed for hours or even days following collection due to limited bandwidth. This technology will give military officials immediate tactical information from Senior Scout missions.Versatile Affordable Advanced Turbine Engine $6 millionThese powerful engines propel long-range missiles and will provide DoD with high-speed capabilities to strike at conventional and unconventional targets. The program funding will include simulation tests and an eventual full scale weapons system design for DoD.Shipboard Production of Synthetic Logistics and Aviation (JP-8) Fuel $2 millionThis program converts commonly available non-petroleum resources such as coal or other liquid materials, including power plant waste, into fuel which can be used for land based military missions and commercial vehicles.Joint Biological Agent Identification and Diagnostic System (JBAIDS) $2 millionJBAIDS system will allow medical personnel to more accurately diagnose and recognize infectious disease threats through more effective testing in nearly all DoD hospitals worldwide. The rapid identification of infectious diseases like malaria, dengue, and rickettsia will allow for prompt and appropriate treatment and minimize deaths.Effect Based Approach to Operations $1 millionThis program will speed up systems analysis to provide assessments and quantitative tracking to the U.S. Forces Command Koreas and Pacific Command on a daily basis that will significantly improve military planning capabilities.Arc Fault Circuit Breaker (AFCB) $1 millionThe AFCB with Arc Location System technology protects aircraft wiring systems from potentially dangerous conditions that can result in electrical fires. This heat-resistant product and system will be installed in new aircrafts and retro-fitted for aging aircrafts as well.Neural Control of External Devices $1 millionThis device will enable soldiers who suffer the loss of a limb or limb movement to use technology that allows a direct interface between the human brain and a computer for sophisticated movement of a prosthetic. The technology is licensed from the University of Utah, Brown University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Senior Scout Rover III$500,000This funding will upgrade the Senior Scout system with real-time UAV video displays for mission operators. Currently, during military operations, intelligence communication is often impaired because forces on the ground have access to real-time video feed that the Senior Scout operators do not. The ROVER III technology will provide critical resources for Senior Scout operators to maintain battlefield awareness.ICBM Remote Visual Assessment (RVA) Security Upgrade $13.5 millionRVA will provide real-time video to intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM) security forces. This video allows forces to respond to threats more quickly, and with appropriate force and situational awareness. RVA will also cut down on wear and tear of equipment and personnel, often caused from responding to false alarm threats.Global Air Traffic Management (GATM) Program $9 millionThe program funding will equip KC-135 aircrafts used by the Air Force with the GATM system, which will allow pilots to choose efficient and economic flight routes. Currently, more than half the fleet of KC-135s do not have the GATM system, resulting in aircrafts flying at restricted altitudes and less than optimum routes, which consumes more fuel.Next Generation Phalanx Close-In Weapons System $8.5 millionPhalanx is a successful combat system that provides effective and affordable defense against rocket, artillery, and mortar threats. This funding will redesign outdated electronic systems, incorporate electro-optical sensor technology and modernize radar designs.ARC 210 Improved Communications $7.5 million The National Guard is in need of communication upgrades to their F-16 aircrafts/jets. This funding will upgrade F-16s with the ARC 210 system that includes digital radios and improved communication systems.Metals Affordability Initiative (MAI) $5 millionThe purpose of MAI is to improve the weapons systems industry to further government-private investments. The program will focus on manufacturing essential metallic components, which comprise over 65 percent of airframes and 80 percent of the engines in the most advanced weapons systems like the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.House and Senate conferees will now meet to reconcile the differences between the two versions of the spending bill, after which both chambers will vote on the conference report. Pending final approval by the Congress, it will be sent to the president for his signature. # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/