Bennett's Rural Business Conference Another Success -- Attracts Highest Number of Participants in Conference History                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  âThis conference has become an annual gathering for Utahâs rural entrepreneurs. Itâs hard not to get caught up in the excitement and energy as business and community leaders share ideas, visions, and plans for building their local economies,â? said Bennett. âI hope those in attendance will take home a greater understanding of the services and opportunities available to them to help their businesses grow and succeed.â?    
  âGovernment doesnât create jobs,â? said Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. during the conferenceâs opening session. âWhat we are trying to do is to create an environment that is competitive and vibrant for entrepreneurs.â?    
  Conference participants attended breakout sessions throughout the day. Sessions focused on specific areas of interest to rural entrepreneurs including access to business capital, finding and retaining quality employees, surviving in a cyclical business climate, and rural marketing.    
   During the lunch session, Dr. Patrick Byrne, president and chairman of the board for Overstock.com, a Utah-based online liquidator, said, âUnlike other places I have seen, people in rural Utah have a real vision of whatâs going on outside of the state and have a desire to compete and be a part of that broader marketplace.â?    
  The conference also featured a business expo, which allowed attendees to network while learning about the products and services exhibited by a number of local regional, and national companies.    
   The conference moved to Price after successful events in Cedar City, St. George, and Richfield over the past three years.    
   The conferenceâs co-host, the Rural Utah Development Council, is housed at the Southern Utah University, is a nonprofit organization focused on maintaining and improving the quality of life in rural Utah. For more information about this conference, or past conferences, please visit www.ruralutah.com.    
# # #    
Photo: Bennett greets conference keynote speaker Patrick Byrne, CEO of Overstock.com.  


http://bennett.senate.gov/