Utah Flood Relief Funds Approved as House Passes Conference Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bush administration official calls Bennett to underscore swift distribution of million for Utah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
	 	âWhile funding for the war in Iraq clearly rises to the level of an emergency, by approving these funds for flood relief, my colleagues also agree that in Utah weâre dealing with an emergency of our own,â? said Bennett.  âAnother flood watch was issued for the area yesterday. We have to proceed expeditiously to restore these watersheds so they can properly handle future storms.  
 	âI appreciate the call today from Mark Rey who assured me that Washington County recovery work is a priority at USDA and that technical personnel in the department are being assigned to oversee the rapid distribution of these funds and immediately begin the rehabilitation work,â? Bennett added.   
 	Bennett toured the southern Utah devastation in January and met with local and state officials to determine needs of the area.  Following his visit, Bennett submitted a request for the emergency funding to be included as part of an overall emergency funding bill which was already underway. Bennett currently serves as subcommittee chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture oversees the US Department of Agriculture and its Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) program where the flood relief funds originate.   
			 	The emergency supplemental package includes $104.5 million for the EWP program including $62.8 million for Utah to help restore watersheds and stabilize riverbanks caused by the January floods. Of the $66 million damage estimate determined for Utah by USDAâs Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), $3.2 million has already been released by EWP, with the additional $62.8 million approved today is the balance of the $66 million estimate.  Also noteworthy, the bill will allow local financial and technical resources, including in-kind materials and services contributed in the immediate flood aftermath, to count toward EWPâs 25 percent local match requirement.  
 	The EWP program uses emergency measures to safeguard lives and property from floods, drought, and erosion on any watershed whenever fire, flood or any other natural occurrence is causing or has caused a sudden impairment of the watershed. EWP is part of the USDAâs NRCS.  
 	The Senate is expected to pass the conference report to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief when it reconvenes next week.  It will then go to President Bush for signature.  

# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/