  Bennett Encourages Utah Veterans to Get Involved in History Project   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) joins the U.S. Library of Congress in honoring and preserving the stories of Americas veterans and home front civilians by participation in the Veterans History Project.     I encourage Utahns, especially Utah veterans, to come forward and share your remarkable stories with the Veterans History Project so that our generation and generations to come can remember your heroic experiences, said Bennett, the ranking Republican member of the Senate Rules Committee that has jurisdiction over the Library of Congress. I appreciate the effort by the Library of Congress to create this tremendous archive documenting the stories of Americas greatest heroes.    The Veterans History Project is a major program of The American Folklife Center, a branch of the Library of Congress, and is tasked with documenting Americans experiences in war  World War I to present conflicts. Volunteers interested in the project can use guidelines provided by the Veterans History Project to record audio or video interviews of veterans, gather photographs, letters, memoirs, and other historical documents, and then send to the project where it will become part of the Library of Congress permanent collections. Currently there are approximately 4,000 stories online.     The nationwide network of partner organizations, including veteran service organizations, high schools and colleges, Department of Veterans Affairs, retirement communities, historical societies, and individual volunteers is an effort to educate and connect generations while honoring the veterans of our country.       The Veterans History Project was commissioned by Congress in October 2000 to gather and archive the personal recollections of U.S. veterans. The project is the largest oral history program in American history.     To get involved and receive a Veteran History Project Field Kit with guidelines for interviewing a veteran please visit www.loc.gov/vets or call toll free (888) 371-5848.   ## #

http://bennett.senate.gov/