  Bennett Probes Mine Safety and Health Administration About Crandall Canyon Mine Tragedy   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Today Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) questioned the Department of Labor assistant secretary for mine safety and other mine experts during a Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies hearing on the Crandall Canyon Mine disaster that occurred in Huntington, Utah, last month. Below is the senators opening statement during the subcommittee hearing. Audio and video of this statement and the questioning period is available on src.senate.gov.     Thank you very much Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the opportunity of being here. Like Senator Hatch I want to express my condolences to the families who have lost loved ones in both the initial accident and the rescue operation. I have deep respect for the Utah miners and all those who toiled with respect to this tragic event. I discovered again how tightly knit the mining communities in central Utah really are and this is not just a tragedy for the families, this is a tragedy for all of those who are part of that particular culture in that part of our state. Coal mining is a dangerous operation. We can take some comfort in the statistical fact that, if I might Mr. Chairman going back to your fathers day in the 1920s, the annual fatality rate was 3.36 deaths per thousand mine workers per year and today it is 0.2 deaths per thousand workers per year. So as a nation we have made a great deal of progress from the day that you talk about. But as Senator Byrd has reminded us the tragedies of the last 30 to 60 days indicate that we must continue to make progress and not be lulled into a sense of security by the progress that has been made. I am looking forward to the testimony of Mr. Stickler. I was at the mine with him a day after the initial accident. I remember very clearly the briefing we received and the assurances that were very firm and across the board from local officials, the operator, and MSHA officials that there would be no further rescue operations until the seismic activity in the mountain had stopped. There had been initial rescue operations that stopped because of seismic activity, feeling that they were endangering those involved. There was some impatience on the part of people who dont understand mining that the rescue operation had stopped. But it was clearly understood that they were not going to resume any rescue operations until the seismic activity within the mountain had ceased. So it was with a great feeling in the pit of my stomach when I heard later that rescue operations had begun again and that three more individuals were killed. I look forward to a discussion with Mr. Stickler on the question of why the rescue operations were resumed, what information they had with respects to the state of the mountain and with the state of security or protective measures that might have been taken. I think thats clearly something that we need to get into in some greater detail. Now Im pleased that Secretary Chaohas initiated an independent investigation in the role of MSHA with respect to this disaster and along with the governor of the state of Utah, who has his own investigation going forward. I look forward to the time when we have the results of those investigations so that we can then make whatever public policy decisions we need to make as to what needs to be done further.I look forward to a productive hearing. I welcome Mr. Stickler here as I welcomed him to our state. We have unique geography and it may be that solutions that are effective in other parts of the country are not effective in Utah. I hope we can use this tragedy as an opportunity to find out exactly what we need to do to make mining as safe as possible in the future, not only for my own state but for all miners everywhere.  # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/