Utah Flood Relief Gets $66 Million Per Bennettâs Work on Appropriations Committee                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 	âWith the full committeeâs approval of at least $66 million for our state, we have cleared another hurdle in getting relief to southern Utah communities,â? said Bennett, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. âThis money is critical for the restoration of the waterways and watersheds and the stabilization of riverbanks.â?  
 	In January, Bennett toured the devastation and met with local and state officials to determine federal assistance needs. Following his visit, Bennett, as chairman of the subcommittee that approves the budget for the Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) program, made funding recommendations to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MS), who agreed to add them to the bill.  
 	The emergency supplemental package specifies a total of $103 million for the EWP program, which includes Utahâs portion but is also expected to address emergency watershed needs in Nevada and California. Additionally, a provision in the bill will insure that local financial and technical resources, including in-kind materials and services contributed in the immediate aftermath of Januaryâs flooding, will count toward EWPâs 25 percent local matching requirement.  
 	Part of the U.S. Department of Agricultureâs Natural Resources Conservation Service, EWPâs purpose is to undertake emergency measures to safeguard lives and property from floods, drought, and the products of erosion on any watershed whenever fire, flood or any other natural occurrence is causing or has caused a sudden impairment of the watershed.   
 	The bill will now be considered by the Senate, and reconciled with the House before being signed by the president. If signed into law in its current form, the total EWP funds for the state this year will reach over $76 million.   
												 # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/