  Bennett Offers Support to Miner Families and Rescue Crews   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Senator Bennett visited the Crandall Canyon coal mine today for an on-site briefing with Richard Stickler, assistant secretary for the U.S. Department of Labors Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) on rescue operations to find six missing miners and to offer support to their families. Bennett expressed gratitude and confidence in those working around the clock to rescue the miners.    The briefing was very informational for someone who is a complete layman in these areas. I echo what the governor has said. I am completely satisfied that the professionals are on the spot, they are in the right places, and they are acting in an indefatigable way. Indeed some should be taking more sleep than they are. The determination to get to those six miners is absolutely uniform and absolutely solid. I am here to demonstrate my concern and express through you to the families my great sympathy for the uncertainty they are now enduring. The families are in a sense of some seclusion, because while those of you in the media live in this kind of world, for them it can be an intimidating sort of world and I do not want to intrude on them. They are being kept briefed on a regular basis, kept up to date of everything that is going on.     I echo what the governor said, that seismic activity is still going on making it difficult for rescue efforts to go forward in a traditional manner without endangering the lives of further miners until the mine stabilizes. Our prayers are with the families; our prayers are with the workers who are trying to get some kind of contact with these people. We must not lose hope. There is precedent for an air shaft to go down into a mine, which is what they are working on now, make the contact with the area, receive no communication whatsoever, and then at a future time still find survivors. Lets not jump to any conclusions just because the present situation is very difficult.    # # #




http://bennett.senate.gov/