New Interns Join Senator Bennettâs Office in D.C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 	âEach semester Iâm lucky to welcome some of Utahâs brightest students as interns in my Washington office,â? said Bennett. âThese students come to the nationâs capitol at a very exciting and historic time. I encourage them to take advantage of all the opportunities available to them in the coming months and hope their experience here will prove to be a highlight of their college career.â?  
 	A journalism and political science major at Utah State University (USU), Maren Farnsworth has worked for the USUâs Public Relations and Marketing office and Nolan Karrasâ gubernatorial campaign, and volunteered as a public relations director for USUâs community service center. A member of the Pi Sigma Alpha honor society, Maren graduates this May and will pursue a career in either journalism or political communications. She is from Duchesne and graduated from Duchesne High School.  
 	Michael Maughan, of Provo, is a junior at Brigham Young University (BYU) studying American studies and business management. During his time at BYU, he has worked on several humanitarian projects dealing with business development and recreational therapy courses in Guatemala and El Salvador. Michael is a member of the Phi Eta Sigma and Phi Kappa Phi honor societies. After graduation, he would like to pursue a career in human resources management or organizational development.  
 	Nathan Myers, also of Provo, is an accounting major at Brigham Young University. Throughout his college career, Nathan has worked for a variety of companies, assisting in both administrative and technical operations. He plans to pursue a career in accounting after graduation. Nathan, a graduate of Timpview High School in Provo, enjoys composing and recording music. 	  
	Jane Curtis, from Salt Lake City and a graduate of East High School, is an English literature major at the University of Utah (UofU). Jane was involved in VoteProject at the UofU this year, a grassroots effort to raise the number of college-age voters, and also volunteered for a political campaign. Jane hopes this internship will increase her exposure to legislative and political processes and help direct the next steps in her professional career.  
 (Photo caption: Michael Maughan, Jane Curtis, Senator Bennett, Maren Farnsworth, and Nathan Myers) 


http://bennett.senate.gov/