Bennett Includes Utah Projects in Yearâs First Senate Spending Bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Utah receives its share of over $40 million for Interior projects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
  	âThis yearâs spending bill reflects the diversity of Utahâs Interior needs,â? said Bennett, a member of the subcommittee. âFrom Odgen to St. George, funds for these projects will help address our energy needs, protect our public lands, and enhance and provide access to popular recreation areas.â?    
  	As the focus on oil and gas development in Utah, and its potential to address the nationâs energy needs continues, Bennettâs request provides for an increase of $3 million over the presidentâs budget for oil and gas management. Within that increase, $250,000 will be used for a Utah Oil and Gas Leasing Internet Pilot Program to allow for online participation in the lease auction program, and the remaining amount to initiate planning for an oil shale leasing program, and to focus on the oil and gas permitting backlog. The agency is directed to begin the new oil shale leasing program and expedite research and development activities on BLM land.    
  	The Utah Museum of Natural History received a $5 million earmark, adding to the approximately $8 million it has received as a result of Bennettâs requests. The funding is used for the design and construction of facilities to enhance the preservation of the museumâs artifacts. The Congress approved legislation authored by Bennett in 2002, which authorized construction of the new museum at the University of Utah and directs the secretary of Interior to make available $15 million in grants for the project.    
  	Additional Bennett-requested projects which received approval today include:    
  â¢	$1.2 million to purchase multiple properties within the Colorado River Special Recreation Management Area in Grand County. The area includes the easternmost stretch of the Colorado River in Utah and is a very popular recreation area. Westwater Canyon's desert landscape and rapids attract approximately 10,000 annual rafters, both private and outfitters, and the black, uplifted rocks in the area represent the oldest exposed geologic formations in eastern Utah. The acquisition would protect the riverfront from development and would resolve major access issues, preserve scenic values and protect critical habitat for endangered fish along the Colorado River. It also compliments land exchange legislation introduced by Bennett last month. The project is supported by the local community, conservation groups, as well as the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.    
  â¢	$750,000 for the Crossroads of the West Historic District in Ogden. Funds will be used to implement the recently completed management plan, which includes restoration work on the historic Laundry Building, the creation of a revolving loan fund for properties within the district, and the installation of interpretive displays explaining the districtâs cultural heritage. The plan represents the close collaboration of the city, the state, National Park Service, citizens, businesses and other interested stakeholders. 	    
  â¢	$2.5 million for land acquisitions along the Bonneville Shoreline Trail (BST) and the High Uintas in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest. BST is a popular recreation trail in Utah that is being built along the eastern shoreline of the ancient Lake Bonneville in the Wasatch Range foothills. Bennett, a champion of the project, has procured an additional $13 million for BST. The BST acquisition will include the Bear Canyon property located on the edge of Draper City, and the High Uinta acquisition will continue the 10-year project acquiring 12,000 acres of private land on the North Slope.    
  â¢	$2.25 million for the Forest Legacy Project, including $1.5 million for Cedar Project and $750,000 for Range Creek/Rainbow Glass Ranch.     
  	The Cedar project continues conservation and preservation efforts between public and private entities. The two land parcels included in this yearâs bill â Co-op Valley and Spanish Hollow â are working ranches that have been in family ownership for 100-150 years. Funds would be used to purchase conservation easements, without acquiring new federal land, and help reduce significant development pressures.     
  	The Range Creek/Rainbow Glass Ranch has been in family ownership since the early 1900s. The land faces increased development pressures, and the landowner is seeking an easement on the land. He has donated 800 acres of the 4,912-acre ranch to the Utah Forest Legacy Program, and this yearâs funds will be used to protect the remaining acreage. The state of Utah has identified this property as a priority due to its cultural and historical resources, watershed protection and recreational value. The protection is also important to both the town of Sunnyside and East Carbonâs water quality.    
  â¢	$1.5 million for the Sand Hollow Reservoir in Washington County to help with the building of campgrounds and trails, and access areas for OHV and equestrian activities.    
  â¢	$300,000 for the Geographic Information System and Cadastral mapping project â an innovative, high-tech project used for land use planning activities. GIS has received $3.8 million due to Bennettâs funding efforts.    
  â¢	$691,000 to restore full funding for the Upper Colorado Endangered Fish Recovery Program, essential to the recovery of several endangered fish and continued water development.    
   	The subcommittee also approved the following overall budget numbers:    
  â¢	Payment-in-Lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) received an allocation of $235 million, which is $8 million over last yearâs budget and $35 million over this yearâs administration request. Utahâs share will be approximately $20 million. Established in 1976, PILT compensates counties for the impact federal land ownership has on the countiesâ tax base. Federal ownership in Utah is nearly 70 percent.    
  â¢	$492.2 million for hazardous fuels reduction on public lands, an increase of $28.3 million over last yearâs amount.    
  â¢	$30 million for stateside Land Water Conservation Fund, which helps provide grants for state and local parks and recreation areas. The administration and the House did not include funding for this program.    
  â¢	An additional $3.8 million was provided above the administration's request for completing environmental reviews of grazing allotments, processing permits, and short and long term monitoring in conjunction with grazing permittees.    
			  	The Senate Appropriations Committee will meet this Thursday to finalize the Fiscal Year 2006 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill before it goes to the full Senate for a vote. After the Senate passage, Senate and House conferees will meet to reconcile differences between the two versions of the spending bill.    

# # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/