Defense Spending Bill Includes Bennettâs Request for Over $20 Million for National Guard Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
  	âThe passage of this bill comes at an important time as our troops continue to fight the Global War on Terror. The funds approved today will help provide the necessary supplies and equipment for their critical missions,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.     
  	Bennett helped obtain over $20 million for training programs that will greatly benefit the National Guard, including soldiers in Utah, in preparing for wartime operations. Approximately, 500 Utah guardsmen are currently deployed overseas, mainly in the Middle East.    
  	âUtah National guardsmen are among the many brave men and women who are sacrificing their lives to protect ours. The funding in this bill will provide them with the training tools that will better prepare them when fighting terrorists who wish to do us harm,â? added Bennett.    
  	The Up-Armored HMMWV/Tactical Truck Crew Trainer, which received Bennettâs mark of $15 million, is a mobile, virtual convoy trainer that is designed specifically to meet the training requirements for the current mission in the Contemporary Operating Environment (COE) in the Middle East. The program will better prepare Army National Guard soldiers and units with vehicle crew and convoy training for operations in the COE.     
  	Bennett also requested $6 million for tabletop trainers, which are portable convoy, precision gunnery, and maneuver training simulators used by National Guard soldiers while they are deployed away from their larger and more complex training simulators. The easy setup and rapid training initiation of these systems also make them ideal during weekend drills or annual training periods.    

	The defense spending bill will now proceed to a conference committee where the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill will be reconciled.    

# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/