Senate-House Conferees Complete Work on Energy & Water Spending Bill â Including $97 Million for Utah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  	House and Senate conferees spent the last few months ironing out differences between the two versions of the bill, including funding for clean up efforts at the Atlas Mill Tailings site in Grand County. As a member of the conference committee, Bennett worked to keep the Senate number of $28 million in the bill instead of the House level of $18 million.    
  	"Iâm extremely pleased we prevailed in maintaining the higher funding level for moving the Atlas tailings pile," said Bennett.  "We're at a critical point in the process and the full $28 million is essential to keep the project on schedule.  These funds help us clear an important hurdle in relocating the mill tailings to a permanent site."    
  	The Department of Energy announced in April that its preferred alternative was to move the tailings pile offsite, away from the Colorado River. This recommendation became part of the final Environmental Impact Statement issued in July and made official with the Record of Decision in September.    
  	 The site contains 11.8 million tons of mill tailings and contaminated debris, groundwater and land. As the pile continues to leach contaminants to the river through the groundwater, concerns rise over the potential impact on habitat of endangered native fish species, the environment, and downstream water users. Public interest is also heightened by the site's proximity to a wetlands preserve and Arches National Park.    
  	The bill also included $1.5 million for the University of Utahâs Utah Center for Heavy Oil Research. This funding will help develop a comprehensive plan for the production and subsequent upgrading of hydrocarbon resources and efforts toward commercialization of this technology. Utahâs Uinta Basin is one of the richest sources of hydrocarbons in the world, with an estimated 230 billion barrels of oil shale.     
		  	âWith energy prices hitting all-time highs, finding alternative sources of energy has never been more important,â? said Bennett. âUtah is fortunate to have abundant oil shale reserves, and research should be conducted to determine the best way to bring this resource to the marketplace.â?    
  	The Center will focus on the commercial potential of oil sands, oil shale and coal resource deposits in concert with the Utah Geological Survey and USGS.    
  	Other Bennett-requested projects for Utah in the spending bill include:     
$10 million -- Rural Utah 595 Water Program This program, in its second year, will significantly help a number of Utah rural communities with water infrastructure improvements. Last year Bennett secured $1 million for the program, which provided grants to Moroni, Richmond, Uintah County and Kane County. At least two dozen communities have contacted the Army Corps of Engineers with interest in water projects for this year.    
$34.35 million -- Central Utah Project (CUP) Supports ongoing projects of the Central Utah Water Conservancy District, the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission, and the Department of the Interior relating to the CUP.	    
$100,000 -- Southern Utah Watershed Study After the devastating floods earlier this year in southern Utah, the state of Utah requested that the Army Corps  perform a general investigation study. This will fund the reconnaissance phase of that study, which includes investigating for flood damage reduction, ecosystem restoration and other purposes.     
$6.7 million -- Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission Funds are included to offset the adverse impacts to fish and wildlife resources resulting from the development and operation of federal reclamation projects throughout the state of Utah. Central Utah Project Completion Act mandated a statewide mitigation program.     
$500,000 -- Rural Water Technology Alliance This funding will be used for irrigation modernization research and development. Several water conservancy districts in the state are presently working with the Alliance on this program.        
$2.5 million -- Endangered Species Recovery Implementation Program, Upper Colorado Region 
$479,000 -- Snyderville Basin and Park City Reclamation Feasibility Study Continues the ongoing feasibility study for the importation of water to the Snyderville Basin and Park City, Utah. Bennett has secured $750,000 over the last two fiscal years for the project.    
$1.9 million -- Utah Center for Ultra-Clean Coal Utilization at the University of Utah This funding will support coordinated research functions among its private and public sector partners to address issues related to the development of carbon capture and sequestration technologies that can be retrofitted to existing coal fired plants, particularly those in the western states.    
$400,000 -- Center for River Dynamics and Restoration at Utah State University The proposed Center would integrate the sciences of river ecology, hydrology, hydraulics, sediment transport, and streams and the processes that create and maintain aquatic habitats and affect the quantity and quality of water that flow from Utahâs mountain watersheds.     
$671,000 -- Army Corps of Engineers, continued maintenance of Utah projects 
$9.1 million -- Bureau of Reclamation  Funds will continue operation, maintenance, and management of Weber Basin, Hyrum, Newton, Moon Lake, Provo River, Scofield, Ogden River, and Strawberry Valley water projects.     
$500,000 -- Brigham City Wind Energy Project This project would help the city harness the wind potential located at the mouth of Sardine Canyon, and utilize this power through development of a wind energy turbine project.    
$500,000 -- Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development at Utah State University Funding would continue research on the economic impact of wind power and other renewable energy sources, and engage in outreach to rural users through Utah State University.    
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/