Federal Highway Administration grants $690,000 for Utahâs scenic byways                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  	âMaintaining transportation infrastructure in Utah is important to the vitality of our local economies,â? said Bennett.  âInvesting in our scenic byways is key to preserving these historic and widely-travelled roads.â?    
  	The National Scenic Byways Program, within the U.S. Department of Transportation, is a grass-roots collaborative effort established to help recognize, preserve and enhance selected roads throughout the U.S.. The transportation secretary recognizes certain roads as All-American Roads or National Scenic Byways based on one or more archeological, cultural, historic, natural, recreational and scenic qualities.     
Big and Little Cottonwood Canyon, Salt Lake County - $240,000 This funding will provide the first collaborative planning for projects on the Big and Little Cottonwood Canyon scenic byways. The committee will identify actions that will inform users about the canyons, protect natural resources, and improve economic vitality for the communities along the byways. Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons are the lifeblood of the Salt Lake Valley, providing a vital clean water source, year-round recreation, and significant economic contributions through recreational tourism. 
Nebo Loop, Utah and Juab Counties - $418,687 The Nebo Loop National Scenic Byway is located approximately 50 miles south of Salt Lake City.  This project will provide safe, non-motorized access to the lower portion of Payson Canyon and to the Payson City central business district, connecting the city and the canyon areas. The existing road is narrow, with short sight-distances and without shoulders, making cycling and walking unsafe. 
Potash and Dead Horse Point, Grand and San Juan Counties - $32,000 This project will develop a corridor management plan for the Potash and Dead Horse Point scenic byways. The plan will address ways to promote tourism, while conserving and enhancing the byway qualities.  The project will also provide an exhibit for Moabâs Information Center, including a map and history of the byways and provide brochures for visitors. 
  	For more information, contact Linda Hull, UDOT, at (801) 965-4082.    
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/