  Bennett Announces Over $235,000 on its Way to Three Utah Fire Departments   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) announced today that three Utah fire departments will receive over $235,000 from the U.S. Fire Administration (USFA) to help purchase safety equipment and communication systems. The fires in Southern California and the destructive wildfires throughout Utah this year is further proof that our fire departments must be equipped with the necessary gear to quickly respond to a crisis, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that approves the funding for the fire grants each year. We never know when emergencies will happen and we thank our firefighters for keeping a diligent watch over our communities.   The Ogden City, North Fork, and Sandy Fire Departments will receive a total of $235,428 in Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), a program of USFA.  Information on each grant is listed below:This grant will be used to purchase Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) sets which contain essential gear like fire coats, boots, pants, hats, and gloves that allow firefighters to effectively battle fires. The department will purchase 85 PPE sets for its 108 firefighters. For additional informationplease contact Fire Chief Mike Mathieu at (801) 629-8069. The North Fork Fire Department plans to purchase safety equipment such as fire shelters that protect firefighters when responding to wildfires. The department isresponsible for Provo Canyon wildlands and structure fires as well as rescueoperations. For additional information please contact Fire Chief Kenneth Johnson at(801) 225-7263.The funds from this grant will be used to purchase an exhaust system called No Smoke, which will help keep firefighters from breathing in toxic fumes. The department will also purchase head set radios that allow for better communication when responding to emergencies, and also help protect against hearing loss. The Sandy Fire Department consists of 83 full-time firefighters and 25 volunteer firefighters. For additional information please call Fire Chief Don Chase or Captain Geoffrey Feldman at (801) 568-2930. AFG grants provide funding for training, wellness and fitness, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. In addition to todays announcement, $420,000 in AFG grants have been awarded to eight Utah fire departments since this summer. The AFG program and USFA are part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.  For additional information on this program, please visit USFAs website at www.firegrantsupport.com. # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/