  Bennett's $4 Million Passes Final Hurdle in Congress, but the White House May Veto the Bill     Includes $1 million to study deep mine safety and operations  WASHINGTON, D.C. B The Senate and House approved the conference report for the first spending bill this year, which includes over $4 million Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) requested for Utah that will support health education programs and Internet safety in schools, and, in response to the Crandall Canyon Mine disaster, study mine safety and operations.  This bill is important to Utah because it will send federal dollars back to the state for investments in health and education, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. With this funding we will be able to assist underserved health centers, and also help meet the increasing demand for health care professionals. The Fiscal Year 2008 Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act will fund many important education initiatives, including the More Nurses Now Program at Weber State University (WSU). More than 7,000 students have completed Weber States well-recognized nursing program since its inception in 1953. However, of the 939 recent nursing applicants, Weber can only accommodate 400 students because of a faculty shortage. To help address this shortage, the bill includes $423,700 for WSU to recruit and hire qualified new faculty, expand classroom space, and ultimately increase the number of nursing graduates to help meet the immediate demand for more nurses. The Health Sciences Education and Training Center at Salt Lake Community College (SLCC) also received the Senates approval for $423,700 to help move more students through SLCCs health programs, which includes nursing, radiology, physical therapy, biotechnology, and dental hygiene. SLCC funding will boost graduates by 360 per year from these programs, a significant increase to help meet the immediate need for thousands of health professionals in the state and region.Bennett also included, along with Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), $1 million for a study to be conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services, University of Utah, and West Virginia University that will look at practices and safety implications of mining below 1,500 feet. Deep mining is extremely important to Utahs coal industry, but the Crandall Canyon Mine Disaster in August shed light on the need for more information on this practice. (For more information about the study, see October 19, 2007, Bennett press release.) In light of the recent tragedy at Crandall Canyon Mine the study approved by Congress will help examine the techniques and practices of deep mining and look at ways to increase the safety for our miners, said Bennett. Below are additional Bennett-requested projects for Utah included in bill:U-AIM Mentor Program, Utah State Office of Education  $423,700  The U-AIM Model, a teacher mentoring program, is designed to assist new teachers in elementary schools that are struggling to meet adequate yearly progress set by No Child Left Behind. Through early intervention, this program targets first and second graders who struggle with math and reading skills. Teachers in this program learn how to engage diverse learners, increase parent involvement, and improve classroom conditions. Expansion of Telemedicine Services, Association of Utah Community Health (AUCH)  $796,650AUCH supports its member organizations by working to increase access to health care with electronic health records for medically underserved and rural populations in Utah. The AUCH Telehealth Program eliminates unnecessary travel by bringing quality health care to rural communities, many of which would otherwise lack convenient access to facilities.National Ability Center, Park City $211,275 In order to provide approximately 10,000 individuals with cognitive and physical disability with transportation to recreational activities, the National Ability Center will use funding to purchase two 14- passenger vans and three years of driver and maintenance expenses. The center offers disabled children and adults access to outdoor activities like skiing, canoeing, river rafting, and rock climbing. Currently, there is no transportation available from the Provo, Ogden and Salt Lake City areas to Park City or the rural areas surrounding Heber City and Park City where activities take place.Museum of Utah Art and History (MUAH) $211,900MUAH, in downtown Salt Lake, will use funding to improve archiving capabilities. The museum will use the majority of the funds to install technology that will make MUAH a central storehouse for information about museum exhibits across the state. Orem City Public Library  $254,300The 40-year old library houses 280,000 items and has a circulation of 1.3 million items per year, placing it in the top 10 percent nationwide for highest circulation per capita. Funding will be used to purchase radio frequency book tags and readers, sensor entrance/exit gates, and a Smart Card self-check system, and train personnel on how to use them. Internet Keep Safe Coalition, Salt Lake City $381,300Funding will enable the Internet Keep Safe Coalition to provide Internet safety education material to second, third, and fourth grade teachers. Materials provided to teachers throughout the state will include: a children=s book, Emmy-winning DVD, and other materials featuring Faux Paw the Techno Cat, the Internet safety icon. The conference report will now be sent to the White House. The president indicated in a statement of administration policy earlier this week that he intends to veto the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill due to excessive levels of spending above his recommended budget. Read President Bushs statement here: http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/legislative/sap/110-1/s1710sap-s.pdf # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/