  Bennett Welcomes Students for Spring Internship in Washington   

âThese students come to Washington at a fascinating time in our countryâs history,â? said Bennett. âThis experience will greatly enhance their understanding of how Congress works and supplement what they have already learned in the classroom. It is my hope this internship will exceed their expectations.â?    

John Linnell, of Farmington, is currently a senior at Weber State University double majoring in political science and criminal justice. He is a member of the Alpha Phi Sigma Honor Society as well as the National Criminal Justice Honor Society. John served in Iraq with the Iraqi Freedom contingent and currently serves in the Utah Air National Guard. John will graduate from Weber State in May and plans on attending law school.     

Timothy Greene, of Alpine, graduated from Lone Peak High School and is currently a student at the University of Utah where he studies history with an emphasis in classical civilization. After graduating in May, Timothy plans to attend law school and specialize in international law. He hopes his experience in Washington D.C. will lay a foundation for his graduate education.     

A political science major at the University of Utah, Danielle Jaramillo comes to Washington D.C. in preparation for her own career in public service. Prior to attending the University of Utah, Danielle attended the U.S. Air Force Academy where she played on the womenâs soccer team. She has volunteered as a childrenâs soccer coach and was honored on the 2006 National Deanâs List. Danielle grew up in Orem and is a graduate of Mountain View High School.      

Matthew Hadfield is a graduate of Lehi High School, and currently attends Snow College. Matthew is the recipient of a full academic scholarship and the president of the national honors society, Phi Theta Kappa. He was also recognized on the 2006 National Deanâs List. In addition to his academic honors, Matthew is the wide receiver for the Snow College football team.      

A photo of the senator and interns is below, from left to right: John Linnell, Timothy Greene, Senator Bennett, Matthew Hadfield and Danielle Jaramillo. A higher resolution photo is available through the senator's press office.     

  # # #   


http://bennett.senate.gov/