Senate Unanimously Passes Flood Relief for Utah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
	 	âToday my Senate colleagues joined with me to unanimously support a bill that will provide critical funds for southern Utahâs continued flood relief efforts,â? said Bennett. âJust as the war in Iraq requires emergency funding by the Congress, so does the devastation caused by floods in Washington County. Iâm extremely pleased with todayâs outcome.â?		  
 	Last week Undersecretary of Agriculture Mark Rey called Bennett to personally underscore the Bush administrationâs commitment to assist with Washington County recovery needs and to promptly distribute funds to the county for the rehabilitation work along the Santa Clara and Virgin Rivers.  
 	Bennett toured the southern Utah devastation in January and met with local and state officials to determine needs of the area.  Following his visit, Bennett submitted a request for the emergency funding to be included as part of an overall emergency funding bill which was already underway. Bennett currently serves as subcommittee chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture oversees the US Department of Agriculture and its Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) program where the flood relief funds originate.   
			 	The emergency supplemental package includes $104.5 million for the EWP program including $62.8 million for Utah to help restore watersheds and stabilize riverbanks caused by the January floods. Of the $66 million damage estimate determined for Utah by USDAâs Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), $3.2 million has already been released by EWP, with the additional $62.8 million approved today is the balance of the $66 million estimate.  Also noteworthy, the bill will allow local financial and technical resources, including in-kind materials and services contributed in the immediate flood aftermath, to count toward EWPâs 25 percent local match requirement.  
 	The EWP program uses emergency measures to safeguard lives and property from floods, drought, and erosion on any watershed whenever fire, flood or any other natural occurrence is causing or has caused a sudden impairment of the watershed.  
 	The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, passed by a vote of 100-0, will now go to President Bush for signature. 							 # # #  

http://bennett.senate.gov/