  Senate Unanimously Passes Bennett and Hatch Resolution Honoring Utah Miners   WASHINGTON, D.C.  The Senate unanimously passed a resolution offered today by Utah Republican Senator Bob Bennett and Orrin Hatch honoring the sacrifice and courage of the six missing miners and three rescue workers who were killed in the Crandall Canyon Mine disaster in Huntington, Utah last month. Bennett gave the following remarks on the Senate floor this afternoon:I thank my senior colleague for the thorough and sensitive way in which he has described this Senate tribute to the families and coworkers of the miners who were killed in the Crandall Canyon Mine disaster.  I was there the day after the mine collapsed. The governor was there as well. Senator Hatch was on his way and joined us later. We welcomed the assistant secretary of labor out to Utah. We examined, with soberness and concern, the facts surrounding the situation. We were not sure whether the miners had survived. There were reservations from those who were experienced with these kinds of mine problems. They were afraid the miners had, in fact, been killed in the initial blast. But we all held out hope that they could survive and efforts were undertaken to determine whether or not they were alive. To show the ruggedness of the territory, there was no way to drill a significant hole into the mine immediately because there was no road up to the top of the mountain where the drill would have to be placed. So a smaller drill was brought in by helicopter and it drilled a two-and-a-half inch hole through roughly 1,200 feet in an attempt to find out whether we could make contact with any survivors. A road was built; a larger drill was brought in and followed the two-and-a-half inch hole with an eight-and-a-half inch hole. Neither one produced any tangible evidence that the miners had survived.  In the briefings we had from the experts onsite, we discussed what might be done further besides drilling the holes. They talked about the dangers connected with trying to dig into where the miners were. It was understood that there would be no further attempts, in terms of digging in, until the seismic activity in the mountain had stopped. The mountain would continue to shift, and as it was shifting, the experts said we would not undertake any attempt at further rescue.   I subsequently learned that they did make an attempt while the mountain was shifting. It was not a reckless attempt, although it was a heroic attempt. They believed that they had sufficient protection for the rescue workers that they could get somewhere near where the miners had been trapped and find out if they were still alive, even while the mountain was still shifting. They applied fully known and reliable means of protection for the rescuers, and then the second tragedy occurred. Even with this protection, the rescuers themselves were caught by a seismic shift in the mountain and two more miners and one mine inspector were killed, bringing the tragic total to nine. More holes were drilled, more attempts were made to find out what could be found out, but the mountain had claimed its nine lives and still has not yet yielded up any of those bodies. This double tragedy has united the mine community in Utah in the ways that Senator Hatch has described and throughout the state of Utah. Far away from the mine fields, flags were flown at half-staff as the people of our state joined together in mourning for those who had lost their lives in this tragic accident.Hearings have been held and we hope to learn as much as we possibly can and continue to work as hard as we can as a nation to see that the deaths in the mining world continue to decrease. We recognize that whatever satisfaction we take from the fact that mining deaths have decreased over the decades, that still does not lessen the tragedy for those loved ones and coworkers who have seen this kind of death occur.I am pleased to join with my colleague, Senator Hatch, in cosponsoring this resolution, and I thank the Senate for its unanimous support of the resolution, and extend, once again, my personal condolences and sympathies for all of those who are personally touched by the tragedy. We must, as a Congress, do everything that we can to see that this kind of tragedy is reduced to the point where, ultimately, it ceases to be.To read a copy of the resolution please click on the link below. # # #


      
      Open PDF Document 

http://bennett.senate.gov/