Bennett and Hatch Announce U.S. Senate Youth Program Delegates From Utah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 	âIâm so proud of Lenaye and Megan,â? Hatch said. âThe Senate Youth Program is a wonderful introduction to public service, and these two fine young women worked hard to be selected. I know they will do a great job representing our state.â?  
 	âIt is my pleasure to welcome these two bright students to Washington to learn more about the Senate and the federal government,â? said Bennett. âThis will be an invaluable experience; one that I expect will help shape many of their future goals.â?  
 	Lenaye Howard, of Smithfield, is president and extemporaneous captain of Sky View High Schoolâs debate team. She is also the oboe section leader in the wide ensemble of Sky Viewâs marching band. Megan Olsen, of Salt Lake, is the Model UN president at Brighton High School. She is also very active with the schoolâs debate team. The alternate is Orem High School student Derrick Wakamatsu.  
 	The chief education officer in each state, the District of Columbia, and the Department of Defense Education Activity â oversea schools for children of military service members and civilian employees â selected two delegates for the program. In Utah, State Superintendent Dr. Patti Harrington named the stateâs delegates. The students will be in D.C. from February 26-March 5, 2005, for a week of intensive study of the federal government and, in particular, the U.S. Senate. The operations of the Senate will be particularly stressed during the week. As in past years, arrangements are underway for the delegates to meet with cabinet members, a Supreme Court justice and several key congressional policymakers.   
	 Each of the 104 delegates will receive a $5,000 college scholarship. This scholarship, in addition to the program week in D.C., is made possible by a grant from the William Randolph Hearst Foundation.   
 	For more information, please contact Utahâs selection administrator, Pam Suâa at (801) 567-8320 or by email at pamsua@yahoo.com.   
 # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/