  Bennett's Request for Transportation and Economic Development Projects Top $120 Million     Senate Appropriations Committee OKs $100 million for Utah rail construction  WASHINGTON, D.C. The Senate Appropriations Committee today approved $120.3 million in requests by Senator Bob Bennett for Utahs roads, airports, and public transportation systems.There is no doubt that modernizing our transportation infrastructure is a wise investment and will pay huge economic dividends for Utah cities and towns, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD). Rail projects, like commuter rail and Light Rail, will help transform the future of Utahs transportation systems by reducing the number of cars on the road and helping people and commerce move through the state more safely and efficiently.The spending bill includes $118.2 million for Utah transportation projects and $2.1 million for Bennett-requested economic development initiatives. Of the transportation dollars, $80 million is designated for construction of the commuter rail project called FrontRunner, in its first phase, which will link Weber and Davis counties to Salt Lake. The new rail system will offer Utah residents a common-sense solution to highway congestion to and from Salt Lake, reducing travel time along the 44-mile corridor that parallels I-15. The Weber County-Salt Lake line will be fully operational by 2008 and is expected to carry almost 12,000 week-day passengers  an equivalent of moving nearly 6,000 cars off the roads every day. The commuter rail line will eventually stretch from Payson to Brigham City. The Bush administration has been an advocate of FrontRunner and included the funding for this project in the presidents budget request this year. In addition to the amount above, Bennett, a leader on the Senate Appropriations Committee, has secured over $28 million for the project.The bill also includes $20 million to finalize the design phase and begin preliminary engineering efforts to extend Light Rail 10 miles west from the 6400 South TRAX station through Murray, Midvale and West Jordan, and ending in South Jordan. This extension is needed to address travel demands in some of Salt Lake Countys fastest growing cities and to help meet regional air quality goals. The line will serve traditional suburban-to-city commuters, South Jordan commercial, retail and office developments and the Salt Lake Community Colleges Bangerter Campus. Construction on the line is expected to be completed by 2009. For fiscal year 2006, Bennett acquired nearly $500,000 for the initial planning process for this spur of Light Rail.Well designed transit projects, such as this one, are critical to the congestion solution and offer commuters a real alternative to local highways, said Bennett.Bennett also included the following projects in the FY2008 Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill: I-15 Bluff Street Interchange, St. George  $1 millionThese funds will continue an ongoing project to reduce congestion at the Bluff Street I-15 interchange, which currently causes serious traffic delays. Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) has started to move the southbound ramps closer to I-15 and widen Bluff Street between I-15 and Main Street, as a result improving the safety and efficiency of traffic flow at the intersection. This funding will allow UDOT to make similar improvements to the northbound side of the interstate and begin widening left-hand turn lanes on the overpass. Bennett helped secure over $4.1 million in fiscal year 2006 for this project.  St. George is one of the nations fastest growing metropolitan areas and this funding will help them manage development by addressing current transportation and traffic needs, said Bennett. I-15 Auxiliary Lanes between Kaysville and Ogdens 31st South $2 millionFunding will be used to add auxiliary lanes and make ramp improvements at key interchanges along a 13-mile stretch on I-15. Studies by UDOT, the Utah Transit Authority, and the Wasatch Front Regional Council recommended these additional lanes between busy interchanges as a means to relieve congestion, increase overall capacity of I-15, reduce travel time during peak flow, and improve safety. Multilateration Air Traffic Surveillance, Provo $1 million The funding will be used for preliminary site analysis and construction of a satellite-based radar system to improve landing conditions at the Provo Municipal Airport. Because of Provos mountainous region, the airport requires unique radar coverage and this state of the art system will provide a safe and cost-effective solution. Bennett also included a provision in the bill that directs the Federal Aviation Administration to continue working towards a permanent solution to address the unique topographical challenges of the region. 500 South in Bountiful Widening   $1 millionUDOT is currently working to widen 500 South in Bountiful from I-15 to 1100 West. The funding is needed to continue that expansion from 1100 West to Redwood Road.Intermodal Facilities   $6 million UTA and several larger Utah cities are implementing a network of transportation terminals located near major regional park and ride lots. This funding will extend TRAX from the current end of the line at the Arena Station in downtown Salt Lake City to the Gateway Intermodal Hub between 200 and 300 South on 600 West. The extension will allow passengers using FrontRunner commuter rail (operational in 2008, see above) to easily transfer to TRAX. Three stations will be built along the extension  one at the Gateway Intermodal Hub, a second at 100 South and 400 West adjacent to the Gateway and a third station at 500 West and 200 South. The funding will also continue environmental design of the West Valley City Intermodal HUB. These terminals provide connections to local and intercity bus service, rail commuter, and TRAX Light Rail systems. Over the past four years, Bennett has secured over $7.6 million for this type of funding.Bear River Access Road Forest Street Improvements $1.25 millionThe Bear River Access Road provides the public access to the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge in Brigham City, which is operated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Most of the 12.4 mile road was destroyed in 1983 and 1984 by extreme flooding from the Great Salt Lake and Bear River. Funds are needed to make improvements to the access road used by tourists visiting the refuge. Bennett has secured $750,000 through the Federal Lands Highway Program Account for the road. Provo/ Orem Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) $6 millionThe 8.7 mile bus rapid transit line, with 14 stops, will connect Orem and Provo with one system. A combination of mixed traffic and exclusive BRT lanes is proposed for this project, and will allow travel between the Orem Intermodal Center, Utah Valley College, Brigham Young University and the Provo Intermodal Center. Bennett provided $500,000 for this project in the fiscal year 2006 TTHUD Appropriations Bill. Smithfield Municipal Complex  $750,000Smithfield City has planned for several years to develop a new municipal office complex with hopes that it will foster a greater sense of community and improve the efficiency of the city government. The funding will replace the current outdated center, which was originally a car repair shop constructed in 1905, with the new office building that will be wired properly for current technology. North Sevier Area Senior Citizen Center and Civic Center, Salina  $750,000Salinas current Senior Citizen and Community Center is over 100 years old and is in need of repairs to accommodate safety and disability regulations. The new center will accommodate over 5,000 residents in the area and has received broad support from the community, including a land donation by the American Legion. Senior citizens, youth groups, Meals on Wheels, American Legion, and other private, nonprofit organizations in the area will benefit from the new facility.Herriman City Renovation Project  $200,000The City of Herriman plans to purchase and completely restore the James Crane House, Kidd Cabin, and the first local blacksmith shop to their original state, which date back to the mid-1800s. The city plans to document the pioneer heritage and history of the region through the preservation of these buildings in their community. The city has found significant local funding to help with the project and will provide a 50 percent match to federal dollars.Eagle Mountain Pony Express Park, Eagle Mountain City   $400,000These funds will complete the first construction phase to build youth and adult recreation facilities at the Pony Express Park in Eagle Mountain. The city hopes the park development will promote community unification and serve as an economic magnet to stimulate commercial and private investment to improve the citys commercial tax base. The city will eventually expand the development and build a high school and city hall adjacent to the park.  The spending measure is now placed on the Senate calendar and will be considered at a later date. Once passed by the Senate, the House and Senate will have to work out the differences between the two bills before voting on final passage. # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/