Utah Students Join Sen. Bennett's Office for Summer Internships                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

	âIt is always a pleasure to welcome Utah students to a semester in Washington. My staff and I value the great work they do and recognize their contributions to the people of Utah,â? said Bennett. âThey will see firsthand the business of the Congress, an experience that I hope will be a highlight of their academic careers.â?    
  	A recent graduate of Dixie State College, Spanish Forkâs Stanton Roseman was an active member of the student body. He was the editor-in-chief of the college newspaper, The Dixie Sun, and also actively involved with various groups on campus including the Campus-to-Community Service Committee, the Publications Committee, and the Student Advisory Council. Stanton is the recipient of the Kip Bowler Scholarship and twice received the Dixie Spirit Award.     
  	Ogden native Anna Rabe is a recent graduate of Weber State University (WSU), where she earned a degree in communication. During her time at WSU, she was a member of Lambda Pi Eta, the communication honor society, and has written for the university newspaper, The Signpost. Anna, a graduate of Ogden High School, also completed an internship with the Davis Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, where she worked on administrative and communications projects.        
	Brigham Young University (BYU) honor student John Gochnour will graduate in December of 2006 with a degree in political science. While at BYU, he has served as the Student Association activity director and also on the College of Family, Home, and  Social Sciences alumni relations committee. After completing his internship for Senator Bennett and university studies, he plans to attend law school. John is a native of Burley, Idaho.     
  	Kami Capener, of Riverside, is an honor student at Utah State University, where she earned the distinction of being a presidential scholar. With a double-major in journalism and political science, she hopes to one day become a political news correspondent. Kami spent a semester abroad in France, studying French language and culture. She is a graduate of Bear River High School.     
  	Photo of the interns with Sen. Bennett is available by clicking on the pdf document below. From left to right: Stanton Roseman, Anna Rabe, Senator Bob Bennett, Kami Capener, and John Gochnour.    
# # # 


      
      Open PDF Document 

http://bennett.senate.gov/