  Bennett Delivers Over $120 Million for Utah Transportation and Economic Development Projects     Senate approval includes $100 million for Utah rail construction  WASHINGTON, D.C. Today the Senate approved, by a vote of 88-7, $120.3 million in requests by Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) to improve Utahs roads, airports, and public transportation systems, including construction of commuter rail along the Wasatch Front.Without question, todays vote in the Senate helps us stay on track toward completion of much-needed transportation projects throughout the state, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD). Projects like Light Rail and FrontRunner mark huge milestones and advancements in linking Utah communities together and easing traffic congestion along the Wasatch Front. The FY2008 Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill includes $118.2 million for Utah transportation projects and $2.1 million for economic development initiatives secured by Bennett. Of the transportation dollars, $80 million is designated for first-phase construction of the commuter rail project called FrontRunner, which will link Weber and Davis Counties to Salt Lake City. The new rail system will offer Utah residents an alternative to traditional vehicle travel, thereby reducing commute time along the 44-mile corridor that parallels I-15. Earlier this month, the final weld on the Weber County-Salt Lake portion of the rail was completed. It is expected to be fully operational by 2008 and will carry almost 12,000 week day passengers  an equivalent of moving nearly 6,000 cars off the roads each day. The commuter rail line will eventually stretch from Payson to Brigham City. Bennett is a strong proponent of commuter rail and worked closely with the Bush administration to secure a full funding grant agreement for the FrontRunner project last June. In addition to the amount above, Bennett, a leader on the Senate Appropriations Committee, has secured over $28 million for the project.The bill includes $20 million to finanlize the design phase and begin preliminary engineering efforts to extend Light Rail 10 miles west from the 6400 South TRAX station through Murray, Midvale and West Jordan, and ending in South Jordan. This extension is needed to address travel demands in some of Salt Lake Countys fastest growing cities and to help meet regional air quality goals. The line will serve traditional suburban-to-city commuters, South Jordan commercial, retail and office developments and the Salt Lake Community Colleges Bangerter Campus. Construction on the line is expected to be completed by 2009. Two years ago, Bennett acquired nearly $500,000 for the initial planning process for this spur of Light Rail.Well designed transit projects, such as this one, will give commuters in the growing communities of Salt Lake County a real alternative to local highways, said Bennett.Bennett also included the following projects in the spending measure: I-15 Bluff Street Interchange, St. George  $1 millionThese funds will support an ongoing project at the Bluff Street I-15 interchange aimed at reducing current traffic delays. Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) has started to move the southbound ramps closer to I-15 and widen Bluff Street between I-15 and Main Street, as a result improving the safety and efficiency of traffic flow at the intersection. This funding will allow UDOT to make similar improvements to the northbound side of the interstate and begin widening left-hand turn lanes on the overpass. Bennett helped secure over $4.1 million in 2005 for this project.  St. George and its surrounding communities are dealing with a number of growing pains, and transportation is just one of their challenges. This funding should help ease congestion in one of the areas busiest intersections, said Bennett. I-15 Auxiliary Lanes between Kaysville and Ogdens 31st South $2 millionFunding will be used to add auxiliary lanes and make ramp improvements at key interchanges along a 13-mile stretch on I-15. Studies by UDOT, the Utah Transit Authority, and the Wasatch Front Regional Council recommended these additional lanes as a means to relieve congestion, increase overall capacity of I-15, reduce travel time during peak flow, and improve safety along well-traveled intersections. Multilateration Air Traffic Surveillance, Provo$1 million The funding will be used for preliminary site analysis and construction of a satellite-based radar system to improve landing conditions at the Provo Municipal Airport. Because of Provos mountainous region, the airport requires unique radar coverage and this state of the art system will provide a safe and cost-effective solution. Bennett also included a provision in the bill that directs the Federal Aviation Administration to continue working towards a permanent solution to address the unique topographical challenges of the region. 500 South in Bountiful Widening   $1 millionUDOT is currently working to widen 500 South in Bountiful from I-15 to 1100 West. This funding is needed to continue that expansion from 1100 West to Redwood Road.Intermodal Facilities$6 millionUTA and several larger Utah cities are implementing a network of transportation terminals located near major regional park and ride lots. This funding will extend TRAX from the current end of the line at the Arena Station in downtown Salt Lake City to the Gateway Intermodal Hub between 200 and 300 South on 600 West. The extension will allow passengers using FrontRunner commuter rail (operational in 2008, see above) to easily transfer to TRAX. Three stations will be built along the extension  one at the Gateway Intermodal Hub, a second at 100 South and 400 West adjacent to the Gateway and a third station at 500 West and 200 South. The funding will also continue environmental design of the West Valley City Intermodal HUB. These terminals provide connections to local and intercity bus service, commuter rail, and TRAX systems. Over the past four years, Bennett has secured over $7.6 million for these projects.Bear River Access Road Forest Street Improvements $1.25 millionThe Bear River Access Road provides the public access to the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge in Brigham City, which is operated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Most of the 12.4 mile road was destroyed in 1983 and 1984 by extreme flooding from the Great Salt Lake and Bear River. Funds are needed to make improvements to the access road used by tourists visiting the refuge. Bennett has secured $750,000 in the past through the Federal Lands Highway Program for the road. Provo/ Orem Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) $6 millionThe 8.7 mile BRT line will connect Orem and Provo through a combination of mixed traffic and exclusive BRT lanes. The route will have 14 stops and travel between the Orem Intermodal Center, Utah Valley College, Brigham Young University and the Provo Intermodal Center. Bennett provided $500,000 for this project in 2005. Smithfield Municipal Complex  $750,000Smithfield City has planned for several years to develop a new municipal office complex with hopes that it will foster a greater sense of community and improve the efficiency of the city government. The funding will replace the current outdated center, which was originally a car repair shop constructed in 1905, with the new office building that will be wired properly for current technology. North Sevier Area Senior Citizen Center and Civic Center, Salina  $750,000Salinas current Senior Citizen and Community Center is over 100 years old and is in need of repairs to accommodate safety and disability regulations. The new center will accommodate over 5,000 residents in the area and has received broad support from the community, including a land donation by the American Legion. Senior citizens, youth groups, Meals on Wheels, American Legion, and other private, nonprofit organizations in the area will benefit from the new facility. For additional information, please contact Duane Brown at (435) 529-7308. Herriman City Renovation Project  $200,000The City of Herriman plans to purchase and completely restore the James Crane House, Kidd Cabin, and the first local blacksmith shop to their original state, which date back to the mid-1800s. The city plans to document the pioneer heritage and history of the region through the preservation of these buildings in their community. The city has found significant local funding to help with the project and will provide a 50 percent match to federal dollars. For addition information please contact Mayor J. Lynn Crane at (801) 446-5323. Eagle Mountain Pony Express Park, Eagle Mountain City   $400,000These funds will complete the first construction phase to build youth and adult recreation facilities at the Pony Express Park in Eagle Mountain. The city hopes the park development will promote community unification and serve as an economic magnet to stimulate commercial and private investment to improve the citys commercial tax base. The city will eventually expand the development and build a high school and city hall adjacent to the park. For additional information please contact Mayor Don Richardson at (801) 789-6603. House and Senate conferees will now meet to reconcile the differences between the two versions of the bill. After the conference, both chambers will vote on the conference report and it will be sent to the president. # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/