Senator Bennett Accepting Online Applications for Military Academies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  Bennett창s website now includes a Senate-developed online tool that allows students requesting service academy nominations to electronically compile, manage, and transmit their applications to the senator.    

창Each year we see outstanding applicants who represent some of the best and brightest of today창s young people. No doubt this technologically savvy generation will appreciate the ease and efficiency of online application submission," said Bennett.    

Applicants must be legal Utah residents and United States citizens, at least 17 years of age but not past their 23nd birthday as of July 1, 2007, and unmarried with no children or other legal dependents.    

Because the process can be lengthy, interested applicants should make their initial inquiries well in advance of the October 16, 2006 application deadline. Bennett창s office will hold interviews late this year in Salt Lake City and will submit nominations to the academies in January, 2007.    

Applicants must also apply directly to the academy or academies of their choice. Academy inquiry cards are available through high school counselors, academy liaison officers, and from Bennett's office.    
  Bennett said his selection criteria will include SAT/ACT scores, class rank, GPA, school records, teacher and counselor evaluations, extracurricular and athletic activities, leadership potential, and motivation.    

Application information is available at bennett.senate.gov, or from Senator Bennett's office, 4225 Federal Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84138, (801) 524-5933.    
  # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/