  Utah Vietnam Veteran Reunites With Families Of Soldiers Who Saved His Life     Senator Bennett helps obtain medals for fallen soldiers  

  Sanchez searched for nearly 10 years for the families of Specialist 4 Rudolph Renteria and Sergeant Adolfo Moreno - the two soldiers who saved his life in 1968 - and finally located them in 2005 and 2006. Coincidentally, Sanchez learned that both families had lost each soldier's medals from the Vietnam War, one in a burglary and the other in a fire. On Saturday, Senator Bob Bennett will join Major General Peter S. Cooke of the 96th Regional Readiness Command to present the replacement medals to the families (see attached list) - Renteria's medals will be presented to his niece Rachel, and Moreno's medals to his 92-year old father Felix and nephew Israel Cortez. Moreno's family will also accept the Purple Heart posthumously.       

  "This reunion is a wonderful opportunity for these three families to celebrate the lives of Sergeant Moreno and Specialist 4 Renteria. These two soldiers offered the greatest sacrifice on that August day in 1968 and it is entirely appropriate that we recognize them in this way," said Bennett who worked with the National Personnel Records Center to help Sanchez locate the replacement medals. "I commend Mr. Sanchez for his tireless efforts to make this reunion happen."     

  On August 27, 1968, then-Specialist 4 Sanchez's infantry unit was operating in Vietnam's Binh Duong Province and encountered hostile fire.  Sanchez watched in horror as a live grenade landed nearby and two of his friends, Moreno and Renteria, simultaneously lunged for the grenade, each attempting to pick up and throw it away from the squad.  Unfortunately, the grenade exploded killing both men. Sanchez, partially shielded from the explosion by his friends, was blown into a tree.  He sustained injuries for which he was awarded the Purple Heart. On Saturday, Sanchez will finally receive the original certificate for this medal.    

  Sanchez served in the Army from 1967 to 1970 and in the Colorado and Utah National Guard from 1973 to 1998, including two tours of duty during the First Gulf War.  He is an Honor Guard member, and attends funerals and plays "Taps" as a final farewell tribute to the deceased veteran.     

  # # #   

 Sgt. Adolfo Moreno       Born: June 9, 1948    Tour began: Nov. 21, 1967  Killed in action: August 27, 1968 -  Binh Duong, South Vietnam  Company B, 2nd Battalion, 16th Infantry, 2nd Brigade, 1st Infantry Division    

   Sgt. Moreno's Purple Heart medal will be awarded posthumously to his father, Felix Moreno and nephew, Israel Cortez.     

  Replacements of the following medals will also be awarded to the family:   
	National Defense Service Medal  	Vietnam Service Medal and Bronze Star Attachment (single) 	Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award  	Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon w/Device  	Expert Badge and Machine Gun Bar  
 



 Sgt. Rudolph S. Renteria     Born: November 17, 1946   Tour began: October 27, 1967  Killed in action: August 27, 1968 - Binh Duong, South Vietnam  Company B, 2nd Battalion, 16th Infantry, 2nd Brigade, 1st Infantry Division     Sgt. Renteria's replacement medals will be awarded to his niece Rachel Renteria.     
Replacements of medals include:   
	Purple Heart  	Distinguished Service Cross  	Bronze Star Medal with 1 bronze oak leaf cluster with letter "V" device  	Good Conduct Medal  	National Defense Service Medal  	Vietnam Service Medal with 3 bronze service stars  	Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award  	Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon W/Device (1960) 	Expert Badge with Rifle Bar  	Marksman Badge  



http://bennett.senate.gov/




http://bennett.senate.gov/