  Bennett to be the Next Senate Rules Committee Ranking Member     Senator will retain seat on Appropriations, Banking, and JEC  

	âThe Rules Committee provides a unique opportunity to not only work on legislative reform like lobbying and campaign finance, but also issues important to help the Senate, as an institution, run smoothly,â? said Bennett.    

	Both Republican and Democrat leaders in the House and Senate have signaled that lobbying reform will be one of the first pieces of legislation debated in the 110th Congress. The Rules Committee has jurisdiction over this reform, along with voter reform, the Capitol complex, Senate technology infrastructure, presidential inauguration and campaign finance reform. Both McConnell and Bennett were major players during the campaign finance reform debate of 2001 and 2002.     

âIt is clear that lobbying reform will be a top agenda item next year and I look forward to working with Chairman Feinstein and others on the committee to address this important issue,â? said Bennett. âA citizenâs ability to petition the government is a constitutional right, and I fully expect the committee to protect that right while safeguarding against fraud and corruption.â?    

	In addition to the Rules Committee, Bennett will remain a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senate Banking Committee and the Joint Economic Committee. Traditionally, appropriations assignments are announced in January or February. It is expected that Bennett will be ranking member on one of the subcommittees.    

Bennett will also have a seat on the Republican leadership team as counsel to McConnell. As counsel, Bennett will advise the leader on legislative strategy and policy, help set the Senate Republican agenda, and attend all leadership meetings. This is Bennettâs second leadership position, having served as chief deputy majority whip to McConnell during the 108th and 109th Congresses.    

For more information about the Senate Rules Committee, please visit www.rules.senate.gov.     

  # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/