Appropriations Subcommittee Gives Bennett Projects the OK for $98.3 Million                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Atlas Tailings Site Gets $28 Million for Cleanup Effort                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  	âThrough funds provided in this bill, rural communities throughout the state will now have the resources to upgrade or replace current water infrastructures and better meet residentsâ needs,â? said Bennett. âThis bill also provides significant funds for the development of new energy technologies, which will ultimately help reduce our nationâs dependence on foreign oil.â?    
  	This year the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill provides $28 million requested by Bennett for continued cleanup of the Atlas Mill Tailings site, which contains 11.8 million tons of contaminated mill tailings and debris, groundwater and properties in Moab. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, Bennett has secured millions of federal dollars for the remediation of the site and has advocated expediting the effort.     
  	âThis is another positive step forward in the effort to permanently move the tailings. Iâm pleased with the continued support of the administration and my colleagues for this project,â? said Bennett.    
  	Earlier this year the Department of Energy announced that its preferred alternative, as part of the draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), is to move the tailings pile to a permanent disposal site away from the Colorado River. The final EIS is expected to be completed later this year.      
  	The site is of particular public interest due to its unique setting on the Colorado River. As the pile continues to leach contaminants to the river through the groundwater, concerns rise over the potential impact on endangered native fish species critical habitat, the environment, and downstream water users. Public interest is also heightened by the site's proximity to a Nature Conservancy wetlands preserve and its shared boundary with Arches National Park.    
  	Other Bennett-requested projects in the spending bill include:   		    
$10 million Rural Utah 595 Water Program    
This program, in its second year, will significantly help a number of Utah rural communities with water infrastructure improvements. Last year Bennett secured $1 million for the program, which provided grants to Moroni, Richmond, Uintah County and Kane County. At least two dozen communities have contacted the Army Corps of Engineers with interest in water projects for this year.    

$34.35 million Central Utah Project (CUP)    
Supports ongoing projects of the Central Utah Water Conservancy District, the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission, and the Department of the Interior relating to the CUP.    

$1.75 million Utah Center for Heavy Oil Research at the University of Utah    
As one of the richest sources of hydrocarbons in the world, Uinta Basin has an estimated 230 billion barrels of oil shale in place. This funding supports the development of a comprehensive plan for the production and subsequent upgrading of hydrocarbon resources and efforts toward commercialization of this technology. The Center will focus on the commercial potential of oil sands, oil shale and coal resource deposits in concert with the Utah Geological Survey and USGS.    

$100,000 Southern Utah Watershed Study	    
After the devastating floods earlier this year in southern Utah, the state of Utah requested that the Army Corps  perform a general investigation study. This will fund the reconnaissance phase of that study, which includes investigating for flood damage reduction, ecosystem restoration and other purposes.     

$6.7 million Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission     
Funds are included to offset the adverse impacts to fish and wildlife resources resulting from the development and operation of federal reclamation projects throughout the state of Utah. Central Utah Project Completion Act mandated a statewide mitigation program.     

$500,000 Rural Water Technology Alliance    
This funding will be used for irrigation modernization research and development. Several water conservancy districts in the state are presently working with the Alliance on this program.        

$2.5 million Endangered Species Recovery Implementation Program, Upper Colorado Region    
To implement the Upper Colorado River Endangered Fish Recovery Program.    

$500,000 Snyderville Basin and Park City Reclamation Feasibility Study    
Continues the ongoing feasibility study for the importation of water to the Snyderville Basin and Park City, Utah. Bennett has secured $750,000 over the last two fiscal years for the project.    

$2 million Utah Center for Ultra-Clean Coal Utilization at the University of Utah    
This funding will support the Centerâs project to coordinate research functions among its private and public sector partners to address issues related to the development of carbon capture and sequestration technologies that can be retrofitted to existing coal fired plants, particularly those in the western states.  	    
  $400,000 Center for River Dynamics and Restoration at Utah State University    
The proposed Center would integrate the sciences of river ecology, hydrology, hydraulics, sediment transport, and streams and the processes that create and maintain aquatic habitats and affect the quantity and quality of water that flow from Utahâs mountain watersheds.     

$671,000 Army Corps of Engineers    
Funds will be used to continue maintenance of Army Corps projects in Utah.    

$9.4 million Bureau of Reclamation    
Funds will continue operation, maintenance, and management of Weber Basin, Hyrum, Newton, Moon Lake, Provo River, Scofield, Ogden River, and Strawberry Valley water projects.   			    
  $1 million Brigham City Wind Energy Project    
This project would help the city harness the wind potential located at the mouth of Sardine Canyon, and utilize this power through development of a wind energy turbine project.    

$500,000 Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development at Utah State University    
Funding would continue research on the economic impact of wind power and other renewable energy sources, and engage in outreach to rural users through Utah State University.  							  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/