  Senate Rules Committee to Hold Smithsonian Oversight Hearing  
  Hearing scheduled for April 18 at 10 a.m.  


Date: Wednesday, April 18   Time: 10:00 a.m.   Location: Committee on Rules and Administration; 301 Russell Senate Office Building     

"The Smithsonian is one of the premier institutions in the world. Our committee is committed to ensuring that its Administration maintains the public trust," Senator Feinstein said. "This hearing comes in the wake of reports by the Smithsonian's Inspector General which have raised questions about the Smithsonian's salary and spending practices."    

"In recent years, the Smithsonian has opened several new museums, including the American Art Museum/Portrait Gallery, the American Indian Museum and the Udvar-Hazy Center and plans are now underway for its 19th museumâthe National Museum of African American History and Culture. This is a great accomplishment," Senator Feinstein said. "But serious issues remain - including the deterioration of its physical plant and a huge backlog in maintenance and capital improvement requirements. It is imperative that we develop a better working partnership between the Smithsonian and Congress."    

  Senator Bennett said, "For more than 160 years the people of the United States, scholars and visitors from around the world have benefited from the Smithsonian Institution. In addition to its vast collections of art, historic artifacts and specimens, the Smithsonian is one of the world's preeminent research institutions, contributing greatly to our understanding of science and the world around us."     

  "I recognize that many of the facilities administered by the Smithsonian have become a part of our history themselves - some dating back more than 100 years. Bringing museum and research buildings up to current code standards is a serious matter that must be addressed in addition to its day-to-day activities. I look forward to working with Chairman Feinstein and the Smithsonian Institution's administration to ensure that federal funds are applied in the most cost-effective way possible," said Bennett.    


Those invited to testify include:     

Smithsonian Secretary, Lawrence Small;   Chairman of the Regents' Executive Committee, Roger Sant; and   Inspector General, A. Sprightly Ryan.     

The U.S. Senate Rules and Administration Committee has oversight responsibilities for the Smithsonian Institution. In addition to her position on this committee,    

Senator Feinstein is chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, which is responsible for Smithsonian public funding. Senator Bennett is a member of the same subcommittee.    

  ###   

http://bennett.senate.gov/