Four Utah Students Begin Fall Internships with Senator Bennett                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  	âI am always delighted to have these bright students join my Washington D.C. office for a semester,â? said Bennett. âThey are a tremendous asset to my staff and we will do everything we can to make this experience a good learning opportunity.â?    
      Kalista Francom, of Price, studies social work and political science at Weber State University. Before her Bennett internship, Kalista was chosen by the Posters on the Hill program from a pool of nearly 300 applicants from across the nation to come to Capitol Hill and present her undergraduate research on the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA). Inspired by her Native American grandparents, Kalista hopes to help Native American families with child welfare issues.      
  Sandy resident Michael Steck is a student at the University of Utah where he studies political science. Michael, a Utah Army National Guard chaplain assistant, shares a unique connection with Bennett, who once served as a National Guard chaplain. As a U.S. Army veteran, Michael will help the Bennett staff with veterans and defense issues.  After graduating next spring, Michael will pursue a law degree and a public service career.       
  Smithfield native Nick West studies law and constitutional studies at Utah State University (USU).  Nick helped the USU debate team win the conference championshipâa position USU has held for two consecutive years.  He began participating in debate at Sky View High School and most recently won the parliamentary debate at the Great Salt Lake Invitational.  Nick would like to attend law school and one day run for political office.      
  Jake Wirth of Orem is an honors student at Brigham Young University where he studies political science. Jake is the recipient of the Edwin S. Hinckley scholarship, which is awarded to the top student from each department who exemplifies outstanding commitment to service and academic excellence. After completing his internship with Bennett and undergraduate work, he plans to continue his education in public policy.      
   	A photo of the senator and interns is below, from left to right: Kalista Francom, Michael Steck, Senator Bennett, Nick West and Jake Wirth. A higher resolution photo is available through the senator's press office.    
# # # 


http://bennett.senate.gov/