Bennett and Hatch Applaud DOE for Final Decision to Move Moab Tailings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  	Today, the DOE Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management, Jim Rispoli, officially signed the Record of Decision, which specifies that the department will implement a plan to relocate the tailings.    
  	âI commend the administration for its commitment to move the tailing pile to a permanent and secure location away from the banks of the Colorado River,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, who has secured approximately $50 million, including $28 million in this yearâs Energy and Water appropriations bill, for the ground water and tailings remediation. âThis process will take many years. But we remain committed to this effort, and will continue to seek funding to ensure it moves forward in a timely manner.â?    
  		âWeâve fought hard for this for a long time, and we worked closely with officials in Moab and the Department of Energy to get this done,â? said Hatch, who has sent letters to and made a series of personal visits with DOE officials, including the Secretary of Energy Sam Bodman, and also urged Senator Domenici (R-N.M.) to continue funding. âI visited the site with Grand County Council member Joette Langianese in April, and I committed to her that weâll continue fighting to ensure we have the funds necessary to move the pile expeditiously.â?    
  	"Senators Hatch, Bennett and Governor Huntsman have been tremendous and effective advocates for the removal of these tailings from the banks of the Colorado River," Secretary Bodman said. âTheir collective efforts have helped to secure millions of dollars for this project, but more importantly, the environmental health and quality of the Colorado River for generations to come."    
	  	In February, the Utah congressional delegation sent a letter to Secretary of Energy Sam Bodman urging him to choose an alternative that would move the tailings away from the Colorado River, a critical water supply for Utah and its surrounding states. DOE announced in April that its preferred alternative was to indeed move the tailings pile to an offsite location, away from the river. This alternative became part of the final EIS, issued on July 25, 2005.    
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/