  Bennett Says Nearly $100 Million On the Way For Utah Military Installations   

	"These funds are critical to help ensure the safety and effectiveness of the equipment and facilities at Hill." said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "The continued commitment by Congress and the administration to invest in Hill demonstrates its valuable role in our Armed Forces."    

	In addition to the $87 million requested by the Bush administration, the Fiscal Year 2007 Military Construction, Military Quality of Life, and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act also included Bennett's $10 million request to replace two 1940s wooden warehouses. These warehouses have fallen into serious disrepair and no longer safely meet the needs of their function at HAFB. The warehouses are storage facilities for parts and equipment critical to the mission of Hill's Air Logistics Center and maintenance of the base.    

   	Below are additional Utah projects included in this spending bill.    

 Michael Army Airfield Runway Phase 3, Dugway Proving Ground  $14.4 million  
Funds will be used for the final phase of construction of a new 11,000-foot by 150-foot Class B runway, which will also act as an emergency landing field for HAFB.    
 Software Support Facility, HAFB	  $20 million  
The Software Engineering Division at HAFB develops, tests, and maintains software and related hardware for weapon systems and is the only one of its kind at its level in the Defense Department. Its mission includes work on the Air Force's F-16, B-1B, B-52, C-17, A-10, Minuteman and Peacekeeper weapons systems.    
 Armament Overhaul Facility, HAFB	  $7.4 million  
 F/A-22 Fueled Composite Aircraft Overhaul/Test Facility, HAFB		  $26 million  

 Total Army School System Barracks, Phase I, Camp Williams			            $19.688 million  
  	House and Senate conferees will now meet in a conference committee to reconcile the differences between the two versions of the bill. After conference, both chambers will vote on the conference report passage and the bill will be sent to the president.    
 # # #  

http://bennett.senate.gov/