UTTR-PFS Provision Included in Final Defense Bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Language Protects Test and Training Range and  Impedes PFS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
	Years in the making, the language came from a bill introduced by Congressman Rob Bishop and co-sponsored by fellow Utah Representatives Chris Cannon and Jim Matheson.  It was shepherded through the Senate by Utah Senators Orrin Hatch and Bob Bennett.     
	âThis bill is a good example of what can be accomplished when groups and individuals work together,â? said Rep. Rob Bishop.  âWe have made major progress on defending the range with over-flight protection.  We have created wilderness the right way.  We have moved forward in the effort to prevent nuclear spent fuel rods from reaching the Goshute Reservation.  We have put another nail in the coffin of PFS, but PFS is not dead.  So we must work until it is.â?    
	âIâm grateful to former Congressman Hansen who first came up with this concept.  Credit must be given to Senator Bennett, Senator Reid and Governor Huntsman for creating the opening for this deal and to Senator Hatch and Senator Ensign for closing this deal.  Our entire delegation has worked tirelessly together, with heavy involvement from Congressman Matheson and Congressman Cannon.  We also appreciate the way the entire Nevada delegation and House Leadership has worked with us, and the support we received in this effort from various environmental groups, including the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance,â? Bishop added.    
	Senator Bob Bennett said, "Today's agreement raises an important roadblock to PFS and provides a more secure future for the UTTR. It is the result of efforts of a united delegation and our governor working with Sens. Warner, Reid and Ensign and a changed dynamic in the Senate.   	"While this strikes a further blow to the viability of PFS, we can't relax. We will remain vigilant and active in pursuing all other avenues available to us," Bennett added.    
	âWe have worked very hard together for a number of years to deliver this big win for Utah, and, I might add, this is a very serious blow to PFS,â? Hatch said. âCongressman Bishop is Utahâs hero for putting us in a position to get this win. Now we can focus on finding solutions to our nationâs nuclear spent fuel problem that are reasonable and safe.â?    
	Congressman Cannon added, "This is a significant step for our state. Our entire delegation has been working on this, but there is still a lot of work yet to be done. We're not going to stop until we kill this thing once and for all."    
	The measure, originally named the Utah Test and Training Range Protection Act, consists of three main components.  First, it helps guarantee the ability of the military to use the airspace over the range, ensuring continued military readiness and national security.  Second, it blocks potential attempts to build a rail spur on federal lands near the range and the Goshute reservation, thus hampering the nuclear waste storage facility from being built.   Other routes still exist.  And third, the plan designates roughly 100,000 acres of land as wilderness in the Cedar Mountain area of the range.    
	The language will now be included in the final version of the annual Defense Authorization Bill, and should be voted on soon by both Houses of Congress where it is expected to pass easily.  The president has indicated he will then sign it into law.    
# # #    
CONTACT:   Scott Parker, Bishop, 202-225-0453, 202-225-5100  Peter Carr, Hatch, 202-224-9854  Mary Jane Collipriest, Bennett, 202-224-5444  Charles Isom, Cannon, 202-225-7751 

http://bennett.senate.gov/