  Critical Utah Water Projects Get Additional $25 Million Boost Under Bennett Provision    

              "This program has been extremely successful in Utah, helping our small communities develop cleaner water supplies and construct new water projects that would not have been possible without these funds," said Bennett. "There is no doubt the $25 million we passed today will have an enormous impact on our state."    

            In 2003 Bennett first authored legislation that created the Utah Environmental Infrastructure and Resource Protection and Development Program and authorized the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to use up to $25 million to help develop local water systems in small communities. The new program was established as an amendment to Section 595 of WRDA and applies to all counties outside the Wasatch Front and St. George. Today's vote will secure an additional $25 million for the Utah portion of the program.     

Each year Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, includes the Section 595 funds in the annual Energy and Water Appropriations Act. Since 2005, Congress has appropriated $11 million for Utah cities and towns. Localities contribute 25 percent of the total project costs, while the federal share covers 75 percent. Federal funds are used for design and construction of Section 595 projects including renovation or construction of wastewater treatment facilities, drinking water supply, environmental restoration and surface water resource protection and development. The local sponsor is responsible for 100 percent of the operation, maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, and replacement costs associated with the completed construction project.     

  The $25 million authorized by the Senate today was not included in the House-passed WRDA, and therefore must be included in the bill's final conference report. Once Congress passes this report, the president will have to sign it before it becomes law.    


  # # #   


http://bennett.senate.gov/