Bennettâs $3.5 Million Passes Final Hurdle in Senate, Bill Now Goes to the President                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Includes $600,000 for Fighting Meth in the Uinta Basin, Salt Lake City                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  	âUtah remains one of the top five states in the U.S. for meth production per capita. This is a discouraging statistic and something we must continue to address,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. âFor seven years I have worked to help fund Utahâs fight against this growing and serious problem. I am pleased Congress continues to support this effort.â?    
  	Through the Fiscal Year 2006 Science, State, Justice, Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, Bennett secured $400,000 for the Uinta Basin to assist local law enforcement officials with meth-related requests and to purchase body-worn transmitters, communications devices, surveillance equipment, and mobile cameras. This is the first time the area has received federal assistance to fight this skyrocketing drug problem.    
  	Since 1998, Bennett has secured nearly $6 million for local law enforcement agencies in 23 Utah counties. This funding is important to help ease the burden meth investigations have on rural countiesâ limited budgets. Eastern Utah is particularly susceptible to these problems because of its proximity to major highways known for drug trafficking, and because criminals can establish meth labs in remote areas not frequently patrolled by law enforcement.    
  	The bill also includes $200,000 for the Salt Lake City Methamphetamine Initiative,  established in 1998 and funded with federal Department of Justice grants. Bennettâs request this year will help establish the online Utah Training Center. Using the Internet, individuals can take online courses and receive certifications from universities and colleges partnered with the Center. A portion of the money will also be used for a public campaign to increase awareness of the Center.    
  	Additional Bennett-requested projects in the appropriations bill include:    
Space Dynamic Laboratory (SDL) at Utah State University (USU) -- $1 million The quality of scientific data collected during NASA and DoD space missions is directly related to how well sensors are calibrated. SDL uses improved âradiometricâ? calibration to increase understanding of sensor performance. The lab will develop the equipment and processes to transfer National Institute of Standards and Technology data to working calibration sources used for NASA and DoD missions.     
  	âIâm continually impressed with the employees at SDL and the important research they conduct. Iâm pleased to be able to offer the lab more support for its mission through this funding,â? said Bennett.    
Digital Image Archive Center -- $750,000 This Center processes and disseminates historic and contemporary remotely-sensed images, which are available to state and federal land management agencies. Funds will be used for research, design, and infrastructure for a regional Internet archive and CD-ROM, and research and education program personnel.    
Real-Time Monitoring and Notification System -- $250,000 This project will fund the creation of a statewide data sharing system that allows local, state, and federal officials to see information as it is entered by the dispatcher answering an emergency call. By permitting real-time monitoring and notification, as well as the efficient sharing of records among public agencies, this system will enable Utah officials to respond more effectively to emergencies.    
Northern Utah Fiber Optic Redundancy Program -- $250,000 Because Northern Utah does not have fiber optic redundancy, its residents, USU, and local businesses run the risk of losing vital long-distance telephone and Internet connections should an incident occur, as it did recently in southern Utah. The funds included in this bill will be used for a redundant fiber optic cable throughout Cache County. This additional line would enable USU and the Cache Valley business community to have the reliable competitive connectivity they need to thrive in the digital economy.    
  	âThis additional fiber cable will greatly benefit Cache Valley. Without fiber optic redundancy, it is difficult for communities to foster continued growth and attract new businesses to the area,â? said Bennett.    
Rural County Utah Law Enforcement Technology Program -- $157,000 This program will continue to help Utahâs rural police departments with technological upgrades, including surveillance and monitoring equipment, communications devices, and drug testing equipment. This is especially important to Utahâs small rural towns located along major drug trafficking routes or communities near national parks and other federal lands.    
Utah Valley State College (UVSC) Forensic Science Program -- $150,000 Last year, Bennett secured $400,000 to help develop a new forensic science program at UVSC, the first for any higher education institution in Utah or any contiguous state, except Colorado. Funding this year builds on last yearâs appropriation and would be used for biology and chemistry equipment, computer hard and software, and forensic fire and aviation investigations equipment.     
Sandy City Emergency Command Center -- $150,000 	Sandy Cityâs current mobile command center is over 10 years old and requires updates to meet the needs of local police forces. These funds will cover items such as a larger, more reliable vehicle, upgraded communications equipment, video surveillance, drug detection equipment, and individual law enforcement work stations. Other cities in the area also use the vehicle to respond to emergencies.       
Geospacial Extension Specialist -- $250,000 This funding will support the Geospacial Extension Program, which provides rural Utah farmers, ranchers, and other users an affordable way to take advantage of remote sensing technologies and GPS, and will be used for continued educational efforts.    
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/