  Bennett's Agriculture Bill Garners $31 Million For Utah Projects     Bill Includes Funding for High-Tech USU Facilities  

	âThis bill will provide Utah with resources to address agriculture, water and air quality issues important to our state and the nation,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee responsible for the agriculture spending bill. âNearly one-half of the funds for Utah will be directed to USU for research and a new agricultural facility. USU continues to lead the country in agriculture research, and Iâm pleased these funds can help with its contributions to this field.â?    

	Below are USU projects included in the Fiscal Year 2007 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Bill. Additional Utah projects follow the USU projects.     
  Agricultural Research Center							$2.5 million  	Funding will support the planning and design for a new USU high tech facility that will bolster 21st century research, teaching, and services, and make USU the focus of agriculture research in the West.  	    
 Advanced Computing Research and Education (ACRES)		$540,000  	ACRES will assist the U.S. agricultural research community by increasing its utilization of high performance computation and numerical methods. It will act as a bridge between current practices in agricultural and natural resource management to a future of high performance computing technologies.  	    
 Utah Botanical Center							$891,000  	This project would further develop the Utah Botanical Center as a learning center for research and education on natural resource conservation.  Research will support production and integration of low-water-use plants in sustainable home landscapes in high desert environments.    
 Drought Management Initiative					$792,000  	The initiative researches the impact drought has on the agricultural water supply and looks into ways to increase the availability of irrigation water for agriculture producers and ranchers.     
 Air Quality Research Program						$1.37 million  	Urban expansion into high production agricultural regions requires producers to modify existing practices and reduce offensive or harmful emissions. Funds will support the continuation of a program that develops and evaluates agricultural emissions measurement procedures and determines the environmental benefits of reduced emissions.     
 Biotechnology and Genomics Research Center			$1.47 million  	Research will examine how organisms interact with their environment by extracting information from existing plants, animals, and microbes genome sequences.   	    
 Jack Berryman Institute						$1.5 million  	Funds will support existing programs, evaluate wildlife disease threats, and address wildlife economics. The Institute is a cooperative relationship with Mississippi State University.   	    
 Vegetation Manipulation Research					$792,000  	Funds will be used for an integrated research project â developed by the USU Colleges of Natural Resources, Engineering, and Agriculture, private landowners, and state and federal agencies â that investigates how vegetation manipulation impacts watershed processes.   	    
 Pasture and Forage Research						$223,000  	Research focuses on the integration of improved forage species and pastures, resulting in a livestock production system that helps maintain the industry.   	    
 Bee Biology and Systematics Laboratory				$402,069  	This lab conducts pollen research that helps contribute to farmers ability to increase crop yields.  	    
 Center for Public Lands and Rural Economies			$297,000  	The Center conducts research on the impact of federal land ownership and policies on social services, such as rural health care and education.  	    
 Poisonous Plant Lab							$1.4 million  	Funds will continue research on poisonous plants and its effects on the agricultural industry, particularly range livestock.   	    
 Forage and Range Research Lab					$1.176 million  	Funds will continue research on grasses that use less water, use it more efficiently and perform well with poor quality irrigation water.   	    
 Plant Gene and Genetic Discovery					$837,194  	Funds continue to support the partnership between the USDAâs Forage and Range Research Laboratory in Logan and USUâs Utah Agricultural Experiment Station, which uses plant genetic research to address drought and conservation issues.    













		  		Below are additional Utah projects requested by Bennett and approved by the subcommittee in this yearâs bill:  	    
  Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot Program				$1 million  	This program, reauthorized by the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004, allows 25 schools throughout Utah to serve fresh and dried fruits and fresh vegetables free to school children.   	    
 Predator Ecology Research Station at the Wildlife Research Center		$1.4 million  	This project continues research on large predators of Utah and the Intermountain West, particularly their effects on the livestock industry. The center is located in Millville, Utah.  	    
 C-Path Institute/University of Utah (UofU)				$750,000  	The funding will support collaborative research with the C-Path Institute and the UofU on cardiovascular biomarkers predictive of safety and clinical outcomes. This research will enhance patient safety, reduce the number of patients necessary for clinical testing, and enable manufacturers to accelerate drug development and bring safer, innovative life-saving drugs to market more quickly.  	    
 Mormon Cricket and Grasshopper Control				$1 million  	    
 Water Quality Pilot Project 						    $297,000  Continues funding for a non-regulatory program that protects water from concentrated animal feeding operation (CAFO) and animal feeding operation (AFO) waste.   	    
 Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD)				                    $244,000	  This project addresses the concern about the number of deer and elk in different regions of the U.S., including Utah, testing positive for CWD.   	    
 Washington Fields Canal						$2.97 million  	Funds will be used to continue necessary improvements to the Washington Fields Canal. The improvements will enhance the water supply by improving water efficiency and conservation.   	    
 Coal Creek Watershed and Flood Prevention				$4.353 million  	    
 Utah Conservation Initiative						$4.95 million  		Funding will help meet conservation and natural resources needs statewide.  											  	  		Additional programs of interest to the state are highlighted below:  	   Western States Predator Control					$11,500,000  	With well over 250,000 sheep and nearly 150,000 cattle lost each year to predators, the livestock industry faces major expenses associated with livestock losses and predator control costs. This funding will contribute to predator control, while helping to protect this industryâs vital economic survival.   	    
 Sage Grouse Habitat and Conservation				$5 million  	The bill directs the secretary of agriculture to spend at least $5 million on sage grouse habitat conservation. These resources are intended to help restore habitat so that the sage grouse remains off the endangered species list. As part of this effort, the secretary may use funds from the Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program, a voluntary conservation program that provides assistance to landowners and others to develop upland, wetland, riparian and aquatic habitat areas on their property.   	    
 National Sheep Improvement Center					$1 million  	Funds will assist in the Centerâs mission to strengthen and enhance the production and marketing of sheep, goats, and their products in the U.S.  	    
 Scrapie Eradication 							$18.565 million  	It is estimated that scrapie, a fatal brain disease affecting the nation's sheep flocks and goat herds, costs the sheep and goat industry over $20 million annually in lost export sales, lost productivity, and other costs. These funds will help accelerate the secretary's program for scrapie eradication.  	    
 Grazing Lands Conservation Initiative					$27.255 million  	The Initiative is a nationwide collaborative process of individuals and organizations working to maintain and improve the management, productivity, and health of grazing land. Concerns about invasive species and western grazing lands will also be addressed.    












		The bill now moves to a Senate and House conference committee. Afterwards, both chambers will vote on the conference report and the bill will be sent to the president.     
  # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/