  Bennett Says Nearly $140,000 on its Way to Three Utah Fire Departments   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) announced today that three Utah fire departments will receive nearly $140,000 in U.S. Fire Administration (USFA) fire grants to help purchase protective safety equipment and improve overall operations. Many rural fire departments rely on volunteer firefighters and limited budgets to keep our communities safe, Bennett said. These grants will go a long way to improve firefighter safety by providing them with the best possible equipment. The Manila Fire Department, South Summit Fire Protection District, and Wellsville Fire and Rescue will receive a total of $139,562 as part of the Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG), a USFA program. Information on each grant is listed below:This grant will help the Manila Fire Department purchase new protective clothing and breathing apparatuses for its 16 volunteer firefighters. The department is responsible for a 1,600 square mile area and works closely with the National Forest Service. For additional information please contact Acting Fire Chief Chuck Dickison at (435) 784-3143.This grant will be used to purchase new protective clothing, radios and microphones for oxygen masks that will allow firefighters to communicate while responding to emergencies. The South Summit Fire Protection District is made up of three stations and 28 volunteer firefighters. For additional information please contact Training Officer Scott Nagle at (435) 655-5071.Wellsville Fire and Rescue will use this grant to increase safety and fire operations for their station. For additional information please contact Jeff Thorpe at (435) 755-4257.Since last fall, 30 AFG grants totaling over $2.5 million have been issued to Utah fire departments. AFG provides funds for training, wellness and fitness, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The AFG program and USFA are administered by the Department of Homeland Security.For additional information on this program, please visit USFA's website at www.firegrantsupport.com.# # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/