  Increased Funding for Critical Path Science Expands FDA Commitment to Modernizing Medicine   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Today the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture approved nearly $23 million to help advance the Food and Drug Administrations (FDA) role in critical path science, which promises to streamline the development and review process of drug, device, and biologics, help advance medical discoveries, and reduce the risks to patients who use medical products. The FDA is a leader in critical path science, and the resources weve allotted them this year will help continue its efforts. It is important that the federal government and its private sector partners invest in this science so that we can have better medical products, lower health care costs, and ultimately personalized medicine, said Senator Bob Bennett, ranking member on the appropriations subcommittee.  Bennett held a field hearing on this topic in May at the University of Utah and brought together government officials, academic researchers, and medical practitioners to discuss the future of the critical path, and to highlight its importance and potential. Critical path is an applied science that takes a potential drug, biological product or medical device from a prototype to a viable medical product.    The funding in this bill will be used by FDA to promote collaborations with other government agencies, including the National Institutes of Health, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and Veterans Affairs, and allow FDA to work more closely with universities. Below are the specifics on the projects.Collaborative Drug Safety Research $750,000The University of Utah and the Critical Path Institute in Arizona will use this funding to conduct safety and dosing studies on heart medications. This research project has been extremely successful and has developed a genetic test that will help determine dosing of Warfarin, a commonly prescribed blood thinner, based on the individual instead of an across-the-board standard.It is estimated that integrating genetic testing into Warfarin therapy could allow Americans to avoid 85,000 serious bleeding events and 17,000 strokes annually, reducing health care spending by approximately $1.1 billion annually.Bennett is a strong supporter of this research and secured $750,000 for it in fiscal year 2006. FDA also allocated $750,000 for the project last year.Critical Path at the FDA   $22.15 millionThis bill provides an increase of $17 million over last years funding level for critical path initiatives at FDA, resulting in a total of $22.15 million for fiscal year 2008. These additional resources will be used to further the agencys work on the 76 critical path opportunities published in 2006 and promote collaborations with other government agencies and academia. Of the $17 million increase, $5 million shall be available on a competitive basis for contracts or grants to universities and non-profit organizations to support individual critical path projects. FDA is already engaged in 40 critical path projects that will benefit from this funding, including: identifying gender-specific biomarkers and biomarkers for diabetes, pre-diabetes, cancer, and cardiac, metabolic, and neurological disease; developing reliable disease simulation methods for Parkinsons, diabetes, cancer, and Alzheimers disease; improving methods for evaluating vaccines and other complex biological products; and identifying optimum dosing strategies for drugs such as Warfarin, which will improve patient safety and save health care dollars.  After the Senate Appropriations Committee marks up the Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill this Thursday, the measure will be placed on the Senate Legislative Calendar for consideration by the full Senate at a later date.# # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/