  Bennett Sworn In as Member of the Distinguished Air Force Academy Board of Visitors   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) today was officially sworn in as a member of the Air Force Board of Visitors, a committee that reviews the academic, student, and administrative affairs of the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA) in Colorado Spring, Colorado.  It is an honor to serve on the Air Force Board of Visitors with my colleagues, said Bennett. I look forward to the opportunities ahead as we work to ensure the Air Force Academy runs efficiently and continues its reputation as one of our countrys finest military academies. The Air Force Board of Visitors oversees the morale, discipline, curriculum, instruction, physical equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods and other matters relating to the USAFA. The board meets at least four times a year, with at least two meetings at the Colorado Springs campus and prepares semi-annual reports with recommendations for the president, secretary of defense, secretary of the Air Force, and the Senate and House of Representatives Armed Services Committees.  The Board of Visitors is made up of 15 members. The president appoints six members, with at least two graduates of the USAFA. The vice president or the Senate president pro tempore designates three members, with at least two members of the Senate Appropriations Committee. The speaker of the House selects four members, three of which are members of the House of Representatives. The chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, or their designees, fill the last two positions. The six presidential appointees serve for three years and the additional nine board members serve a minimum term of one year.Today the board discussed a variety of issues, including an admissions update, service academy congressional nomination practices, and Association of Graduates activities.Current members of the Air Force Board of Visitors include:Appointed by the president:o Charles Garcia, Board of Visitors chairman, 1983 USAFA graduate o Dr. Gail Jaquish, Board of Visitors vice chairwoman and presidento Nancy Kudla, 1980 USAFA graduate o A.J. Scribante, chairman and CEO, Vital Learning Corporationo H. Gary Morse, president and CEO, The Villages of Lake Sumter, Inc.o Oregon State Senator Jackie Winters (R- Ore.)Appointed by the vice president or Senate president pro tempore:o Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah)o Senator Ben Nelson (D-Neb.)o Senator Tim Johnson (D-S.D.)Appointed by the speaker of the House of Representatives:o Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.)o Representative Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.)o Representative Loretta Sanchez (D-Calif.)o Terry Isaacson, associate vice president, Arizona State University,1964 USAFA graduateAppointed by the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee:o Senator Wayne Allard (R-Colo.)Appointed by the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee:o Representative Mark Udall (D-Colo.)A photo of Senator Bennett and Senator Nelson (D-Neb.) being sworn in as new members of the Air Force Board of Visitors is below.If you would like to obtain ahigh resolution photo, please check with thesenator's press office for availability.# # # 


      
      Open PDF Document 

http://bennett.senate.gov/