  Ethics Reform Bill Passes the Senate  
 Bennett amendment successfully upholds First Amendment rights  

âTonightâs vote proves that the Senate can come together in a bipartisan fashion and pass meaningful legislation,â? said Bennett, a cosponsor of the reform bill. âThis bill will create greater transparency and disclosure of lobbying activities and lets the American people know we are cleaning up our act to ensure an honest and open process.â?     

Bennett, the ranking Republican member on the Senate Rules Committee, successfully attached three amendments to S. 1 â The Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007.     

Bennett amendment no. 20 removed section 220 â The Disclosure of Paid Efforts to Stimulate Grassroots Lobbying â from the bill. Bennett noted that this provision would have placed onerous reporting requirements on advocacy groups, hampering their ability to exercise constitutional rights. The amendment passed by a vote of 55-43.    
  	  âThis is a clear victory for the Constitution, the First Amendment, and grassroots organizations who want their voices to be heard by Congress. Today, we reaffirmed that the zenith of the Bill of Rights is free speech, the right to petition the government, and the right to peacefully assemble,â? said Bennett.     

	Bennett amendment no. 81 allows for travel pre-approved by the Senate Ethics Committee and organized by 501c(3) non-profit organizations for educational purposes. Bennett pointed to a number of programs that give members the opportunity to cross party lines and discuss important public policy issues. The amendment passed by a vote of 51-46.    

	âWe are talking about the kinds of things we should have more of in Congress rather than less â occasions to get together across the aisle under the sponsorship of a neutral organization, in a neutral location, and talk through problems,â? said Bennett. âIâm pleased my colleagues voted to continue these invaluable opportunities.â?    

	Bennett amendment no. 38 allows a member and staff to accept free attendance to a bona fide constituent event.     

	This legislation now awaits a conference with the House of Representatives.    

  # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/