  Omnibus Spending Bill Includes Over $290 Million Requested by Bennett for Utah Projects     $70 billion on its way for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan  Washington, D.C.The Senate approved a major spending bill late last night, by a vote of 76 to 17, which will fund continued operation of the federal government for the next fiscal year and includes over $290 million for Utah projects requested by Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.   After months of debate and consideration in the Senate, I am happy to announce that many critical projects in Utah will be funded this coming year, said Bennett. I am particularly pleased we are able to provide necessary funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. We continue to see strides of progress in the Middle East and these funds are important for that ongoing, but slow progress.   In early November, Congress passed the Fiscal Year 2008 Department of Defense Appropriations Act. The remaining 11 appropriations bills have been combined in an omnibus bill. Since the start of the new fiscal year on October 1, continued operations of the federal departments have been funded through Continued Resolutions.   A complete list of approved Bennett requests in the Fiscal Year 2008 Omnibus Appropriations Bill follows the highlights listed below:    FrontRunner Commuter Rail- Ogden to Salt Lake $80 million   Construction of the commuter rail project called FrontRunner will link Weber and Davis Counties to Salt Lake City. The new rail system will offer Utah residents an alternative to traditional vehicle travel, reducing commute time along the 44-mile corridor that parallels I-15. The rail is expected to carry almost 12,000 weekday passengers  an equivalent of moving nearly 6,000 cars off the roads each day. The line will eventually stretch beyond Weber and Salt Lake counties, connecting Payson to Brigham City. In addition to the amount above, Bennett, a leader on the Senate Appropriations Committee has secured over $28 million for the project.   Commuter rail will help transform the future of Utahs transportation systems by reducing the number of cars on the road and helping people and commerce move through the state more safely and efficiently, said Bennett.    Moab Atlas Tailings Cleanup $23.9 million   The Moab Atlas Mill Tailing site contains 11.8 million tons of contaminated mill tailings, debris, and groundwater in Moab. The site is of particular public interest due to its close proximity to the banks of the Colorado River. Bennett has secured nearly $70 million in federal dollars since 2000 for the remediation of the site and has advocated expediting the effort.   In March, Bennett questioned Department of Energy (DOE) officials at a Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee hearing over their proposed 21-year timetable to clean up the tailings site. Bennett made clear that the timeline was unacceptable. This bill includes language directing the DOE to report to Congress 120 days after the president enacts the omnibus into law with their budget figures and plan to complete the cleanup by 2019.   The longer we wait to clean up the Moab tailings site, the more serious the threat becomes to the health of Utahns and the environmental stability of the Colorado River. I remain committed to accelerating the cleanup efforts of the site and will continue to carefully monitor DOEs progress, said Bennett.   Utah Museum of Natural History at the University of Utah $1 million   Through its collections and programs, the Utah Museum of Natural History at the U of U has served as a learning center for students and adults. The bill includes funding for construction at the museum. Bennett, seeing the need to preserve Utahs rich biological and cultural history, received Congresss approval in 2002 to authorize $15 million for the new museum. Bennett has successfully secured $13 million for the project   Each year we come closer to seeing this new museum become a reality. This state-of-the-art facility will be an invaluable asset to the U campus, housing priceless artifacts from Utah public lands and teaching Utahns and visitors more about our heritage, said Bennett.    Deep Coal Mining Study $1 million   Bennett, along with Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), included funding for a study to be conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services, University of Utah, and West Virginia University that will look at practices and safety implications of mining below 1,500 feet. Deep mining is extremely important to Utahs coal industry, but the Crandall Canyon Mine Disaster in August shed light on the need for more information on this practice. (For more information about the study, see October 19, 2007, Bennett press release.)    Methamphetamine Control $470,000   As one of the top states in the nation for methamphetamine production per capita, Utah bears a large budgetary burden to combat this problem. The Senate approval today is another step closer to assist Uintah Basin law enforcement officials in hiring additional personnel and purchasing meth-related equipment. Two years ago, Bennett also obtained $400,000 for Uintah County to fight this rampant drug problem.   Meth is devastating our rural communities and we must continue to find ways to help bring an end to the epidemic, said Bennett. This funding will go a long way to help Uintah Basin communities target meth labs in their area.    Agriculture Research Center $5.5 million   This funding will support the planning, design, and preliminary stages of construction for a new USU facility that will bolster 21st Century research, teaching, and services, and make USU the focus of agriculture research in the West. The building will provide space to enhance collaborative opportunities between USU faculty, USDA and Agriculture Research Service (ARS) researchers. The planned building will replace the aging agricultural science facilities and will provide USU with a state-of-the-art, high-tech facility connected to three different labs on campus.   I am pleased we are able to set aside a large portion of this funding to enhance learning opportunities for USU students, who continue to pioneer ground breaking research, said Bennett.    Rural Utah 595 Water Program $9.8 million   This program, in its fourth year, will significantly help a number of rural Utah communities with water infrastructure improvements. Over the past four years, Bennett has secured $11 million for communities throughout the state. All cities and counties outside of the Wasatch Front and St. George are eligible for the program, and may use funds for wastewater treatment facility renovations and construction, enhancement of drinking water supply, and other water infrastructure improvements.   Bennett authored the 2003 legislation that formed the Utah Environmental Infrastructure and Resource Protection and Development Program and authorized the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to use up to $25 million to help develop water systems in small communities. Congress must approve funding for the program each year. The federal share of 75 percent is matched by a local share of 25 percent. This year Bennett successfully included language to increase the Rural Utah 595 Water Program authorization from $25 million to $50 million.   This program has been extremely successful in Utah, helping our small communities develop cleaner water supplies and construct new water projects that would not have been possible without these funds, said Bennett.    Light Rail Extension $20 million   This $20 million will finalize the design phase and begin preliminary engineering efforts to extend Light Rail 10 miles west from the 6400 South TRAX station through Murray, Midvale and West Jordan, and ending in South Jordan. This extension is needed to address travel demands in some of Salt Lake Countys fastest growing cities and to help meet regional air quality goals. The line will serve traditional suburban-to-city commuters, South Jordan commercial, retail and office developments and the Salt Lake Community Colleges Bangerter Campus. Construction on the line is expected to be completed by 2009. Two years ago, Bennett acquired nearly $500,000 for the initial planning process for this spur of Light Rail.   Well designed transit projects, such as this one, will give commuters in the growing communities of Salt Lake County a real alternative to local highways, said Bennett.      Multilateration Air Traffic Surveillance, Provo $700,000   The funding will be used for preliminary site analysis and construction of a satellite-based radar system to improve landing conditions at the Provo Municipal Airport. Because of Provos mountainous region, the airport requires unique radar coverage and this state-of-the-art system will provide a safe and cost-effective solution. Bennett also included a provision in the bill that directs the Federal Aviation Administration to continue working toward a permanent solution to address the unique topographical challenges of the region.   Complete list of bennett projects in omnibus appropriations bill:   Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies    Jack H. Berryman Institute for Wildlife Damage Management $1.1 million   The Jack H. Berryman Institute is a collaborative program with Mississippi State University that researches scientifically based solutions for wildlife disease threats and economics in the Western U.S. This funding will expand the institute to start addressing relevant eastern issues.   * Advanced Computation Research and Education System (ACRES) $559,000   The $559,000 will be used for computing equipment and grants for faculty and students. The ACRES system will help integrate high performance computing technologies into agricultural and natural resource programs at USDA.    Research and Education Outreach at the Utah Botanical Center $670,000   Research will support production of low water-use plants in sustainable home landscapes for high-desert environments.    Drought Management Initiative $670,000   This initiative seeks to develop accurate prediction of water yield, improved agricultural irrigation, and better management of urban water demand.    Bee Biology and Systematics Laboratory $302,000   This lab conducts pollen research that helps farmers increase their crop yields. This funding and research at USU are critical to further explore the current bee shortage and the effects of pollen on crop production.    Predator Ecology Research Station at the Wildlife Research Center $1 million   This project continues research on large predators of Utah and the Intermountain West, and particularly how they affect the livestock industry. The center is located in Millville, Utah.    U.S./China Joint Biotechnology Research Programs $447,000   In collaboration with the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology, Xiamen University and the Northwest Sci-Tech University of Agricultural and Forestry of the People's Republic of China, USU will develop joint research programs in agricultural biotechnology.    Air Quality Center Research Program $417,000   These funds will support the continuation of a program that determines the environmental benefits of reduced emissions to meet Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) standards and improve air quality for Utahns.    Center for Public Lands and Rural Economies $223,000   The center conducts research on the impact public land ownership has on rural communities. Funding will be used for research materials, publication costs, and travel to 19 Utah counties.    Biotechnology and Genomics Research Program $1.1 million   Research studies through the program will examine how organisms interact with their environment by extracting information from existing plants and animals.    Pasture and Forage Research $187,000   This will complete a USU research project, affiliated with the Utah Agricultural Experiment Station, that focuses on the integration of improved forage species and pastures, resulting in a system that can better meet the needs of the livestock industry. Funding will primarily be used to fund graduate and undergraduate student research.    Forage and Range Research $876,000   Funds will continue research on grasses that use less water, use it more efficiently and perform well with poor quality irrigation water.    Collaborative Drug Safety Research- University of Utah and Critical Path Institute $559,000   This funding will continue to enable scientists from the U of U, the Critical Path Institute in Arizona and the FDA to identify genetic tests that predict how patients will respond to drugs used to treat heart failure, including the blood thinner Warfarin. In May, Bennett held a field hearing at the U of U to discuss the success and future of FDAs Critical Path program.    Mormon Crickets $1.1 million    Utah Conservation Initiative $2.6 million   Funding for this initiative, administered by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), will help meet conservation and natural resources needs statewide.    Fresh Fruit and Veggie Program $500,000   This program, reauthorized by the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004, allows 25 schools throughout Utah to serve fresh fruits and fresh vegetables free to school children.    Water Quality Pilot Project $251,000   This bill will continue funding for a non-regulatory program that protects surface and ground water from concentrated animal feeding operation (CAFO) and animal feeding operation (AFO) waste.    Chronic Wasting Disease $182,000   This project allows USDA's APHIS program to continue research that addresses problems associated with deer and elk in different regions of the U.S., including Utah, testing positive for Chronic Wasting Disease (CDW).    Washington Fields Canal $2.1 million   Funds will be used to continue necessary piping and relining improvements to the canal. The improvements will improve water conservation in Washington County.   Additional programs of interest to the state are highlighted below:    USDA Mutual Self-Help Housing Program $38.7 million   The bill includes a nearly $5 million increase over last years level for the USDA Mutual Self-Help Housing Loan program, which has been very successful in Utah. Since the program started in Utah in 1972, 628 homes have been built throughout the state including developments in Kamas, Oakley, Moab, and Brigham City.    Western States Wildlife Services Operations $10.6 million   This funding will assist in predator control, while helping to protect this industrys economic survival.    Scrapie Eradication $17.9 million   It is estimated that scrapie, a fatal brain disease affecting the nation's sheep flocks and goat herds, costs the sheep and goat industry over $20 million annually. These funds will help accelerate the secretary's program for scrapie eradication.   Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies    BYU-Public School Partnership for Delinquency Prevention $282,000   The BYU-Public School Partnership identifies at-risk students enrolled in Utah elementary and secondary schools and uses intervention strategies, support groups, and behavioral skills lessons to help them to make better choices.    Space Dynamic Laboratory (SDL) at Utah State University $376,000   The quality of scientific data collected during NASA and Department of Defense (DoD) space missions is directly related to how well temperature sensors on equipment are calibrated. The lab will develop the equipment to transfer National Institute of Standards and Technology data to working calibration sources used for missions.    Orem City Police Department Broadband Interoperable Network $164,500   This grant will allow the Orem City Police Department to effectively fight crime and protect its police force by installing video cameras in all its vehicles.    A Child Is Missing (ACIM) $70,500   ACIM is a national, not-for-profit organization that assists law enforcement agencies during the first few hours that a child or an elderly adult is reported missing. This request will make ACIM services available free of charge to all 158 Utah law enforcement agencies and all Utah residents.    Granite School District, Project START $211,500   Project START (Students Taking Action and Responsibility Together) will apply research-based anti-violence curricula in schools. Funding will allow the school district to teach practices to neighboring districts and interested public and private schools    National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges $940,000   This program will provide training for judges to improve decision-making in delinquency and family law cases; allow the National Juvenile Court Data Archive to add over one million case records annually; maintain the State Juvenile Justice Profiles website; and provide child abuse education training to families.    Oquirrh Recreation and Parks District in Kearns, Juvenile Outreach Program $47,000   Funding will support the Juvenile Outreach Program that organizes sports and activities programs for the youth in the community.   Energy and Water Development    Central Utah Project (CUP) $43 million   Funding supports ongoing CUP projects of the Central Utah Water Conservancy District, the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission, and the Department of the Interior.    Interdisciplinary Clean Energy Program at University of Utah $3.5 million   This program is a combination of two major research initiatives involving federal, state, and private clean energy research for oil shale and clean coal at the U of U. These funds will be used to support the programs comprehensive plan for the production of hydrocarbon resources.    Rural Water Technology Alliance $491,000   This technology has been installed in Duchesne County, Upper and Lower Sevier Water Districts, Bear River, and Emery County. The funding will be used to further develop technology to provide real-time monitoring of canals and provide water level information online to the public.    Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development at USU $1 million   USU will use funding to continue research on the economic impact of wind power and other renewable sources to increase the use of efficient energy technologies in Utahs rural communities.    Salinity Control Assessment for Upper Colorado River Basin at USU $120,000   Funding will help develop a framework for a cost-benefit assessment of the economic advantages, efficiency and salinity control measures for the Upper Colorado River Basin to reduce economic damage to the lower basin users  primarily the agricultural community  with an emphasis on expanding energy development and land use activities in the upper basin.    Snyderville Basin and Park City Reclamation Feasibility Study $492,000   These funds support an ongoing study that assesses the feasibility of improving water supply from the Weber Basin to the Snyderville Basin and Park City.    Imaging and Oncology Equipment at UVSC $750,000   Funding will be used to acquire much needed imaging, cardiac, and oncology equipment that will help meet the health demands of Utah residents.    Westminster College Science Center $400,000   Funding will be used to purchase the final set of cutting-edge technology equipment for the new science center.    Endangered Species Recovery Implementation $16.6 million   Funding will be used to recover endangered fish species while water development projects throughout Utah continue in compliance with the Endangered Species Act, state water laws and interstate river compacts.   Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies    Forest Legacy Chalk Creek South Fork #2 $1.4 million   The Chalk Creek property includes 3,692 acres located along Interstate 80 and adjacent to the Wasatch-Cache National Forest near Park City. The federal government will buy the development rights from private landowners for 1,100 acres at Three Forks Ranch, thereby protecting the Chalk Creek watershed.    Land acquisitions  Bonneville Shoreline Trail and the Uinta Mountains $2.84 million    Bonneville Shoreline Trail (BST) $1.34 million   BST is a popular 90 mile long pedestrian and bicycle path being built across the foothills of the Wasatch Range along a route that follows the eastern shoreline of ancient Lake Bonneville.   Bonneville Shoreline Trail has been an interest of mine for many years and Im pleased my colleagues continue to support this worthwhile project, said Bennett. The trail, hugging the shoreline of the once great Lake Bonneville, is a perfect example of how we can both preserve environmental resources and provide recreational opportunities.    North Slope of the Uinta Mountains $1.25 million   This funding will be used to acquire private land on the North Slope of the Uinta Mountains in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest.    State and Tribal Assistance Grant (STAG) $1.6 million    Centerfield/ Mayfield Drinking Water Treatment Facility $1.1 million   Funds will be used to build a water treatment facility to help maintain appropriate water standards.    Syracuse City Water System $500,000   Funds will be used to reconstruct and expand drinking and secondary water lines as part of an ongoing project to upgrade the city water system needed to accommodate growth.    Riverton Water Pump Station $500,000   Funds will be used for a water pump station in Riverton.    Crossroads of the West Historic District in Ogden $300,000   Funds will be used to implement Ogdens management plan, which includes restoration work on the historic Laundry Building, the creation of a revolving loan fund for district properties, and the installation of displays explaining the district=s cultural heritage.    Utah Oil and Gas Leasing Pilot Program $250,000   Administered by the Bureau of Land Management, the program conducts online auctions, in addition to oral auctions, to lease land using authority granted under the Energy Policy Act of 2005.    Geographic Information System and Cadastral mapping project $250,000   This is an innovative, high-tech project used for land-use planning activities.   Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies    More Nurses Now, Weber State University (WSU) $413,000   To help address the nursing shortage in Utah, the bill includes funding for WSU to recruit and hire qualified new faculty, expand classroom space, and ultimately increase the number of nursing graduates.    Health Sciences Education and Training Center- Salt Lake Community College $413,000   This funding will help boost graduates by 360 per year through SLCCs health programs, which include nursing, radiology, physical therapy, biotechnology, and dental hygiene.    U-AIM Mentor Program, Utah State Office of Education $413,000   The U-AIM Model, a teacher mentoring program, is designed to assist new teachers in elementary schools that are struggling to meet adequate yearly progress standards set by No Child Left Behind.    Expansion of Telemedicine Services, Association of Utah Community Health $776,000   AUCH supports its member organizations by working to increase access to health care with electronic health records for medically underserved and rural populations in Utah.    National Ability Center, Park City $206,000   In order to provide approximately 10,000 individuals with cognitive and physical disabilities with transportation to recreational activities, the National Ability Center will use funding to purchase two 14- passenger vans and three years of driver and maintenance expenses.    Museum of Utah Art and History (MUAH) $206,000   MUAH will use the majority of the funds to install technology that will make it a central storehouse for information about museum exhibits across the state.    Orem City Public Library $247,000   Funding will be used to purchase radio frequency book tags and readers, sensor entrance/exit gates, and a Smart Card self-check system, and train personnel on how to use them.    Internet Keep Safe Coalition, Salt Lake City $371,000   Funding will enable the Internet Keep Safe Coalition to provide Internet safety education materials to second, third, and fourth grade teachers.    American West Heritage Center $195,000   The American West Heritage Center in Wellsville focuses on educational and cultural outreach opportunities for residents in Cache Valley and serves as a national model for other education centers in the country.   Legislative Branch    BYU Middle Eastern Text Initiative $75,000   Since 2005, Bennett has been instrumental in securing $750,000 for the Library of Congress, which has been critical for funding the Middle Eastern Text Initiative (METI)  English translations of Middle Eastern philosophers, theologians and scientists from the Golden Age of Islam.   Military Construction and Veteran Affairs, and Related Agencies    388th Munitions Flight Administrative/Maintenance Facility- Hill Air Force Base $9.2 million   This 25,000 square foot building will support administration, training, storage, backup power supply, and three equipment bays for the 388th Fighter Wing Munitions Flight at the base.    Aircraft Power Systems Repair Facility (HAFB) $8.39 million    Hydraulic Flight Control Facility (HAFB) $8.4 million    Wing Support Facility, Air Force Reserve (HAFB) $3.2 million    Army National Guard Readiness Center $12.2 million     Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies    I-15 Bluff Street Interchange, St. George $700,000   These funds will support an ongoing project at the Bluff Street I-15 interchange aimed at reducing current traffic delays. The funding will allow UDOT to make improvements to the northbound side of the interstate and begin widening left-hand turn lanes on the overpass.    I-15 Auxiliary Lanes between Kaysville and Ogdens 31st South $1.2 million   Funding will be used to add auxiliary lanes and make ramp improvements at key interchanges along a 13-mile stretch on I-15.    500 South in Bountiful Widening $600,000   UDOT is currently working to widen 500 South in Bountiful from I-15 to 1100 West. This funding is needed to continue that expansion from 1100 West to Redwood Road.    Intermodal Facilities $4.2 million   UTA is implementing a network of transportation terminals located near major regional park and ride lots. This funding will extend TRAX from the current end of the line at the Arena Station in downtown Salt Lake City to the Gateway Intermodal Hub between 200 and 300 South on 600 West.    Bear River Access Road Forest Street Improvements $875,000   The Bear River Access Road provides the public access to the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge in Brigham City, which is operated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Funds are needed to make improvements to the access road used by tourists visiting the refuge.    Provo/ Orem Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) $4.1 million   The 8.7 mile BRT line will connect Orem and Provo through a combination of mixed traffic and exclusive BRT lanes. The route will travel between the Orem Intermodal Center, Utah Valley College, Brigham Young University and the Provo Intermodal Center.   Smithfield Municipal Complex $514,500   The funding will replace the outdated center, which was originally a car repair shop constructed in 1905, with a new office building that will be wired properly for current technology.   North Sevier Area Senior Citizen Center and Civic Center, Salina $514,500   Salinas current Senior Citizen and Community Center is in need of repairs to accommodate safety and disability regulations. The new center will accommodate over 5,000 residents in the area.    Herriman City Renovation Project $137,200   The City of Herriman plans to purchase and completely restore the James Crane House, Kidd Cabin, and the first local blacksmith shop to their original state. The city will provide a 50 percent match to federal dollars.    Eagle Mountain Pony Express Park, Eagle Mountain City $411,600   These funds will complete the first construction phase to build youth and adult recreation facilities at the Pony Express Park in Eagle Mountain.   The FY2008 Omnibus Appropriations Bill will now be sent back to the House to approve the Iraq and Afghanistan war funding that was added in the Senate. The funding amounts for Utah projects listed above are subject to change. After the House vote, the bill will be sent to the president for his consideration. # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/