Senator Bennett Welcomes Utah Students to a Semester in Washington                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
  	âEach semester Utah students join my DC office for an intensive study of how government works. While providing assistance to my staff, they also gain valuable experiences that will impact their futures,â? said Bennett. âI am certain this semester will prove beneficial to these four bright students as they move through their careers.â?    
  	Jon Gardiner, of Bountiful, is a senior at Brigham Young University (BYU) studying political science and economics. Given his interest in a career in economics, Jon chose an internship with Bennett because of the senatorâs position on the Joint Economic Committee and the Senate Banking Committee. While at BYU, Jon worked in the International Center for Law and Religion Studies, and was an exit poll organizer during the 2004 elections for the nationally-recognized KBYU/Utah Colleges Exit Poll.    
  	A Southern Utah University (SUU) communications major from Blanding, Trent Bradford came to Washington for increased exposure to the political process. He is involved in a number of activities at SUU, which include participation in Lambda Pi Eta - a communication studies honor society, the SUU jazz band, the Leavitt Center for Politics, and the USU Extension mentor program. Trentâs entrepreneur ambitions are to one day own businesses focused on online retail and corporate team building.    
  	A senior studying political science and international studies at the University of Utah (U of U), Andrew Bennion hopes his Hinckley Institute of Politics internship with Sen. Bennett will round out his educational background with practical experiences of seeing government in action. While at U of U, he has received a number of accolades, including an academic scholarship, the Deanâs List, and membership in the Honors program. Andrew grew up in Salt Lake City and graduated from East High School.    
  	Parowanâs Jon Cox is a Utah State University (USU) senior majoring in journalism and communications, with an emphasis in print media. For the past year and a half he has written a weekly political column for the universityâs newspaper, The Utah Statesman, tackling a variety of issues, including a campus-wide smoking ban. In addition to the column, he was a teaching fellow for a mass media law class. He is also a recipient of a Deseret Morning News scholarship and USU presidential scholar honor.     
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/