  Bennett Helps Clear First Hurdle to Give Utah Ranchers Relief From Wildfires   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Today Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) joined his Senate Appropriations Committee colleagues to extend through the end of this year a disaster relief program that assists livestock producers who have suffered losses from natural disasters, including the horrific fires that burned through Utah this summer. The entire United States has experienced devastating natural disasters over the past year, and the wildfires that have burned over 400,000 acres of land in Utah are certainly among the worst, said Bennett, who is the ranking Republican member on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, which has jurisdiction over the Farm Service Agency that administers the Livestock Compensation Program (LCP). Today marked the first step toward providing our ranchers with the help they need to compensate for the loss of feed. I will do all I can to see that this provision is signed into law as soon as possible. The provision extending the LCP from February 28, 2007, to December 31, 2007, was accepted today during a Senate Appropriations Committee mark up on the Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill. LCP currently only compensates livestock producers for feed losses resulting from natural disasters that occurred between January 1, 2005, and February 28, 2007. Compensation is paid out based on the number livestock (per head amount will be determined at a later date), and cannot exceed $80,000 per producer. Once this bill is signed into law, livestock producers in primary or contiguous counties declared secretarial disaster areas or counties declared presidential disaster areas who suffered losses after February 28th may be eligible for reliefcers may receive a maximum of $80,000 in LCP benefits.The following are among the types of livestock operations that will be eligible for LCP: dairy cattle, beef cattle, buffalo, beefalo, equine, poultry, elk, reindeer, sheep, goats, swine or deer. The measure will now be placed on the Senate legislative calendar and considered by the full Senate at a later date. Once passed by the Senate, a conference committee between the House and Senate will occur to iron out the differences between the two versions of the bill. # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/