  Bennett's Request For Transportation and Economic Development Projects Top $100 Million     Commuter Rail Gets $80 Million, Highway and Transit Also Get Boost   

	âCommuter rail will dramatically change the daily commute along the Wasatch Front,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation.  âThis is a particularly important funding year for the schedule of the project, so Iâm extremely pleased it is on track with this bill, and that we can get this critical phase of the project underway.â?    

	 The $80 million obligated in this bill for commuter rail will support phase I construction, a 44-mile segment connecting Salt Lake County with Weber County. The rail line will eventually stretch from Payson to Brigham City.     

	The president included the funding for the project in his budget request, in anticipation of the full funding grant agreement that was signed in June. Bennett, who was at the signing with Transportation Secretary Norm Mineta, has been a strong proponent of commuter rail, securing $28 million for the project from his seat on the Senate Appropriations Committee.    

	Central Utahâs Highway 6, often listed as one of the countryâs most dangerous highways, also received funding. In an effort to increase safety and ease congestion, the subcommittee approved Bennettâs request for $3 million to widen the highway to four lanes from Route Post 288 to Route Post 282. US-6 serves as a major intrastate east-west corridor connecting two interstates -- 15 and 70 -- and also provides access to financial, government, and education centers for residents of southeastern Utah and connects the Wasatch Front to recreational activities in central and southeastern Utah.    

	âI have worked with state and local officials to address the safety concerns of Highway 6,â? said Bennett. âIâm pleased my colleagues once again saw fit to provide funding to address the challenges of this dangerous road.â?    
  	In addition to the $83 million for the two projects above, Bennett also obtained over $14 million for other transportation-related projects and $1.5 million for economic development initiatives in the Fiscal Year 2006 TTHUD Appropriations . Projects are listed below.    
  Mid-Jordan Light Rail Extension							$4.5 million  Funding will support preliminary engineering for the Mid-Jordan TRAX line that will extend 10 miles west from the 6400 South TRAX station through Murray, Midvale and West Jordan, terminating in South Jordan. The line will serve traditional suburban-to-city commuters, South Jordan commercial, retail and office developments and the Salt Lake Community Collegeâs Bangerter Campus.    

 I-15 Auxiliary Lanes between Kaysville and Ogdenâs 31st South			$1 million  Funding will be used to add auxiliary lanes along a 13-mile long corridor on I-15. Studies by UDOT, the Utah Transit Authority, and the Wasatch Front Regional Council recommended these lanes between busy interchanges as a means to relieve congestion, increase overall capacity of I-15 and improve travel time during peak flow, improve safety, and decrease ramp back-up.     

 Utah County Mobility Studies								$500,000  Funding would enable necessary environmental work to begin on transportation projects needed in Utah County to help relieve congestion and support economic growth. Projects would also provide alternate routes during the future I-15 reconstruction in Utah County.        
 I-15 Bluff Street Interchange, St. George						$750,000    
South Corridor of the North Valley Connector Study, Saratoga Springs		$750,000  This project includes the construction of a new road that will run from Redwood Road through Saratoga Springs, Lehi, American Fork and unincorporated Utah County to connect to I-15 on the north side of Utah Lake. The function of the road is to provide relief to S.R. 73.     

 Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities							$3.75 million  Funding will support a variety of transit projects in Logan, Park City, St. George and the Wasatch Front.    

 Statewide Intermodal Terminals for Regional Bus and Bus Facilities			$2.5 million    

 New City Center Plaza, Smithfield 							$400,000  Smithfield is still using a city office building that was constructed in 1905 as a car repair garage. The city has planned for several years to develop a new municipal office complex with hopes that it will foster a greater sense of community and improve the efficiency of the city government. This funding will support the new plaza at the heart of Smithfieldâs new municipal complex.     

 North Sevier Area Senior Citizen and Community Center, Salina			$450,000  Salinaâs current Senior Citizen and Community Center is over 100 years old and has been condemned. The new center has received broad support from the community, particularly the American Legion which is donating the land. Numerous groups will benefit from the new center, including the American Legion, senior citizens, youth groups, Meals on Wheels, and other private, non-profit organizations in the area.    

 Moab Senior Citizen Housing Projects						$450,000  With an aging population, there is a great demand in Moab for senior citizen housing. The County Council has deemed this a high priority, as there are no senior housing projects in Moab. It will be an important addition to the housing options for seniors and will improve the quality of life for residents in Grand County.     

 East Central Neighborhood Affordable Housing, Ogden				$200,000  Ogden faces a significant affordable housing shortage. Ogdenâs downtown housing program focuses the communities efforts on converting multiple unit rentals in blighted neighborhoods back to their original single family designs. These funds will target the revitalizing of the East Central neighborhood through the reclamation of dilapidated multiple-unit rental properties.   





South Corridor of the North Valley Connector Study, Saratoga Springs		$750,000  This project includes the construction of a new road that will run from Redwood Road through Saratoga Springs, Lehi, American Fork and unincorporated Utah County to connect to I-15 on the north side of Utah Lake. The function of the road is to provide relief to S.R. 73.     













	Report language was also included in the bill to encourage the FAA to install a permanent radar system at Provo Municipal Airport. The lack of such a system creates hazardous conditions and delays incoming traffic since visual confirmation is the only current option. Both the Provo and Salt Lake airports, as well as residents and visitors using these facilities, would greatly benefit from this new radar system.    
  	  	The Senate Appropriations Committee will vote on the spending bill tomorrow, after which it will be sent to the full Senate for consideration before a conference with the House.  				    # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/