Bennett Strips House Language on Nuclear Waste Shipments to Utah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Utah senator adds provision eliminating funds for new legal team to fight Utah's challenges against waste                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 	Bennett, a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, eliminated the House-passed language as the Senate bill was being finalized for consideration by the subcommittee today.  He also spoke with Office of Management and Budget Director Josh Bolten to confirm the Bush administrationâs support for Utahâs efforts to block the waste from coming to Utah and ensure that it would not work to restore the House language in conference.  
 	âThe federal government should not be in the business of mounting legal challenges for a privately-owned company,â? said Bennett.  âThe language passed by the House specifying shipments of nuclear waste to Skull Valley is in direct conflict with administration policy and something I was happy to eliminate from the Senate bill.  Iâve received assurances from senior administration officials this morning that they are supportive of our efforts and will not seek to restore the language in conference.â?   
 	âI remain firmly opposed to any shipment of spent nuclear fuel to the state of Utah and appreciate the administrationâs recognition that the PFS proposal to do so is contrary to the nationâs nuclear waste policy,â? Bennett added.  
   	The House-passed bill included funding for two federal attorneys designated to handle legal challenges arising from proposed shipment of spent nuclear waste to Utahâs Skull Valley on the Goshute Reservation. The funds were designated for the Department of Transportationâs Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration which would oversee transportation of the waste.  
 	To strengthen the Senate position when the two bills go to conference, Bennett added language to the Senate bill stating the committee âdenies funding for new positions to administer activities related to shipment of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste to a private interim storage facility.â?  
 	The full Senate Appropriations Committee will act on the measure Thursday, after which it proceeds to the full Senate for consideration.  

	# # #  





http://bennett.senate.gov/