Utah Students Join Senator Bennettâs DC Office as Summer Interns                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 	âEach semester Utah students join my office as interns, and each semester I am delighted with their enthusiasm for the legislative and political process,â? said Bennett. âI welcome these students to our nationâs capital and encourage them to make the most of their Washington experience.â?   
 	University of Utah honor student Adam Reiser, of Salt Lake City, is studying political science and hopes to attend law school next year. He is also a member of the 2005 Hinckley Journal of Politics and the 2005 Utahâs Health: An Annual Review editorial boards. During his undergraduate career, he has experienced politics firsthand as a Utah Legislature intern and volunteer for state Representative Greg Hughesâ reelection campaign. Adam graduated from Skyline High School.   
 	A social work major at Brigham Young University (BYU), Natalie Banta also plans to attend law school following graduation next year. She is excited about this internship and hopes it will provide valuable insight and knowledge for her honors thesis on Social Security reform. Natalie is currently a tutor for BYUâs Writing Fellows Program, and was also a history department research assistant. Natalie is from Holladay and attended Olympus High School.  
 	Studying political science and philosophy at Utah Valley State College (UVSC), Michael Strong hopes to attend the University of Virginia School of Law. She is the president of Phi Theta Kappaâs UVSC chapter and is also an honor student. Michael intends to become a foreign service officer after law school, and appreciates this opportunity to learn more about foreign affairs firsthand while working on Capitol Hill. A Provo resident, she graduated from Provo High School.  
 	Steven Lunsford, from Cheyenne, Wyoming, is a political science and economics student at the University of Utah. As a high school and college student, Steven has received multiple state and national honors for debate, and he is currently a debate coach and instructor for Salt Lakeâs Rowland Hall St. Marks School. Following his internship with Bennett, he and his wife and two-year-old son will stay in D.C. while he attends law school at the George Washington University.  
 # # #  

http://bennett.senate.gov/