Utah Military Installations Get Final Nod for Over $62 Million, Hill AFB Receives $33.9 Million                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  	âUtahâs military installations play a critical role in the overall mission of the United States Armed Services, and will continue to advance our military readinessâ? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. âI remain committed to supporting Utah bases and am pleased my colleagues recognize our stateâs important contributions.â?  					    
	Below are Bennett-requested projects included in the conference report for the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill:     
Software Support Facility Addition, HAFB -- $19.5 million In 2002, Bennett secured $16.5 million for the construction of a new addition for Hillâs Software Support Facility. This yearâs funding will double the current capacity of the two-story 72,500 square-foot facility. The Software Engineering Division at HAFB develops, tests, and maintains software and related hardware for weapon systems and is the only one of its kind at its level in the DoD. Its mission includes work on the Air Forceâs F-16, B-1B, B-52, C-17, A-10, Minuteman and Peacekeeper weapons systems.    
	  âGiven the important contribution this facility makes to the readiness of the nationâs military weapons systems, this funding was crucial to include in the bill,â? said Bennett. âI appreciate my colleagues continued support for this funding.â?    
Michael Army Airfield â Phase 2, Dugway Proving Ground -- $25 million Funds will be used to demolish the existing runway and construct a new 11,000-foot by 150-foot Class B runway. The project also includes construction of a new electrical vault to house all airfield lighting and power equipment, including relocation of existing electrical systems. The completed runway will also act as an emergency landing field for HAFB.    
Consolidated Missile Storage Facilities, HAFB -- $9.8 million Funds are needed to construct three new facilities to reduce the overall Minuteman III missile storage requirement by 60 percent and provide flexibility to store multiple varieties of rocket motors maintained at Hill. This project will consolidate 43 missile storage igloos into three storage facilities and frees up needed explosive clear zone land that will be used for new missions and additional workloads.    
F/A-22 Aircraft Battle Damage Repair Training/Storage, HAFB -- $4.6 million The F/A-22 is the Air Forceâs premier air superiority fighter and plays an important role in the War on Terror. This funding will assist in the repair and storage of the F/A-22s.     
New Readiness Center, Camp Williams -- $3.3 million Funds will be used to construct a readiness center to house the new 144th Army Field Evacuation Hospital Unit.		    
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/