  Senators Bennett and Hatch Push for 
$1 Million to Improve Mine Safety and Operations   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Today Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) introduced an amendment with Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) that will put $1 million toward a study conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), University of Utah, and West Virginia University that will look at practices and safety implications of deep mining. Utahs unique geological circumstances make coal mining in the state different from any other state in the country, said Bennett. After the tragic events at the Crandall Canyon Mine this summer it became clear that more information was needed about deep mining operations. It is my hope that this study will provide a thorough examination and come up with ways to make it safer for everyone involved. The amendment will be considered as part of the current Senate debate on the annual Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill (H.R. 3043). It will allocate $1 million to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, an arm ofHHS,to partner with the University of Utah and West Virginia University to conduct a study on retreat coal mining practices at depths 1,500 feet and below, which are common throughout Utah. The study will focus on conditions necessary for coal retreat mining, including the depth of the mine, strength of the roof, pillars, and floor, and the susceptibility of the mine to seismic activity. The secretary of health and human services will be required to submit a report to the House Committee on Education and Labor and the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions in October 2008 that includes recommendations on how to improve safety for retreat miners working at depths greater than 1,500 feet, the conditions under which retreat mining should take place, and ways to improve technology for miners working in such extreme conditions. Senate consideration of the amendment will likely take place late Monday or Tuesday morning, and final passage on H.R. 3043 is expected Tuesday.# # #


      
      Open PDF Document 

http://bennett.senate.gov/