  Senator Bennett to Participate in Health Care Discussion in New York    washington, d.c.  Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) will join Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and three other members of Congress to participate in a health care public forum hosted by The New School in New York City on Monday, October 29, 2007. Bennett and Wyden will discuss The Healthy Americans Act (S. 334).  Please find details of the event below.WHAT:  Major congressional policymakers and opinion leaders will come together in New York for a public forum on how to achieve bipartisan healthcare reform that benefits all Americans. Their meeting in the countrys largest media market aims to add visibility to the growing consensus among Democrats and Republicans that providing healthcare for all Americans is not only a national policy priority, but a realistic legislative goal. The main participants are authors of four major pieces of healthcare legislation now making the rounds in Congress: the Healthy Americans Act (Bob Bennett and Ron Wyden), the Every American Insured Act (Richard Burr), the Universal Health Care Choice and Access Act (Tom Coburn), and the United States National Healthcare Insurance Act (John Conyers). Their discussion will be moderated by New School President Bob Kerrey, who currently co-chairs with Newt Gingrich the National Commission for Quality Long-Term Care, an independent body charged with developing long-term care solutions at a time when a disproportionate percentage of health care dollars are spent on the elderly. WHO:  U.S. Senator Bob Bennett, (R-Utah)U.S. Senator Richard Burr, (R-North Carolina) U.S. Senator Tom Coburn, M.D., (R-Oklahoma)U.S. Congressman John Conyers, Jr., (D-Michigan)U.S. Senator Ron Wyden, (D-Oregon)Bob Kerrey, President, The New School; former U.S. Senator, (D-Nebraska).WHEN:  Monday, October 29, 2007, 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.WHERE:  The New School, 66 West 12th Street (near Sixth Avenue), first floor, NY, NY.ADMISSION: The event is free and open to the public.TICKETS: The public must RSVP at boxoffice@newschool.edu or 212.229.5488. The press must RSVP through Daniel Morris, press officer for The New School, 212.229.5667 x3094, morrd109@newschool.edu. ABOUT THE NEW SCHOOLThe New School was founded in 1919 by John Dewey, one of Americas great social reformers. His most cherished principle is still at the heart of The New Schools mission: that the cure for the ailments of democracy is more democracymore dialogue about how we can find our common interests. At the university, popular debate and popular government are two sides of the same coin. Public forums with elected officials help diverse constituencies bridge the gap between citizenship and learning so that education becomes political and politics becomes educational. Since 2001, Bob Kerrey has been president of The New School, where he has organized many public forums.# # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/