Bennettâs Efforts Boost Utah Military Installations by $62.2 Million                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hill Air Force Base tops list with $33.9 million for upgraded facilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

	âUtahâs military installations handle some of the Defense Departmentâs top missions, and they deserve to have the best equipment and facilities to execute them,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. âI am pleased that we were not only able to meet the administrationâs requests, but increased Utahâs share by nearly $10 million.â?    

	Below are the projects requested by Bennett and included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill:     

 Michael Army Airfield â Phase 2, Dugway Proving Ground $25 million   Funds will be used to demolish the existing runway and construct a new 11,000-foot by 150-foot Class B runway. The project also includes construction of a new electrical vault to house all airfield lighting and power equipment, including relocation of existing electrical systems. The completed runway will also act as an emergency landing field for Hill Air Force Base (HAFB).     

	âMichael Army Airfield is a necessary and critical component of the Armyâs continued operations for test and evaluation missions and force protection. Providing funds for this new airfield and ensuring its completion in a timely manner remains a top priority,â? said Bennett.     

 Software Support Facility Addition, HAFB $19.5 million 				  In 2002, Bennett secured $16.5 million for the construction of a new addition for Hillâs Software Support Facility. This yearâs funding will double the current capacity of the two-story 72,500 square-foot facility. The Software Engineering Division at HAFB develops, tests, and maintains software and related hardware for weapon systems and is the only one of its kind at its level in the DoD. Its mission includes work on the Air Forceâs F-16, B-1B, B-52, C-17, A-10, Minuteman and Peacekeeper weapons systems.    

	âAs the current facility reaches its capacity, this new addition will help eliminate the threat of decreased productivity and will continue to allow Hill to perform its critical mission of weapon systems readiness,â? said Bennett.    

 Consolidated Missile Storage Facilities, HAFB $9.8 million 					  Funds are needed to construct three new facilities to reduce the overall Minuteman III missile storage requirement by 60 percent and provide flexibility to store multiple varieties of rocket motors maintained at Hill. This project will consolidate 43 missile storage igloos into three storage facilities and frees up needed explosive clear zone land that will be used for new missions and additional workloads.	    

 F/A-22 Aircraft Battle Damage Repair Training/Storage, HAFB $4.6 million 			  The F/A-22 is the Air Forceâs premier air superiority fighter and plays an important role in the War on Terror. This funding will assist in the repair and storage of the F/A-22s.     

 New Readiness Center, Camp Williams $3.3 million   Funds will be used to construct a readiness center to house the new 144th Army Field Evacuation Hospital Unit.					    
  The Senate Appropriations Committee will meet tomorrow to vote on the passage of the spending bill. Following committee action, the bill will go to the full Senate for approval.    

# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/