  Education and Health Care in Utah Get $6.5 Million Boost from Sen. Bennettâs Requests    

	âBecause nearly half of Utahns live in rural areas, it is important that critical health care services are available to them,â? said Bennett, a member of the committee. âThis bill will give assistance to rural health centers for new equipment and services, but it also supports education programs that will send more health care professionals into the field to meet the increasing demand.â?    

	The Fiscal Year 2007 Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act will also fund many important education programs, including Utahâs Teacher Mentor Program, a cooperative program between the Utah State Office of Education and the Utah Education Association (UEA).    

	Kim Campbell, president of the UEA, said, âThe Utah Education Associaton is pleased that Senator Bennett has championed investing in public education; specifically investing in new educators. We are working on a promising proposal with the Utah State Office of Education that could serve as model for the nation. Our world is changing and our schools must be constantly looking for ways to help Utahâs children be prepared for the future. This investment will help keep well-prepared, quality educators in the classroom where they can make a difference in the lives of children.â?    

	Through early intervention, this program targets literacy and math skills of first and second graders. By partnering master teachers with new teachers in elementary schools struggling to meet adequate yearly progress, or AYP, the pupil to teacher radio is reduced. Teachers in this program focus on best practices for engaging diverse learners, increasing parent involvement, and improving classroom conditions.     

	âInvesting in the education of our children is an investment in our future, and Iâm pleased to help direct federal dollars toward programs that improve critical skills like reading and math,â? said Bennett.    

	Below are additional Bennett-requested projects in Utah:    
  Health Sciences Education and Training Center, Salt Lake Community College (SLCC)	$850,000  	SLCCâs ability to help meet the growing demand for health care providers is limited by inadequate facilities. Funding will ensure an increase of over 360 graduates per year from allied health programs, including nursing, and help meet the immediate need for 3500 professionals in the state and region.    

 More Nurses Now Program, Weber State University (WSU)					$750,000  	To help address the alarming shortage of nurses, WSU will use funding to recruit and hire qualified nursing faculty, establish classroom space and practice lab, improve clinical practicum experiences, admit additional nursing students and increase the number of nursing graduates.    

 Museum of Utah Art & History (MUAH), Exhibition Expansion				$500,000  	MUAH, in downtown Salt Lake, will use funding for the development and construction of exhibitions at six galleries. The exhibitions will include kiosk technology to complement museum objects and materials. MUAH will also provide interpretive programs for the public, including fourth and seventh graders who must study Utah history and heritage.       
 Orem City Public Library 								$600,000  	The 40-year old library houses 280,000 items and has a circulation of 1.3 million items per year, placing it in the top 10 percent nationwide for highest circulation per capita. Funding would help fund the need for technology updates to enhance service delivery, resource sharing, and collection care.    

 Dental Services, Carbon Medical Services Association (CMSA)			$200,000  	This funding will allow CMSA to provide ongoing dental services onsite, instead of the current family dental van it shares with two other communities under contract with the state. Dental access, particularly for the uninsured and Medicaid populations, is a top concern in all of Utah, including Carbon and Emery Counties where the CMSA health center is located.    

 Emergency Medicine Equipment, Green River					$200,000  	The Green River Medical Center is the only medical facility within 50 miles, therefore it treats a significant number of trauma and critically-ill patients, including cardiac arrests and heart attack. New and updated equipment is needed and will significantly improve the care patients receive by providing more complete diagnoses and immediate treatment plans.    

 Radiology Equipment, Midtown Community Health Center, Ogden			$200,000  	Funding would allow the Midtown Community Health Center to add radiology to the services provided to the medically under-served community.    

 Wayne Community Health Centers, Bicknell						$100,000  	There are no dentists that will accept Medicaid, PCN, or uninsured patients in the central part of the state, therefore individuals have to travel over 150 miles to receive treatment. To meet this need, Wayne Community Health Centers will use funding to expand the dental program.    

 Dental Equipment, Enterprise Valley Medical Clinic (EVMC)				$100,000  	This project will fund dental equipment at the EVMC, which provides services to rural populations in southwest Utah. Currently, there are no dental services provided within 40 miles of Enterprise. This funding will help provide dental services to 3,400 current EVMC patients.    

 Internet Keep Safe Coalition, Salt Lake City						$600,000  	Internet predators are a rising, lethal threat to children, but this problem is entirely preventable through education. Funding will enable the Internet Keep Safe Coalition to provide Internet safety education material to second, third, and fourth grade teachers. The program will be customized to each state and endorsed by the governor and first spouse, and will include: a childrenâs book, Emmy-winning DVD, and materials featuring Faux Paw the Techno Cat, the Internet safety icon.     

 Electronic Medical Records, Intermountain Healthcare				$500,000  	Intermountain Healthcare plans to bring a new paperless, interoperable, multi-provider, multi-specialty, multi-discipline computerized system to Utah. Funding will support the goals of this initiative: reduce clinical errors and workflow redundancies, improve quality of care and communication between hospitals and physicians, and provide higher compensation to physicians.     

 Expansion of Telemedicine Services, Association of Utah Community Health (AUCH) 	$250,000  	AUCH supports its member organizations by working to increase access to health care for medically under-served populations in Utah, many of which are located in isolated, rural areas. The AUCH Telehealth Program eliminates unnecessary travel and brings quality health care to rural communities.    

 National Ability Center, Park City							$250,000  	To provide ADA accessible transportation to therapeutic recreational activities for approximately 10,000 participants with cognitive and physical disability, the National Ability Center will use funding to purchase two accessible buses and three years of driver and maintenance expenses. Currently, there is no transportation available from the Provo, Ogden and Salt Lake City areas to Park City or the rural areas surrounding Heber City and Park City.     

 Comprehensive Literacy Program, Brigham Young University (BYU)			$400,000	This program partners five Wasatch Front school districts and BYU together to improve literacy performance of low achieving students. Approximately 100 teachers and 2300 students will be evaluated using stringent research methods to ensure that low achieving students will learn to read well.    


























	The bill will now be placed on the Senate calendar for consideration.    
  # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/