Senate Approves Bennett's $24 Million for Utah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Transit, housing and economic development projects top the list                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  	âInvesting in transportation infrastructure and economic development are key to the health and vitality of Utahâs economy,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (TTHUD). âWhether itâs money for additional buses, or a light rail extension, these funds help us make important progress meeting many of the stateâs infrastructure needs.â?     
  	The Fiscal Year 2006 TTHUD Appropriations Bill includes $19.9 million for Utah transit projects and $3.9 million for economic development initiatives. Of the transit dollars, $9 million is designated for design and construction of the first phase of the Ogden-Salt Lake commuter rail project.    
  	âMass transit will play an important role in addressing future growth issues along the Wasatch Front, and commuter rail is a critical element of this plan,â? said Bennett âI am pleased with the cooperation between local, state, and federal governments and outside organizations to ensure that this project moves forward in a timely manner.â?    
  	Last August, Bennett, along with other elected officials, participated in the ceremonial groundbreaking of the proposed 40-mile rail line from Pleasant View to Salt Lake City. It is expected that heavy construction will begin next spring. This yearâs appropriations brings Bennettâs total for commuter rail to over $28 million.    
  	Additional Bennett-requested projects in the FY2006 TTHUD Appropriations Bill include:    
â¢	$1 million for revitalization of the original historic district in Sandy This funding will help Sandy, incorporated in 1893, bring public infrastructure projects within the historic district in line with modern zoning regulations. The project will also help to facilitate affordable housing developments for young families and seniors.     
â¢	$1.2 million for a library community multipurpose building in San Juan County This funding will be used to assist construction of a library and training facility for San Juan residents interested in pursuing careers as health professionals and teachers. The Economic Research for Utah (ERU) projects that the annual economic impact could amount to $544,800, based on 20 graduates. ERU further projects that personnel, along with economic benefits relating to the facility itself, will add at least $734,580 annually to the local economies.    
â¢	$800,000 for the Utah Olympic Park in Summit County This funding will be used for a maintenance facility at the Utah Olympic Park, constructed for the 2002 Winter Olympics and continues to be a primary training and competition site for five Olympic sports. The Olympic endowment to operate the facility does not provide funds for a maintenance building, and current maintenance work is done in a tent. The Park attracts hundreds of thousands of individuals each year.    
â¢	$600,000 for Provo Community Arts Center The Provo Community Arts Center is central to the city's efforts to revitalize Provo's historic downtown and promote economic development. Located in the Old City Library, the Center will provide a venue for dance, music, theatrical performance groups, as well as a permanent home for the Provo Arts Council. The project will also receive local government and private funds.    
â¢	$200,000 for community development and park facilities improvements in Eagle Mountain  Due to the rapidly growing population and high demand for recreational facilities, Eagle Mountain has secured 60 acres for development of a regional park. The city center will eventually be located near this corridor, including the future City Hall.    
â¢	$4.25 million for statewide bus & bus facilities 
â¢	$3 million for Intermodal terminals for regional bus & bus facilities 
â¢	$1 million for transit center at 9400 South in Sandy 
â¢	$500,000 for the West Jordan extension of TRAX 
â¢	$150,000 for Brigham City Intermodal center planning & renovation of historic train depot 
â¢	$500,000 for expansion of a Sun-Tran operations & maintenance facility in St. George 
â¢	$500,000 for Utah Intermodal Transit hubs 
â¢	$750,000 for West Valley City Intermodal terminal 
â¢	$250,000 for Westminster College Intermodal expansion and shuttle service 
  	In addition to the Utah specific earmarks, the bill also includes $15.6 billion for Section 8 housing vouchers, an increase of $899 million over last year. The Section 8 program is one of HUDâs low-income housing programs which provides vouchers based on a tenantâs income and the cost of housing.     
  	The bill also adjusts the formula that determines the funding level public housing authorities (PHA) receive for Section 8 vouchers. A provision in last yearâs appropriation bill changed the allocation formula and based it on vacancy rates during a three-month period, May through July 2004. This change adversely affected many Utah PHAs, as vacancies tend to be lower during the summer months. Bennett worked with his colleagues on the subcommittee to change the formula to reflect a more equitable distribution of funds. The provision in this yearâs bill bases the allocation on data from the most recent 12 months. The Senate also set aside $45 million, available through grant applications, for those PHAs hurt by last yearâs formula change.    
  	âChanging the formula to accurately reflect housing demands is extremely important to individuals and families who rely on these vouchers to help supplement housing costs. I am pleased my colleagues and I were able to include this language in the bill,â? said Bennett.    
  	The bill passed by a vote of 93-1. House and Senate conferees will now meet to reconcile differences in the bill. After the conference report passes both chambers, the bill will be sent to the president for final approval.    
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/