Bennett Says Yucca no Longer an Option                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  	Below is the transcript of the floor statement, and the audio is available on Bennettâs website at http://www.bennett.senate.gov/newsroom/multimedia.html.    
âOne of the issues that has occupied this chamber for some time, and had a particular impact on those of us in the western states, is the issue of storage of nuclear waste. 
âThe question of where nuclear waste should be stored has been before various administrations and various Congresses literally for decades. And the original policy decision made by administrations past and Congresses past is that there should be a single repository for nuclear waste. After a study by the National Academy of Science and others, the decision was made to put that repository in Nevada in Yucca Mountain, and ever since that time construction has gone forward at the Yucca Mountain facility. 
âAll of that happened before I came to Congress, but when I got here, the debate was going on and we had a particular point where we had to vote once again on whether or not to put nuclear waste in Yucca Mountain. At that time, as I looked at the various alternatives, I decided that the best scientific answer to the question of what to do with nuclear waste, was to leave it where it was. I was assured by the scientists that it was safe in the dry-cask storage that had been prepared for its transportation and that it could be safely transported across the country to Yucca Mountain. My reaction to that was, if itâs safe where it is and itâs safe to transport, why transport it at all? Why not leave it where it is? 
"But it was very clear that the Congress was not going to accept that position, that the president was not going to accept that position, and that we were going to go ahead as a matter of public policy and have a single repository for nuclear waste. So I said, âWell, if weâre going to have a single repository for nuclear waste, the most logical place for that is Yucca Mountain,â and I voted in favor of Yucca Mountain. Looking back on it, the key word in that sentence is the word âif.â? If weâre going to have a single repository for nuclear waste, it appeared that the logical place to put it was Yucca Mountain. 
âIt is now clear that we are not going to have a single repository for nuclear waste. Yucca Mountain has been challenged on scientific grounds. Yucca Mountain has been challenged in the court on legal grounds. And as we look at the present state of our need for energy, Yucca Mountain will be challenged on practical grounds because it is very clear that we are going to need more, not less, nuclear power. 
âThe nuclear power is here to stay, the nuclear plants that we have are going to be re-commissioned and re-licensed and Yucca Mountain will be full, even if we go ahead with the existing plans and still have storage in place. And it doesnât make sense, from a practical point of view, to move the material all across the country, store it in Yucca Mountain for the purpose of ending storage in place, and then have storage in place come back. So those who saw this in advance, Senator Reid and Senator Ensign, have the right to tell the rest of us, âI told you so.â 
âAs it now becomes clear, scientifically, legally, and practically, Yucca Mountain is not going to become a single repository for nuclear waste and we need to start thinking about new strategies and new places to deal with this. I want to make it very clear that I am not opposed to nuclear power; indeed I am a strong supporter of nuclear power. Iâve supported Senator Domenici in crafting the energy bill, to craft the bill in such a way as to encourage America to build new nuclear power plants. 
âWe are behind the rest of the world on this issue. In Europe you find that the French have something like 80 percent of their power generated by nuclear power. The British have large amounts of nuclear power. With the price of natural gas going as high as it is, it becomes increasingly economically unwise for us to continue to build gas-powered electric plants. Nuclear power is something we should get involved in, in a big way in the future, and the energy bill that we passed prior to the August recess laid the groundwork for that. 
âThe question is, of course, if we go in that direction, what do we do with the nuclear waste? If Yucca Mountain is not going to be available, and Iâm now convinced that it will not be, where should it be put? There is a proposal that it should be put in the state of Utah at an interim storage site that has just recently been licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. I put stress on the word âinterimâ? because the whole idea behind the proposed facility in Utah in a place called Skull Valley was that it would simply be a stopover for the waste on its way to Yucca Mountain. And so it has been designed and it has been licensed as an interim storage facility. 
âWell, if it does not make sense for us to take this nuclear waste and put it in a permanent repository, which is what Yucca Mountain is, why does it make sense to put it in an interim repository that does not have the safeguards that are built into Yucca Mountain? Yucca Mountain would put the waste below ground. It would put the waste in vaults that have been prepared for it. The interim facility in Skull Valley would leave the waste above ground. It would leave the waste in the dry-casks storage receptacles that were built for transportation. Why ship it from its present site above ground to another site above ground to say, âWell, this is an interim storage site until we put it into permanent storage?â? The reality is if you do that, then you are creating a permanent storage site because there will be no place to put it after it has been transported to the interim storage site. 
âWhile there are those who say, "You just donât want it in Utah.â? And thatâs true; I donât want it in Utah. But thereâs another factor here that drives the reason why I donât want it in Utah. This particular interim storage site is at the portal to the Utah Test and Training Range. Now most people, even most people in Utah, have never heard of the Utah Test and Training Range and have no idea what it is. It is the largest land range for bombing practice in the United States. It goes all the way back to the Second World War. The crew that flew the mission over Hiroshima in the Enola Gay trained at the Utah Test and Training Range. Today it is still in use. F-16s from Manila Air Force Base fly over the Utah Test and Training Range and practice their bombing runs with live ordnance. 
âI have flown over the Utah Test and Training Range and been told, "We have to get out of here because the F-16s are coming and theyâre going to start bombing." It clearly does not make sense to have an interim storage facility for nuclear waste in an area where F-16s with live ordnance are going to be flying. Now there are those who say, âWell, the F-16s can change their flight patterns; they can go around this area, they donât need to pay attention to it.â 
âOne of the things we have learned from spending time with the BRAC process in determining which military facilities will be retained and which ones will not, is that more military facilities have been closed by encroachment than have been closed by BRAC. Encroachment being development or other activities that come close to the gate of the military base that make it impossible for the people on the base to do their job and they ultimately say, âWhen we built this base, it was surrounded by open spaces, now activity has come in, development has come in, encroachment has happened and weâre going to have to close this base.â I do not want to have to see encroachment take away the last remaining large land base test and training range in the United States. We need to rethink this whole thing. 
âSo, Mr. President, Iâm now making it clear that my support for Yucca Mountain, however well-intended it was at the time, in my opinion does no longer hold in the situation in which we find ourselves. I also believe that the proposal that was made at the last time we approved Yucca Mountain, of leaving the material in place until we can work out the economics and the technology of reprocessing it, is the right approach. Thatâs what the future holds. 
âRight now people say, âWell, reprocessing is too expensive.â? But we know from a past experience that technology will find a way around that. It will become cheaper and cheaper the more we do it. We are already involved in reprocessing warheads from the former Soviet Union as we go through the process of reducing nuclear weapons and nuclear stockpiles around the world. As that reprocessing activity goes forward we will learn how to do it faster, we will learn how to do it cheaper, and reprocessing will be available for the nuclear waste that is developed by our nuclear power facilities. At that time it would make sense for the nuclear waste that is stored on site to be reshipped to a reprocessing center, not to an interim storage facility. 
âThereâs one other factor here that needs to be stressed. At the present time, the contract to take the nuclear waste and ship it to the interim storage facility in Utah â which, by the way, has not been built â thereâs still a billion dollars worth of investment that has to go into that, and the process by which that will go forward will be under the ownership of the utilities that run the nuclear plants. The main difference between an interim storage facility and a permanent storage facility has to do with titles. In the interim storage facility, the utility that created the waste and ran the nuclear plant retains title to the waste while it is being packaged, while it is being shipped, and while it is in interim storage. 
âUnder the Yucca Mountain proposal, the federal government would take title to the waste the minute Yucca Mountain would open so the federal government would be responsible for packaging it, the federal government would be responsible for protecting it while transporting it, and the federal government would be responsible for the security on the site where it would be. 
âIf we leave it where it is while we work on the issue of reprocessing, title will remain with the utility that produced it, but the security that the utility has already built into its plant is already there. It is not exposed to any terrorist attack while it is moving, so the utility does not have to bear the expense of extra security in moving waste to which they returned title. Then, when we get to the point where we can move it to a reprocessing plant, once again the federal government can take title to it, the federal government can provide the security during transportation, the federal government can see that it is kept safe from terrorist attack and bring it to the reprocessing facility. 
âOne last point, one of the reasons we want to be sure the federal government is in charge of all the reprocessing is that the end product, after reprocessing, is not only energy, additional energy created by the process, but the residue that is left is weapons-grade plutonium. We do not want to run the risk of having weapons-grade plutonium in the hands of private entities. We want to be sure the government controls that. And so, Mr. President, what I think we need to do â âweâ? being the collective word for the administration and the Congress general â is to adopt some fundamental principles and then rethink the whole issue to come up with the appropriate details. 
âThe fundamental principles that I would recommend and that I embrace are: number one, we are in favor of nuclear power. We want more nuclear power in this country for all of the environmental reasons dealing with greenhouse gases; for all of the demand reasons dealing with the increase necessity for electric power and for all of the legal reasons having to do with the control of the ownership of the facilities. 
âNumber two, I am in favor of reprocessing. I think we should work toward that technical solution for the question of waste. 
âAnd number three, while we are in the process of building new nuclear plants and working toward reprocessing the waste, we should leave the waste where it is. If, indeed, as I say, it is safe to transport and it is safe to store in an interim facility someplace else, by definition it is equally safe to store right where it is. Thatâs cheaper, thatâs equally as safe, and that sets us up for the solution of our problem. 
âI believe that if we rethink the whole issue as to how weâre going to handle it and what weâre going to do, there may very well be a useful purpose for Yucca Mountain. We have spent, as a nation, billions of dollars preparing that facility. We should review the facility and what it offers and see how it might be used at some particular point in the future and see how we might retain some of the investments we have made there. I am not one who thinks we ought to just fill Yucca Mountain up with dirt and walk away and leave it. 
âThere can be a win-win situation for all. Nevada can get some value out of the investment that has been made in Yucca Mountain if we think it through carefully. The nation can get additional power without the greenhouse gas effect that comes from fossil fuels, and we can ultimately solve the problem of nuclear waste with reprocessing. 
âIâve discussed this in general terms with Senator Domenici, who is the chairman of the Senate Energy Committee and the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, and I commend him for his original thinking of moving in directions that will make sense for the future. 
âHowever much the idea of a single repository may have made sense decades ago, itâs now clear that it does not make sense and we need to move in some future direction. That the degree that Senator Domenici will allow me to participate to find the logical solution under the three principles I have described I would be more than happy to cooperate with him. And to those who had the vision long ago, who have earned the right to say to the rest of us, âI told you so,â? I say I will be happy to join with you too in seeing how we can think this thing through and get the best solution for our nation and all of those who live here." 
# # # 




http://bennett.senate.gov/