Bennett's Annual Conference Attracts Nearly 500 Utah Small Business and Community Leaders                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Energy and Economic Development Top Agenda
 	 âAs we celebrate Utahâs booming economy, we cannot dismiss the fact that some areas of rural Utah are growing faster than the rest of the state,â? said Bennett, a former Inc. Magazine regional entrepreneur of the year. âIn todayâs Information Age, you can live and work in a remote geographic location and connect your business to the rest of the world. This conference provides rural entrepreneurs with the tools to do just that.â?  
 Prior to the conference, Bennett toured Duchesne and Uintah counties, visiting with local business and elected officials on issues affecting the area.  
 âAs I traveled throughout the Basin, I sensed a spirit of optimism that was not here during my past visits. There was always a hope, but today people are optimistic about the potential energy development and what the economic future holds,â? added Bennett.   
 With the Uinta Basin experiencing a boom in oil and gas production, many speakers and sessions focused on growing this industry and navigating through government regulations. During the breakfast session, Bureau of Land Management Director and Utah native Kathleen Clarke spoke about the BLM as a neighbor, partner and friend to local communities.  
 âI believe we need to do everything possible within the law to help local communities survive and prosper,â? said Clarke. âI share your commitment to move the federal government toward real results that support your quality of life and investment in the state and in this community.â?   
 As the lunch keynote speaker, JoAnn Wagner, chairman, president and CEO of SOS Staffing, shared thoughts on attracting talented workers and matching their skills with available employment opportunities, âWorking Americans are more happy than those sitting at home worrying about their next job. Thatâs why we are looking for ways to attract working populations and then work with businesses to fill new opportunities.â?   
 In addition to the keynote speakers, the conference included a number of breakout sessions, including one with Melissa Blake, mayor of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Located in northern Alberta, Fort McMurray is surrounded by oil sands with reserves of over two trillion barrels. Blake shared her experiences with the opportunities and challenges of an oil and gas boom.   
 âThe most gratifying thing is when people come up to me after the conference and say, âI really learned something and got new information on how to build my business.â That is the goal of this annual conference and I think weâve accomplished it this year,â? added Bennett. For more information about this and previous conferences, please visit www.ruralutah.com.   

# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/