Bennettâs $66 Million Request for Utah Flood Relief Passes Senate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 	âTodayâs vote brings us one step closer to providing much-needed relief to our state,â? said Bennett, chairman of the subcommittee that approves the budget for the Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) program. âThis funding is critical to restoring the infrastructure and physical well being of southern Utah communities.â?  
 	After touring the devastation and meeting with local and state officials, Bennett, in his roll as subcommittee chairman, made funding recommendations to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MS). Cochran agreed to add funds requested by Bennett to the bill.  
 	The emergency supplemental package includes $103 million for the EWP program â at least $66 million for Utah with the remaining expected to meet emergency watershed needs in other states â which will help restore watersheds and stabilize riverbanks caused by the January floods. The bill will also allow local financial and technical resources, including in-kind materials and services contributed in the immediate flood aftermath, to count toward EWPâs 25 percent local match requirement.  
 	The EWP program uses emergency measures to safeguard lives and property from floods, drought, and erosion on any watershed whenever fire, flood or any other natural occurrence is causing or has caused a sudden impairment of the watershed. EWP is part of the U.S. Department of Agricultureâs Natural Resources Conservation Service,   
 	The Senate passed the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief by a vote of 99-0. The bill now proceeds to conference with the House, where Bennett is expected to be a conferee. If signed into law in its current form, the total EWP funds for the state this year will reach over $76 million.  

# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/