  Bennett Names U of U Professor to Senate Curatorial Board   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) announced today that Dr. Elizabeth Anne Peterson, chair of the Department of Art and History at the University of Utah, has been appointed to the U.S. Senate Curatorial Advisory Board, a prestigious group that oversees the U.S. Senate art collection. I am delighted to have a Utahn with such impeccable credentials to be part of this distinguished board, said Bennett, ranking member on the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration and a member of the Senate Commission on Art who appoints the curatorial board members. It is a tribute both to the University of Utah and the state that Dr. Peterson has been selected for this position. Bennett nominated Dr. Peterson to the U.S. Senate Curatorial Advisory Board, which is made up of 12 other historians, curators, and experts from some of the countrys most respected institutions. The board is responsible for advising the Senate Commission on Art, a panel of five senators, who serve on an ex officio basis: Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah), ranking member of the Committee on Rules and Administration; Senator Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.), Senate president pro tempore; Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), chairman of the Committee on Rules and Administration; Senator Harry Reid (D-Nev.), majority leader; and Senator Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Republican leader.   The advisory board provides advice and assistance to the commission on the acquisition, care, preservation, and replication of decorative arts, historic objects, and architectural features within the U.S. Senate collection. Board members serve two year terms and meet at least twice a year.   Dr. Peterson is an extraordinary scholar and an invaluable administrator. She will certainly make a significant contribution to the U.S. Senate Curatorial Advisory Board. We are very pleased with her appointment, said Raymond Tymas-Jones, dean of the College of Fine Arts and associate vice president for the arts at the University of Utah. Elizabeth Peterson is an art historian and has guided the University of Utah Art History program as its director from 2001-2007. Since 1992, she has taught undergraduate and graduate classes in Greek, Roman, and Medieval art and architecture. In her scholarly research, Dr. Peterson works on manuscript illumination of 13th century France.Other U.S. Senate Curatorial Advisory Board members include:For additional information regarding the U.S. Senate Curatorial Advisory Board, please contact Senate Curator Diane Skvarla at (202) 224-6141.# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/