  $3 Million for Utah Education and Health Care Highlighted in Senate Bill   WASHINGTON, D.C. B Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) announced today that the Senate Appropriations Committee signed off on over $3 million he requested for Utah that will fund projects at the Museum of Utah Art and History as well as support health education programs and Internet safety. As I meet with Utahns across the state, one thing is clear, they want improvements to health care and education. While this bill does not solve the problem entirely, it does provide significant resources to address issues like literacy and better access to quality health care in rural areas, said Bennett, a member of the appropriations committee. The Fiscal Year 2008 Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act will fund many important education initiatives, including the More Nurses Now Program at Weber State University (WSU). To help address Utahs severe shortage of nurses, this bill includes $500,000 for WSU to recruit and hire qualified new faculty, expand classroom space, and ultimately increase the number of nursing graduates.The Health Sciences Education and Training Center at Salt Lake Community College (SLCC) also received the committees approval for $500,000 to help move more students through SLCCs health programs, which includes nursing, radiology, physical therapy, biotechnology, and dental hygiene. SLCC funding will ensure an increase of over 360 graduates per year from these programs, a significant boost to help meet the immediate need for 3,500 health professionals in the state and region.AThis funding gets at the heart of the current demand for health care professionals by targeting higher education programs, said Bennett. We need to ensure that Utahs universities and colleges have the support they need to continue to send highly qualified practitioners into the medical field.Below are additional Bennett-requested projects for Utah included in bill:U-AIM Mentor Program, Utah State Office of Education  $500,000  The U-AIM Model, a teacher mentoring program, is designed to assist new teachers in elementary schools that are struggling to meet adequate yearly progress set by No Child Left Behind. Through early intervention, this program targets first and second graders who struggle with math and reading skills. Teachers in this program learn how to engage diverse learners, increase parent involvement, and improve classroom conditions. Expansion of Telemedicine Services, Association of Utah Community Health (AUCH)  $250,000AUCH supports its member organizations by working to increase access to health care with electronic health records for medically underserved and rural populations in Utah. The AUCH Telehealth Program eliminates unnecessary travel by bringing quality health care to rural communities, many of which would otherwise lack convenient access to facilities.National Ability Center, Park City $350,000 In order to provide approximately 10,000 individuals with cognitive and physical disability with transportation to recreational activities, the National Ability Center will use funding to purchase two 14 passenger vans and three years of driver and maintenance expenses. The center offers disabled children and adults access to outdoor activities like skiing, canoeing, river rafting, and rock climbing. Currently, there is no transportation available from the Provo, Ogden and Salt Lake City areas to Park City or the rural areas surrounding Heber City and Park City where activities take place.Museum of Utah Art and History (MUAH)  $250,000MUAH, in downtown Salt Lake, will use funding to improve archiving capabilities. The museum will use the majority of the funds to install technology that will make MUAH a central storehouse for information about museum exhibits across the state. Orem City Public Library  $300,000The 40-year old library houses 280,000 items and has a circulation of 1.3 million items per year, placing it in the top 10 percent nationwide for highest circulation per capita. Funding will be used to purchase radio frequency book tags and readers, sensor entrance/exit gates, and a Smart Card self-check system, and train personnel on how to use them. Internet Keep Safe Coalition, Salt Lake City $500,000Funding will enable the Internet Keep Safe Coalition to provide Internet safety education material to second, third, and fourth grade teachers. Materials provided to teachers throughout the state will include: a children=s book, Emmy-winning DVD, and other materials featuring Faux Paw the Techno Cat, the Internet safety icon.The spending measure is now placed on the Senate calendar and will be considered at a later date. Once passed by the Senate, the House and Senate will have to work out the differences between the two bills before voting on final passage.# # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/