Bennett Delivers Nearly $24 Million for Utah Economic Development and Transit Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  	The Fiscal Year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (TTHUD) Appropriations Bill includes $19.6 million for Utah transit projects. Of the $19.6 million, commuter rail is slated to receive $9 million for design and construction costs related to the Ogden-Salt Lake portion of the mass-transit proposal. Additional projects secured by Bennett are listed below.    
  	âCommuter rail remains a key component of the mass transit plan to ease traffic congestion along the Wasatch Front,â? said Bennett, a member of the TTHUD subcommittee. âTodayâs funding, and the recent announcement from DOT, are extremely positive signs for continued progress of the commuter   rail project.â?    
  	Todayâs committee action comes on the heels of an announcement made earlier this month by Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta that his department would issue a Letter of No Prejudice (LONP) for Utahâs commuter rail. The LONP allows the Utah Transit Authority to seek lenders for the project and move ahead in this construction season. Bennett spoke with Mineta on this matter and was instrumental in the final issuance of the letter.    
  	In addition to the transit dollars, the committee bill also includes $15.6 billion for Section 8 housing vouchers, an increase of $899 million over last year. The Section 8 program is one of HUDâs low-income housing programs which provides vouchers based on a tenantsâ income and the cost of housing.     
  	The bill also adjusts the formula that determines the funding level public housing authorities (PHA) receive for Section 8 vouchers. A provision in last yearâs appropriation bill changed the allocation formula and based it on vacancy rates during a three-month period, May through July 2004. This change adversely affected many Utah PHAs, as vacancies tend to be lower during the summer months. Bennett worked with his colleagues on the subcommittee to change the formula to reflect a more equitable distribution of funds. The provision in this yearâs bill bases the allocation on data from the most recent 12 months. The Senate also set aside $45 million, available through grant applications, for those PHAs hurt by last yearâs formula change.    
  	âI am extremely pleased we were able to change this formula so that Utahâs public housing agencies receive the amount needed to meet their housing demands,â? said Bennett.    
  	Bennett-requested projects in the FY2006 THHUD Appropriations Bill include:    
â¢	$4.25 million for statewide bus & bus facilities 
â¢	$3 million for Intermodal terminals for regional bus & bus facilities 
â¢	$1 million for transit center at 9400 South in Sandy 
â¢	$500,000 for the West Jordan extension of TRAX 
â¢	$150,000 for Brigham City Intermodal center planning & renovation of historic train depot 
â¢	$500,000 for expansion of a Sun-Tran operations & maintenance facility in St. George 
â¢	$500,000 for Utah Intermodal Transit hubs 
â¢	$750,000 for West Valley City Intermodal terminal 
â¢	$250,000 for Westminster College Intermodal expansion and shuttle service  
â¢	$1 million for revitalization of the original historic district in Sandy This funding will help Sandy, incorporated in 1893, bring public infrastructure projects within the historic district in line with modern zoning regulations. The project will also help to facilitate affordable housing developments for young families and seniors.     

â¢	$1.2 million for a library community multipurpose building in San Juan County This funding will be used to assist construction of a library and training facility for San Juan residents interested in pursuing careers as health professionals and teachers. The Economic Research for Utah (ERU) projects that the annual economic impact could amount to $544,800, based on 20 graduates. ERU further projects that personnel, along with economic benefits relating to the facility itself, will add at least $734,580 annually to the local economies.    

â¢	$800,000 for the Utah Olympic Park in Summit County This funding will be used for a maintenance facility at the Utah Olympic Park, constructed for the 2002 Winter Olympics and continues to be a primary training and competition site for five Olympic sports. The Olympic endowment to operate the facility does not provide funds for a maintenance building, and current maintenance work is done in a tent. The Park attracts hundreds of thousands of individuals each year.  	    
â¢	$600,000 for Provo Community Arts Center The Provo Community Arts Center is central to the city's efforts to revitalize Provo's historic downtown and promote economic development. Located in the Old City Library, the Center will provide a venue for dance, music, theatrical performance groups, as well as a permanent home for the Provo Arts Council. The project will also receive local government and private funds.    

â¢	$200,000 for community development and park facilities improvements in Eagle Mountain  Due to the rapidly growing population and high demand for recreational facilities, Eagle Mountain has secured 60 acres for development of a regional park. The city center will eventually be located near this corridor, including the future City Hall.    

	The bill now be voted on by the full Senate. After Senate passage, House and Senate conferees will reconcile differences in the two versions of the bill.    
								  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/