  Bennett Successfully Secures Almost 
$12 Million for Utah Interior Projects   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Nearly $12 million in Utah projects requested by Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah)  including preservation of public lands and additional funding for the Museum of Natural History at the University of Utah (U of U)  were approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee today.  Utah has a wide range of interior funding needs due to the large percentage of public lands within our borders. The diversity of projects outlined in this bill are critical to preserve and manage Utahs natural resources, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies.  The bill includes an additional $2 million for construction at the Utah Museum of Natural History at the U of U. The museums history traces back to 1963 when the university successfully pushed for the establishment of a state museum of natural history. Through its collections and programs, the museum has served as a learning center for elementary, secondary, and university students, and adults throughout Utah. But growing demands have required new space. Bennett, seeing the need to preserve Utahs rich biological and cultural history, received Congresss approval in 2002 to authorize $15 million for the new museum. If the $2 million is approved this year, Bennett will have successfully secured $14 million for the project.Each year we come closer to seeing this new addition to the museum become a reality. This state-of-the-art facility will be an invaluable asset to the U campus, housing priceless artifacts from Utah public lands and teaching Utahns and visitors more about our heritage, said Bennett. The bill also includes $1.4 million for a Forest Legacy Program (FLP) project in Summit County. The Chalk Creek property includes 3,692 acres located along Interstate 80 and adjacent to the Wasatch-Cache National Forest near Park City. The federal government will buy the development rights from private landowners for 1,100 acres at Three Forks Ranch, thereby protecting the Chalk Creek watershed. This property is an important economic base for the region, and also preserves access to recreation and protects wildlife habitat. Per Bennett, the project received $800,000 in the FY04 interior appropriations bill. Shauna Kerr, Utah state director for the Trust for Public Land, said of the Chalk Creek project, The funding proposed in the Senate is a critically important step towards the protection of some of Utah's most important recreational and forest resource land and we applaud Senator Bennetts leadership and consistent support for conservation in Utah. FLP is a federal program that partners with states to protect environmentally sensitive forest lands. Designed to encourage the protection of privately-owned forest lands, FLP is an entirely voluntary program.Additional Bennett-requested projects in the Fiscal Year 2008 Department of Interior Appropriations Bill are below:Land acquisitions  Bonneville Shoreline Trail and the Uinta Mountains $2.84 millionBonneville Shoreline Trail (BST) $1.34 millionBonneville Shoreline Trail has been an interest of mine for many years and Im pleased my colleagues continue to support this worthwhile project, said Bennett, who previously secured $15.5 million for the project. The trail, hugging the shoreline of the once great Lake Bonneville, is a perfect example of how we can both preserve environmental resources and provide recreational opportunities.    BST is a popular 90 mile long pedestrian and bicycle path being built across the foothills of the Wasatch Range along a route that follows the eastern shoreline of ancient Lake Bonneville. This is the final appropriation needed to acquire the remaining 964 acres in the Draper portion of the project. This land will be used to conserve summer and winter range habitat for deer and elk, serve as important fire protection buffers for the rapidly developing areas along the Wasatch Front, and provide watershed protection for neighboring areas. For more information, please visit www.bonneville-trail.org. North Slope of the Uinta Mountains $1.5 million   This funding will be used to acquire private land on the North Slope of the Uinta Mountains in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest. The property owners believe that incorporating their land into the national forest system is the best way to preserve and manage the natural resources. To date, the senator has secured $3.2 million for this land acquisition project.State and Tribal Assistance Grant (STAG) $1.6 millionCenterfield/ Mayfield Drinking Water Treatment Facility $1.1 million    Funds will be used to build a water treatment facility to help maintain appropriate water standards. Concentrations of nitrates have increased in recent years, leaving Centerfield and Mayfield, both low income communities, in need of a new facility. The facility received $1.5 million in fiscal year 2006.Syracuse City Water System $500,000   Funds will be used to reconstruct and expand drinking and secondary water lines as part of an ongoing project to upgrade the city water system needed to accommodate growth.Water Information Sharing and Analysis Center (WaterISAC) $2 million Water and wastewater utility managers from the Metropolitan Water District of Salt Lake and Sandy will have access to WaterISAC, a national, secure Internet-based system that notifies utility managers of government alerts and threats to Americas drinking water utilities. The database is currently the most comprehensive resource about water system vulnerabilities, incidents, and solutions.Crossroads of the West Historic District in Ogden $500,000Funds will be used to implement Ogdens management plan, which includes restoration work on the historic Laundry Building, the creation of a revolving loan fund for district properties, and the installation of displays explaining the district=s cultural heritage. The plan represents a close collaboration of the city, the state, National Park Service, citizens, businesses and other interested stakeholders. Bennett secured $500,000 for the Crossroads project in fiscal year 2006. Utah Oil and Gas Leasing Pilot Program $250,000This pilot program will identify and test ways to increase efficiency in the oil and gas leasing program. Administered by the Bureau of Land Management, the program conducts online auctions, in addition to oral auctions, to lease land using authority granted under the Energy Policy Act of 2005.Geographic Information System and Cadastral mapping project  $500,000This is an innovative, high-tech project used for land-use planning activities. In past bills, GIS has received over $4 million due to Bennetts funding efforts.The spending measure is now placed in the Senate calendar and will be considered at a later date. # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/