  Bennett Welcomes Fall Interns to Washington D.C. Office   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Utah Senator Bob Bennett welcomed five interns to his Washington, D.C. office earlier this month to work closely with staff on legislative, communications, and administrative issues and experience the congressional process first hand during the fall semester.  I am happy to have these students join my staff this semester and know they will contribute greatly to our legislative work and constituent services, said Bennett. This internship will be one of the highlights of their educational careers as they immerse themselves in the day to day operations of the U.S. Senate.  Steven Madsen, of Santa Clara, Utah, is currently a senior at Brigham Young University (BYU) majoring in broadcast journalism with a minor in Spanish. He has been a reporter for the BYU Daily News since last September, and will graduate in April 2008. Steven looks forward to a future career in Congress.  Layne Watsons interest in communications and journalism brought him to intern in Senator Bennetts press office. He is a student at Utah Valley State College (UVSC). Layne has been honored on the deans list each semester and he plans to pursue a career in writing and reporting after graduation in December 2008.Jacob Fullmer is a junior at Utah State University (USU) where he studies political science and journalism. Jacob is a reporter and columnist for the USU newspaper, The Statesman. After graduating next spring, he plans to pursue a masters degree in political science. He hopes his experience in Washington, D.C., will lay a foundation for his graduate education. A political science student at BYU, Cameron Smith comes to Washington, D.C., in preparation for his own career in the public sector. He hopes his internship will supplement his textbook knowledge of the legislative system. Cameron is an active member of Pi Sigma Alpha Honors Society. He plans to attend law school after graduating from BYU. Christa Reber, a student at Southern Utah University (SUU), is no stranger to politics having worked as an intern for Rep. Demar Bud Bowman in the Utah Legislature. She is majoring in political science and is active in the SUU political science society. After graduating next May, Christa plans to attend law school and continue her involvement in politics. A photo of the senator and interns is below, from left to right: Jacob Fullmer, Layne Watson, Cameron Smith, Steven Madsen, and Christa Reber. A higher resolution photo is available through the senator's press office. # # #


http://bennett.senate.gov/