Bennett, Matheson Roll Out Washington County Lands Draft Proposal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Measure addresses growth and conservation in rapidly growing county                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  âWashington County is the fifth fastest growing county in the United States,â? Sen. Bennett said. âAs this phenomenal growth continues, we must pair it with responsible conservation strategies to ensure that the growth is managed in the right way.â?       
	âThis proposal is modeled after legislation authored by Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign of Nevada. The Nevada bills have proven enormously beneficial for their state and serve as a great blueprint for what can work in Utah.  We look to Sen. Reidâs success as an example of how we can achieve the same kind of balanced growth in our own state,â? Bennett added.  	  					  	"This gives us a chance to bring the public at large into the process. I see this draft as a way to re-engage stakeholders in a broad discussion of these issues," said Matheson.    
The Washington County Growth & Conservation Act of 2006 is the result of over 20 months of work by a diverse group of Utahns working to responsibly address the challenges of record-breaking growth in this part of the state.  As part of this effort, the Washington County Land Use Planning Process and Working Group was initiated in June of 2004 by the Washington County Commission and the office of former Gov. Olene Walker. The Bennett-Matheson draft proposal is based on data offered and gathered by the working group.    
  	Highlights of the Washington County Growth & Conservation Act of 2006 draft include:	    
â¢	Protection of watersheds, viewsheds and high elevation rangeland critical to Zion National Park.    
  â¢	Designation of 170 miles of the Virgin River in Zion National Park as a Wild and Scenic River, the first Wild and Scenic River in Utah history.    
  â¢	Creation of the Red Cliffs National Conservation Area to provide long-term protection for the desert tortoise and recreational opportunities.    
  â¢	Disposal of non-environmentally sensitive public land through locally organized quality growth planning commission to meet economic growth demands of county.     
  â¢	Enhanced management of Off-Highway Vehicle (OHV) use through the creation of the High Desert OHV Trail System and make available resources for responsible management.    
  â¢	Addition of 219,299 acres of land to the National Wilderness Preservation System including 123,743 acres of National Park Service land within Zion National Park, 92,914 acres of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land and 2,642 acres of Forest Service land.    
  â¢	Preservation of critical utility, transportation and water corridors.    
  â¢	Distribution of funds derived from the sale of public lands for various federal and non-federal initiatives and projects including:             Local priorities                 State education trust fund                 County fire protection and flood control                 Water infrastructure, water treatment and conservation    
         Federal priorities                Virgin River Headwaters Project  â watershed and rangeland preservation through conservation easement 		                 Sensitive species habitat preservation                  Continued acquisition of desert tortoise habitat                 Trail repair and reconstruction in Dixie National Forest                 Capital improvements and willing seller acquisition in Zion National Park  											  	Sen. Bennett and Rep. Matheson look forward to the work of the locally driven quality growth planning process which will directly impact the manner in which lands are responsibly transferred to private ownership. As the legislative process unfolds, they also look forward to continued input and shared expertise from interested parties.     
  	A complete summary of the draft proposal, draft bill language and map are available at http://bennett.senate.gov and http://house.gov/matheson .    
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/