Washington County Receives Additional $3.2 Million to Help With Flood Efforts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  	âI am pleased that we continue to make progress toward securing the necessary money to repair the flood damage in southern Utah,â? said Bennett, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture that approves the funding for USDA. âThis latest announcement of $3.2 million will certainly help Washington Countyâs efforts to restore the watershed.â?    
  	The $3.2 million will be administered through the Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) program, part of the USDAâs Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), and brings the total EWP money to nearly $10 million for Washington County and a small portion of Kane County. As chairman of the agriculture appropriations subcommittee, Bennett said he will continue to work on securing the remaining money for the affected areas.    
  "The Bush administration is committed to helping communities recover from devastating natural disasters,â? said USDA Secretary Mike Johanns. âThese funds will provide technical and financial assistance to undertake emergency measures to remove threats to lives and property and restore the environment.â?    
  	In January Bennett toured the devastation and met with local and state officials to determine their needs to deal with the costs of the flooding. Since then, he has asked President Bush for a presidential disaster designation, which was granted, and Johanns for a secretarial disaster designation â status pending. He has also worked closely with USDA to ensure that federal funding is delivered to the state in a timely manner.    
  NRCS administers EWP to help remove threats to life and property that remain in the nation's watersheds in the aftermath of natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes, tornadoes and wildfires. The purpose of the EWP program is to undertake emergency measures to safeguard lives and property from floods, drought, and the products of erosion on any watershed whenever fire, flood or any other natural occurrence is causing or has caused a sudden impairment of the watershed.     
  	Information on EWP and the recent flood damage in Utah is on the Web at http://www.ut.nrcs.usda.gov. The latest NRCS press release will be available shortly.    
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/