Senate Approves $62 Million in Bennett Requests for Utah Military Installations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hill Air Force Base tops list with $33.9 million                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
  	âMilitary installations in Utah are key to executing many top missions of the Department of Defense,â? said Senator Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.  âInvestment in their operations and equipment is part of what makes it possible for these bases to perform with such tremendous success.â?    
  	Below are the projects requested by Bennett and included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill:     
Software Support Facility Addition, HAFB $19.5 million In 2002, Bennett secured $16.5 million for the construction of a new addition for Hillâs Software Support Facility. This yearâs funding will double the current capacity of the two-story 72,500 square-foot facility. The Software Engineering Division at HAFB develops, tests, and maintains software and related hardware for weapon systems and is the only one of its kind at its level in the DoD. Its mission includes work on the Air Forceâs F-16, B-1B, B-52, C-17, A-10, Minuteman and Peacekeeper weapons systems.    
  	âThe work performed at this HAFB facility is essential to ensuring the readiness of the nationâs military weapons systems,â? said Sen. Bennett.  âThese funds will provide for the necessary expansion of a facility which has reached its capacity. I appreciate my colleaguesâ recognition of this critical component of Hillâs mission. â?    
Michael Army Airfield â Phase 2, Dugway Proving Ground $25 million Funds will be used to demolish the existing runway and construct a new 11,000-foot by 150-foot Class B runway. The project also includes construction of a new electrical vault to house all airfield lighting and power equipment, including relocation of existing electrical systems. The completed runway will also act as an emergency landing field for Hill Air Force Base (HAFB).     
Consolidated Missile Storage Facilities, HAFB $9.8 million Funds are needed to construct three new facilities to reduce the overall Minuteman III missile storage requirement by 60 percent and provide flexibility to store multiple varieties of rocket motors maintained at Hill. This project will consolidate 43 missile storage igloos into three storage facilities and frees up needed explosive clear zone land that will be used for new missions and additional workloads.    
F/A-22 Aircraft Battle Damage Repair Training/Storage, HAFB $4.6 million The F/A-22 is the Air Forceâs premier air superiority fighter and plays an important role in the War on Terror. This funding will assist in the repair and storage of the F/A-22s.     
New Readiness Center, Camp Williams $3.3 million Funds will be used to construct a readiness center to house the new 144th Army Field Evacuation Hospital Unit.				  	  	The bill now proceeds to a conference with the House where differences between the two versions will be reconciled.    
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/