  Senator Bennett Welcomes New Summer Interns   

  	"It is wonderful to see these young students interested in and committed to learning more about our legislative system," said Bennett. "There is no doubt that a semester in Washington will contribute greatly to their education, and I'm pleased to get to know them through this experience."       

Doug Petersen, a University of Utah senior studying economics and English, came to the Bennett office to help prepare for a future career in public policy with an emphasis in economics. He is a National Merit Scholar and the recipient of University of Utah's President's Scholarship. A Salt Lake City native, Doug graduated from East High School.    

  Jaron Janson is a graduate of Pine View High School in St. George and is currently a senior at Utah State University majoring in political science and international studies. He is a recipient of a full-time academic scholarship and looks forward to serving as president of the USU College Republicans club next year. Jaron was also recognized on the 2006 dean's list.        

McKenzie Lawyer's interest in legislative research brought her to the Senate Rules Committee, where Bennett is the ranking Republican member. She is a senior at Brigham Young University studying Spanish and political science and hopes to attend Georgetown law school after graduating next April.     

  A marketing major and economics minor at Southern Utah University, Cidne Christensen comes to Washington to gain a greater understating of the legislative branch. At SUU, Cidne is a member of the honors program and recently studied abroad in Salzburg, Austria.  She is originally from Clinton, Utah, where she graduated from Northridge High School.    


David Andreasen recently graduated cum laude from the University of Utah earning a bachelor's degree in political science and international studies.  After completing an internship in Governor Huntsman's office, he applied for the Bennett internship to experience government on the national level. David is originally from South Jordan and plans to pursue a master's degree in both business and public administration.     
       A photo of the senator and interns is below, from left to right: Jaron Janson, McKenzie Lawyer, Cidne Christensen, Senator Bennett, Doug Petersen, and Dave Andreasen. A higher resolution photo is available through the senator's press office.    

  # # #   


http://bennett.senate.gov/