  Senate Approves Over $4 Million for Utah Health, Education, Labor, and Arts Projects Requested by Bennett     Includes $1 million to study deep mine safety and operations  WASHINGTON, D.C. B The Senate signed off on over $4 million Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) requested for Utah that will support health education programs and Internet safety in schools, and, in response to the Crandall Canyon Mine disaster, study mine safety and operations. Improving health care and education rank high on the list of priorities for Utahns, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. The programs funded in this bill take a significant step toward addressing illiteracy, improving access to health care in rural areas, and increasing the number of health care professionals to meet our growing medical needs. The Fiscal Year 2008 Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 3043) will fund many important education initiatives, including the More Nurses Now Program at Weber State University (WSU). More than 7,000 students have completed Weber States well-recognized nursing program since its inception in 1953. Nevertheless, Utah faces a severe shortage of nurses coming out of its universities. Of the 939 recent WSU nursing program applicants, only 400 students were accepted due to a shortage of faculty. To help address this shortage, the bill includes $500,000 for WSU to recruit and hire qualified new faculty, expand classroom space, and ultimately increase the number of nursing graduates.The Health Sciences Education and Training Center at Salt Lake Community College (SLCC) also received the Senates approval for $500,000 to help move more students through SLCCs health programs, which includes nursing, radiology, physical therapy, biotechnology, and dental hygiene. SLCC funding will ensure an increase of over 360 graduates per year from these programs, a significant boost to help meet the immediate need for thousands of health professionals in the state and region.Bennett also included an amendment to the bill with Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) that will put $1 million toward a study conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services, University of Utah, and West Virginia University that will look at practices and safety implications of deep mining. The amendment is in response to the mine disaster at Crandall Canyon in August. (See October 19, 2007, Bennett press release.) The tragedy at Crandall Canyon Mine struck a chord with not only Utahns, but all Americans. I appreciate the quick action and interest by my colleagues in the Senate to further examine the implications of deep coal mining, said Bennett. Below are additional Bennett-requested projects for Utah included in bill:U-AIM Mentor Program, Utah State Office of Education  $500,000  The U-AIM Model, a teacher mentoring program, is designed to assist new teachers in elementary schools that are struggling to meet adequate yearly progress set by No Child Left Behind. Through early intervention, this program targets first and second graders who struggle with math and reading skills. Teachers in this program learn how to engage diverse learners, increase parent involvement, and improve classroom conditions. Expansion of Telemedicine Services, Association of Utah Community Health (AUCH)  $250,000AUCH supports its member organizations by working to increase access to health care with electronic health records for medically underserved and rural populations in Utah. The AUCH Telehealth Program eliminates unnecessary travel by bringing quality health care to rural communities, many of which would otherwise lack convenient access to facilities.National Ability Center, Park City $350,000 In order to provide approximately 10,000 individuals with cognitive and physical disability with transportation to recreational activities, the National Ability Center will use funding to purchase two 14- passenger vans and three years of driver and maintenance expenses. The center offers disabled children and adults access to outdoor activities like skiing, canoeing, river rafting, and rock climbing. Currently, there is no transportation available from the Provo, Ogden and Salt Lake City areas to Park City or the rural areas surrounding Heber City and Park City where activities take place.Museum of Utah Art and History (MUAH) $250,000MUAH, in downtown Salt Lake, will use funding to improve archiving capabilities. The museum will use the majority of the funds to install technology that will make MUAH a central storehouse for information about museum exhibits across the state. Orem City Public Library  $300,000The 40-year old library houses 280,000 items and has a circulation of 1.3 million items per year, placing it in the top 10 percent nationwide for highest circulation per capita. Funding will be used to purchase radio frequency book tags and readers, sensor entrance/exit gates, and a Smart Card self-check system, and train personnel on how to use them. Internet Keep Safe Coalition, Salt Lake City $500,000Funding will enable the Internet Keep Safe Coalition to provide Internet safety education material to second, third, and fourth grade teachers. Materials provided to teachers throughout the state will include: a children=s book, Emmy-winning DVD, and other materials featuring Faux Paw the Techno Cat, the Internet safety icon. House and Senate conferees will now meet to reconcile the differences between the two versions of the bill. After the conference, both chambers will vote on the conference report and it will be sent to the president. # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/