  Bennett Introduces Legislation to Help Fund Utah Education While Protecting Public Lands   

     Bennett introduced similar legislation in the 109th Congress, but time constraints at the end of the session prohibited passage of the bill. Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) cosponsored the measure last year and has signed on again this year. S. 390 â The Utah Recreational Land Exchange Act of 2007 â will be referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources for further consideration.     

    Below is the text of Bennettâs statement offered today in the Senate:    

  Mr. President, I am pleased to be able to reintroduce the Utah Recreational Land Exchange Act of 2007, together with my colleague Senator Hatch.  This legislation will ensure the protection of critical lands along the Colorado River corridor in southeastern Utah and will help provide important funding for Utahâs school children.      

     In Utah, we treasure our childrenâs education.  A key component of our education system is the 3.5 million acres of school trust lands scattered throughout the state.  Upon Utahâs admission to the Union in 1896, these lands were dedicated to support public education.  Revenue from the trust lands, whether from grazing, forestry, surface leasing, or mineral development, is placed in the State School Fund.  This fund is a permanent, income-producing endowment created by Congress to fund Utahâs public education.  Unfortunately, the majority of these lands are surrounded by public lands, making responsible management very difficult.  It is critical to both the state of Utah and the Bureau of Land Management that we consolidate their respective lands to ensure that both public agencies are permitted to fulfill their mandates.    

     The legislation we are introducing today is yet another chapter in our stateâs long history of consolidating these state lands for the financial well-being of our education system.  These efforts allow the federal land management agencies to consolidate public lands in environmentally-sensitive areas that can then be reasonably managed.  We see this exchange as a win-win solution for the state of Utah and its school children, as well as the Department of the Interior, the caretaker of our public lands.    

     In 1998, Congress passed the first major Utah school trust land exchange which consolidated hundreds of thousands of acres.  Again in 2000, Congress enacted an exchange consolidating another 100,000 acres.  I was proud to play a role in those efforts, and the bill we are introducing today is yet another step in the long journey toward fulfilling the promise Congress made to Utahâs school children in 1896.    

     Utahâs School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration manages some of the most spectacular lands in America, located along the Colorado River in southeastern Utah.  This legislation will ensure that places like Westwater Canyon of the Colorado River, the world famous Kokopelli and Slickrock biking trails, some of the largest natural rock arches in the United States, wilderness study areas, and viewsheds for Arches National Park will be traded into federal ownership and for the benefit of future generations.  At the same time, the school children of Utah will receive mineral and development lands that are not environmentally-sensitive, and where responsible development makes sense.  This will be an equal value exchange, with approximately 40,000 acres exchanged on both sides, giving taxpayers and the school children of Utah a fair deal.  Moreover, the legislation establishes a common-sense valuation process for resources that are often either overlooked or overvalued because of their highly-speculative nature.    

      This legislation represents a truly collaborative process that has included local governments, the state, the recreation and environmental communities, and other interested parties.  We also worked closely with the Department of the Interior on proper valuation in the appraisal of the lands.  In a hearing held before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on May 24, 2006, the Department of the Interior expressed their support for the bill and said that this land exchange will resolve management issues, improve public access, and facilitate greater resource protection.  We look forward to working with the appropriate committees toward a successful resolution of this proposed exchange during this Congress.    

      I ask my colleagues to support our effort to fund the education of our children in Utah and to protect some of this nationâs truly great land.  I urge support of the Utah Recreational Land Exchange Act of 2007.   

  # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/