  Bennett Provision Will Give Critical Utah Water Projects a $25 Million Boost     Water Bill Clears Congress, Now Needs White House Approval  WASHINGTON, D.C.  Utah communities may soon be eligible for an additional $25 million in federal assistance to help fund local water infrastructure projects, thanks to a provision Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) included in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The U.S. Senate today passed the WRDA conference report by a vote of 81-12. This funding makes it possible for our small communities to develop cleaner water supplies and build new projects that otherwise would have been difficult due to limited budgets, said Bennett, who also included a similar provision in this years Energy and Water Appropriations bill. Section 595 funds have been extremely successful in Utah and there is no doubt this additional $25 million will improve the infrastructure and expand economic development.  In 2003 Bennett first authored legislation that created the Utah Environmental Infrastructure and Resource Protection and Development Program and authorized the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to use up to $25 million to help develop local water systems in small communities. The new program was established as an amendment to Section 595 of WRDA and applies to all counties outside the Wasatch Front and St. George. Todays vote will authorize an additional $25 million for the Utah portion of the program. Each year Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, includes the Section 595 funds in the annual Energy and Water Appropriations Act. Since 2005, Congress has appropriated $11 million for Utah cities and towns. Localities contribute 25 percent of the total project costs, while the federal share covers 75 percent. Federal funds are used for design and construction of Section 595 projects including renovation or construction of wastewater treatment facilities, drinking water supply, environmental restoration and surface water resource protection and development. The local sponsor is responsible for 100 percent of the operation, maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, and replacement costs associated with the completed construction project.    The WRDA report is now sent to the president for his approval. Though the White House has indicated the president may veto the bill, the House vote of 381-40 indicates votes to override a possible veto.      # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/