Senate Unanimously Approves Mike Leavitt as New Secretary of Health, and Human Services                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bennett enthusiastically endorses Leavitt as âsuperb secretary of HHSâ?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 Utah Senator Bob Bennett enthusiastically endorsed the Leavitt nomination and gave the following remarks in the Senate immediately preceding the vote:  
 âI have the privilege of being one of Mike Leavittâs friends, one of his political associates, and one of his strongest supporters. I introduced him to the committees at the time of his confirmation hearings; I donât want to add much to the comments that I made there. But I do want to take this occasion to note the Senate action with respect to his confirmation, and to assure my colleagues here in the Senate, as well any who might be listening, that the United States of America is very fortunate to have a man of Mike Leavittâs stature available to us to serve in this important cabinet level position.             
âMike served as a governor, but as a governor who was very innovative in many of the areas where innovation will be called for in his new assignment. He served as a business executive, building a business, growing a business, helping a business to survive. He understands the impact of extra taxes on small businesses and he will be appropriately prudent, no only in the way he spends money but in the way he promulgates regulations that can impact small business.   
 âMike and his wife, Jackie, are beloved throughout Utah. He is one of only two men ever elected to three successive terms as governor in the history of the state, and there are those who believe if he would have decided to seek a fourth term he would have received it without much difficulty. He retired with a very high approval rating. He brings that, plus performance in his position as the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to his new assignment.   
           âOn behalf of the people of Utah I wish him well, and I urge my Senate colleagues to give him unanimous confirmation. He will be a superb secretary of health and human services.â?  
 	# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/