  Bennett Praises Rules Committee for Upholding Its Precedent on FEC Nominees   WASHINGTON, D.C.  Today the Senate Rules Committee reported out four Federal Election Committee (FEC) nominations after a motion offered by Senator Bob Bennett, the ranking Republican member, was unanimously accepted to vote them out of committee en bloc.  Today the Rules Committee continued its long-standing tradition of voting for FEC nominees en bloc. I commend my colleagues for upholding this important precedent, and hope that when these nominations are brought to the Senate floor that we allow them the same consideration previous FEC nominees received, said Bennett.  In his opening remarks, Bennett pointed to committee precedent for reporting nominees en bloc. Below is a history of Rules Committee action on FEC nominations over the past two decades.Michael Toner and Ellen Weintraub in 2003. The committee was discharged from further consideration, and nominees were confirmed en bloc on the floor.Bradley Smith and Danny Lee McDonald in 2000. The nominees were considered en bloc and reported out by unanimous roll call vote. Scott Thomas and Darryl Wold, David Mason and Karl Sandstrom in 1998. The nominees were considered en bloc and reported out by voice vote. Lee Ann Elliott and Danny Lee McDonald in 1994. The nominees were considered en bloc and reported out by unanimous roll call vote. Trevor Potter and Scott Thomas in 1991. The committee was discharged from further consideration, and the nominees were confirmed en bloc on the floor. Joan Aikens and John McGarry in 1989. The nominees were considered en bloc and reported out by unanimous roll call vote. Lee Ann Elliott and Danny Lee McDonald in 1987. The nominees considered en bloc and reported out by voice vote. Thomas Josefiak and Scott Thomas in 1986. The nominees were considered en bloc and reported out by voice vote. The four nominees considered by the committee today were Steven T. Walther, David M. Mason, Robert D. Lenhard, and Hans von Spakovsky. Their nominations were reported out of committee without recommendation. All but Commissioner Mason are recess appointees whose terms at the FEC will expire at the end of the year unless confirmed by the Senate before then.  # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/