  Over $230,000 on Its Way to Three Utah Fire Departments  
 WASHINGTON, D.C.  Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) announced today that several Utah fire departments will receive more than $230,000 in federal fire grants to help enhance operations and replace outdated equipment. These fire departments are in the heart of some of Utahs largest wildfires that have burned thousands of acres throughout the state, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee that approves funding for this program each year. In many instances, this program is the only way local units could update new equipment, purchase new fire trucks, or modernize operations. I'm happy to see them get the resources they need to respond to immediate threats in our communities.The Cedar City/Iron County Fire Departments, Sunnyside City Fire Department, and Panguitch City Fire Department will receive a total of $231,661 as part of the Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) Program, administered by the Department of Homeland Security U.S. Fire Administration (USFA). Information on each grant is listed below:This operations and safety grant will help the Cedar City Fire Department and the surrounding smaller, rural departments in Iron County purchase new communications equipment, including personnel and station radios. For more information on this grant, contact Fire Marshal Mike Philips at (435) 586-2964. This grant will help the department purchase a new brush truck, a specialized vehicle used to fight fires in wooded and brush covered areas. The departments current truck can only travel about 15 miles an hour. The Sunnyside Fire Department helps protect a 25-square mile area in Carbon County that is prone to wildfires. The department currently has two firefighters certified to battle wildfires and more are in the process of certification.It is going to be so wonderful to finally have a truck that can go out and get to the fires before they spread, said City Recorder Polly Sanderson.Also included in this grant is money for a driver training course for the new brush truck. For additional information about this grant, please contact City Recorder Polly Sanders at (435) 888-4444.This grant will be used to purchase new protective gear for 17 firefighters. Without this funding, Panguitchs budget would only allow the station to replace one set of gear each year. Replacement is needed to bring the gear up to new protective standards. For more information on this grant, contact Fire Marshal Dave Dodds at (435) 676-8585.Since last fall, 27 AFG grants totaling over $2.4 million have been issued to Utah fire departments. AFG provides funds for training, wellness and fitness, firefighting equipment, personal protective equipment, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. For additional information on this program, please visit USFA's website at www.firegrantsupport.com.# # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/