Bennettâs Uintah Curatorial Center Clears Senate and Moves to House for Approval                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 	âThe curatorial center will provide a more secure environment for the museumâs collections and will greatly enhance future exhibits and research capabilities,â? said Bennett. âI am pleased with the Senateâs quick action, and call on the House to do the same so that we can then seek funding for the project and construction can get underway.â?  
	 	Bennettâs bill â S. 182, The Uintah Research and Curatorial Center Act â establishes the center, which will be built adjacent to the new Utah Field House of Natural History. Co-locating the curatorial center with the Field House Museum will offer an enhanced experience for visitors while saving costs for the National Park Service (NPS) and the museum by allowing them to share laboratory and research space, classrooms, public access and parking facilities.   
	The curatorial center will house the more than 609,000 items in the fossil, archaeological, and natural resource collections of Dinosaur National Monument.  These items are currently stored in 17 different locations around the park in facilities that fail to meet NPS standards for collections preservation and protection.   
 	Bennettâs legislation will also allow the NPS to accept land donated by the city and county and to authorize the construction of the facility outside the boundaries of the monument. The U.S. Forest Service and the U.S. Bureau of Land Management will also be minor partners in the new 22,500 square foot facility, sharing some of the space.  
 	The Senate passed identical legislation sponsored by Bennett during the 108th Congress, but the U.S. House of Representatives failed to approve the bill.  
	 # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/