  Bennett Joins Senate Colleagues to Call for $3 Billion More for Border Security     Homeland security spending bill also provides $24 million for cybersecurity  WASHINGTON, D.C.  As the Senate concluded action on its first appropriations bill late Thursday night, the chamber agreed to a number of homeland security provisions, including one Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) supported that will boost border security by $3 billion.  Homeland security remains a top priority for every member of Congress, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, after voting to pass the 2008 fiscal year Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. Bennett voted in favor of a bipartisan amendment (sponsored by Sen. Graham R-S.C. and Sen. Pryor D-Ark.), the Border Security First Act of 2007, that will devote $3 billion to security along the U.S.-Mexico border. The Senate agreed to the amendment by a vote of 89-1. Securing the border and regulating the flow of immigrants coming into our country is a serious problem that needs a responsible fix. If enacted, the $3 billion we included would increase the number of patrol agents, the miles of border fencing, and the number of detention beds on the border, said Bennett.  The amendment will accomplish the following:Also included in this bill is a $24.8 million request by Bennett for cybersecurity development and research that will be conducted by a group of U.S. universities, including Utah State University (USU). These universities will focus their research on the analysis of the current organizational, legal, operational and technical systems at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Cyber threats have the ability to disrupt financial services, telecommunications, transportation, and energy systems that rely on computer technology and this funding will help prevent and respond to cyber attacks. This represents an increase of $4.8 million over last years level and supplements the presidents budget by $10 million. With the growth of the Information Age and the private sectors becoming so dependent on the Internet, our nation has become especially vulnerable to cyber terrorism, said Bennett. This collaborative effort by some of the county's top universities will give us the tools to respond swiftly and effectively to any future cyber attacks.   The bill now moves to a Senate and House conference committee. After the conference is completed (expected in the fall), both chambers will vote on the conference report and the legislation will be sent to the president for his signature. # # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/