First Spending Bill Gets OK by Conferees, Includes Nearly $15 Million for Bennett's Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
  	The Utah Museum of Natural History at the University of Utah, a project Bennett has helped fund since securing congressional authorization in 2002, will receive $4 million in the spending bill. As a result of his work, the museum has already received approximately $8 million for the design and construction of facilities, which will help protect and preserve the museumâs valuable artifacts.    
  	âThe Utah Museum of Natural History is a tremendous asset to our state as it showcases artifacts of our unique heritage,â? said Bennett. âIâm happy to support this effort so that Utahns and visitors alike can take advantage of this impressive institution.â?    
  	Additional Bennett-requested projects included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Department of Interior Appropriations Bill:    

â¢	$1.2 million for the Colorado River Special Recreation Management Area in Grand County The acquisition will help protect the riverfront from development, resolve major access issues, preserve scenic values and protect critical endangered fish habitat along the Colorado River. It also compliments Bennettâs land exchange legislation introduced in May. The project is supported by the local community, conservation groups, as well as the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.    
â¢	$500,000 for the Crossroads of the West Historic District in Ogden Funds will be used to implement the management plan, which includes restoration work on the historic Laundry Building, the creation of a revolving loan fund for district properties, and signs describing the districtâs cultural heritage. The plan represents a close collaboration of city and  state officials, National Park Service, businesses, citizens and other interested stakeholders.     
â¢	$1.5 million for Bonneville Shoreline Trail land acquisition (BST) The BST acquisition will complete the 139-acre Grandeur Park in south Salt Lake and initiate the acquisition of Bear Canyon property located outside of Draper. BST is a popular recreation trail in Utah being built along the eastern shoreline of the ancient Lake Bonneville in the Wasatch Range foothills. This brings the total procured by Bennett to over $15 million.     
â¢	$700,000 High Uintas land acquisition The High Uinta acquisition will continue a 10-year project acquiring 12,000 acres of private land on the North Slope.    
â¢	$2.25 million for the Forest Legacy Project The Cedar Project includes two working ranches, Co-op Valley and Spanish Hollow, that have been family owned for 100-150 years. The $1.5 million will be used to purchase conservation easements, without increasing federal land ownership, and help reduce development pressures.     
  	The Range Creek/Rainbow Glass Ranch landowner has donated 800 of the 4,912-acre ranch to this program, and would like the remaining land protected. The $750,000 earmark will purchase the easement. This is a priority for the state due to its cultural and historical resources, impact on the watershed, and recreational value.    
â¢	$1.5 million for the Sand Hollow Reservoir in Washington County Funds will help build campgrounds, trails and staging areas for OHV and equestrian access to public lands.    
â¢	$300,000 for the Geographic Information System and Cadastral mapping project This is an innovative, high-tech project used for land use planning activities. In past years, GIS has received $3.8 million due to Bennettâs efforts.    
â¢	$3 million for State and Tribal Assistance Grants (STAG) $1.5 million for a new water treatment plant in Centerfield/Mayfield that will help this rural community continue to meet EPA safety requirements.    
  	$700,000 for arsenic/perchlorate removal in Magna. The Magna Water District, state and federal governments, and other interested parties are working together to construct a facility responsible for the removal of perchlorate and arsenic.  	    
	$500,000 for a new wastewater treatment plant in Eagle Mountain that will help this fast-growing community meet the demands of increased growth.    
  	$300,000 to upgrade Park Cityâs antiquated drinking water facilities.  	    
	The subcommittee also approved the following overall budget numbers:    
  â¢	The Payment-in-Lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) program was allocated $236 million, an increase of $9.2 million over last year and $36 million over this yearâs administration request. Utahâs share will be approximately $20 million. PILT compensates counties for the impact federal land ownership has on the tax base. The federal government owns nearly 70 percent of Utahâs land.    
  â¢	$30 million for stateside Land and Water Conservation Fund, which provides grants for state and local parks and recreation areas. The administration and the House did not include funding for this program.    
		  	The House and Senate are expected to vote on final passage this week, after which the bill will go to the president for his signature.    
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/