$1.8 Billion Coming to Utah for Transportation Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  	âThis is the most federal funding ever committed to Utah in a transportation bill and it is long overdue,â? said Hatch, who served on the Senate-House team that negotiated the final transportation funding bill. âImproving transportation is one of the stateâs highest priorities because travel on Utahâs roads has grown twice as fast as our population. Everywhere I travel in Utah, people talk to me about how much we need these funds. This bill will help Utah improve roads, reduce traffic, and provide more transportation options.â?    
  	âThis highway bill provides a tremendous amount of federal assistance for road improvements across the state. As Utah continues to experience unprecedented growth, many of these projects will help alleviate congestion in areas hardest hit,â? said Bennett, a senior member of the Senate Banking Committee that authorizes a portion of the highway bill. âI am particularly pleased with the $200 million set aside for commuter rail, which will allow UTA to begin construction on the project.â?    
  	âUtah has a powerful team here in the Senate,â? Hatch said. âWe work hard on every funding initiative to make sure our state gets its fair share.â?    
  	Congress is expected to pass a comprehensive highway measure allocating approximately $282 million each year to invest in Utahâs highways systems over the next five years. Utahâs delegation secured $430 million over five years tied to specific high-priority transit and highway projects throughout the state.    
  	The Utah delegation was able to include funding in the bill for Utah State University to operate a University Transportation Center. This center will receive nearly $2 million over the next four years and will greatly improve the statewide knowledge base and transportation research being done in the state.     
  Funding for the following Utah projects were included in the final bill:    
Transit Projects â¢ $200 million for Utah Regional Commuter Rail  â¢ $30 million for Utah Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities  â¢ $1 million over two years ($500,000 per year) for Provo-Orem Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) study    
High-Priority Highway Projects â¢ $18 million for Geneva Rd-Provo Center Street, Orem 1600 North to I-15 FWY, Provo-widen from 2 to 4 lanes  â¢ $3 million for construction of Midvalley Highway, Tooele County  â¢ $6 million for Provo, Utah Westside Connector from I-15 to Provo Municipal Airport  â¢ $1.5 million to reconstruct 500 West, including pedestrian and bicycle access, in Moab  â¢ $12 million for Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge Access Road Improvements, Box Elder County  â¢ $16 million to widen Highway 92 from Lehi to Alpine/Highland  â¢ $10.5 million for I-15 Freeway Reconstruction-Springville 200 South Interchange, Springville  â¢ $13 million to construct a two-lane divided highway from the Atkinville Interchange to the new airport access road in St. George   â¢ $3.5 million for I-15 Freeway Reconstruction- Salt Lake County  â¢ $2.5 million for I-15 North and Commuter Rail Coordination, Davis County  â¢ $3 million to street-scape a two-lane road and add turning lanes at key intersections on Santa Clara Drive in Santa Clara  â¢ $14 million to construct 200 North Street highway-rail graded crossing separation, Kaysville  â¢ $8.5 million to widen Redwood Road from Saratoga Springs to Bangerter Highway in Utah County  â¢ $16 million to expand Redhills Parkway from 2 to 5 lanes and improve alignment within rights-of-way in St. George  â¢ $5 million for Grant Tower Reconfiguration, Salt Lake City  â¢ $3 million for the 200 East Minor Arterial, Logan City  â¢ $3 million for the 3200 South Project, Nibley/Cache County  â¢ $5.5 million to construct Parley's Creek Trail, Salt Lake City  â¢ $2.1 million for SR-158 Improvements, Pine View Dam, Weber County  â¢ $5 million for the Provo Reservoir Canal Trail, Provo  â¢ $4 million to improve pedestrian and traffic safety in Holladay  â¢ $6 million for Forest Street improvements, Brigham City  â¢ $8 million to reconstruct South Moore Cut-off Road in Emery County  â¢ $12 million for construction and rehabilitation of 13th East in Sandy City  â¢ $2.5 million for State Street reconstruction project 106th to 94th  â¢ $4 million to increase lane capacity on bridge over Virgin River on Washington Fields Road in Washington  â¢ $500,000 to construct pedestrian safety project on the Navajo Nation in Montezuma Creek  â¢ $400,000 to add lighting on Highway 262 on the Navajo Nation in Aneth  â¢ $500,000 to add lights to road from Halchita to Mexican Hat in the Navajo Nation    
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/