Bennett Applauds Senate Passage of Energy Bill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
             âToday the Senate took a positive step forward by passing an energy bill that balances domestic energy production with conservation and efficiency efforts, and decreases our dependence on foreign oil,â? said Bennett. âThis bill promotes the use of renewable and alternative fuels and will diversify our countryâs energy portfolio. I encourage  the House and Senate conferees to move quickly and send a bill to the presidentâs desk.â?    
            The Energy Policy Act of 2005 included a provision, introduced earlier this year by Senator Orrin Hatch and cosponsored by Bennett, that will authorize a program to facilitate the environmentally responsible development of oil shale and tar sand in Utah, Colorado and Wyoming. This area contains approximately 50 percent of the worldâs oil shale resources and the equivalent of an estimated 2.6 trillion barrels of oil. The Bureau of Land Management is also authorized to lease land for the commercial development of these resources, and to create a task force to accelerate the commercial development. The Senate unanimously accepted the amendment as part of the bill.  
             âI commend Senator Hatchâs successful efforts in this important area. The energy potential available in oil shale and tar sands could have a dramatically positive impact on our efforts to increase the U.S. energy supply,â? said Bennett.  

             The bill passed the United States Senate by a bipartisan vote of 85-12. The House passed its version of the energy bill in April by a vote of 249-183. House and Senate conferees will now meet to reconcile differences between the two measures. Once a reconciled bill is passed by the Congress, it will be sent to President Bush for his signature.    
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/