Senate Passes Bennett Bill Establishing Pioneer Heritage Area Along Utahâs Highway 89                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  	âThe story of the Mormon pioneers is one of the most compelling in our nationâs history,â? said Bennett.  âThe National Pioneer Heritage Area will serve as an appropriate recognition of their remarkable achievements over 150 years ago, and also provide a great cultural opportunity for travelers along Utahâs Highway 89 today.â?    
			  	Spanning 250 miles, from the small town of Fairview, Utah, south through six counties to the Arizona border, the area covered by the heritage area includes countless examples of the rich cultural and architectural history shaped by the Mormon pioneers.    
  	The National Mormon Pioneer Heritage Area Act, designates the 250-mile area as a heritage area to be managed by the Utah Heritage Highway 89 Alliance, an organization currently in place.  Bennett noted the alliance is made up of a broad and diverse group of citizens including representatives from county government, economic development organizations, artisans, and heritage groups.      
  	Under the Bennett legislation, the alliance will develop a management plan for the heritage area which must be approved by the secretary of the interior.  Private property and land use planning will not be affected by this designation.  While the bill authorizes $10 million for the heritage area, the federal share of any costs carried out pursuant to this act will not exceed 50 percent.    
  	Kane, Garfield, Piute, Sevier, Wayne and Sanpete counties and their respective communities are included in the heritage area.    
  	The bill now goes to the House of Representatives for consideration.     
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/