Agriculture Secretary Issues Disaster Designation for Iron and Washington Counties                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Announcement Will Make Low Interest Emergency Loans Available to Producers with Eligible Crop Losses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 	âSecretary Johannsâ announcement is good news for southern Utahâs agriculture community,â? said Bennett, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture. âThis designation is another important step in getting the needed federal resources to the areas hit hardest by the floods.â?  
 	Bennett sent a letter on February 3, 2005, to Johanns requesting him to expedite the secretarial disaster designation. USDA has spent the last month assessing the damages before issuing the disaster designation. Bennett also sent a letter to President Bush on January 21, 2005, in support of Governor Huntsmanâs request for a presidential disaster designation. The president signed the declaration on February 1. Both letters were sent after Bennett toured the damage and destruction caused by the floods.   
 	This designation makes agriculture producers in Iron and Washington counties and the contiguous counties â Beaver, Garfield, and Kane â eligible to be considered for low-interest emergency loans from the Farm Service Agency (FSA). The FSA will consider each loan applications on its own merit by taking into account the extent of losses, security available, and repayment ability. Producers interested in applying for the loans should contact their local FSA.  
 	This designation status may also make producers eligible for any future funds appropriated by Congress for disaster relief.    

# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/