Hill AFB and Utah Universities Receive OK for 
$91 Million in Defense Funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
  	âWith todayâs funding we make important, necessary investments in our nationâs military apparatus,â? said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.  âMany of these programs arenât well-known to the average American, or written about on the front page, but they are critical components in securing our national defense.  Utah continues to enjoy national prestige through the contributions made through its military installations, universities and defense industries.  Iâm extremely pleased with the funds approved today which will ensure the continuation of these efforts in our state.â?    
  	The Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Appropriations Bill includes $30 million for the following programs at Hill Air Force Base:    
F-16 Maintenance Depot Replacement $9 million These funds will be used for new F-16 avionics maintenance facilities that are designed to increase productivity of overall maintenance efforts and resources.    
Aging Landing Gear Life Extension (ALGLE) $7 million A major challenge for aging Air Force aircraft is maintaining landing gear system. These funds will help enhance existing designs and improve landing gear maintenance operations.    
Productivity Improvements for Landing Gear Overhaul Technologies (PILOT) $6 million The program will develop and use simulation to improve time and efficiency of landing gear maintenance and repairs.     
Science Engineering & Lab Data Integration (SELDI) $5 million This program supports the maintenance, repairs, and accident/failure investigations of all Air Force intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) and aircraft.    
Propulsion System Rocket Engine (PSRE) Life Extension Program $3 million This program supports the nationâs Minuteman III missile system.    
Utahâs universities will also receive $10.5 million for defense-related research:  			    
Deployable Unmanned Aerial Vehicle System for Targeting Exploitation and Reconnaissance (DUSTER), Utah State University (USU) $6.5 million USUâs Space Dynamics Lab will use these funds to develop a system that could command, control, and collect imagery from multiple Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs).    
Friction Stir Welding, Brigham Young University (BYU) $2 million The program focuses on the development of an innovative welding technique using friction stirring science. The military would like to use this welding technique in future military hardware, such as naval vessels.    
Thermo-Acoustic Piezo Energy Conversion, University of Utah (UoU) $1 million The UoU will use these funds to design and develop devices that will be used as a high-powered electricity source for battlefield operations.     
Competency-Based Distance Education, Western Governors University (WGU) $1 million This online competency-based program will allow military personnel to receive credit toward a bachelor and master degree for the skills and proficiencies they have learned on the job while serving their country.   		    
Below are projects involving firms in Utahâs defense industry:    
Submarine-Launched Intermediate Range Ballistic Missile (S-LIRBM) $12 million Operations in Iraq and Afghanistan demonstrated the need for a sea-based, intermediate-range, precision-strike capability against time-sensitive targets. This funding will assist Ogden-based ATK-Thiokol in the motor design and testing for the S-LIRBM.		    
Supersonic Cruise Missile Engine Development $10 million These funds will be used for research and development of an engine for the supersonic cruise missile.    
Upgrade Sonar Systems of the Virginia Class Submarine $6 million 
Common Data Link (CDL) Program $5.3 million This program currently provides wideband and communications of tactical intelligence data to enable joint Army, Navy, and Air Force combat operations. These funds would be used to extend CDL to space-based systems, such as satellites.    
Research Alternative Delivery Methods for Vaccines $4.7 million 
Research for Hybrid-Electric Army Vehicles $3.5 million 
Inventory Management Systems $3 million Funds will increase efficiency for spare part inventory management on DoD installations.    
ChemNet Program $3 million The funds will be used to establish a regional demonstration program for the management of hazardous materials, and would serve approximately 30 National Guard sites in the western United States.    
Robotic Assisted Convoy Operations Project $3 million The project is a joint industry/academia endeavor to introduce robotic technologies into military land convoy operations, with the goal to reduce the number of military personnel required on supply missions and more importantly their exposure to hostile action during these missions.    
  	The Senate will begin debate on the spending bill tomorrow. After Senate passage, conferees from both chambers will meet to reconcile differences in the bill.    
# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/