  Bennett Says SCHIP Proposal Does Not Focus Enough on Low-Income, Uninsured Children     Senator Calls on Congress to Find a Better, More Workable Solution  WASHINGTON, D.C.  Senator Bob Bennett (R-Utah) joined 28 of his Senate colleagues to vote against the current reauthorization proposal for the State Childrens Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), and instead called for a new proposal that puts the focus on low-income, uninsured children and ensures that healthcare for children is for children.SCHIP has seen tremendous successes in its first ten years, and I strongly support its reauthorization. But this latest proposal goes well beyond the original intent of providing low-income children with health insurance, and takes us one step closer to government-run healthcare, said Bennett. Instead of providing waivers for adults or unintended incentives for parents to drop private coverage for taxpayer-supported insurance, as this plan does, Congress should focus on identifying and enrolling more eligible children.  Bennett cites the crowd-out effect, moving children off of private insurance and onto government-run healthcare, as one reason for his opposition. The Congressional Budget Office says that 2.1 million individuals who are currently insured will move from private coverage to government dependency if the plan is implemented. SCHIP currently provides 6.6 million children with health insurance.Though SCHIP was designed to cover children, 670,000 adults participated in the program last year. This year, 13 percent of SCHIP funds will go to adults other than pregnant women. Some states are diverting as much as half of their SCHIP funds to cover adults and even adults without children. For example, Wisconsin spends 75 percent of its SCHIP funds on adults, and covers almost twice as many adults as children. The administration has issued a Statement of Administration Policy indicating that the president will veto the legislation as written. Earlier this week the House of Representatives passed the measure by a vote of 265-159, which is not enough votes to override a presidential veto. Bennett added, We will see SCHIP again this year and it is my hope that Congress will then come up with a workable solution to continue this valuable program.# # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/