  Senate Committee Approves Over $2 Million in Bennett Requests     Including $700,000 for Utah to Fight Meth in Uintah Basin  WASHINGTON, D.C.  Yesterday the Senate Appropriations Committee approved a spending bill that includes Senator Bob Bennett's request for over $2 million for new space technology, juvenile outreach programs, and funding to eradicate methamphetamine production in the Uintah Basin.Meth is devastating our rural communities and we must continue to find ways to help bring an end to this meth epidemic, said Bennett, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. I understand that this is a problem government cannot solve alone; it will take a sustained effort by law enforcement, local businesses, and schools to address the challenges. This funding will go a long way to help Uintah Basin communities target meth labs in their area.The committee approval today is the first hurdle in securing $700,000 for the Uintah Basin to assist local law enforcement officials with resources to hire additional personnel and to purchase meth-related equipment including body-worn transmitters  which use radio frequency transmissions to detect human activity at a specific location  communications devices, surveillance equipment, and mobile cameras. In fiscal year 2006, Uintah County received $400,000 in federal assistance to fight this rampant drug problem.Since 1998, Bennett has secured over $6.5 million for local law enforcement agencies in 23 Utah counties. This funding helps ease the large budgetary burden meth investigations have on county governments. Eastern Utah is particularly susceptible to these problems because of its proximity to major highways known for drug trafficking and the ease of establishing underground meth labs in remote areas. The bill also includes $350,000 for Prevention Plus, a program organized by the BYU-Public School Partnership  a group of nine Utah public school districts, Brigham Young University, Utah State University, the Utah State Office of Education, and city and state law enforcement agencies. The program identifies at-risk students enrolled in Utah elementary and secondary schools and uses intervention strategies, support groups, and teaching behavioral skills to teach them to make better choices, resulting in reduced juvenile delinquency.  Additional Bennett-requested projects in the Fiscal Year 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill include:Space Dynamic Laboratory (SDL) at Utah State University (USU)  $500,000 The quality of scientific data collected during NASA and Department of Defense (DoD) space missions is directly related to how well temperature sensors on equipment are calibrated. SDL uses improved radiometric calibration to increase understanding of sensor performance. The lab will develop the equipment and processes to transfer National Institute of Standards and Technology data to working calibration sources used for NASA and DoD missions. In fiscal year 2006, Bennett secured $1 million for this modern facility. Orem City Police Department Broadband Interoperable Network$300,000This grant will allow the Orem City Police Department to effectively fight crime and protect its police force by installing video cameras in all its vehicles. The department will also work with the Provo City Police Department to coordinate the use of five repeater stations that relay real-time video coverage of police activities and information to surrounding police departments.A Child Is Missing (ACIM)  $175,000ACIM is a national, not-for-profit organization that assists law enforcement agencies during the first few hours  which are the most critical  that a child or an elderly adult is reported missing. ACIM uses a sophisticated satellite mapping technology program that can place 1,000 emergency telephone calls every 60 seconds to residents and businesses in the area where the missing person was last seen. This request will make ACIM services available free of charge to all 158 Utah law enforcement agencies and all Utah residents. Oquirrh Recreation and Parks District in Kearns, Juvenile Outreach Program  $100,000 Funding will support the Juvenile Outreach Program that facilitates sports and activities programs for the youth in the community. Similar to other participants in the Juvenile Justice Program, 57 percent of the Kearn's residents fall below the moderate income level and 25 percent of adult residents do not have a high school diploma, both statistics are typical of at-risk juveniles. The spending measure is now placed on the Senate calendar and will be considered at a later date. Once passed by the Senate, the House and Senate will have to work out the differences between the two bills before voting on final passage.# # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/