  Over $84 Million for Utah Energy and Water Projects Gain Senate Committee Approval   WASHINGTON D.C.  The Senate Appropriations Committee late yesterday afternoon sent the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill to the full Senate for consideration after giving the bill, which included over $84 million for Utah projects requested by Senator Bob Bennett, its approval.Without these funds many of Utahs cities and towns could not afford to build new water systems that are desperately needed to meet their current demands, said Bennett a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water. The bill provides $23.9 million for continued clean-up of the Moab Atlas Mil Tailing site, which contains 11.8 million tons of contaminated mill tailings, debris, and groundwater in Moab.   In March, Bennett questioned Department of Energy (DOE) officials at a Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee hearing over their proposed 21 year timetable to clean up the tailings site. Bennett made clear that the timeline was unacceptable, and subsequently wrote a letter to the energy secretary expressing his concerns. Last week, the DOE awarded a $98.4 million cleanup contract to Energy Solutions, headquartered in Salt Lake, to begin moving the process forward. Under the contract, the company has until 2011 to design and install a removal and handling system and perform the initial tailings movement and operations. In response to the decision, Bennett said he is encouraged a contractor has been selected, and will continue to make sure the process moves forward expeditiously.  The longer we wait to clean up the Moab tailings site, the more serious the threat becomes to the health of Utahns and the environmental stability of the Colorado River. I remain committed to accelerating the cleanup efforts of the site and will continue to carefully monitor DOEs progress, said Bennett. The Moab site is of particular public interest due to its close proximity to the banks of the Colorado River. As the pile continues to leak contaminants to the river through the groundwater, concerns rise over the potential impact on endangered native fish species habitat, the environment, and downstream water users. Public interest is also heightened by how close the site is to a Nature Conservancy wetlands preserve and its shared boundary with Arches Park. Bennett has secured nearly $70 million in federal dollars since 2000 for the remediation of the site and has advocated expediting the effort. Please find highlights of other Utah projects requested by Bennett in the Fiscal Year 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill below.Rural Utah 595 Water Program  $10 million This program, in its fourth year, will significantly help a number of rural Utah communities with water infrastructure improvements. Over the past four years, Bennett has secured $11 million for communities throughout the state. All cities and counties outside of the Wasatch Front and St. George are eligible for the program, and may use funds for wastewater treatment facility renovations and construction, enhancement of drinking water supply, and other water infrastructure improvements.  Bennett authored the 2003 legislation that formed the Utah Environmental Infrastructure and Resource Protection and Development Program and authorized the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to use up to $25 million to help develop water systems in small communities. Congress must approve funding for the program each year. The federal share of 75 percent is matched by a local share of 25 percent. This year Bennett successfully included language to increase the Rural Utah 595 Water Program authorization from $25 million to $50 million. Central Utah Project (CUP)   $44.5 million   Funding supports ongoing CUP projects of the Central Utah Water Conservancy District, the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission, and the Department of the Interior. Interdisciplinary Clean Energy Program at University of Utah (U of U)  $3.5 millionThis program is a combination of two major research initiatives involving federal, state, and private clean energy research for oil shale and clean coal at the U of U. The Uintah Basin is one of the richest sources of hydrocarbons in the world, with estimates as high as 230 billion barrels of oil. However, these resources present significant challenges in recovery and production, transportation and processing. These funds will be used to support the programs comprehensive plan for the production of hydrocarbon resources and examine ways to bring this technology to the commercial market. Rural Water Technology Alliance (RWTA) $500,000The RWTA installs low-cost, automated technology to monitor and control water levels. This technology has been installed in Duchesne County, Upper and Lower Sevier Water Districts, Bear River, and Emery County. The funding will be used to further develop the technology to provide real-time monitoring, remote adjustments for canals and provide water level information online to the public. Park City Water Transport Project $250,000    These funds will be used for a series of water connections between Park City and Snyderville Basin in Summit County to complete environmental and planning assessments for design work on the project before construction of the connections can take place. The overall project will improve Snyderville Basins ability to transport water more efficiently and preserve resources as the region continues to experience growth. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development at Utah State University (USU) $1 millionUSU will use funding to continue research on the economic impact of wind power and other renewable sources to increase the use of efficient energy technologies in Utahs rural communities. The renowned program is a resource for experts who work to implement wind power and cleaner technologies throughout Utah and the West. Salinity Control Assessment for Upper Colorado River Basin at USU  $500,000Funding will help develop a framework for a cost-benefit assessment of the economic advantages, efficiency and salinity control measures for the Upper Colorado River Basin to reduce economic damage to the lower basin users  primarily the agricultural community  with an emphasis on expanding energy development and land use activities in the upper basin. Snyderville Basin and Park City Reclamation Feasibility Study  $500,000 The vast majority of water that flows through Summit County is already owned by users in the Wasatch Front communities, leaving little water for the county. These funds support the ongoing study that will assess the feasibility of improving water supply from the Weber Basin to the Snyderville Basin and Park City. Given the countys continued growth, the region has an immediate need for this project. Bennett has secured over $1.5 million for the project over the last four years.The spending measure is now placed on the Senate calendar and will be considered at a later date.# # #

http://bennett.senate.gov/