Senate Approves $23 Million for Utah Projects Requested by Bennett                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
  	The Fiscal Year 2006 Interior Department Appropriations Bill, approved just one day after Senate passage of the Energy Policy Act or 2005, reflects the countryâs focus on increasing the energy supply by balancing domestic production with conservation and more efficient technologies. Utah oil and gas development remains an important part of this strategy. In the bill, Bennett secured an increase of $3 million over the presidentâs budget for oil and gas management.    
  	âThe Senate actions this week underscore our commitment to an energy strategy that is balanced, renewable and decreases dependence on foreign oil,â? said Bennett, a member of the appropriations committee. âUtah joins in that effort by supporting initiatives like reducing the permit backlog and developing an oil shale leasing program that seek to diversify and increase the U.S. energy supply.â?    
  	Of the $3 million, $250,000 will be used for a Utah Oil and Gas Leasing Internet Pilot Program to allow online participation in the lease auction program. The remaining amount will help planning efforts for an oil shale leasing program, and will also focus on the oil and gas permitting backlog. The agency will now be directed to begin the new oil shale leasing program and expedite research and development   activities on BLM land.    
  	The bill also includes an additional $5 million for the Utah Museum of Natural History at the University of Utah, a project Bennett has helped fund since securing congressional authorization in 2002. As a result, the museum has already received approximately $8 million for the design and construction of facilities, bringing the total to $13 million.    
  	âThe Utah Museum of Natural History is a key component in efforts to preserve and showcase Utahâs unique heritage,â? said Bennett. âThis funding helps ensure that these fragile artifacts will be housed in state-of-the-art facilities.â?    
	  	Once the House and Senate have reconciled the two versions of the bill, the Congress will vote on final passage and send it to President Bush for his signature.    
  	Additional Bennett-requested Interior and environment projects approved today include:    
â¢	$1.2 million for the Colorado River Special Recreation Management Area in Grand County. The acquisition will help protect the riverfront from development, resolve major access issues, preserve scenic values and protect critical endangered fish habitat along the Colorado River. It also compliments Bennettâs land exchange legislation introduced last month. The project is supported by the local community, conservation groups, as well as the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.    
â¢	$750,000 for the Crossroads of the West Historic District in Ogden. Funds will be used to implement the management plan, which includes restoration work on the historic Laundry Building, the creation of a revolving loan fund for district properties, and the installation of displays explaining the districtâs cultural heritage. The plan represents the close collaboration of the city, the state, National Park Service, citizens, businesses and other interested stakeholders. 	    
â¢	$2.5 million for land acquisitions along the Bonneville Shoreline Trail (BST) and the High Uintas. The BST acquisition will finish the 139-acre Grandeur Park in south Salt Lake and initiate the acquisition of Bear Canyon property located on the edge of Draper. BST is a popular recreation trail in Utah that is being built along the eastern shoreline of the ancient Lake Bonneville in the Wasatch Range foothills. Bennett, a champion of the project, has procured an additional $13 million for BST. The High Uinta acquisition will continue the 10-year project acquiring 12,000 acres of private land on the North Slope.
â¢	$2.25 million for the Forest Legacy Project 
The Cedar Project includes two working ranches, Co-op Valley and Spanish Hollow, that have been family owned for 100-150 years. $1.5 million will be used to purchase conservation easements, without acquiring new federal land, and help reduce development pressures.The Range Creek/Rainbow Glass Ranch landowner has donated 800 of the 4,912-acre ranch to this program, and would like to protect the remaining land. The $750,000 earmark will purchase the easement. This is a priority for the state due to its cultural and historical resources, watershed protection and recreational value. It is also important to both the town of Sunnyside and East Carbon for water quality protection.
â¢	$1.5 million for the Sand Hollow Reservoir in Washington County. Funds will help build campgrounds, trails and staging areas for OHV and equestrian access to public lands.
â¢	$300,000 for the Geographic Information System and Cadastral mapping project. This is an innovative, high-tech project used for land use planning activities. In past bills, GIS has received $3.8 million due to Bennettâs funding efforts.
â¢	$691,000 for the Upper Colorado Endangered Fish Recovery Program. Restores program funding, essential to the recovery of several endangered fish and continued water development.
â¢	$3 million for State and Tribal Assistance Grants (STAG) $1.5 million for a new water treatment plant in Centerfield/Mayfield that will help this rural community continue to meet EPA safety requirements.  $700,000 for Arsenic/Perchlorate removal in Magna. The Magna Water District, state and federal governments, and other interested parties are working together to secure the funds to construct a facility for perchlorate and arsenic removal.  $500,000 for a new wastewater treatment plant in Eagle Mountain that will help this fast-growing community meet the demands of the expected growth.$300,000 to upgrade Park Cityâs antiquated drinking water infrastructures.
	The subcommittee also approved the following overall budget numbers:    
  â¢	Payment-in-Lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) received an allocation of $235 million, which is $8 million over last year and $35 million over this yearâs administration request. Utahâs share will be approximately $20 million. PILT compensates counties for the impact federal land ownership has on the tax base. The federal government owns nearly 70 percent of Utahâs land.    
  â¢	$492.2 million for hazardous fuels reduction on public lands, an increase of $28.3 million over last yearâs amount.    
  â¢	$30 million for stateside Land Water Conservation Fund, providing grants for state and local parks and recreation areas. The administration and the House did not include funding for this program.    
  â¢	An additional $3.8 million was provided above the administration's request for completing environmental reviews of grazing allotments, processing permits, and short and long term monitoring in conjunction with grazing permittees.    

# # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/