Rural Teachers Get Federal Help to Reach âHighly Qualifiedâ? Status                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
  	âRural school districts are faced with heavy budget constraints, often stemming from new federal mandates. I included this funding in the Education Department budget to help ease some of this burden and give rural teachers additional resources to meet qualification standards,â? said Bennett, a Senate Appropriations Committee member. âI am pleased to see it will be delivered in time for back to school this fall.â?    
  	In one of last yearâs spending bills passed by Congress, Bennett included a provision that would bring nearly $400,000 to Utah to assist rural educators to meet state standards and prepare for state-approved assessment tests. The grant will be issued to the Utah State Office of Education (USOE), which will use the funding to contract with a project license specialist who will work with rural school districts and teachers to meet credential requirements.     
  	The superintendents of the 28 rural districts will identify under-qualified K-6 and K-12 special education teachers who agree to work toward becoming âhighly qualifiedâ? for their current or future assignment. The USOE project license specialist will work with these teachers to develop professional development plans to help them obtain appropriate subject credentials. Additionally, this specialist will provide options for courses and information on the board-approved assessments.    
  	This grant will also enable districts to recruit elementary teachers and other local bachelor degree holders who are willing to earn a secondary or special educator license and subject endorsement in any NCLB subject identified as a high priority of any district.    
  	For more information, interested media should contact Joan Patterson, USOE, at (801) 538-7739.    
  # # # 

http://bennett.senate.gov/