Senate Committee Gives Bennett Thumbs up for $82.8 Million for Utah Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  	âIâm extremely pleased that weâve found a solution that will ultimately eliminate the need to send nuclear waste to Skull Valley. Utahns have sufficient reasons to celebrate todayâs Senate actions,â? said Bennett. âSenators Domenici and Reid have shown tremendous leadership on this issue, and I join them in this effort and will work to see that this provision becomes law.â?    
  	The language in the Fiscal 2007 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill gives the secretary of energy (âsecretaryâ?) the authority, in consultation with the governor of the state containing a civilian nuclear power reactor, to consolidate commercial spent nuclear fuel at a separate, federally-owned facility within that state or region. However, the language prohibits the secretary from storing spent nuclear fuel in any state where a commercial, dry cask storage facility is authorized. Utah is excluded from consideration because it does not have a nuclear power reactor and because the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has granted a license for the PFS facility in Skull Valley.    
  	The provision requires the secretary to designate sites within 270 days of enactment, and the NRC must either issue or deny a license within 32 months. Once approved, these facilities may store the waste up to 25 years, and they will be owned and managed by the Department of Energy (DOE).    
  	The bill also provides $250 million for a new DOE program, the purpose of which is to develop advanced technology for reprocessing spent nuclear fuel. Bennett has long advocated reprocessing as a long term solution for the nationâs nuclear waste.    
  	The spending measure also contains $22.865 million for the Moab Atlas Mill Tailing site clean-up effort. The site contains 11.8 million tons of mill tailings and contaminated debris, groundwater and land, which poses a concern for area water sources and endangered species habitat. The public has also expressed interest in the site's proximity to a wetlands preserve and Arches National Park.    
  	âMoving the Atlas tailings site remains a high priority for me, and I welcome the support of the administration and the Congress as we move toward completion of this cleanup,â? said Bennett, a member of the appropriations committee who has secured millions in federal dollars for the site clean-up and has advocated expediting the effort.    
  	Please find a complete list of Utah projects requested by Bennett below.    
Rural Utah 595 Water Program -- $10 million 	This program, in its third year, will significantly help a number of rural Utah communities with water infrastructure improvements. Over the past two years, Bennett has secured $11 million for communities throughout the state. All cities and counties outside of the Wasatch Front and St. George are eligible for the program, and may use funds for wastewater treatment facility renovations and construction, enhancement of drinking water supply, and other water infrastructure improvements.  
	Bennett authored the 2003 legislation that formed the Utah Environmental Infrastructure and Resource Protection and Development Program and authorized the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to use up to $25 million to help develop water systems in small communities. Congress must approve funding for the program each year. The federal share of 75 percent is matched by a local share of 25 percent.  
Utah Center for Heavy Oil Research -- $2 million The Uinta Basin is one of the richest sources of hydrocarbons in the world, with estimates as high as 230 billion barrels of oil shale.  However, these resources present significant challenges in recovery and production, transportation and processing. These funds will be used to support the Centerâs comprehensive plan for the production of hydrocarbon resources and examine ways to bring this technology to the commercial market. The Center will also evaluate the commercial potential of oil sands, oil shale and coal resource deposits in concert with the Utah Geological Survey and USGS. 
Solar-to-Bio-Fuels Research Program, Utah State University (USU) -- $1 million USU will conduct research on the development of technology that will use solar energy to produce bio-fuels, while reducing the need for current fossil fuels and sequestering CO2 from the emissions of fossil fueled power plants or using atmospherically available CO2. The bio-fuels, including bio-diesel, can be used immediately without creating new, major infrastructure.  
Park City Water Infrastructure Project -- $500,000 Funding would be used to construct a 14 mile pipeline from the Rockport Reservoir to Park City. This pipeline will serve as a new supply of clean water, which is urgently needed for one of the highest growth areas in the state.  
Rural Utah Automated Technology Initiative -- $500,000 This initiative provides real-time, online monitoring and automated, remote-sensing and adjustments for canals. The technology will not only conserve water, but will also reduce conflict among competing water users. Last yearâs funds, secured by Bennett, were used to install the technology in Duchesne and Emery Counties, Upper and Lower Sevier Water Districts, and Bear River. 
Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development, at USU -- $500,000 Funding would continue research on the economic impact of wind power and other renewable energy sources, and outreach to rural users through USU. 
Center for River Dynamics and Restoration, at USU -- $400,000 	The Center for River Dynamics and Restoration will work with USU to integrate river science research and augment efforts to restore streams and rivers to their proper functioning conditions in Utah and the West. The Center will also provide educational programs for public and private sector natural resource scientists and managers on river science, watershed restoration, and other river science issues. Continued funding will support efforts to expand educational programs to a national audience. 
Snyderville Basin and Park City Reclamation Feasibility Study -- $200,000 The vast majority of water that flows through Summit County is already owned by users in the Wasatch Front communities, leaving little water for the county. These funds support the ongoing study that will assess the feasibility of improving water supply to the Snyderville Basin and Park City. Given the countyâs continued growth, the region has an immediate need for this project. Bennett has secured over $1.2 million for the project over the last three years.  
Central Utah Project (CUP) -- $40.155 million Funding supports ongoing CUP projects of the Central Utah Water Conservancy District, the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission, and the Department of the Interior. 
Army Corps of Engineers -- $714,000  	Funds will be used to continue maintenance and inspection of Army Corps projects in Utah.  
Bureau of Reclamation -- $4 million 	Funds will continue operation, maintenance, and management of Weber Basin, Hyrum, Newton, Moon Lake, Provo River, Scofield, Ogden River, and Strawberry Valley water projects.  

	Below are additional projects important to the state and supported by Sen. Bennett:     
Oil Shale Development Program -- $10 million  	Funding will be used to initiate a program to accelerate the commercial development of oil shale and oil sands, which are heavily concentrated in the Utah, Colorado, and Wyoming. Early this year, Bennett toured the Uinta Basin and discussed with local officials and businesses the development of oil shale in the area and its impact on the local economy. He supports new technologies that will help bring these valuable resources to the marketplace. 

Geothermal Research and Development -- $22.5 million 	Funding will support the research and development of geothermal energy technologies, which use the heat of the earth for electrical power production. Utah has two geothermal power plants, located in Beaver County, but there is a potential for greater development.  

	The measure will now be sent to the full Senate for a vote.    
# # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/