Bennett Secures $9.6 Million for Utah Interior Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Utah Museum of Natural History Continues to Receive Funding
  	âGiven Utahâs vast amount of public lands, the funding provided in this spending bill is critical to many Utahns who rely on these lands for their livelihoods, water and energy resources and recreation,â? said Bennett, a member of the appropriations committee. â    
  	Bennett, author of legislation authorizing the new Utah Museum of Natural History at the University of Utah, secured $2 million for the museum in the Fiscal Year 2007 Department of Interior Appropriations Bill. This yearâs appropriation brings the Bennett total to $14 million since congressional authorization in 2002.    
  	âThis new museum is an exciting addition to the landscape at the U,â? said Bennett. âThe state-of-the-art facility will showcase the treasured artifacts collected on Utahâs public lands and bring to life the stories of ancient cultures. Visitors will leave the museum with an enhanced understanding of our heritage.â?    
  	Seventy-five percent of the artifacts were collected on public land in Utah and are federally owned. This yearâs funding will be dedicated to continuing the environmental site study, the museumâs architectural design, site preparation, and other associated costs.    
  	Additional Bennett-requested projects are below:    
 Bonneville Shoreline Trail -- $2 million 	These land acquisitions will conserve summer and winter range habitat for deer and elk, serve as important buffers for fire protection for the rapidly developing areas along the Wasatch Front, and provide watershed protection for neighboring areas. Previously, Bennett has secured $15 million for this popular recreational trail, which is being built along the eastern shoreline of the ancient Lake Bonneville in the Wasatch Range foothills.  
Virgin River Headwaters Project -- $2.8 million These funds will be used to assemble several parcels of land along the Virgin River, a high priority watershed that provides culinary water to the following cities: Springdale, Rockville, Grafton, Hurricane, LaVerkin, and St. George in Utah and Mesquite, Nevada. Protection of these properties will also help maintain visitor access to neighboring parks and recreation sites.  
Colorado River Special Recreation Management Area -- $1.3 million The acquisition will help protect the riverfront from development, resolve major access issues, preserve scenic values and protect critical endangered fish habitat along the Colorado River. The project is supported by the local community, conservation groups, as well as the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.  
Geographic Information System and Cadastral mapping project -- $300,000 	This is an innovative, high-tech project used for land use planning activities. In past bills, GIS has received $4.1 million due to Bennettâs funding efforts. 
Utah Oil and Gas Lease Internet Pilot Program -- $250,000 This pilot program will identify and test ways to increase efficiency in the oil and gas leasing program, which would include conducting online auctions using authority recently granted under the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
Centerfield Drinking Water Treatment Facility -- $1.5 million  These funds will be used to build a water treatment facility to help maintain appropriate water standards. Concentrations of nitrates have increased in recent years, leaving Centerfield and Mayfield, both low income communities, in need of a new facility.  
Magna Water Treatment Facility -- $1 million These funds will be used to build a new water treatment facility that will remove perchlorate contamination and any traces of arsenic from drinking water.  
Sandy Drainage System Upgrades -- $500,000 An increase in current and future development in the area will soon cause the drainage system to exceed its capacity, which will result in significant flooding problems. These funds will be used to improve the storm drains at 9400 South and increase the capacity to meet the expected increase in storm drain flows.	 
  	The spending measure will now be placed on the Senate calendar for consideration at a future date.    
 # # #   

http://bennett.senate.gov/