  Bennett Instrumental In Obtaining Bronze Star Medal For Utah World War II Veteran    

"We are indebted to the veterans of this country for their bravery and heroism. Dee Hatch's bravery is symbolized by this medal. He is certainly deserving of this distinguished honor," said Senator Bob Bennett. "It was a privilege for me to help see that one of Utah's finest veterans receives appropriate recognition."    

Mr. Hatch, an 87-year old veteran, served in the Pacific during World War II. In February 1945, then Technician Fifth Grade Hatch was part of an observation party directed to establish a forward observation post in enemy territory in the Philippines.  Acting as the radio operator, he relayed the fire missions given to him by the officer. In order to hear the commands, he had to leave his foxhole on numerous occasions, exposing himself to heavy mortar and enemy machine gun fire. Mr. Hatch refused to be relieved and remained at the post until the mission was completed.             
       Mr. Hatch had all the paperwork indicating he should have received the Bronze Star Medal after the war. Sixty-two years later, he sought assistance from Sen. Bennett. Using Mr. Hatch's original copy of General Orders, Bennett contacted the National Personnel Records Center to locate the medal. Saturday, family members will join Mr. Hatch in his Loa home for a ceremony where the Utah National Guard will present his Bronze Star Medal. Bennett will visit Mr. Hatch and his family next week during the senator's visit to southern and central Utah.     

  President Franklin D. Roosevelt first authorized the Bronze Star Medal in February 4, 1944. The medal was awarded to members of the U.S. military who distinguish themselves by heroic, meritorious achievement while engaged in action against an enemy of the United States.    

            For additional information about the award ceremony, please contact Chris Hatch, son of Dee Hatch, at (435) 669-9033.    

  # # #   


http://bennett.senate.gov/