  Senator Bob Bennett & Utah Rural Development Council To Host Rural Business Conference In Logan  
  Keynote Speakers: SBA Administrator Steven Preston and MarketStar Chairman Alan Hall   

              "Held in a different rural community each year since 2002, this conference has addressed the challenges and highlighted the successes of Utah's rural entrepreneurs," said Bennett.  "Once again, we will focus on how small businesses in Utah's small towns can expand their markets, attract new customers, and grow from within."    

              As keynote speaker of the conference's lunch session Wednesday, Alan Hall, founder and chairman of MarketStar, will share how he built a global marketing company employing approximately 2,500 and serving clients in more than 70 countries. An Ogden, Utah, based company, MarketStar represents some of the world's leading brands including Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Verizon Communications, and Cisco Systems, and was responsible for delivering more than $4 billion in sales for its clients in 2005.    

              The concluding session on Thursday will feature a keynote address by Steven Preston, administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). With a portfolio of direct and guaranteed business loans, venture capital investments and disaster loans worth almost $80 billion, the SBA is the largest single financial backer and facilitator of technical assistance and contracting opportunities for the nation's small businesses.    

              Bennett, an Inc. Magazine regional entrepreneur of the year prior to his election to the U.S. Senate, will speak on small business growth during Thursday's breakfast session and will host discussions on government economic development efforts during other conference sessions.      

              Breakout sessions will focus on specific areas of interest to rural entrepreneurs including new opportunities in agriculture, marketing and brand awareness, protecting digital information, and acquiring small business capital.      

              Corporate sponsors for the conference include ATK Launch Systems, Member Business Lending, Rocky Mountain Power, Utah Rural Electric Association, Western AgCredit, Zions Bank, Cache Valley Chamber of Commerce, Mountain West Small Business Finance, Utah Department of Commerce, Utah State University Extension, Deseret First Credit Union, The Herald Journal, Rural Telecom Association, United Parcel Service, and Western Rural Development Center.    

              Attendance at the event is $25 and includes lunch May 30, breakfast May 31 and all conference sessions.  For more information visit www.ruralutah.com, or contact Senator Bennett's office at (801) 524-5933.    

  # # #   


http://bennett.senate.gov/