Judge John Roberts is Confirmed by Senate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  	Senator Bob Bennett offered the following remarks on the Senate floor when he expressed his support for Roberts:    
  	Mr. President, most of the speakers who have discussed this subject have talked about Judge Roberts' qualification. There is no point in my referring to them or repeating them again.     
  	There is a point that I do wish to make with respect to the entire process, which I think needs to be emphasized and stressed. It is this: Nominations are not elections.     
  	Read the Constitution, and we see that it allows for elections. It provides for elections. It says there are places where elections are appropriate. The President is elected. The Vice President is elected. The Members of the Senate and House are elected. But members of the Cabinet are not; they are appointed by the President. And to allow the election process to have an influence, they have to be confirmed by the Senate. But they are not elections.     
  	The same thing is true very much with respect to the judicial branch. A nomination for the Supreme Court is not an election.     
  	The reason I make such stress of that is because there are many groups out there who think this is an election. There are big ads on television. They are organizing demonstrations. They are walking around with placards. That is what you do when you try to influence voters in an election. This is not an election. The Founding Fathers understood that it should not be an election.     
  	There are some who have made up their minds long in advance of any nomination as to what they are going to do. I think, quite frankly, if President Bush were to somehow resurrect John Marshall and send his name to the Senate to be the Chief Justice of the United States, People For the American Way and Ralph Neas would insist that he was badly out of the mainstream and unqualified to be Chief Justice, even though history says he was the greatest Chief Justice in our history. But if he were picked by George W. Bush, that group would immediately say he is radical, he is out of the mainstream.     
  	We are getting the same thing with respect to Judge Roberts--an election campaign complete with television ads and placards and demonstrations saying that Judge Roberts is out of the mainstream. I do not know where you go to find mainstream today. I do not know exactly where the mainstream is. I know where the left bank of this particular stream is. The New York Times is against Judge Roberts. That was predictable. That was as sure as the Sun would rise--that the New York Times would be opposed to anybody George W. Bush proposed.     
  	The Washington Post is usually thought of as being fairly close to the left bank, but the Washington Post looked at this nominee and said this is a qualified nominee.     
  	The American Bar Association tries to be as much of the mainstream as they can. They have given Judge Roberts' nomination their highest support, ``well qualified,'' unanimously. Maybe they are not mainstream enough for some of these people who are using this argument.     
  	The Los Angeles Times is not thought of as a rightwing organization. The Los Angeles Times said it would be a travesty if we didn't confirm Judge Roberts by a wide margin.     
  	Why do we want to confirm somebody like Judge Roberts? Why is the President's nomination a good one? In my view, it is because Judge Roberts understands one fundamental truth. Along with the one I have just given, a second fundamental truth, if you will, is that nominations are not elections and judges are not politicians, or more appropriately judges are not legislators. You have elections for legislators. You should not have elections for judges.     
  	Judge Roberts put it this way in describing his understanding of his responsibility. We have heard this before with respect to this nominee, but it is worth repeating. He said to the committee:     
  	I come before the committee with no agenda. I have no platform.     
  	Again, judges are not legislators. Judges are not politicians who can promise to do certain things in exchange for votes. I have no agenda but I do have a commitment. If I am confirmed, I will confront every case with an open mind. I will fully and fairly analyze the legal arguments that are presented. I will be open to the considered views of my colleagues on the bench, and I will decide every case based on the record, according to the rule of law, without fear or favor, to the best of my ability. I will remember that it is my job to call balls and strikes and not to pitch or bat.     
  	In other words, he is the umpire, he is not a player. We have seen an example brought up in an effort to try to derail Judge Roberts' nomination of how he called ``balls and strikes'' and how he was not a legislator. It has been dropped now because those people who raised it didn't realize that it was going to be analyzed properly and turn out to be embarrassing to them rather than to the judge.     
  	But there was the case of the 12-year-old girl in Washington who, while waiting with her friend at the Metro station to buy a Metro ticket, happened to eat a single french fry, and she was arrested, handcuffed, and taken down to the station. Judge Roberts upheld the action of the Metro Police.     
  	Horrors, came the groups. There is an election. We can grab onto this as an example that we can sensationalize and win votes on. Then they examined the matter very carefully, and we got Judge Roberts' actual opinion in this case. He did not victimize a 12-year-old girl who was arrested for eating a french fry. This is what he said in his opinion that once again outlines the truth of his position that he will be an umpire, not a player, not a legislator.     
  	He said: No one is very happy about the events that led to this litigation. A 12-year-old girl was arrested, searched and handcuffed, all for eating a single french fry in a Metro rail station. The child was frightened, embarrassed, and crying throughout the ordeal. The District Court described the policies that led to her arrest as ``foolish,'' and, indeed, the policies were changed after those responsible endured the sort of publicity reserved for adults who make young girls cry. The question before us, however, is not whether these policies were a bad idea but whether they violated the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution.     
  	He put the emphasis in the right place. This was a stupid law. It was passed for some other reason and turned out in administration to be a stupid law. It was passed by legislators, people with legislative responsibility. It was repealed by legislators. It should not be repealed by the judge just because it is stupid.     
  	I remember a conversation that took place after the Supreme Court ruled on the bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. It is no secret that I opposed that act as vigorously as I could. We passed it nonetheless. The President signed it. Then a lawsuit was filed. It went all the way to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court found that the law was constitutional and upheld it.     
  	I will not reveal names because these were private conversations, but a Member of the Senate had the occasion to have a conversation with a member of the Supreme Court. The Member of the Senate said to the member of the Supreme Court: How could you uphold that law? That is a terrible law.     
  	The member of the Supreme Court appropriately said: You are right. It is a terrible law. You shouldn't have passed it.     
  	In other words, the Supreme Court should not be the one that corrects our mistakes unless we violate the Constitution. The Supreme Court should not take a position unless we violate the Constitution. The Supreme Court is not made up of legislators who fix things; it should be made up of people who examine the law.     
  	Even if the law is foolish enough to punish a 12-year-old girl for eating a french fry on the Metro, the Supreme Court should say:     
  	Legislators, this is a dumb law. You ought to fix it. But it is not our responsibility to legislate.     
  	The real reason so many groups have tried to turn Judge Roberts' nomination into an election rather than a nomination is because they lost the election and they are hoping they can turn the Supreme Court into a superlegislature that is beyond the reach of voters. Clearly, that is not what the Founding Fathers had in mind.     
  	Clearly, when they put the responsibility to make the choice in the hands of the President, they were saying this will be a nomination and not an election. If the Founding Fathers had wanted the Supreme Court at the national level to be open to the electoral process, they would have done what others have done at the State level. There are States where the appointment to the supreme court of the State is an electoral process. Whether that is good or bad is the subject for another conversation. But in this circumstance, we are talking about the U.S. Constitution, which every Member of this Chamber has taken an oath to uphold.     
  	If we are going to uphold the Constitution of the United States and defend it against all enemies who would undermine it, be they foreign or domestic, we should preserve the constitutional process of nominations coming from the President of the United States. He has to answer to the people for his decisions. He should be the one to make the nomination. He is the one who is given the powers specifically.     
  	We can say, Mr. President, we don't consent to that because we think you made a mistake, but we in the Senate should not condone those who are trying to turn the nomination process into an electoral process. Because we should understand as Members of the legislature that members of the judiciary are not legislators, and we should not move in a direction of turning them into legislators by participating in an election-type process in vetting their credentials. If this man is qualified, he should be confirmed. If he is unpopular with the electorate, that should be irrelevant. The Constitution does not allow for that to intrude upon the confirmation process.     
  	There is no question but that John Roberts is qualified.     
  	I end with a conversation I had with one of my colleagues who made up his mind to oppose Judge Roberts. I said to him: In a theoretical situation, suppose you had everything you own on the line in a nasty lawsuit, and you had a legal problem where you could lose everything. Who would you choose to defend you? Which lawyer would you hire, John Roberts or a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee? He laughed immediately. He said: Bob, it isn't even close. If John Roberts is the obvious choice for a personal attorney for someone who needs real help, why should he not be the obvious choice for the Nation that needs real help?     
  	He will be a superb Chief Justice, and I will vote for him with great confidence. 

http://bennett.senate.gov/