SEN. MIKULSKI DEMANDS ATTORNEY GENERAL MUKASEY RESTORE TRUST IN DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
  Warning that today's hearing is more than a simple pro forma budget hearing on the Department of Justice's (DOJ) fiscal year 2009 budget priorities, Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) cited the serious failures of past leadership at the agency and pushed Attorney General Michael Mukasey to make DOJ reform his top priority. This is the Attorney General's first appearance before a Senate panel since recent revelations calling into question the Bush Administration's position on torture.
   "The Department of Justice suffers from a lack of morale and lack of trust from the American people. As our nation's chief law enforcement officer, you must begin to repair the damage of your predecessors," said Chairwoman Mikulski. "I want to know how the DOJ can get back on track to better protect the American people and their communities. It is our job to restore confidence in the nation's top law enforcement agency, not just for the hardworking civil servants at the DOJ, but for the American people." 
   Chairwoman Mikulski noted the low confidence in the DOJ, aggravated by Inspector General (IG) reports of critical management failures and financial waste, the firing of U.S. Attorneys based on politics, and the clear lack of clarity given to field agents attempting to use wiretapping and terrorist watch lists as a means to protect the country without trampling civil liberties.
   President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget request has continued a trend of leaving state and local law enforcement without the tools they need to protect our communities. The President funds the DOJ at $22.9 billion, a 2 percent decrease from last year's omnibus bill. This includes a staggering 61 percent cut for state and local law enforcement programs, including those that target child and internet predators.
   Chairwoman Mikulski's opening statement, as written, is below:
   "Good morning and welcome. This is Attorney General Mukasey's first appearance in the Senate Appropriations Committee. Today the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science will examine the President's fiscal year 2009 budget request for the Department of Justice. This hearing must be more than a pro forma budget hearing. We will not only look at the funding, but also how the department is functioning.
   "The Department of Justice suffers from a lack of morale and lack of trust: torture memos, the firing of U.S. Attorneys, mismanaged National Security letters and terrorist watch lists. It is our job to restore confidence in the nation's top law enforcement agency, not just for the hardworking civil servants at the DOJ, but for the American people.
   "We are in a year of transition. This time next year, we will have a new President. Whatever we do in this year's budget will be the operating budget for the first year of the new presidency, so we've got to get it right.
   "I have three goals for this hearing. First, I want to know how you, Mr. Attorney General, plan to restore integrity and public confidence in the Department of Justice. You've taken over a department that has been highly politicized and demoralized. The Inspector General says low morale is one of your chief management challenges. The hardworking agents and civil servants under your direction deserve our support, so they can support us. As our nation's chief law enforcement officer, you must begin to repair the damage of your predecessors. Second, I want to examine the DOJ's budget request against its very important missions of fighting and prosecuting crime, combating terrorism, upholding civil rights and liberties, and managing prisoners and inmates. The DOJ budget is decreased at a time when the IG issued a scathing evaluation on critical management failures. I want to know how the DOJ can get back on track to better protect the American people and their communities. Finally, I want to know how the Justice Department has improved accountability of tax payer dollars so that every dollar spent to secure our communities is a dollar well spent and does not, for example, get spent on lavish conferences with $4 Swedish meatballs.
   "The Department of Justice suffers from a lack of morale and lack of trust from the American people. There are many reasons for this erosion of confidence. A 2003 memo argued that military interrogators are not governed by the law. This means there is no accountability for conduct during interrogations and that the Department of Justice endorses repugnant torture methods. The DOJ fired eight U.S. Attorneys in 2006, but all these attorneys had good performance reviews. They were fired because they wouldn't inject politics into their work.
   "There is no guidance for field agents on how to use National Security Letters (NSL) to fight terrorism. Agents were collecting information they were not authorized to collect, which eroded public trust in the DOJ's ability to use NSLs effectively. The terrorist watch list is mismanaged. The information is outdated and there are excessive delays in getting terrorist suspects on the list. Information is provided erratically and informally. I want to hear how you will show leadership, and fix this loss of trust, and get the department back on track to protect this nation.
   "The 2009 budget request for the Department of Justice is $22.9 billion. This is $500 million below the fiscal year 2008 omnibus level of $23.4 billion - a 2 percent cut. While we are pleased to see increases to programs that fight terrorism like the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), and support the new initiative to secure the Southwest border, we are deeply troubled that the request repeats last year's budget slashing of state and local grants that help keep our communities safe from violent crime. We are also disappointed there are no new resources to help federal law enforcement agencies be a better partner with state and local cops.
   "The FBI gets one of the largest increases totaling $7.1 billion, a $450 million increase over the fiscal year 2008 omnibus level of $6.7 billion to support its counterterrorism mission, but its traditional crime function is still neglected with a flat budget. We support a strong FBI that protects our national security and gives us critical intelligence to combat international and domestic terrorism. Counterterrorism and intelligence make up half of the FBI's budget. As a member of the Intelligence Committee, I know how important this is.
   "I am encouraged to see better support for the DEA. Last year's budget request imposed a hiring freeze. We provided more funds to lift this hiring freeze in the fiscal year 2008 omnibus. We are pleased you requested enough for the DEA to keep hiring agents to fight international narco-terrorists and fight the scourge of drugs in our communities, but funding is tight for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Fire Arms and the U.S. Marshalls. The budget only requests new funding for one region - the Southwest Border. Yet, violent crime is plaguing our cities and our small rural towns across the nation, not just on the border. We are disappointed that the U.S. Marshals have no new funds to track down sex offenders.
   "Local law enforcement officers are our first responders. In their communities, cops are the eyes and ears on the street. They are our first line of defense against violent crime to fight terrorism. Federal law enforcement needs their expertise and partnership to protect this country, keep our children safe, and keep our communities safe. Once again, your department has proposed cutting grants to law enforcement by $1.6 billion (61 percent) from the fiscal year 2008 omnibus level of $2.6 billion. This means fewer cops out on the street, less training to fight cyber stalking, less money to clean up toxic meth labs, and fewer DNA matches to capture rapists and child predators. This is unacceptable.
   "As Chairwoman of CJS, it is my responsibility to act as a good steward of taxpayer dollars. Spending excesses will not be tolerated. Last year, Senator Shelby and I required the DOJ to create uniform guidelines on conference spending to prevent further debacles at the DOJ, like lavish spending, such as $1.4 million for one conference and $4 Swedish meatballs. I want to know what you are doing to make sure the American people's tax dollars are not squandered.
   "Today, we will begin our Justice hearings with the Attorney General. There is a lot of work to be done to get back on track. We can't forget the damage done by your predecessor and the White House. We must restore confidence at the DOJ. We need an injection of good morale for employees to make sure our chief law enforcement agency is not undermining its mission, and is putting law enforcement before politics. I look forward to hearing how we can work together. Our goal is the same - make a safer, stronger America."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 