SEN. MIKULSKI RESPONDS TO FREDERICK COUNTY COMMISSION REQUEST FOR FURTHER REVIEW OF PUBLIC SAFETY AT FORT DETRICK
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) issued the following statement after the Frederick County Commissioners voted this morning to ask the Senator to forward their request to the National Academy of Sciences' (NAS) National Research Council to explore a possible peer review of any public health and safety risks posed by the expansion of Fort Detrick, including a review of the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) prepared by the U.S. Army. The EIS conducted by the U.S. Army Medical Research and Materiel Command (USAMRMC) is an important part of the ongoing dialogue regarding the Army's efforts to upgrade and replace an old Level 4 Biosafety Lab, as part of the National Inter-agency Biodefense Campus on the installation. 
   "While we continue to build the technology to keep us safe from new challenges and new threats from predators, we must also remember that public safety must be our top priority. I commend the Frederick County Commissioners for their hard work in developing a compromise with community leaders who are concerned for their public safety. I will forward the Commissioners' request to the National Academy of Sciences' as soon as possible. This will allow for a review of environmental safety measures and permit new recommendations for additional preventative resources.
   "The community has a right to an ongoing dialogue about their concerns with Fort Detrick's expansion with the installation leadership. I will continue to insist that Maj. Gen. Weightman follow my key principles on Fort Detrick's expansion - look out for the safety of facilities, their workers and the community, focus on keeping us secure from predators and from accidents, develop a strategy for waste disposal and full compliance with all non-proliferation and bio-defense agreements. We must follow the process. We must trust, but we must also verify."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 