SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR OPENING OF HOLOCAUST ARCHIVES IN JANUARY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a group of her colleagues led by Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-Del.) in cosponsoring a resolution observing Yom Hashoah, Holocaust Memorial Day, on April 15, and calling for the prompt opening of Holocaust-related archives in Bad Arolsen, Germany.  
   "The horrors of the Holocaust were incomprehensible and indescribable. More than 60 years later, Holocaust survivors and victims' loved ones are still denied answers on the fate of their friends and families, even though their files are in these archives," said Senator Mikulski. "As Holocaust Memorial Day approaches, we must honor the victims and survivors - not just with words, but with deeds -by giving them the answers they deserve." 
   The International Tracing Service archive contains millions of files from the Nazis cataloging the atrocities of the Holocaust, including documents related to the fate of more than 17 million individual Holocaust victims. The archives were created to keep track of the fate of survivors' loved ones, and may also support legal claims against companies accused of wrongdoing in World War II. 
   Thousands of survivors, historians and researchers are still being denied access to the files - even when they are about the survivors themselves. Very few survivors have ever been allowed direct access to the files. The delay has been justified by privacy concerns, difficulty making the records accessible and fear of new legal claims. 
   The archives are supervised by an international commission made up of 11 counties - the United States, Israel, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland and the United Kingdom. The commission agreed to open the archives last May after each country completed a ratification process, with the goal of finishing by the end of 2006, out of respect for the advanced age of remaining Holocaust survivors. However, six countries - not including the United States - still have not complied.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 