SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS 'ASK ROBERTS' WEBSITE RAISES CRITICAL QUESTIONS FOR NOMINEE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), as Dean of the Women Senators, joined 6 of her Democratic women colleagues today to issue a progress report on the status of their interactive website. The Senators created the site in July 2005 to engage Americans in the Supreme Court confirmation process of Judge John G. Roberts, Jr. Through democrats.senate.gov/AskRoberts , Americans have submitted more than 15,000 questions they want Judge Roberts to answer in his upcoming Senate hearings.  
   "The American people are talking, and we're listening," said Senator Mikulski. "We are seeing some similar questions raised, but also a wide variety of opinions. People want Judge Roberts to be open and honest about his opinions, to share where he stands on the issues that will impact their lives like their right to privacy, corporate and business practices, the education of their children, the health care of their families and their civil rights." 
   The announcement today comes as the Senators introduce a new "Question of the Day" feature on the website. The "Question of the Day" will showcase one of the many questions submitted through the site. By going online, Americans can ensure that their questions are heard by the policymakers who have the constitutional advice and consent role in Supreme Court nominations. The Senators will deliver the questions to the Judiciary Committee before the start of the September confirmation hearings. 
   "We want the American people to have a voice," continued Senator Mikulski. "It's their Supreme Court, and we want to make sure they have the opportunity to ask questions of the nominee. I am so proud to stand with my colleagues in this project." 
   Senator Mikulski is joined in this project by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Senator Mary L. Landrieu (D-LA), Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Senator Hillary R. Clinton (D-NY).
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 