SEN. MIKULSKI WELCOMES NEW HARFORD COUNTY STAFFER
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that Valerie Twanmoh has been hired as Special Assistant to the Senator for Harford County. 
   "I am pleased to have Valerie Twanmoh join my staff. She will be my catcher's mitt in Harford County - the first call for my constituents in the region," said Senator Mikulski. "She has the experience and the enthusiasm to serve the county well. I know she will be a valuable addition to our team."
   Twanmoh will be Senator Mikulski's eyes and ears in Harford County - meeting with constituents and ensuring their views are heard, bringing issues of concerns and priority to the Senator, and assisting with her work to resolve them. She will assist the Senator with meetings and visits with residents, businesses and institutions. She will also help keep constituents aware of what Senator Mikulski is doing on Capitol Hill to meet the day-to-day and long range needs of Harford County residents.
   As Senator Mikulski fights in Congress for a federal investment to fulfill her promise to help Harford County manage growth related to the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's recommendations at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG), Twanmoh will take an active role in community planning and outreach.
   "BRAC brings great opportunities, but it also brings great challenges. My promises made to BRAC-impacted communities are promises kept," said Senator Mikulski. "Valerie's work in Harford County will continue our commitment to do our part to help local communities prepare and adjust."
   A resident of Harford County since 1994, Twanmoh is an attorney who currently serves as People's Counsel for Harford County and was the former Zoning Hearing Examiner for Harford County, while maintaining a solo practice. Twanmoh is a member of the Harford County and Maryland State Bar Associations and the Women's Bar Association of Maryland. She is also a former Trustee of Harford Community College.
   Twanmoh will work out of the Senator's field office in Baltimore beginning early October.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 