SEN. MIKULSKI WORKING TO INCLUDE POLAND UNDER VISA WAIVER PROGRAM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) is joining Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) today to introduce legislation designating Poland as a program country under the visa waiver program established under the Immigration and Nationality Act. The Senators announced the introduction of their legislation at a meeting today with Poland's Foreign Minister, Professor Adam Rotfeld and Ambassador Przemyslaw Grudzinski.  
   The visa waiver program, which is administered by the Secretary of Homeland Security and Secretary of State, allows citizens from 27 countries, including France and Germany, to visit the United States as tourists without visas. The Senators' legislation would add Poland to that list of countries. This would allow the families of Polish Americans to travel to the United States for tourism or business for up to 60 days without the delay of waiting for a visa. 
   Below is Senator Mikulski's statement upon introduction of the legislation, as it appears in the Congressional Record: 
   "I rise today to continue the fight to right a wrong in America's visa program. I believe its time for America to extend the Visa Waiver program to Poland. I'm pleased to have formed a bipartisan partnership with Senator Santorum to reintroduce our bill to get it done. 
   "Last fall, Senator Santorum and I met with a hero of the Cold War, Lech Walesa. When he jumped over the wall of the Gdansk shipyard, he took Poland and the whole world with him. He told us that the visa issue is a question of honor for Poland. That day, we introduced a bill to once again stand in solidarity with the father of Solidarity by extending the Visa Waiver program to Poland. 
   "This morning, I had the honor of hosting Poland's Foreign Minister, Professor Adam Rotfeld. We reaffirmed and cemented the close ties between the Polish and American peoples. Senator Santorum and I heard loud and clear that the visa waiver program remains a high priority for Poland. 
   "My friends, Poland is not some Communist holdover or third-world country begging for a handout. The Cold War is over. Poland is a free and democratic nation. Poland is a NATO ally and a member of the European Union. But America's visa policy still treats Poland as a second-class citizen. That is just wrong. 
   "Poland is a reliable ally, not just by treaty but in deeds. Warsaw hosted an international Conference on Combating Terrorism less than two months after the September 11 attacks. Poland continues to modernize its Armed Forces so they can operate with the Armed Forces of the U.S. and other NATO allies, buying American F-16s and Shadow UAVs and humvees. 
   "More importantly, Polish troops have stood side by side with America's Armed Forces. Polish ships participated in Desert Shield and Desert Storm during the 1990-91 Gulf War. Poland sent troops to Bosnia as part of UNPROFOR and IFOR. Poland sent troops as part of the international coalition in Afghanistan. 
   "Polish troops fought alongside American and British and Australian troops from day one of the Iraq war. They are there because they want to be reliable allies. Because they are ready to stand with us even when the mission is risky and unpopular. Today, Poland still commands multinational forces in the South Central region of Iraq. Nearly 2,500 Polish troops are still on the ground in Iraq, sharing the burden and the risk and the casualties. 
   "So why are Singapore and San Marino among the 27 countries in the Visa Waiver program, but Poland is not? "President Kwasniewski raised this issue with President Bush last year and again this week. The President has said this is a matter for Congress. It's time for us to act. 
   "The bill Senator Santorum and I are introducing today will add Poland to the list of designated countries in the Visa Waiver program. That will allow Polish citizens to travel to the U.S. for tourism or business for up to sixty days without needing to stand in line to get a visa. That means it will be easier for Poles to visit family and friends or do business in America. Shouldn't we make it easier for the Pulaskis and Kosciuszkos and Marie Curies of today can visit our country? 
   "We know that our borders will be no less secure because of these Polish visitors to our country. But we know that our alliance will be more secure because of this legislation. 
   "I urge our colleagues to join us in support of this important bill."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122. 
 
 