ONE YEAR AFTER SURGE IN IRAQ, SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS ON BUSH TO STOP NEGLECTING INJURED TROOPS AT HOME
  On the one year anniversary of President Bush's escalation of U.S. troops in Iraq, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) said the Iraqi government has still failed to take steps toward political reconciliation, but applauded the brave Soldiers and Marines who have worked so hard to reduce violence in the country. One year after the surge - which for many of our troops meant serving third and fourth tours of duty - President Bush continues to ask for billions of federal dollars every week for the war, while neglecting the wounded warriors who have come home needing care. 
   "A great American military can not be a substitute for a weak Iraqi government. While President Bush has been surging forces in Iraq, Democrats in Congress have surged support to our wounded warriors and their families," said Senator Mikulski. "To our outstanding men and women in uniform I say - you've got a tough job and we are proud of you. President Bush has no problem asking our troops to make sacrifice after sacrifice for our country - I urge him to join us in supporting the men and women who have answered his call."
   President Bush vetoed legislation that included $70 million in improvements to care for the men and women who are injured while defending our country. The Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act, which was included in the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization bill that Bush vetoed on December 28, 2007, outlined several steps to improve and enhance care for injured veterans and returning service members.
   The Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors Act addressed patient facility improvements, Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) care and treatment, mental health care, the VA disability system, dental care, and homelessness, among other priorities. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=279699.
   "Many of the injured men and women coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan are now in their twenties, and many are in need of chronic care. Some will need assisted living; some will need assistance with living," said Senator Mikulski. "We have to think about the next 50 years for our wounded veterans in terms of compensation, care, and how we are going to help families get through this. I will never abandon our troops - on the battlefield, or when they come home needing care."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 