SEN. MIKULSKI JOINS CONGRESSIONAL COMMUNITY COLLEGE CAUCUS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced today she has joined the Congressional Community College Caucus - a bipartisan group working to raise awareness on the importance of community colleges nationwide and to strengthen their role in higher education.  
   "I believe community colleges are the gateway to the future for first time students looking for an affordable college education and for mid-career students looking to get ahead in the workplace," said Senator Mikulski. "I know firsthand the vital role they play in our communities - their low cost, convenient location and open door admissions policy have made them a critical tool for so many people." 
   Community colleges provide affordable training and knowledge to local communities in such important fields as law enforcement, homeland security, licensed practical nursing, radiology, computer technologies and biotechnology. In fact, more than 50 percent of new nurses and 85 percent of law enforcement officers, emergency medical technicians and firefighters have attended community colleges. 
   In Maryland, community college enrollment has increased by 15 percent, but state funding has failed to keep pace. In fact, many states have seen decreases in state funding. Shrinking community college budgets means tuition increases and caps on enrollment for the first time. 
   That's why Senator Mikulski has been fighting for legislation in the Senate to help community colleges keep their doors open - increasing enrollment without sending tuition through the roof. 
   She has also been fighting to increase Pell Grants and forgive student loans for public sector employees after 10 years. 
   "I believe your government should help you so you can follow your dreams. There are lots of freedoms - freedom of speech, press, expression. I believe in the Freedom to Achieve - providing opportunities for students to get ahead to follow the American dream," said Senator Mikulski. "We know that education doesn't just accrue to our students, but to society as a whole. I will continue to fight for all Americans to have access to a higher education."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 