TEAM MARYLAND: BALTIMORE VETERANS' OFFICE NEEDS EMERGENCY STAFF TO FIX BENEFITS BACKLOG
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today led a bipartisan group of her Team Maryland colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs James B. Peake, calling on him to provide emergency staffing to immediately address the growing backlog of compensation, pension claims and disability cases at the Veterans' Benefits Administration's (VBA) Baltimore Regional Office. At the Baltimore office, there are 6,445 claims and cases - almost one third of the office's workload - that have been pending for over 180 days. This is well above the national average.  
   "We have a sacred trust with the veterans who risked their lives so that we may live in freedom. Part of that sacred trust is making sure we provide our veterans with the services and support they need," said Senator Mikulski. "This backlog is unacceptable. Many of the vets waiting for their compensation are seniors. They shouldn't have to battle their government for months to get the benefits they need and deserve." 
   Joining Senator Mikulski in signing the letter were colleagues Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D), House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D) and Congressmen Albert Wynn (D), Roscoe Bartlett (R), Elijah E. Cummings (D), Chris Van Hollen (D), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D) and John Sarbanes (D). 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Secretary Peake, 
   We are deeply disturbed about the growing backlog of compensation and pension (C&P) claims and disability cases at the Veteran's Benefits Administration's Baltimore Regional Office. We ask that you take immediate action to address this crisis situation. 
   The most recent VBA Workload Report says that 6,445 claims and cases (32.2 percent) have been pending for over 180 days. This is well above the nation's average of 26 percent. Baltimore has the third highest percentage of C&P claims pending for over 180 days out of the 16 Eastern Area regional offices. Exacerbating the situation, only 2 Decision Review officers are currently available and holding hearings. 
   We know that Baltimore recently hired 7 new claims specialists. But, these specialists will need 2 years of training until they can effectively process all types of cases and claims. Veterans who have filed cases and claims have service-connected disabilities, limited incomes, are unable to work and/or are over 65 years old. This is a vulnerable population that can't afford to wait 2 more years before receiving their benefits. 
   We ask that you take immediate action by providing emergency staffing assistance to the Baltimore Regional Office until this crisis is under control. Veterans and their families are suffering as they wait for the benefits our nation promised to them for proudly serving our country. Please do all that you can to make sure promises made to our nation's veterans are promises kept.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 