SEN. MIKULSKI CONDEMNS PRESIDENT BUSH VETO OF INTELLIGENCE REFORM
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI), today denounced the news that President Bush has vetoed the fiscal year 2008 Intelligence Authorization bill. This critical bill contains key provisions, which Senator Mikulski supports, that establish uniform standards for interrogations and enhance accountability in the intelligence community.  
   The bill outlines standards for interrogating detainees in U.S. custody. It requires the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to follow the Army Field Manual's rules on interrogation, which prohibit the use of waterboarding and other coercive interrogation techniques. 
   "Torture is unnecessary, ineffective and repugnant. This key provision is simple - it states clearly that the United States will not engage in torture," said Senator Mikulski. "Requiring all intelligence agencies to follow the Army Field Manual ensures that the United States follows the law and helps to restore our nation's credibility overseas as a country that protects human rights." 
   Also included in the legislation is a provision that establishes an independent, objective Inspector General for the entire intelligence community. This would allow the Inspector General to look across the totality of the U.S. intelligence community and would help improve coordination, cooperation and information sharing among our intelligence agencies. 
   "The intelligence community needs an effective watchdog. A strong, independent and objective Inspector General is vital to achieving the goal of improving the operations and effectiveness of the intelligence community," added Senator Mikulski. 
   Senator Mikulski authored an amendment, included in the final bill, which promotes accountability in the intelligence community by requiring that the directors of the National Security Agency (NSA) and the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) be appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. 
   "The President's objection to the Senate confirmation of the NSA and NRO directors is an attempt to undermine the Senate's critical role of advice and consent of two of the most important intelligence community officials. We must be able to evaluate the suitability of individuals nominated for key positions, we must consent to the nominations, and we must establish and cultivate good working relationships with those who are confirmed," said Senator Mikulski. "This proposal will reinforce the prospects for accountability and review." 
   Currently, two of the most important intelligence community officials are the directors of technical intelligence collection agencies. Yet by current law and practice, neither are subject to Senate hearings, nor do they receive scrutiny from SSCI. Senator Mikulski's provision makes both Senate-confirmable.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 