SEN. MIKULSKI HONORS NATIONAL NURSES WEEK, CALLS FOR RELIEF TO NURSING SHORTAGE
  During National Nurses Week, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), joined by Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), introduced a resolution honoring the tireless work of nurses nationwide and called for relief to America's ongoing nursing shortage.  
   "Nurses provide outstanding care to their patients and are a critical part of America's health care system. Our nation is facing an ongoing shortage of nurses, and it is only getting worse," said Senator Mikulski. "Too often, nurses are overworked, underpaid and undervalued. The shortage affects every state, every city, every town - and it affects our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq who rely on the care of our military nurses. This National Nurses Week, I vow to continue to fight to increase our nursing workforce for our hospitals and for our patients." 
   The National Nurses Week Resolution designates May 6-12, 2007, as a time to salute the nation's nurses for their critical contributions to our health care system. America is facing an unprecedented, ongoing nursing shortage, with a projected 1.2 million new and replacement nurses needed by 2014. Yet, President Bush has proposed a $44 million cut to Title VIII Nursing Workforce Development programs aimed at recruitment and retention. 
   Last month, Senator Mikulski sent a letter to Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Penn.), urging them to include $200 million for Title VIII programs in this year's spending bill to recruit and retain more nurses and relieve our already strained nursing workforce. 
   The shortage of nurses nationwide and in all health care settings was first noted in 1998. In response, Senator Mikulski introduced the Nurse Reinvestment Act of 2002, which expanded existing programs and created new ones in Title VIII that offer financial assistance for nursing education and training in order to encourage men and women to enter the nursing field. 
   Senator Mikulski has been a consistent advocate for nursing throughout her 30 years in Congress, and has worked to increase scholarships and access to programs to address the nation's growing shortage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 