ACTOR DAVID PIERCE JOINS SENS. MIKULSKI, BOND TO INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO COMBAT ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) and Kit Bond (R-MO) were joined by David Hyde Pierce, actor and national board member of the Alzheimer's Association, at a press conference today to announce the introduction of The Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2005. Sponsored by Sens. Mikulski and Bond, this bipartisan legislation would double the funding for Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health, provide critical support for caregivers and launch a public education campaign on the latest advances in research and prevention.  
   "We are truly on the brink of breakthroughs in Alzheimer's research that could make a huge difference for American families," said Senator Mikulski. "We know the emotional cost and the financial cost families face when a loved one has Alzheimer's. We should honor the lives of President Reagan and those who have suffered from Alzheimer's Disease with new research and new initiatives on how to prevent Alzheimer's, how to care for those who have it, how to support those who are caregivers, and how to find a cure." "Alzheimer's is a devastating disease that not only affects those afflicted and their families but threatens to overwhelm our economy and healthcare system," said Senator Bond. "As we celebrate the life and legacy of Ronald Reagan, it is critical that we pass this bill and confront this expanding public health crisis. The greatest tribute to President Reagan and his family would be a living memorial. This bill will serve as a living tribute to President Reagan. It will spark and accelerate breakthroughs in research and offer hope to all those suffering from the disease today." 
   "I am one of the millions whose family is impacted by Alzheimer's. If we do not accelerate research for Alzheimer's right now, the costs of the disease will eclipse anything else we have on the agenda," said Pierce. "New scientific discoveries are occurring regularly that hold great promise, so we need to make the investment now to keep the momentum going. If we can prevent the disease we can also achieve tremendous savings to Medicaid and Medicare, because Alzheimer's disease is a significant cost to these programs." 
   Also in attendance at the announcement was Karen Rivera, a caregiver from St. Peters, Missouri, and Paul Fishman, MD, Ph.D. from the University of Maryland. 
   Senators Mikulski and Bond have held hearings on Alzheimer's research in the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Subcommittee on Aging. Numerous experts have testified that increased funding for NIH research would help scientists make important breakthroughs in the discovery of methods to detect, prevent and treat Alzheimer's. 
   Key provisions of The Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2005 include: 
   * Strengthens Federal Government's Commitment to Alzheimer's Disease Research 
   By doubling the funding for Alzheimer's Disease research at the National Institutes of Health (from $700 million to $1.4 billion), researchers will have the resources they need to make breakthroughs. More funding would mean more clinical trials to test new ideas to prevent Alzheimer's and the best therapies to treat the disease and slow the onset of symptoms. 
   The legislation also calls for a National Summit on Alzheimer's Disease that would bring in the best minds from across the country to examine the NIH's current research agenda for Alzheimer's, future research priorities, and challenges and opportunities for the research community and the public. 
   * Provides Critical Support to Caregivers 
   The legislation helps family caregivers pay for the costs of caring for loved one with Alzheimer's by providing a tax credit of up to $3,000 to help pay for caregiving costs like prescription drugs, home health care, and specialized day care. 
   This legislation also works to increase the availability of services such as respite care, home health care, counseling and training. The bill proposes doubling funds for two existing initiatives - the National Caregiver Support Program (from $125 million to $250 million) and the Alzheimer's Demonstration Grant Program (from $12 million to $25 million). 
   The bill also increases access to respite care services for caregivers by providing grants to states, nonprofit organizations and others to inform the public about respite care, increase respite care services, and train respite care workers/volunteers. 
   * Educates Public with "News You Can Use" 
   This legislation would launch a "News You Can Use" education campaign to get the word out about advances in research. While scientists are working for a cure, this public education campaign will help families and doctors find out the latest information on how to help prevent Alzheimer's disease and how to slow the onset of symptoms. 
   A House companion bill will be introduced soon by Representatives Edward Markey (D-MA), Chris Smith (R-NJ) and Michael Burgess (R-TX). 
   "Today, 4.5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease," said Senator Mikulski. "They live in every state. They live in cities, suburbs and on farms. They may own small grocery stores like my father - who suffered from this disease. They could be President of the United States. Alzheimer's is an All-American disease that affected an All-American President. Now we need an All-American effort to find breakthroughs and speed up the day when no family has to go through the long goodbye."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 