SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES TO STAND UP FOR RETIRED FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today continued to stand up for the equal rights of all retired federal law enforcement employees in two legislative initiatives. She joined Sen. John Warner (R-Va.) in introducing the Federal Law Enforcement Pay Adjustment Equity Act (FLEPAEA), and Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) in introducing the Law Enforcement Officers Retirement Equity Act (LEOREA). Both bills were introduced in the 109th Congress but were never brought up for a floor vote.  
   The FLEPAEA would allow retired police officers of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division and the United States Park Police to receive the same Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) to their paycheck as active officers. These officers had been granted this adjustment for nearly 80 years before 2000, when it was taken away. The FLEPAEA restores it - ensuring that the officers' pensions keep up with the cost of living. The legislation affects about 1,100 people who had been the only federal retirees whose existing retirement benefits were scaled back. 
   "When it comes to federal employees, I believe that promises made should be promises kept," said Senator Mikulski. "These former Secret Service and Park Police officers planned for their retirement with the understanding that their pension would be enough to live on, even as the cost of living increased. They deserve the retirement benefits they were promised when they signed up for service." 
   The LEOREA ensures that all federal law enforcement officers have the same retirement options, and that their pay and benefits conform to the federal law enforcement retirement system. Under current law, most federal law enforcement officers and firefighters are eligible to retire at age 50 with 20 years of federal service. But, some federal law enforcement personnel, such as customs and immigration inspectors at the Department of Homeland Security or police officers at the Department of Veterans Affairs, are not eligible for these same benefits. This legislation will amend current law and grant the same pay and 20-year retirement to all law enforcement officers. 
   "We must honor our federal law enforcement personnel. We need to make sure that all federal law enforcement officers earn the pay and benefits that they deserve," said Senator Mikulski. "These brave men and women are the country's first line of defense against terrorism and the smuggling of illegal drugs at our borders. They have the same law enforcement training as all other law enforcement personnel, and face the same risks and challenges."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 