SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES JOIN REPS. HOLLEN, WYNN TO ANNOUNCE KEY FEDERAL FUNDING TO KEEP MONTGOMERY, PRINCE GEORGE'S COMMUNITIES SAFER
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) joined Rep. Chris Van Hollen and Albert Wynn (both D-Md.) today to announce the conference report on the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies 2006 spending bill includes key funding to keep Montgomery and Prince George's County communities safer.  
   "We need to continue to work to protect neighborhoods and families - that means safer streets and safer communities. This funding will help the people of Montgomery and Prince George's Counties to clean up their streets and fight the crime that is destroying neighborhoods," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so proud to have fought for this federal investment, and will continue to do all I can to make our communities safer. We have again shown that together, we can do better." 
   "This funding represents a multi-pronged approach to keeping our communities throughout the Maryland suburbs safer," said Senator Sarbanes. "A major component of this approach is helping our youth steer clear of potential pitfalls that could put them in crimes way, and these federal funds are important to an overall crime fighting and crime prevention efforts." 
   "This is great news for our area," said Congressman Van Hollen. "I am proud to have fought for this funding, which will help the people of Montgomery and Prince George's Counties fight the growing problem of gang violence and teach young people that gang life is not the road to success, but rather the path to prison. It is important that we provide our law enforcement officials, our teachers, and our community leaders with the support they need as they work to keep our youth safe from gangs and teach them the long term consequences of joining a gang. I thank Senator Mikulski and Representative Wolf for their leadership on confronting the issue of gang violence throughout the Washington, D.C. metropolitan region." 
   "I am extremely pleased that I was able to work with Senator Mikulski to secure funding for these projects as they are vital to the safety of the 4th Congressional District. It is important that parents and school officials are able to recognize gang activity and preempt escalation. The Crossroads Community Center will serve to reduce gang activity through prevention and intervention," said Congressman Wynn. 
   This year's spending bill includes the following funding for Montgomery and Prince George's Counties: 
   * $2 million for the Maryland Joint County Gang Suppression and Prevention Initiative. The program will involve centralized law enforcement gang units and community-based mentoring, support and outreach services in both counties to fight gang activity in schools, neighborhoods and communities. 
   * $750,000 for the Latin America Youth Center in Langley Park for the Maryland Gang Intervention Project. The Center will offer career training, drug prevention, mentoring and after school programs for high school students in the Langley Park area to keep kids off the streets and out of gangs. 
   * $375,000 for the Crossroads Community Center, which will also be located in the Langley Park area. The Center will offer programs targeted to the culturally diverse needs of the residents of the two counties, focusing on youth and young adults involved in or at risk of involvement in gang activity. 
   * $250,000 for Prince George's County Prisoner Re-Entry Program to provide personalized counseling and treatment programs for repeat offenders before and after their release. This will help reduce the recidivism rate for returning ex-offenders in Prince George's County's neighborhoods and communities. 
   The conference report was passed by the U.S. House yesterday with a vote of 397-19. A vote in the U.S. Senate is expected soon. Once passed by both Houses of Congress, the bill will go to the President for his signature. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. Senator Sarbanes is the senior Democrat on the Banking Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 