SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR EASTERN SHORE FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) announced today that two Eastern Shore fire departments have been awarded a total of $186,580 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Eastern Shore communities. Congratulations to the Ewell Volunteer Fire Company and the Berlin Fire Company on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Ewell Volunteer Fire Company (Somerset County) will use its $38,000 to purchase 20 new sets of turn out gear. 
   For more information on the Ewell Volunteer Fire Company, call Charles Cavanaugh at 410-651-9641. 
   The Berlin Fire Company (Worcester County) will use its $148,580 to install a new diesel exhaust system, and to purchase new radio head sets, interoperable communications equipment and individualized face masks. 
   For more information on the Berlin Fire Company, call Captain David Fitzgerald at 410-641-1977. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded on a weekly basis until all funds are disbursed. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 