SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) announced today that two Washington County fire departments have been awarded a total of $486,032 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Western Maryland communities. Congratulations to the First Hose Company of Boonsboro and the Volunteer Fire Company of Halfway, Md., Inc. on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The First Hose Company of Boonsboro will use its $96,080 to hire one full-time firefighter to provide 60 hours of staffing coverage per week. After five years, the department will pick up the full share of this paid position. 
   So far under the AFGP, the First Hose Company of Boonsboro has been awarded $428,465 to purchase much needed life saving and other vital equipment to protect their members. Earlier this year, the department was awarded $66,215 in AFGP funding to install a Compressed Air Foam System on one of their engines. In 2003, the department was awarded $153,670 to purchase various equipment and in 2004, the department was awarded $112,500 to purchase a new mini pumper. For more information, call Chief Jay Brandenburg at 301-975-6520. 
   The Volunteer Fire Company of Halfway, Md., Inc. will use its $389,952 to purchase SCBA units with additional spare bottles, new communications equipment that will include portable radios, Rapid Intervention Team kits and two thermal imaging cameras. This is the largest award to a volunteer fire company in Maryland this year. For more information, call Joseph Kroboth at 240-313-2903. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded on a weekly basis until all funds are disbursed. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 