SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BALTIMORE COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) announced today that two Baltimore County fire departments have been awarded a total of $162,260 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Baltimore County communities. Congratulations to the Rosedale Volunteer Fire Company and the Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Department on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Chestnut Ridge Volunteer Fire Department will use its $91,010 to install a new diesel exhaust capture and recovery system, which removes harmful carcinogens like carbon dioxide that is generated by the fire engines. 
   For more information, call Coos Hamburger at 410-560-7169. 
   The Rosedale Volunteer Fire Company will use its $71,250 to purchase an emergency generator and hydraulic tools. This is the second award for Rosedale under the AFGP. In 2004, the department was awarded $56,070 to install a diesel exhaust system. 
   For more information, call Captain Steven Barry at 410-866-4042. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded on a weekly basis until all funds are disbursed. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 