MARYLAND SENATORS ANNOUNCE CHINA LIFTED TRADE RESTRICTIONS ON DELMARVA POULTRY
  Maryland Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes today announced that China has lifted its trade restrictions on most U.S. poultry products, including Delmarva poultry. The restrictions were imposed following an outbreak of avian influenza (AI) earlier this year.  
   Japan lifted their trade restrictions on Delmarva poultry in September of this year, joining Mexico and Hong Kong who also lifted their bans. China was the last remaining country of the top five export markets to lift their ban on Delmarva poultry. 
   "China's decision to lift trade restrictions on Delmarva poultry is great news for Maryland's poultry industry and the economy of the Eastern Shore," said Senator Mikulski. "Maryland poultry is a safe, healthy product offered at a fair price. I will keep working with my colleagues in the Delmarva delegation to end all embargoes on our poultry being sold abroad." 
   "I welcome the decision by China to join the other major import markets in lifting the ban on Delmarva Poultry," added Sarbanes. "With this large consumer market back in play, this will be of enormous benefit to the entire poultry industry in Maryland and our State's economy." 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes have a long history of fighting for Eastern Shore poultry farmers. After the Russian Government imposed an embargo on U.S. poultry products in March 2002, the Senators wrote to President Bush urging him to work with Russia's President Putin to immediately end their embargo. That embargo was lifted one month later, in April 2002. 
   In addition, when avian flu was discovered on the Delmarva Peninsula earlier this year, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes urged Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman to establish a regional task force to assist state and local entities, as well as the private sector, in containing and eradicating the virus. The Senators secured $13.7 million in federal funds in May 2004 to help protect poultry farms and operations on the Delmarva Peninsula from outbreaks of avian influenza.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 