SEN. MIKULSKI SECURES CRITICAL HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced she helped secure an additional $170 million in federal funding for critical homeland security needs. Sen. Mikulski joined Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) in offering an amendment to the Homeland Security bill, currently pending in the U.S. Senate, to secure the additional funding for firefighters, air marshals, emergency personnel, and high-risk non-profit organizations. The amendment passed the Senate by a voice vote earlier today.  
   "As a nation fighting a war on terrorism, we need to be safer, stronger and smarter so we are able to better detect, prevent and respond to acts of terrorism," said Senator Mikulski. "This amendment gets us one step closer to meeting those goals by standing up for our first responders and making sure that if terror strikes, security and safety measures are in place to protect and save lives." 
   * Security Enhancements for High-Risk Non-Profits - $50 million 
   This $50 million in federal funding would go to the Homeland Security Department's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute so that high-risk non-profit organizations can get much needed funding for security enhancements. These institutions provide vital health, social, cultural, and educational services to the American people and are often the targets of terrorism. Funding can be used to secure their buildings and add safety features like concrete barriers to protect them from terrorist attacks. 
   Earlier this year, Senator Mikulski and Senator Specter introduced the "High-Risk Non-Profit Security and Safety Enhancement Act of 2004." The legislation helps fund security improvements for non-profit organizations demonstrating a high risk of terrorist attack based upon very specific standards. The legislation passed the Government Affairs Committee. A full Senate vote has not yet been scheduled. 
   * Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program - $50 million
   This federal money would boost the Homeland Security Department's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $50 million, bringing the total up to $750 million ($4 million above last year's enacted level). The Administration requested only $500 million for the grant program this year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive grant program open to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for money for training, firefighting equipment, protective gear, fire prevention programs, and firefighting vehicles. 
   Senator Mikulski is offering another amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would provide even more federal funding for this critical program - bringing the total to $900 million, its authorized level. That amendment is expected to come before the Senate for a vote on September 13, 2004. 
   In 2003, almost 20,000 local fire departments applied for federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, totaling $2.5 billion in requests. During that same period, only 8,900 grants were actually awarded totaling almost $710 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old. 
   * Federal Air Marshals - $50 million 
   This $50 million will cover the necessary expenses of Federal Air Marshals, including hiring, training, salaries, benefits, travel and other costs associated with the program. Federal Air Marshals are essential to helping protect Americans as they fly across our nation, against possible terrorist attacks, sabotage or other threats during national and international travel. With this additional funding, Federal Air Marshals will be funded at $ 712,900,000, enabling the Department of Homeland Security to hire additional air marshals and provide them with the resources they need to do their jobs. 
   * Emergency Management Performance Grants - $20 million 
   This funding will help state and emergency managers develop, maintain and improve their emergency management capabilities, key components of a comprehensive national emergency management system for all hazards. Through this grant program, FEMA provides states with funding to address the most urgent state and local needs in disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery. 
   "In the battle to protect our nation from terrorist attacks, we must be sure to provide assistance to first responders and to high-risk non-profit organizations that provide vital health, social, cultural, and educational services to the American people," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654. 
 
 