SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MONTGOMERY COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Kensington Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. and the Burtonsville Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. are being awarded a total of $103,727 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Montgomery County. Congratulations to the Kensington Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. and the Burtonsville Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Kensington Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., located in Montgomery County, will use its $63,227 grant to establish a Health and Wellness Program for their four stations in the County. The funding will enable to the department to install fitness equipment, train members in fitness instruction, and institute a nutrition program. This is especially important because heart attacks are the number one cause of death amongst firefighters. 
   Kensington is the largest fire department in Maryland, covering 43 square miles and serving a population of 73,000 in their first due response area. Kensington Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. received $227,500 in federal funding last year through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program to purchase a 750 gallon pumper/tanker truck. 
   For more information on the Kensington Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., contact Mike Kelley at 301-929-8002. 
   The Burtonsville Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., also in Montgomery County, will use its $40,500 federal grant to purchase 15 new sets of turn-out gear (including helmets, jackets, pants and boots) and a Life-Pack 12 Electrocardiogram (EKG) Monitoring Unit for their Emergency Medical Service (EMS) vehicle. The Life-Pack 12 unit will allow EMS and Department personnel to monitor and transmit victims' vital health information to local hospitals. 
   This is the second award for Burtonsville under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. In 2002, the Department received $31,500 to purchase self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units and a Cascade Air System. 
   For more information on the Burtonsville Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., please contact Craig Baker at 301-384-4320. These are the first awards for Montgomery County Fire Departments through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program this year. Last year, Montgomery County Departments received a total of $861,268 through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program. 
   So far this year, 26 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $2,615,860 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.5 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 