SEN. MIKULSKI: STEM CELL RESEARCH IS ABOUT SAVING LIVES, NOT PARTY LINES
  On the floor of the Senate today, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) reiterated her outspoken support of the Stem Cell Research Act of 2007 (S.5), which calls for an expansion of federally funded stem cell research under medical and ethical guidelines. A vote on the bill is expected tonight. 
   "Every year we wait to pass this bill, our research falls three years behind. Stem cell research has the potential to save lives, improving the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases," said Senator Mikulski. "I acknowledge the validity of some of the issues that have been raised. But as long as you shove it underground, as long as you shove it behind closed doors, then you're going to get either faulty research or very bad ethics. We need a national framework to establish bioethical standards based on sound science and ethical principles."  
   To hear and/or broadcast Senator Mikulski's floor speech, call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 8664 or download a high-quality mp3 at: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski070411.mp3 . Video of Senator Mikulski's floor statement will be available on Pathfire's Digital Media Gateway later today. Instructions to access Pathfire's content can be found at: www.mikulski.senate.gov/pdfs/pathfire.pdf . 
   Senator Mikulski's floor speech is below: 
   "I rise today to speak with great urgency on the need to pass the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007. We must pass this bill. Every year we wait to pass this bill, our research falls three years behind. That's another patient who may have been saved, another family that may not have to watch a loved one suffer. Stem cell research is very important to the American public. It's very important in Maryland, and it's very important to me. I am a firm, clear, unabashed supporter of stem cell research. We must move this bill forward. We need a national framework to establish bioethical standards based on sound science and ethical principles. 
   "Stem cell research has the potential to save lives - improving the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases. It has the potential to help find cures for some of life's most devastating diseases: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, heart disease, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury. Just imagine if scientists could find a cure for Alzheimer's or give individuals a longer cognitive stretch out. Think of the savings we could have by investing in stem cell research. Imagine what this research could mean to our returning veterans, coming home with traumatic brain injuries. There are a cornucopia of new opportunities for new breakthroughs. 
   "This is not about ideology. It's not about party. It is about our American people. What we can invent could help save lives everywhere. 
   "Yesterday I met with scientists at Johns Hopkins University to discuss breakthrough stem cell research. I wanted to be sure that I was on the right track. I said to the scientists: 'tell me what you are doing and tell me what impedes you now, working under the Bush framework.' Well, they gave me an ear full. 
   "There are great things going on at Hopkins - studies that may one day help prevent the rejection of transplanted organs such as the kidney and pancreas. Dr. Douglass Kerr is doing breakthrough work, restoring movement to paralyzed rats and showing the potential of embryonic stem cells to restore function to humans suffering from stroke. This could possibly even aid those soldiers who are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "Private and state funds can not be a substitute for the necessary federal investment. I am proud that Maryland passed stem cell legislation last year, and the General Assembly just approved $23 million for next year. But it can't be a substitute for federal funds. 
   "Right now, scientists have their hands tied behind their backs. Cell lines that can be used for research now are deficient and defective. They need access to other lines that are currently off limits due to the President's restrictions. Right now, Hopkins scientists can not even collaborate on the stem cell work they are doing. This goes against the way science is studied, slowing down potential breakthroughs. 
   "Our country is sitting back while other countries are moving forward. Scientists are going to other countries to do this research - China, Singapore, Australia, Germany. We are losing our intellectual capital. We are losing young scientists who are choosing other paths because of restraints. We are losing our best and brightest to other countries instead of supporting them here in the United States. 
   "This research has been operating with one hand tied behind its back. Scientists have been prohibited from doing new stem cell research. Six years ago, the President restricted federal funding for embryonic stem cell research in the most narrow way. The decision created an enormous loophole for researchers in private, for-profit making firms in an unregulated atmosphere. The result - federally funded stem cell research was halted almost entirely. Stem cell research was conducted by private entities with no federal bioethical standards. 
   "This research must be conducted in the sunshine. We need a national framework to establish bioethical standards based on sound science and ethical principles. Without national standards, this research will be conducted outside of the public eye and without national scrutiny. This is where I fear dark and ghoulish things can occur. 
   "I acknowledge the validity of some of the issues that have been raised. But as long as you shove it underground, as long as you shove it behind closed doors, then you're going to get either faulty research or very bad ethics. 
   "Our legislation will remove the restrictions imposed by the President that have effectively stopped this research. It provides the ethical and medical framework for federally funded stem cell research, and allows for sound science and sound ethics. It creates strong ethical guidelines for expanded federal stem cell research and ensures that research is conducted within a rigorous ethical framework, providing transparency and public accountability. The bill expands scientists' access to stem cell lines currently off-limits to federal funding now. It creates a strong national framework that will advance the science of stem cell research and allows for the national collaboration necessary to promote advancement in research that is being done across the country and around the world. 
   "We heard what the voters said in November. 'Change the direction of the country,' they said. 'Change the priorities.' I am on the side of cures and research. I am proud to support stem cell research that will save lives. We have heard the American public's outcry and I believe we must heed their call. We cannot continue to wait any longer."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 