SEN. MIKULSKI QUESTIONS NATIONAL GUARD READINESS IN LIGHT OF BUSH ADMINISTRATION SHORTFALL
  At today's Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) questioned the National Guard's combat and training readiness in light of growing funding shortfalls in the President's budget. Hearing witnesses included National Guard Bureau Chief Lt. Gen. H. Steven Blum, Army National Guard Vice Chief Lt. Gen. Clyde Vaughn and Air National Guard Vice Chief Lt. Gen. Craig McKinley.  
   "I am proud of your service in Iraq and Afghanistan and at bases here at home. I am grateful for your sacrifice - time apart from your families, struggling to make ends meet on a reduced salary," said Senator Mikulski. "I am concerned that you are being asked to do too much without the equipment and training you need." 
   Senator Mikulski questioned the lack of support for the National Guard in the President's budget, including a $24.6 billion equipment shortfall in fiscal year 2007 and a $26 billion shortfall projected for fiscal year 2008. 
   "President Bush and Defense Secretary Gates are effusive in their praise of the Guard, but their words aren't backed up with the funding the Guard needs to do everything we ask of them," said Senator Mikulski. "How long before we see a real budget plan to give the Guard and Reserves the equipment they need?" 
   The Pentagon announced last week that another 13,000 Guardsmen will be deployed to Iraq in the next few months, including 1,400 from the Maryland National Guard, which currently has about 380 troops mobilized. This will be the largest Maryland deployment in recent history, with about 20 percent of the overall Maryland National Guard deploying. Senator Mikulski questioned the officials on whether these Guardsmen will have sufficient time to train for combat. 
   In January 2007, Senator Mikulski joined several of her colleagues to reintroduce the National Guard Empowerment Act (S. 430). The bill elevates the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to four-star general rank and gives him a seat on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The higher position would put the National Guard at the table when budget and equipment decisions are made, which will help the Guard address serious funding equipment shortages.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 