SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF CRITICAL FUNDING FOR CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE PROGRAM
Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, today applauded the Senate's passage of legislation to address the funding shortfall for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for fiscal year 2007. Sen. Mikulski fought for this critical funding fix to protect the health care coverage of nearly 600,000 children nationwide. The proposal, passed in the final hours of the 109th Congress, now goes to the President for his signature.  
 "The SCHIP program provides health insurance to the children of many of America's working families. I fought to create the SCHIP program in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own. I will keep standing up for a federal government that fulfills its responsibilities to America's families and America's children." 
 As a long-standing advocate for the SCHIP program, Senator Mikulski recently joined a group of her colleagues and sent a letter to Senate leadership calling on them to address the SCHIP funding shortfall before the 109th Congress adjourned. Without the legislation passed today, Maryland could have lost nearly $65 million in federal SCHIP dollars. That shortfall would have forced the state to cut other programs, reduce eligibility for SCHIP, or freeze enrollment to account for the funding gap. If Maryland had been forced to cut enrollment, many of the children now participating in the Maryland SCHIP program could have lost their health coverage and become uninsured. 
 "Health care is just too expensive for too many working families. This program fills the gap - for the children who might otherwise have to go without any health care at all," said Senator Mikulski. "This money is critical to ensure our children have access to the health care they need and deserve." 
 SCHIP is a joint federal and state program that provides low-cost health insurance to children in low-income families. In recent years, annual increases in health care costs, combined with a nationwide growth in SCHIP enrollment, has caused the costs of the SCHIP program to outpace the federal funding available. In fiscal year 2007, the estimated funding shortfall would have been approximately $927 million.
 Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 