SEN. MIKULSKI PROPOSAL TO REMOVE MURDERER'S REMAINS FROM ARLINGTON HEADS TO PRESIDENT
Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced the final congressional passage of her proposal to have the remains of convicted murderer Russell Wayne Wagner removed from Arlington National Cemetery. The proposal, which was passed in the final hours of the 109th Congress, was a joint effort with Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Sen. Larry Craig (R-Idaho).  
 Wagner killed Daniel and Wilda Davis, two elderly residents of Hagerstown, Md., and died of a heroin overdose while in jail. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors because he had served in the military. The proposal is included in the "Omnibus VA Facility Authorization Bill for 2006 and 2007," which authorizes federal funding for major medical facility projects and leases for the Department of Veterans Affairs and passed the U.S. House of Representatives earlier today. 
 "This family's courage has helped to shape national policy. Because of their hard work, no other family will have to fight to keep a convicted murderer out of our national cemeteries," said Senator Mikulski. "My promises made to the Davis family were promises kept. The remains of this brutal killer do not belong in the hallowed grounds of Arlington National Ceremony." 
 In addition to this legislation, Senators Mikulski and Craig led the fight to have a bill signed into law by President Bush in January 2006, ensuring this error will never happen again. The Craig-Mikulski provision takes away burial eligibility for any veteran convicted of a capital crime, whether in federal or state court, regardless of whether parole is a possibility. It also denies funeral honors to veterans who are buried in private cemeteries if they have lost eligibility due to a capital conviction. 
 "This law honors our military heroes, and I am so proud to have fought for its passage. This continues what has been a daily fight for more than 18 years to safeguard vital veterans' services and benefits," said Senator Mikulski. "We must continue to do all we can to fight for our veterans; it is part of America's payment of a debt we owe them for their service - a debt that can never be fully repaid." 
 A previous version of the proposal was passed by the full Senate in August as part of the "Veterans' Choice of Representation and Benefits Enhancement Act of 2006." The proposal now goes to the President for his signature.
 Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 