SEN. MIKULSKI RADIO ADDRESS: PRESIDENT'S IRAQ PLAN IS RECKLESS
  In a radio address this morning, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) criticized President Bush's plan to escalate the number of troops in Iraq. Sen. Mikulski is expected to go to the Senate floor between 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. today with a more extensive response to the President's plan in Iraq. 
   A transcript of her address is available below:  
   "President Bush asked the American people to support a surge of military troops in Iraq. The Bush Administration has called this a 'surge,' but make no mistake - this is not a surge - it is an escalation. 
   "We are in a hole in Iraq and the President says that the way out is to dig deeper. Does that make sense? When you're in a hole - the solution is to dig deeper? 
   "This is a reckless plan - it is about saving the Bush presidency, not about saving Iraq. 
   "Before Congress can act on this plan, there are several questions that need to be answered. I need answers, so do the American people, and so do our troops and our families. 
   "What is the President's objective in calling for this escalation of troops? 
   "Who is the enemy in Iraq? Does the Bush Administration even know anymore? 
   "Who's going to disarm these militias and insurgents? And who's going to keep them disarmed? 
   "What is the Iraqi government doing to help itself? Where is their security? Where is their political solution? 
   "Where are the oil revenues we were told would pay for the war? 
   "When is the Iraqi government going to end corruption in their own ministries? 
   "Where are the troops going to come from for this escalation? 
   "And how are we going to pay for it? 
   "U.S. troops can't do what the Iraqi government won't do for itself. Iraqi people need a functioning government that produces security and services. It needs a government of reconciliation that will function on behalf of the Iraqi people. Iraq needs to get its own security forces up and running. They need to put an end to their own sectarian violence an end to corruption in their ministries. Iraq needs to get oil production moving, and they need a way to share oil revenue across Iraq. 
   "From the beginning, everything Congress and the American people have been told by this Bush Administration has proven not to be so. It has either been an outright lie or dangerously incompetent. 
   "There were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and that was the reason we went to war. We were told that we didn't all those troops five years ago. We've been in Iraq longer than we were at war in World War II. And now we're told we need more troops. 
   "I don't have confidence in what we are told by this administration. I don't have confidence in Prime Minister Maliki to produce a government. 
   "A great American military can not be a substitute for a weak Iraqi government. The stronger we are, the more permission we give the Iraq government to be weak. 
   "To our outstanding men and women in uniform I say, you've got a tough job and we are proud of you. Neither Congress, nor the American people will ever abandon you. To those troops who are wondering today if you are heading to Iraq, I say to you, I believe the best way to support you is to say NO to the President's reckless, flawed escalation of the war in Iraq."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 