SENS. MIKULSKI, SHELBY CALL ON CENSUS BUREAU TO ENSURE 2010 CENSUS WILL PROCEED WITHOUT PROBLEMS
  In response to press reports that the 2010 Census may face complications with its data collection, Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and Ranking Member Richard C. Shelby (R-Ala.), today urged the Department of Commerce to report to Congress on the actions it is taking to ensure the Census will proceed on time and within budget. In a letter to Department of Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, the Senators asked him to provide regular status reports to the CJS Subcommittee that funds the agency. 
   "The Census Bureau makes sure that we have accurate data about our population and economy. The Commerce Department must ensure the 2010 Census proceeds according to schedule and budget," said Senator Mikulski. "The quality and integrity of this important information must not be compromised."
   The Census Bureau headquarters is located in Suitland, Md.
   The text of the letter is below:
   Dear Secretary Gutierrez:
   As Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funds for the Census Bureau, we are extremely concerned about recent press reports that a crucial component of the 2010 Census is in "serious trouble."
   Census will spend $600 million to purchase and manage the data from over 500,000 handheld computers for the 2010 Census. Census employees will use the computers to enter information they collect during personal interviews with individuals who do not respond to Census forms by mail. The computers were envisioned as a method of minimizing the cost and improving the accuracy and timeliness of the 2010 Census. Press reports indicate that Census officials have received warnings about the viability of the handheld computers, as well as recommendations to institute a backup plan for a paper census.
   The 2010 Census must proceed on time and within budget. We request that you provide to the Subcommittee regular status reports on your actions to ensure this.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 