SEN. MIKULSKI CELEBRATES OPENING OF WORLD-CLASS SATELLITE FACILITY IN PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today celebrated the dedication of the new building for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association's (NOAA) Satellite Operations Facility (NSOF) in Prince George's County. As Chairman of the Commerce, Justice, Appropriations Subcommittee that funds NOAA, Sen. Mikulski fought to secure more than $81 million for this facility, which plays an important role in protecting the nation from natural disasters.  
   "NOAA and its employees are world-class - from the researchers to the scientists, forecasters and satellite experts. They are working everyday to save lives and livelihoods. The nation depends on them to help local weather forecasters get it right so our citizens can secure their property and protect their families, and to assist in search and rescue operations for lost mariners," said Senator Mikulski. "They deserve a world-class facility so they can do their job and meet NOAA's mission and mandate." 
   The NSOF houses operations of national and global significance 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It is the mission control center for the nation's weather satellites - serving as the first line of defense against natural hazards. It tracks the movement of storms, coordinates satellite-assisted search and rescue, collects satellite information and makes it useful for forecasters and climate researchers, and enables better predictions about tomorrow's weather and the Earth's climate 50 years from now. Since 1982, it has saved 20,000 lives worldwide and more than 5,500 lives in the United States. The new, world-class facility replaces a WWII-era building, also improving the work environment for the 549 federal employees and contractors that work there. 
   Also at today's ribbon-cutting were: Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.), NOAA Administrator, retired Navy Vice Admiral Conrad C. Lautenbacher Jr., County Executive Jack Johnson, Commissioner for Public Buildings Services at the U.S. General Services Administration David L. Winstead, Assistant Administrator for NOAA's National Environmental Satellite, Data and Information Service Mary Ellen Kicza, and Assistant Secretary Stephen L. Pattison from the Maryland Department of the Environment. 
   Senator Mikulski has been fighting to secure funds for the NOAA Satellite Operations Facility since 1999. She has also worked to increase economic development and growth in Suitland for a decade, including securing funding for the new Census headquarters that was dedicated last year.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 