SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) today denounced the elimination of federal funding to help protect high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks in the 2007 Homeland Security spending bill. Sen. Mikulski has joined Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) to introduce an amendment to the legislation, currently under consideration on the Senate floor, that includes $25 million for institutions that provide vital health, social, cultural and educational services to the American people and are often the "soft targets" of terrorism.  
   "We must help protect our hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches from terrorist violence," said Senator Mikulski. "This is a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk of terrorist attacks. I have fought for these funds in the past, and I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   The federal funding would go to the Homeland Security Department's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute to high-risk non-profit organizations. The amendment outlines specific criteria that the department must use in selecting grantees, ensuring that potential threats to institutions are taken as seriously as direct attacks. The non-profits will use the federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers. 
   Senator Mikulski, a member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, has worked for the past two years to secure funding for high-risk non-profits. Last year, Senator Mikulski fought to have $25 million included in the 2006 Homeland Security spending bill, and successfully offered an amendment to the 2005 spending bill that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. She was able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   Senator Mikulski's efforts have received broad national support from groups such as United Jewish Communities, Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, American Red Cross, United Way, American Hospital Association, American Association of Museums, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), American Jewish Congress, Theatre Communications Group, and YMCA of the USA.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 