SEN. MIKULSKI: WEBB AMENDMENT GIVES TROOPS A BREATHER
  As the Senate considers the National Defense Authorization Act, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) went to the Senate floor today to call on her colleagues to support the "Webb amendment," which mandates much-needed extended length requirements on our troops' stays at home between tours of duty. Senator Mikulski is a co-sponsor of the amendment, which was introduced by Senator Jim Webb (D-Va.). The amendment requires active-duty troops to have at least equal time at home as the length of their previous tour overseas and sets a minimum 1-to-3 year ratio for deployment of National Guard and Reserve members. 
   "The President says the struggle in Iraq will be long and will require continued sacrifice. The sacrifice has fallen on our troops now serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Our military is overstretched and our troops are exhausted," said Senator Mikulski. "The Webb amendment gives our troops a breather and gives some relief to their families. I say to my colleagues, 'If we support the troops, support Webb.'" 
   Senator Mikulski's statement as delivered is below:
   "It's almost 10:30 a.m. in Washington. It's 6:30 in the evening in Baghdad. Yesterday in Washington, it was 98 degrees and everybody was complaining about the heat wave. They couldn't wait until they got into air conditioning. It's 115 degrees in Baghdad. Boy, would I like to get our troops in air conditioning back home. I check the temperature every day in Baghdad, because I think about our troops. I try to envision what they are going through. I think about those men and women out there carrying 100 pounds of armor in brutal heat, being shot at, being attacked by IEDs. Yeah, it's hot in Baghdad. And it's hot in more ways than one. We need to care about our troops and we need to care for our troops. Now, we all say we support our troops. Well - let's support them! All 100 of us, all 100 Senators - regardless of party, how we voted on this war - say we support our troops. If we really do support them, let's support the Webb amendment. 
   "The Webb amendment supports our troops and their families, and the employers of those in the Guard and Reserves. The Webb amendment gives our troops a breather. And if the Pentagon won't do it - Congress needs to do it. That's why I support the Webb amendment. 
   "I salute the Senator from Virginia. Senator Webb is a freshman Senator, but he is no stranger to war. He is a warrior's warrior - a combat veteran. And he also was the Secretary of the Navy. He knows full well the stresses the men and women in our military are facing and that their families are facing. 
   "The Webb amendment is simple and straightforward. It supports our troops by giving them more time at home in between deployments. It deals with troop fatigue. It deals with troop exhaustion. For our men and women in the military - if you're in the full-time military, the all voluntary military - your time at home will be at least as long as the length of your last deployment. For the Guard and Reserves - no one would be redeployed within three times of their previous deployment. 
   "Why is this important? Our military is overstretched and our troops are exhausted. Their families are also living with tremendous stress. Every time they hear a news report about another attack - they wonder how their loved one is and if they're surviving. They live in unending, agonizing fear of a strange car pulling up to their home with unbearable news. And whether you are a spouse, a mom or a dad, or children, you are bearing the stress of this war. The Webb amendment will give our troops a breather and some relief to their families. 
   "Now this President, our current President, says that the struggle in Iraq will be long and will require continued sacrifice. Sacrifice from whom? There is no shared sacrifice. The sacrifice has fallen on our troops now serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The sacrifice is made by the men and women who have died in Iraq - by the 85 Marylanders who have died in Iraq and Afghanistan. Some of the men and women who have died came from our service academies - West Point, the Naval Academy. Some came from renowned schools and universities. Some of our kids came from the school of hard knocks. One, Kendell Frederick, only had a green card. He died when a bomb hit his convoy as he was driving to get his fingerprints taken so that he could become an American citizen. Thousands of others are wounded. All of them will bear the permanent scars of this war. 
   "Some say that we are micro-managing the war. Well, you know what? I'm for micro-managing the war. Maybe if we micro-managed the war, it would not be costing us $12 billion a month; maybe we wouldn't be going it alone. 
   "So no matter how you feel about deadlines or benchmarks, we must support our troops. And I believe this is the way to do it. Let me conclude by saying this: while our troops are out there every day in 115 degree heat - let's see what the Iraqi Parliament is doing. Our guys are fighting for a military solution, let's see what they're doing for a political solution. The Iraqi Parliament can't even reach a quorum. Twelve members of Iraq's 38-member Parliament no longer attend cabinet meetings. So, one third of the cabinet doesn't show up for meetings. Seventy-five members of the Iraqi parliament are boycotting to do any work at all, so the very Parliament can't get a quorum. So while the Iraqi Parliament doesn't show up and stays home in its air conditioning, our guys and gals are out there patrolling Baghdad in 115 degree heat with 100 pounds of equipment and body armor. I say to my colleagues, 'if we support the troops, support Webb.'"
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 