SEN. MIKULSKI CELEBRATES WITH SEAFOOD WORKERS, WATERMEN
  This morning Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) met with key members of the seafood processing industry and watermen to thank them for their advocacy and celebrate the massive victory to solve the H2B visa shortage.  
   "I promised small businesses that they could count on me to keep fighting until we had a solution and they had the seasonal workers they needed to stay in business. That's what we did together - and today our fix to the H2B crisis is headed to President Bush for his signature. I salute Maryland's seafood industry and the Waterman's Association for being advocates and activists to get this amendment passed." 
   Many Maryland businesses have been facing a crisis, unable to obtain temporary, documented, seasonal, foreign workers through the H2B visa program. This year, the cap of 66,000 was reached just a few months into the fiscal year. Because companies are not allowed to apply for workers more than 120 days before they are needed, many Maryland businesses - who need about 7,700 workers - weren't able to apply for visas this year because the cap had been reached. 
   Senator Mikulski's introduced legislation, the "Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act," that exempts returning seasonal workers from the national cap of 66,000 people, creates new anti-fraud provisions in the visa program, creates fair allocation of visas and creates new reporting requirements so Congress can track how many people return each year through the H2B visa program. After passing the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support and a vote of 94-6, the bill headed to conference committee to resolve the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. As a member of that conference committee, Senator Mikulski fought to make sure that her amendment was in the final version of the bill that passed the Senate last night. The bill is now headed to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122. 
 
 