SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO MAKE PORT, TRANSIT SECURITY PRIORITY IN FEDERAL CHECKBOOK
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined several of her Senate colleagues, including Commerce, Science and Transportation Chairman Ted Stevens (R-Alaska), Ranking Member Daniel Inouye (R-Hawaii), Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Chairman Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) and Ranking Member Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.), to introduce a bipartisan transportation security bill that authorizes approximately $5.4 billion over three years for port, cargo, rail and transit security.  
   "The national security threats facing our ports and transportation systems, like the Port of Baltimore in my home state of Maryland, are very real," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight with my colleagues to make sure we are keeping our nation's security a priority in the federal checkbook." 
   PORT AND CARGO SECURITY 
   The legislation authorizes approximately $728.6 million for port and cargo security initiatives that would improve data entry used for cargo searches. It would also improve the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's (CBP) Container Security Initiative and the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism Program. It would enhance cargo security by improving the examination of shipments before they reach U.S. shores, and call on the CBP to develop standards for the evaluation, screening and inspection of cargo destined for the United States. It also authorizes the random inspection of incoming cargo, which has proven to be 12 times more likely to find illicit shipments than traditional inspection methods. 
   "Port security is a responsibility of the U.S. government. It is essential to national security and border security," said Senator Mikulski. "Our economy depends on moving goods via our ports and our security depends on ports that are safe and protected from attacks." 
   RAIL SECURITY 
   The legislation authorizes approximately $1.2 billion for rail security, including $313.5 million for Amtrak. The bill requires the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to conduct a railroad sector threat assessment and submit prioritized recommendations for improving rail security. It would provide grants through TSA to Amtrak and freight railroads to upgrade security across the entire railroad system. It would also provide funding through the Department of Transportation for security and safety enhancements to Amtrak railroad tunnels in Baltimore, D.C. and New York. 
   "At a time when gas prices are sky high, we should be encouraging the use of rail and transit alternatives, like Amtrak, which are a vital component of our commuter transportation network," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to work in the Senate to fight for legislative proposals that support Amtrak and keep commuters safe."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 