SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR GREATER INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH
  At today's hearing of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) called for a greater federal investment in research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to find cures and keep America competitive in the world. Testifying at today's hearing on the current state of biomedical research in our country, were Dean of Johns Hopkins School of Medicine Dr. Ed Miller and President of Harvard University Dr. Drew Gilpin Faust, who presented a new report, "A Broken Pipeline: Flat Funding of the NIH Puts a Generation of Science at Risk."
   "NIH is a jewel in the nation's crown - saving lives and making new discoveries every day. NIH needs adequate resources to meet its mission. I am concerned, as many of you are, that funding is not keeping up with inflation," said Senator Mikulski. "Cuts to NIH funding slow down our transition from science to treatment. We must continue to invest in biomedical research. We can not turn backwards." 
   President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget provides the NIH with $29.5 billion - flat funded at the fiscal year 2008 level. This will mean fewer advances in research, fewer scientists entering the field, and a reduction in America's global competitiveness.
   Senator Mikulski's statement, as prepared, is below:
   "I am excited to be here for today's hearing to talk about the state of biomedical research in our country today - and for the future.
   "Welcome to our panel of witnesses, especially Dr. Ed Miller, Dean of Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. I look forward to hearing from Dr. Drew Gilpin Faust, President of Harvard University, about the new report, 'A Broken Pipeline: Flat Funding of the NIH Puts a Generation of Science at Risk,' which was released today, as well as from our other witnesses who represent the face of biomedical research in our country.
   "NIH is a jewel in the nation's crown - saving lives and making new discoveries every day. NIH is saving lives and improving our nation's health, bringing discoveries to patients from basic science, to the bedside.
   "NIH needs adequate resources to meet its mission. That is why I strongly supported the doubling of the NIH budget, a bipartisan effort, from $13.6 billion in 1998 to $27 billion in 2003.
   "We have seen amazing benefits from this increase in new drug therapies and treatments that make a difference in the lives of people every day. Since the doubling of the NIH budget in 2003, I have supported increases for NIH every year. I am concerned, as many of you are, that funding is not keeping up with inflation. President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget provides NIH with $29.5 billion - flat funded at the fiscal year 2008 level. This will mean fewer advances in research and fewer scientists entering the field.
   "Cuts to NIH funding slow down our transition from science to treatment. NIH funding provides the foundation for clinical trial investments. The average cost to bring a new drug to market is $1 billion. NIH cuts mean fewer trials, a reduction in the scope of current trials, and an extension to the time to complete trials. Trials can potentially improve the treatments for diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, and heart disease.
   "The cuts jeopardize the next generation of scientists. Our country is sitting back while other countries are moving forward. Scientists are going to other countries to do research. This reduces America's global competitiveness. New and junior scientists are lost as resources tighten. This restricts the flow of fresh and innovative ideas. We must preserve pipeline of new and junior scientists.
   "I am on the side of cures. That's why I have fought for years to increase NIH's budget. These funds improve the health of the nation by conducting and supporting research on causes, diagnosis, prevention and cures of diseases.
   "We must continue to invest in biomedical research. We can not turn backwards."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 