SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS SEN. ENZI BILL DOESN'T SOLVE SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH CARE CRISIS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today spoke out against Sen. Michael Enzi's (R-Wyo.) Small Business Health Plan Bill, saying it ultimately increases the cost of coverage for the people who need it most.
   "I know how important small businesses are to the health of the economy and to the communities that they serve. I know that small businesses are struggling to provide health care for their workers," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to guarantee that more Americans have access to services that prevent and treat chronic illness. I will continue to work toward a solution for affordable health care for patients and employers."  
   Joining 26 of her Senate colleagues, Senator Mikulski is supporting the Small Employers Health Benefits Program, which gives small businesses affordable choices among private health insurance plans and expands access to health care coverage for their employees. 
   Senator Mikulski is the senior Democrat on the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee (HELP). 
   Senator Mikulski's statement for the record is below: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today to support America's small businesses. I know how important small businesses are to the health of the economy and to the communities that they serve. I know that small businesses are struggling to provide health care for their workers. We should move to offer small businesses reasonable solutions. I commend Senator Enzi for tackling such a tough issue, but this bill would ultimately end up increasing the cost of health care coverage for those that need it most. 
   "We need to be talking about improving health care for all Americans at any age and making the care more affordable for patients, as well as employers. American families are feeling stressed and strained, facing the ballooning cost of health care. Health care coverage is one of the most important issues facing Americans who are worried they will lose coverage, and won't be able to afford the care they need. 
   "It's true having health insurance is crucial - but it cannot be just any health care packet - it must be a comprehensive packet. One of the big problems with Senator Enzi's bill is allowing insurance companies, instead of state-elected legislators who speak for their constituents, decide the benefits that consumers should have when they purchase health care. 
   "The benefits I am most concerned about protecting are preventive services. There is a reason that so many of benefits mandated by states are preventive service - they wouldn't have been included otherwise. There is a reason Maryland guarantees access to mammography - insurers were not covering it. There is a reason that diabetic equipment and supplies are a guaranteed benefit - beneficiaries were complaining that they couldn't get the supplies covered. 
   "Imagine being diagnosed with diabetes - there are in fact 21 million Americans who have received just this diagnosis. Then imagine being told you must carefully check your blood sugar to keep your disease in control - but your insurance company won't pay for this? The American Diabetes Association estimates that it costs $13,243 for every patient to manage their disease. This is what health insurance is for. Most states have recognized the importance of guaranteeing coverage for diabetes supplies and education and have passed laws that provide this coverage to residents in state-regulated health plans. We must not undo what these states have identified as important covered services. 
   "And what about mammograms? Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women, accounting for nearly one of every three cancers diagnosed in the United States. Over 40,000 deaths from breast cancer are anticipated this year alone. Screening and early detection are critical for decreasing the mortality rates of breast cancer. Our reduction in cancer mortality depends on the increased use of mammography screenings for early detection of this disease. 
   "I have worked hard in Congress to ensure women have access to quality mammogram care. I authored the Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) over 10 years ago. This improved the quality of mammograms by setting federal safety and quality standards for mammography facilities. This includes personnel, equipment and operating procedures. Before MQSA became law, there was a patchwork of standards for mammography in this country. Radiation levels used on patients varied widely, equipment was shoddy, and physicians often didn't have proper training. I went to work in Congress to set national standards, helping to make mammograms a more safe and reliable tool for detecting breast cancer. 
   "My own state of Maryland is one of the many states that mandates insurers provide mammography screening. We know this saves lives. Maryland also mandates insurers provide coverage for breast cancer patients who participate in clinical trials, so we can work toward a cure for breast cancer. 
   "Covering services that prevent health conditions is not only sound health policy, it's sound fiscal policy. By finding and treating diseases early we will save the United States taxpayers millions of dollars. In fact, it's the only real way to really decrease the cost of health care in this country. 
   "Knowing how important health insurance coverage is for small businesses, I have joined 26 of my Senate colleagues to support the Small Employers Health Benefits Program (SEHBP), which gives small businesses affordable choices among private health insurance plans and expands access to health care coverage for their employees. The SEHBP would allow small businesses across America to band together for lower health care prices by pooling their purchasing power and spreading their risk over a large number of participants. Employers would qualify for an annual tax credit to partially offset contributions on behalf of low-income employees. 
   "I came to the United States Senate to change lives and save lives. We need to guarantee that more Americans have access to services that prevent and treat chronic illness. Unfortunately, S.1955 will not do this and in fact this bill will compromise the coverage people already have. I will continue to work toward a solution for affordable health care for patients and employers. I will fight to make a difference. Together, we can change lives."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 