SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON PASSAGE OF IRAQ-AFGHANISTAN SUPPLEMENTAL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) emphasized the need to support our troops on the occasion of the Senate passage of the Iraq-Afghanistan supplemental.  
   Please find below portions of Senator Mikulski's statement, as included in the Congressional Record. 
   "I support our troops and their families. I am behind them 100%. They deserve our gratitude, not just with words, but with deeds. This emergency supplemental appropriations bill helps us do just that. 
   "The House and Senate have worked hard to respond to the President's request for additional funding to support our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. We have provided more than $75 billion in defense-related spending, including vital support to our soldiers and their families. We have also provided more than $6 billion in assistance to our friends and allies, including $681 million to aid in the recovery from last year's terrible tsunami in Indonesia. 
   "U.S. troops will stay in Iraq and Afghanistan long enough to ensure that those nations can defend themselves against chaos and terrorism. It is important that we provide training and equipment to prepare Iraqi and Afghan security forces to take over when American troops come home. 
   "This emergency supplemental is a federal investment in supporting our troops and their families. We support out troops by getting them the best equipment and the best protection we can provide. We support them by getting them the best health care available when they are injured in service to our nation. And we support them by ensuring that their families do not face a financial crisis at the moment when they are grieving the loss of a soldier who has sacrificed everything for our country. 
   "Because it is just as important to support our communities at home as it is to support our troops in the field, I will continue to fight for responsible military budgets. For that reason, I joined the Senate's efforts to insist that the President fund our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through the regular budget and appropriations process. After three years in Afghanistan and two years in Iraq, we should not be funding these operations as if they were surprise emergencies. 
   "I'm proud to vote yes for our troops and their families.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 