SEN. MIKULSKI RECEIVES 'FRIEND OF THE SYNAGOGUE' AWARD FROM UNION OF ORTHODOX JEWISH CONGREGATIONS
  In recognition of her ongoing fight to protect high-risk non-profit community institutions and her continued support of America's Jewish community, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) was honored today with an award from the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America (OU).  
   "I am here today to honor all of you - the members of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations. What you stand for is not only important to the Jewish community, but also to those of us of different faiths," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so proud to stand with the people in this room who live your faith and values everyday and put your values into action." 
   President Bush's FY 2007 budget eliminates funding for high-risk non-profit grants, which support protection efforts for organizations that are often the soft targets of terrorism. Non-profits use the federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers and security cameras. 
   Senator Mikulski has worked for the past two years to secure funding for high-risk non-profits. She fought to have $25 million included in the 2006 Department of Homeland Security spending bill, which was signed into law by President Bush on October 18, 2005. In 2004, the Senator offered an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security bill that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. She was able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   "We know that Jewish institutions can be targets simply because they are Jewish institutions - schools, community centers and synagogues face the threat of hate crimes. This grant program is a federal investment in added security to help protect these institutions that are at risk," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight for federal support to keep these institutions safe." 
   Founded in 1898 to promote Orthodox beliefs and practices, the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America is the nation's largest Orthodox Jewish umbrella organization. OU supports a national and international network of synagogues, a variety of educational and leadership programs and maintains a kosher supervision service.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 