SEN. MIKULSKI ORDERS GAO REVIEW OF EEOC RESTRUCTURING
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today directed U.S. Comptroller General David M. Walker to conduct a Government Accountability Office (GAO) review of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's (EEOC) recent implementation of a commission-wide restructuring. At the subcommittee's May 3 hearing, Chairman Mikulski said the EEOC is failing its mission to protect civil rights and needs closer congressional oversight on its spending.  
   "The EEOC's restructuring was supposed to improve customer service and keep costs down. Yet I am concerned these decisions have compromised the agency's ability to fulfill its mandate and adequately address the rising number of charges filed with the commission," said Senator Mikulski. "The EEOC has compromised the important mission of enforcing our civil rights laws. It is my responsibility to make sure hardworking taxpayers' dollars are being well-spent and that EEOC is not wasting these resources or undermining civil rights protection." 
   The EEOC has received rising complaints of employment discrimination and increasing backlogs of cases, yet it has downsized its staff and contracted out work. It has cut the number of staff who investigate claims, reduced the number of district offices, decreased the number of attorneys, and reduced staff by 575 employees since 2001. 
   The text of the Senator's request is below: 
   Dear Mr. Walker, 
   The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), an independent federal commission, has the very important mission of enforcing our country's civil rights laws that prohibit employment discrimination based on color, race, religion, sex, age, disability and national origin. 
   Currently, the EEOC is confronted with a growing backlog of cases and increase in demand for its assistance. At the end of 2006, the agency had 39,946 cases pending and EEOC expects the backlog to increase to 54,265 by the end of this year. It takes an average of 194 days for EEOC to provide an initial response to an individual filing a charge of workplace discrimination. Despite this growing backlog, the Commission recently implemented a restructuring plan that reduces staffing levels and contracts out its customer service functions to a private company to run a National Contact Center. I am concerned this restructuring has compromised EEOC's ability to fulfill its mandate and adequately address the rising number of charges filed with the Commission. 
   I am requesting the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct a management and organization review of the Commission. In particular, I would like to know the financial impact of the restructuring on the Commission and EEOC's enforcement of workplace discrimination. I also interested in any recommendations GAO can provide.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 