SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR ALLEGANY COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced that the Baltimore Pike Volunteer Fire Department in Cumberland, Md., has been awarded $59,739 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Allegany County communities. Congratulations to Baltimore Pike Volunteer Fire Department on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Baltimore Pike Volunteer Fire Department will use its $59,739 to purchase new SCBA units and a Rapid Intervention Team kit, and to provide physicals and update immunizations for their members. For more information on the Baltimore Pike Volunteer Fire Department, call Steven Hout at 301-724-4170. 
   This is the second award for Baltimore Pike under the AFGP. In 2003, the Department was awarded $29,718 to purchase turn out gear, SCBA units and new hoses. This is the third award for an Allegany County fire department in this award cycle, totaling $224,944 in award funds. Since 2001, Allegany County fire departments have been awarded $2,086,181 in AFGP funds. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 