SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR HOWARD COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced that the Elkridge Volunteer Fire Department has been awarded $36,971 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Howard County communities. Congratulations to Elkridge Volunteer Fire Department Company on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Elkridge Volunteer Fire Department will use its $36,971 to purchase new turn out gear. For more information on the Elkridge Volunteer Fire Department, call Keith Summers at 410-313-4901. 
   This is the first award for the Elkridge Volunteer Fire Department and the first award for a Howard County fire department this award cycle. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 