STATE JOINS SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES IN EFFORT TO UPGRADE ROUTE 404
  In the latest step of Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski's and Paul S. Sarbanes' (both D-MD) four-year fight to upgrade Route 404, Maryland today agreed to release state funding for safety improvements to a 1.8 mile section of MD 404 in Caroline County. Sens. Mikulski and Sarbanes have been strong advocates for the dualization of MD 404, securing almost $5 million in federal funding for the project since 2001. Over 100 people have been injured and three people have been killed on Route 404 in the last five years alone. 
   "When I visited the Caroline County Commissioners in November 2000 as part of my regular county visits, their number one priority was dualization of Route 404," said Senator Mikulski, a member of the Senate Transportation, Treasury, and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee. "Improvements to Route 404 are long overdue. That's why I fight each year to put money in the federal checkbook to help improve safety along this important roadway."
   "My hat's off to Senator Mikulski for her diligence in working to obtain the needed federal funds to make these improvements to Route 404 and safely move motorists along what has become a major Eastern Shore roadway," added Sarbanes. "This project requires a joint federal, state and local partnership and I am encouraged by the release of state funding to help in this important endeavor."
   In 2000, after hearing concerns from residents and local legislators about the safety of Route 404 and the need for improvements, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes immediately sent a letter to Maryland Transportation Secretary John Porcari about the growing safety problems along this popular route, which links Maryland's Eastern Shore counties with Delaware's beach communities.
   In that letter, the Senators asked Secretary Porcari to conduct a study and propose short and long-term solutions to 404's growing safety problems. They also asked the Secretary to re-evaluate and update planning and environmental studies to determine changes in traffic volumes and safety conditions along this corridor.
   Since then, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes have fought each year to secure federal funding to upgrade 1.8 miles of the existing highway to a four-lane divided highway from Double Hills Road to Sennett Road. They have secured almost $5 million in federal funding since 2001, including $994,000 in Fiscal Year 2004.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 