SEN. MIKULSKI: REPUBLICANS BLOCKING ALZHEIMER'S BILL, OTHER CRITICAL LEGISLATION AT EXPENSE OF AMERICANS
  As Senate Republicans approach a record number of filibusters and continue to prevent Congress from voting on bills that address American priorities, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) went to the Senate floor today to call on them to stop blocking a vote on critical Alzheimer's legislation she introduced earlier this year. Senator Mikulski joined a group of her Democratic colleagues today in outlining bills that could pass tomorrow if not for Republicans blocking progress for politics - at the expense of the American people.
   "Wouldn't you like to find a cure for Alzheimer's? Wouldn't you like to be part of a Congress that saved millions of lives? Well so do I, and so do a bipartisan group of my colleagues. This critical legislation passed the HELP Committee in July. In July! Now it is being blocked by the Republican side of the Senate. We must act now," said Senator Mikulski. "We ask our colleagues - join with us and move this bill." 
   Senator Mikulski, Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's Subcommittee on Retirement Security and Aging, introduced The Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2007 (S. 898) earlier this year. The bipartisan bill passed out of the HELP Committee in July, but at least one Republican Senator has been blocking it from coming before the Senate for a vote. The bill provides resources to reach breakthroughs that are on the horizon in Alzheimer's research and provide relief for caregivers for Alzheimer's patients. For more information on the bills, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=270936.
   Senator Mikulski's Alzheimer's legislation is one of many bills introduced by Democrats on a wide-range of issues that the American people have called on Congress to address - including answers to other health, veterans, small business, transportation and housing priorities. Yet, Republicans are ignoring the concerns of the American people, refusing to fund critical needs at home while pouring more money into Iraq. At 58 filibusters, Republicans are quickly approaching a record-breaking 61 filibusters in a two-year session.
   To hear and/or broadcast a radio actuality of Senator Mikulski's floor speech, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 1745 or go to http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski071212.mp3 to download a high-quality mp3.
   Senator Mikulski's statement, as prepared, is below:
   "Mr. President, wouldn't you like to find a cure for Alzheimer's? Wouldn't you like to be part of a Congress that saved millions of lives? Helped with a cognitive stretch-out? Provided relief to hardworking caregivers? Well so do I, and so do a bipartisan group of my colleagues.
   "That's why I introduced the Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2007 - working first with Senator Bond, and now with Senator Burr. This critical legislation passed the HELP Committee in July. In July! Now it is being blocked by at least one Republican Senator.
   "This legislation does three things:
   * Doubles funding for Alzheimer's research at NIH from $640 million to $1.3 billion. It gives researchers the resources to make breakthroughs, bring us closer to a cure and finding early interventions for cognitive stretch-out.
   * Creates a national summit on Alzheimer's, so the best scientists in the country can come together to discuss the most promising breakthroughs to save lives and livelihoods.
   * Family/Caregiver Support - provides news you can use for families and physicians and expands the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) Healthy Brain Initiative.
  "Alzheimer's disease is a tsunami on the horizon we cannot ignore. Today there are 5 million Americans living with Alzheimer's disease. That is expected to triple by 2050.
   "Ten million Americans have a sick family member. We know a lot about Alzheimer's disease, but it's been 100 years since it was first diagnosed and we still have no treatment or way to prevent the disease. Only 10 years after the first diagnosis of HIV/AIDS, researchers discovered a drug cocktail that now lets people with AIDS live long, productive lives.
   "We need this same urgency for Alzheimer's disease. If we found a cure to delay the onset of the disease for five years, it could save Medicaid and Medicare $515 billion each year. Can we put a price tag on finding a cure? Better and earlier diagnosis? Faster creation of new drugs for patients? Can we afford not to invest in this disease?
   "America needs this legislation. Alzheimer's is a disease with many victims. It's awful for the person living with it. It's emotionally and financially draining for the caregivers. And the country spent $120 billion last year - with a potential of $1 trillion a year by 2050.
   "We know how much the family suffers. The out-of-pocket cost of caring for an aging parent or spouse averages about $5,500 a year for things like groceries, household goods, drugs and medical co-payments. If the care is long-distance, the cost could be up to $8,700 a year. Caregivers spend 10 percent of their household income caring for a sick loved one suffering from this terrible disease.
   "Experts have told us 'we will lose opportunities if we don't move quickly.' 'We are at a crucial point where NIH funding can make a difference.'
   "We know about the long goodbye. Alzheimer's is an all-American disease that affected Ronald Reagan, our all-American President, and his beloved caregiver, First Lady Nancy Reagan.
   "Now we need an all-American effort to not only find breakthroughs, but to make sure we are giving patients and their families the support they need.
   "Passage of the Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act will help us discover therapies and treatments to make a difference in the lives of millions of Americans to provide caregivers the resources and support services they need to care for their loved ones. This legislation is too important to the American public and America's future.
   "We must act now."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 