SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT AGAINST GLOBAL HEALTH EPIDEMICS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee, has joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues to urge Senate Appropriations Chair Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) and Ranking Member Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) to increase funding levels for the global fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria as they consider funding levels for the pending Continuing Resolution. In the last year alone, 4.3 million new HIV infections were reported, yet funding to combat these expanding health problems is not expected to increase. An increase was set at $4.36 billion in the State and Foreign Operations 2007 spending bill, which never received a Senate floor vote. 
   "We must recommit ourselves to fighting these deadly diseases and honor the men and women who work hard every day to make a difference in the battle against them. These global health problems effect not just patients, but their families and communities," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue the battle and stand sentry to fight and prevent HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria in America and around the world."  
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Chairman Byrd and Ranking Member Cochran: 
   We know that the decision to seek a Continuing Resolution to address the nine unfinished fiscal year 2007 appropriations bills, including the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, was not easy to reach. We appreciate your acknowledgement that some programs might need a funding adjustment to avoid serious adverse consequences. We strongly urge you to consider an adjustment to ensure our nation's continued commitment to the global fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. A straightforward continuing resolution at fiscal year 2006 levels will cost lives and will undercut the momentum we have been building in our fight against these diseases through both bilateral and multilateral programs. 
   We appreciate the support you have given to the global AIDS fight over the last several years. For fiscal year 2006, Congress appropriated $3.43 billion for Global HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. If we were simply to level fund those amounts, we would be unable to begin to respond to the 4.3 million new HIV infections this past year. Level funding would eliminate the opportunity to extend anti-retroviral treatment (ART) through the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) to an estimated 350,000 people in urgent need. Together PEPFAR and the multilateral Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria have been adding an additional 50,000 people a month to the ART rosters. Level funding would be inadequate to cover everyone added through the end of fiscal year 2006 while still maintaining other priorities. It would be unconscionable to cut those recipients off from this life-sustaining treatment. However, without additional resources, our programs would be forced to cut back on prevention and care programs in order to sustain existing treatment efforts. 
   Another way to measure the effect of level funding is that for every $100 million taken away, the Global Fund will not be able to: 
   * Purchase 630,000 bed nets to fight malaria; 
  * Provide 150,000 treatments for malaria; 
  * Provide 370,000 HIV tests; 
  * Provide 11,000 people with AIDS treatment; and 
  * Purchase 80,000 treatments for TB. 
   Even providing additional funds for fiscal year 2008 would not allow our programs to regain lost momentum or regain lost confidence from governments and communities. Nor, of course could lost lives be recovered. 
   In the Budget Resolution for fiscal year 2007, the Senate approved $4.82 billion for U.S. funding for international HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria programs, including our bilateral programs. The Senate Appropriations Committee also recognized the need to expand our efforts to fight these growing epidemics and proposed to appropriate $4.36 billion for fiscal year 2007, including $700 million for the Global Fund. We recognize that there are many priorities competing for special attention in the Continuing Resolution, but few have more lives directly at stake: according to estimates from the Office of the Global AIDS Coordinator, an estimated 110,000 to 175,000 people would die because of the year long CR. We urge you to sustain, at a minimum, the levels of funding for global AIDS that were passed by the Committee earlier this year in the Foreign Operations and Labor-HHS appropriations bills, without cutting other vital health and child survival programs. 
   Thank you for your careful consideration of this critical matter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 