SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR INVESTIGATION INTO NATIONAL GEOSPATIAL-INTELLIGENCE AGENCY DIRECTOR'S EARLY REMOVAL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, has called for the committee to hold investigative hearings into the circumstances surrounding the early removal of National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Director Gen. James R. Clapper Jr. In a letter sent today to Committee Chairman Senator Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and Vice Chairman Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV (D-W.Va.), Sen. Mikulski questioned Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld's motives for Gen. Clapper's dismissal.  
   "I am especially troubled by reports that Secretary Rumsfeld's decision was in retaliation for Gen. Clapper's 2004 testimony to the Congress regarding NGA's relationship to the Department of Defense," wrote Senator Mikulski. "If such an able official and leader of one of America's most important intelligence agencies is being punished for giving his honest judgment to the Congress, what kind of signal does this send to other heads of intelligence agencies and to all those working throughout our intelligence community?" 
   The text of the letter follows: 
   January 12, 2006 
   The Honorable Pat Roberts, Chairman 
  The Honorable John D. Rockefeller IV, Vice 
  Chairman Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 
  211 Hart Senate Office Building 
  Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Mr. Chairman and Mr. Vice Chairman: 
   I would like to express my concern over the news that Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld has decided to remove Gen. James R. Clapper Jr. from his position as Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) on June 13, 2006. In fulfilling the responsibility of the Select Committee on Intelligence to provide congressional oversight, I urge that the committee investigate promptly the circumstances behind Gen. Clapper's dismissal and the wider implications of his departure on the intelligence community. 
   Gen. Clapper's tenure and experience are critically important now when the Directors of NSA, NRO, and DIA are newly appointed and the Director of the CIA is also relatively new. The stability and continuity provided by Gen. Clapper at a time of turn-over at four other key intelligence agencies should be highly valued and, if anything, rewarded - particularly at a time of war and terrorist threat. In bringing his formidable talents, extensive experience and visionary independent thinking to the job, he has helped spearhead the innovation and renovation needed to achieve intelligence reform. 
   I am especially troubled by reports that Secretary Rumsfeld's decision was in retaliation for Gen. Clapper's 2004 testimony to the Congress regarding NGA's relationship to the Department of Defense. I was disappointed that Secretary Rumsfeld did not deny the public reports or emphasize that everyone in our defense and intelligence communities has a duty to testify before Congress honestly and completely, without fear of any retaliation. If such an able official and leader of one of America's most important intelligence agencies is being punished for giving his honest judgment to the Congress, what kind of signal does this send to other heads of intelligence agencies and to all those working throughout our intelligence community? What does it imply about their obligation and duty to speak truth to power? 
   As we all know, nothing is more important to our country than implementing intelligence reform and ensuring that our military and political decision makers get the best intelligence possible. In light of the recent intelligence failures, including those the 9-11 Commission so ably set forth, America cannot afford to have anyone think that they will be punished for honestly answering questions, even if the chain of command or some politician may not agree. We simply cannot allow group think, failure to speak truth to power, fear of retaliation, or concerns over turf to interfere with our overriding mission to protect the American people. 
   An investigation into this matter by the Select Committee on Intelligence is therefore essential. I urge that Secretary Rumsfeld be provided an opportunity to explain publicly his basis for removing Gen. Clapper at such a critical time. He should also discuss his coordination with Director of National Intelligence Negroponte regarding his efforts to ensure that our intelligence capabilities remain fully able to implement reform while locating and stopping terrorists. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski 
  United States Senate
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 