SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS 110TH CONGRESS MUST HONOR MARTIN LUTHER KING ANNIVERSARY WITH DEEDS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) released the following statement today as the country prepares to honor of the great work and sacrifice of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.:  
   "As we honor Dr. King's great struggle this Monday, we must reexamine what this country still needs to do to ensure equality every day. We need to evaluate the work that must be done to guarantee that African Americans are not left behind when it comes to the issues that matter. 
   "Throughout my career, I have fought to level the playing field in our country and have been dedicated to fighting for the issues that matter to African Americans. As we enter a new Congress, I urge my colleagues to take notice of what we must do to make sure that we are looking out for all Americans, regardless of race or zip code. 
   "We must make higher education more affordable for families. We must fight for adequate health care. We must fight to keep our neighborhoods and communities safe. We must fight to make sure the needs of Hurricane Katrina survivors are not forgotten. 
   "The cost of college tuition has been skyrocketing. It is putting stress on the families and students who have to struggle just to be able to pay their bills. We must make higher education more affordable. America needs our young people to know that they will not be limited by the size of their wallet to follow their big dreams. 
   "Families also want to know the neighborhoods they live in are safe. The number of gangs nationwide and in my own home state of Maryland has been rising. Families don't want to have to worry about gang violence in their streets. We need to do what we can to provide support for our law enforcement agencies - federal, state and local - so that they can continue to put cops on the streets. Mothers and fathers shouldn't have to worry about losing their children to gang violence in their neighborhoods and that's why I am going to continue to give help to our communities so they can protect themselves. 
   "I will continue to honor Dr. King's memory with more than just words, but with deeds. I urge my colleagues in both Houses of Congress and in both aisles, to join me."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 