SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES MAJOR VICTORIES FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES IN SPENDING BILL
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Financial Services 2008 spending bill includes key provisions to protect federal employees. The legislation, passed by the full Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon, marks a major victory for federal employees, helping to level the playing field in their fight against unfair contracting out procedures and providing pay parity for all federal workers.  
   CONTRACTING OUT FEDERAL JOBS 
   In May 2003, the Administration issued new guidelines for public-private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These procedures favored contractors and stacked the deck against federal employees. 
   This year's spending bill includes provisions to help federal employees compete with government contractors and provides improved guidelines for a more fair competition process before jobs are contracted out. Under the provisions included in today's bill, federal employees are permitted to submit their own best bids, and contractors are required to demonstrate a savings of at least 10 percent or $10 million. These provisions, already used by the Department of Defense (DOD), will now be government-wide. 
   Provisions were also included to ensure that government contractors don't gain an advantage in public-private competitions by offering inferior health care and retirement benefits, and to give federal employees the same rights as contractors to appeal A-76 decisions. 
   Senator Mikulski has been a consistent fighter for federal employees, and has consistently worked to include language in spending bills over the past several years that helped federal employees compete with government contractors and provided improved guidelines for a more fair competition process before jobs are contracted out. 
   "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. I will not stop in my fight to help level the playing field for federal employees and to protect them against unfair contracting out policies," said Senator Mikulski. "These hardworking men and women deserve to be treated fairly and, at the very least, deserve to have the same rights that contractors do. I will keep working to fix the competition process that is shamefully slanted in favor of private contractors." 
   PAY PARITY 
   This bill also includes a 3.5 percent cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) for all federal employees, including wage grade employees, civilian employees at the DOD and all employees at the Department of Homeland Security. This is the same pay raise that is budgeted for military personnel. 
   "Military personnel and federal civilian employees - both white collar and blue collar - work for the same employers, often side-by-side in defense of our nation's homeland security," said Senator Mikulski. "They all earn and deserve the same COLA." 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 