SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR FAIR MEDICARE DRUG COVERAGE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a group of her colleagues - Sens. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.), Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M) and Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) - in introducing the Prescription for Fairness Act. The legislation would waive the Medicare Part D premium for any month when a senior does not qualify for prescription drug coverage.  
   "I believe honor thy mother and father is not just a good commandment to live by, it is good public policy to govern by. That's why I feel so strongly about Medicare - we must do everything we can in the Senate to create permanent solutions to help, not harm, America's seniors," said Senator Mikulski. "This bill provides temporary relief to Medicare recipients by not punishing them during the months when they do not qualify for prescription drug coverage. I will continue to fight in the Senate to permanently close the doughnut hole and provide seniors with the prescription drug coverage they were promised and deserve." 
   Over the next several months, many seniors will learn they have no coverage (under most Medicare Part D plans) for prescription drug expenditures between $2,251 and $5,100. This gap in drug coverage is what is known as the "doughnut hole." More than one-third of all Medicare beneficiaries are projected to have drug spending that falls in the doughnut hole's range, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
   Although plans are available in most states that provide coverage through the doughnut hole, many seniors were not aware of this issue when they enrolled in the benefit. Seniors rushed to enroll before the May 15th deadline and are just now learning about the fine print. 
   The bill provides immediate short term relief through fiscal year 2008. It will not reduce the payments made to the Medicare prescription drug plans, but instead the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will pay the premium on behalf of the affected beneficiary. 
   Senator Mikulski is the senior Democrat on the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 