SENS. MIKULSKI, CARDIN ANNOUNCE $144,200 FOR CUMBERLAND VALLEY VOLUNTEER FIREMAN'S ASSOCIATION
  Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (both D-Md.) today announced the Cumberland Valley Volunteer Firemen's Association in Hagerstown has been awarded a total of $144,200 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Senator Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "The federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support they need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve." 
   "Firefighter grants represent a major effort by the Federal government to ensure that our nation's first responders have the equipment and training they need to do the job," said Senator Cardin. "Our firefighters are on the frontlines every day, and it is critical that they have the resources to deal with any emergency or life-threatening situation they may have to confront." 
   The Cumberland Valley Volunteer Firemen's Association (CVVFA) includes members from Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Delaware. The CVVFA will use its funding to train first responders in highway safety skills while they are on the job. For more information, call CVVFA President Marshall Younker at 304-258-3486. 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received approximately $46.4 million through the AFGP.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 