SEN. MIKULSKI QUESTIONS SURGEON GENERAL NOMINEE'S CAPABILITY TO SERVE PUBLIC
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, questioned President Bush's nominee for Surgeon General, Dr. James W. Holsinger Jr., on his ability to serve as the nation's spokesman on medical and public health issues. As the Chief Medical Director at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) from 1990-1993, Dr. Holsinger had a hostile relationship with Senator Mikulski, then the Chairwoman of the Veterans Affairs-Housing and Urban Development (VA-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee. Senator Mikulski focused her questions on the areas where they historically clashed - health care for women veterans and sexual harassment at VA medical facilities.  
   "Dr. Holsinger, we meet again. In our past experience with each other, we clashed on a number of issues. You resisted change and quality control, you were indifferent and dismissive," said Senator Mikulski. "Yet, I believe we all change and that was 15 years ago. So I want to ask you - have you changed? What can I count on has changed with you since that unfortunate time?" 
   At an April 17, 1991, VA-HUD hearing, as the system was being criticized for widespread negligence in veteran health care, Dr. Holsinger refused to adopt national laboratory standards at the VA. At the time, there was a 40 percent error rate for pap smears across the country. When pressed by Chairwoman Mikulski, Holsinger stated that "we do not read pap smears that often." 
   "When you were at the VA, you were an apologist for the second class treatment that women were receiving and put aside efforts to better care for women veterans in VA medical facilities," said Senator Mikulski today. "How would you act differently as Surgeon General? How will you be the nation's advocate for improving women's health?" 
   In early 1993, news reports uncovered that sexual harassment complaints were not being addressed at a VA hospital in Atlanta, and had been ignored for nearly a decade. Dr. Holsinger remained silent following the news, although the Washington Post reported in a February 26, 1993, article that his solution was to "transfer the accused men." 
   "Instead of rigorously investigating numerous sexual harassment complaints within the VA, you were dismissive and adopted a culture of silence," said Senator Mikulski. "You have now been nominated for a position that must provide leadership in promoting health initiatives and serve as a highly recognized symbol of national commitment to protecting and improving the public's health. You did not demonstrate this leadership previously, how will you do it now?" 
   A date has not yet been set for the HELP Committee's confirmation vote on Dr. Holsinger.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 