SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR CRUCIAL HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined Sens. Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton (both D-N.Y.) to introduce an amendment during floor consideration of the 2007 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) spending bill to restore $790 million in federal funding for critical high-risk areas. Today's effort would offset the dramatic cuts implemented by DHS on May 31, 2006. States and cities facing high terrorist threats, including Baltimore and the National Capital region, suffered considerable funding reductions.  
   "I don't know the threats facing Montana or Minnesota, but I do know the threats facing Maryland. Not only do we have a number of federal assets - classified and unclassified - but our first responders are on hand to respond to emergencies throughout the National Capital region. In fact, Maryland's first responders were among the first on the scene at the Pentagon on September 11th, working to save lives," said Senator Mikulski. "What will happen if we don't restore these cuts? Local taxpayers will be forced to pay more in taxes, or critical national assets will lose protection. Neither of these options is acceptable." 
   The amendment restores funding to three DHS grant programs that were cut: 
   Urban Areas Security Initiative: designated high-threat, high-density urban areas use these funds for planning, equipment and training - including development of evacuation plans and communication devices to enable law enforcement to stay connected in emergencies. 
   * State Homeland Security Grant Program: states use these funds to develop and implement their homeland security strategies, including planning and equipment, training for first responders, surveillance systems for bridges and tunnels, and public education and outreach. 
   * Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program: law enforcement and public safety officials use these funds for intelligence gathering, information sharing, and protecting our borders and waterways. 
   Senator Mikulski also expressed frustration with the incompetence of DHS, particularly following news this week that a report issued by the DHS Inspector General warns that the agency's ability to accurately assess risk is seriously flawed. The report asserts that the department's database of vulnerable infrastructure is riddled with errors - the same data DHS used to allocate funding for these homeland security grants. 
   "I regret voting for the establishment of DHS," said Senator Mikulski. "The department cannot get its act together to get the job done, makes poor decisions on allocations, and is saturated with waste and fraud. DHS officials have made a string of bad decisions and a string of failures."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 