SEN. MIKULSKI WORKS TO EASE VETERANS BENEFITS BACKLOG IN BUDGET AMENDMENT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined Senators Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) and Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) in introducing an amendment to the fiscal year 2009 budget resolution to provide the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) with additional resources to address the growing backlog in veterans' claims and to meet its ever-increasing workload. This continues Senator Mikulski's efforts to ease the burden on the VBA, which she addressed this week in a meeting with her key advisors in the veterans community in Maryland.  
   "We have a sacred trust with the veterans who risked their lives so that we may live in freedom. Part of that sacred trust is making sure we provide our veterans with the services and support they need," said Senator Mikulski. "This backlog is unacceptable. Many of the vets waiting for their compensation are seniors. They shouldn't have to battle their government for months to get the benefits they need and deserve." 
   The amendment provides an additional $50 million to the VBA's General Administration account to give it the flexibility to explore pilot programs and other solutions, such as greater investments in training or technology initiatives, to help tackle the claims backlog. 
   The House of Representatives and Senate Veterans Affairs Committees both reported that the VBA must make greater investments in training programs for new hires to learn the complicated process of compensation claims adjudication. Additionally, workload reduction initiatives such as technological improvements to current practices offer the hope of reducing the average time for a claims decision. 
   Earlier this week, Senator Mikulski led her Team Maryland congressional delegation in sending a letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs James B. Peake, calling on him to provide emergency staffing to immediately address the growing backlog of compensation, pension claims and disability cases at the Veterans Benefits Administration's (VBA) Baltimore Regional Office. At the Baltimore office, there are 6,445 claims and cases - almost one third of the office's workload - that have been pending for over 180 days. This is well above the national average. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=294483.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 