SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS PATTERSON PARK'S REHABILITATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced continued steps to revitalize the Patterson Park neighborhood today through a $500,000 economic development grant for its Community Development Corporation (PPCDC) at an event today. This is the third time Sen. Mikulski has awarded the PPCDC with funds, bringing the total to $2 million since 2000.  
   "The new- and long-term residents of Patterson Park are making it one of Baltimore's most exciting, most diverse neighborhoods. My most heartfelt thanks go to those in the community who believed in it even during its worst days," Senator Mikulski said. "I will be with them to keep this great work going. Working together, we can do better. A stronger America begins at home - right here in our communities, right here in Patterson Park." 
   The money will go toward purchasing, rehabilitating, and renting or selling commercial space on Library Square at Fayette and Pulaski Streets. The PPCDC has already bought about 20 commercial and residential properties on and around the Square. 
   Senator Mikulski was joined by founder and head of the PPCDC Ed Rutkowski at today's event, which was held on Library Square. 
   As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski has been fighting to help rebuild and develop the Patterson Park community. This is the third time she has helped secure funds for the PPCDC. In 2000 and 2001, the PPCDC received $1.5 million in funding and used it to buy homes in a critical time of flipping, high foreclosures and speculation. 
   The PPCDC has been a key player in redeveloping Patterson Park. It helped with the conversion of St. Elizabeth's School into Patterson Park Public Charter School PCS# 327, which houses 300 children from grades K-4. The PPCDC also helped turn the long-vacant Block's Pharmacy on Baltimore and Linwood Streets into Parkside Restaurant this November.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 