BILL CHAMPIONED BY SEN. MIKULSKI TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF MAMMOGRAMS ON WAY TO BECOMING LAW
  Key legislation championed by Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) to improve the quality of mammograms has unanimously passed the United States Senate and will now be sent to the President for his signature. The Senate passed the Mammography Quality Standards Reauthorization Act of 2004 (H.R. 4555) to extend the Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) through 2007. This legislation is almost identical to Mikulski's bill (S.1879) which passed the Senate earlier this year. That bill would have reauthorized the program through 2005.  
   MQSA, authored by Senator Mikulski 12 years ago, improved the quality of mammograms by setting federal safety and quality standards for mammography facilities. This includes personnel, equipment, and operating procedures. 
   "Before the Mammography Quality Standards Act became law twelve years ago, there was a patchwork of standards for mammography in this country," said Senator Mikulski. "Radiation levels used on patients varied widely, equipment was shoddy, and physicians often didn't have proper training. I went to work in Congress to set national standards, helping to make mammograms a more safe and reliable tool for detecting breast cancer. This extension of MQSA will make sure women continue to have access to quality mammograms while we continue to look for ways to strengthen national standards. I can think of no better time to pass this important legislation than during Breast Cancer Awareness Month." 
   In addition to the three-year extension, the legislation also allows the FDA to grant a temporary (45 day) certificate to a facility going through the reaccreditation process. This will help ensure that hospitals, doctors' offices, outpatient clinics, and mobile units are not forced to close their doors to women seeking mammograms. This can be especially important in rural areas where access to mammograms may be limited and a temporary clinic closing may force women to wait weeks or even months for a screening. 
   Senator Mikulski requested a Senate hearing on MQSA in April 2003, where she heard testimony from experts on ways to strengthen current mammography standards. As a result of that hearing, Senator Mikulski requested studies by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) and the General Accounting Office (GAO) on possible improvements to MQSA, including ways to improve physicians' ability to read mammograms and ways to recruit and retain skilled professionals to provide quality mammograms. These studies will be completed next year, and some of these expert recommendations could be included in future MQSA legislation.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 