SEN. MIKULSKI VOTES FOR TAX BREAKS TO CREATE JOBS, CLOSE LOOPHOLES FOR TAX DODGING COMPANIES THAT HIDE ASSETS OVERSEAS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) voted today to lower taxes on manufacturing companies and small business as well as shutting down tax shelters and loopholes that help companies hide assets overseas. These measures are part of the Jumpstart Our Business Strength Act of 2004 (JOBS Act) that passed 69-17. This bill now goes to the President for his signature.  
   "I'm standing up for a patriotic tax code that creates jobs in America and cracks down on tax cheats like Enron," said Mikulski. "Our middle class is hurting. They're worried about keep their jobs, paying for healthcare, sending their children to college. This legislation, combined with the middle class tax relief I supported just two weeks ago, help secure a brighter future for Maryland families." 
   Key provisions of the legislation Mikulski supported are: 
   * Tax breaks for U.S. manufacturing companies. Lowers the overall tax rate by 3% to help companies compete with foreign competitors without cutting jobs, wages or benefits for workers. 
   * Tax relief for small business. Extends small business tax breaks such as allowing these companies to write off purchases of new equipment up to $100,000. Also provides tax relief for targeted businesses such as developers or restaurants that own or lease property. The new tax benefit will allow these companies to write off the cost of facility improvements. 
   * Cracks down on tax cheats. Shuts down tax shelters and closes loopholes like those used by Enron. Also closes loopholes that let companies hide assets offshore to avoid paying U.S. taxes. 
   Mikulski also introduced, with her colleague Senator Mary Landrieu (D-LA), the Guardsmen and Reservists Financial Relief Act of 2004, to provide financial support to National Guard and Reservists and victims of national disasters. This legislation, which passed the Senate today, gives small businesses a tax credit when they make up the difference in the civilian wages and military pay of their Guardsmen or Reservists that have been called up to active duty. This legislation also allows National Guardsmen and Reservists, as well as victims of natural disasters, to tap into their retirement plan savings without penalty to make ends meet. This bill will now to go the House for approval. 
   "This is a tax credit to support our good guy employers: who pay their employees the difference between their National Guard salary and their civilian job. When our military are sent to fight, they shouldn't have to worry about paying bills here at home," said Senator Mikulski. 
   Today's vote is another step in the Mikulski agenda of creating a Patriotic and a Family Friendly tax code. On September 23, Mikulski voted for the Working Family Relief Act that extended elimination of the marriage penalty and extended the child tax credit. Mikulski previously supported these measures as well as cuts to the estate tax. Mikulski is also championing a $4,000 tax credit for college tuition and a $5,000 tax credit to help families caring for a loved one with a chronic condition pay for medical expenses.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 