SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS IMMIGRATION DELAY WON'T STOP VISA WAIVER FIGHT
  As consideration of comprehensive immigration reform stalls in the U.S. Congress, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today pledged to keep fighting until her legislation to add Poland to the list of designated countries in the Visa Waiver program is approved. The Senate unanimously passed the provision, a bipartisan effort with Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.), in May 2006 as part of the Senate's immigration legislation package.  
   "While the immigration bill appears to be dead for the year, the Polish community can count on me to keep fighting for expansion of the Visa Waiver Program, so our allies can visit family and conduct business in the United States without standing in line to get a visa," said Senator Mikulski. "We know that our borders will be no less secure because of Polish visitors. But we know that our alliance will be more secure because of this legislation." 
   The amendment adds Poland to the list of designated countries in the Visa Waiver Program for two years on a probationary status. It allows Polish citizens to travel to the U.S. for tourism or business for up to 60 days without needing to stand in line to get a visa, making it easier for Poles to visit family and friends, or do business in America. 
   Senator Mikulski cited Poland's support for a number of American initiatives throughout the world, including the War on Terror. Polish troops stood side-by-side with U.S. Armed Forces during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, sent troops to Bosnia as part of UNPROFOR and IFOR, and is also a part of the international coalition in Afghanistan. 
   "The United States is blessed with few allies as stalwart as Poland. But we tell a grandmother in Gdansk she needs a visa to visit her grandchildren in America," said Senator Mikulski. "Poland is a NATO ally and a member of the European Union. But America's visa policy still treats Poland as a second-class citizen." 
   Polish troops have been fighting alongside American troops since the start of the current Iraqi conflict. Seventeen Polish soldiers have been killed in Iraq and more than 20 have been injured. Today, nearly 1,000 Polish troops are still on the ground in Iraq, and next year Poland will send more than 1,000 troops to Afghanistan to lead NATO's International Security Assistance Force.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 