SEN. MIKULSKI JOINS DEMOCRATIC WOMEN COLLEAGUES ON SENATE FLOOR TO URGE JUDGE ROBERTS TO ANSWER AMERICA'S QUESTIONS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) will take to the floor of the United States Senate this afternoon at approximately 4:50 p.m. to call on U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice nominee Judge John G. Roberts, Jr. to be forthcoming when answering questions posed during his confirmation hearings. Sen. Mikulski will be joined by Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) and Patty Murray (D-Wash). 
   "It is the constitutional duty of the Senate to conduct a thorough examination of the nominee. We can only do that if the nominee answers questions and we have a complete record before us," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to know what type of justice John Roberts will be."  
   Senator Mikulski will discuss questions received through democrats.senate.gov/AskRoberts, the website she created with several of her Democratic women Senate colleagues that gives Americans an opportunity to submit questions they would like Judge John Roberts to be asked during his confirmation hearings. On August 31, 2005, the Senators delivered more than 40,000 questions to the Senate Judiciary Committee. Images of the delivery are available upon request. 
   Senator Mikulski's full floor statement, as prepared for the congressional record, is provided below: 
   "I come to the floor today to talk about the nomination of Judge John Roberts to the Supreme Court - a decision of enormous consequence. This is one of the most significant and far reaching votes a Senator makes because it is irrevocable. And now it means more now than ever, because Judge Roberts is being considered not just to fill a seat on the high court, but to lead the Court as its Chief Justice. 
   "The hearings that began today are incredibly important. They provide the Senate and the American public with the opportunity to know more about the nominee. I urge Judge Roberts to answer the questions that the Committee asks. He does not have an extensive public record and has an obligation to make his beliefs clear because the American people must know where the nominee stands on core constitutional principles. 
   "But equally important is completing the picture. To do that, we need the documents that Senate Democrats have asked for. These critical documents, from 16 cases argued by the Solicitor General's office when Judge Roberts was there, should shed light on his legal philosophy. We need to know what his views and legal reasoning were, because the record before us raises questions about his commitment to women's and civil rights. These 16 cases are directly on point - they deal with civil rights, the environment, reproductive choice, Title IX, affirmative action, voting rights and religious expression. Prior to any vote, the American people need to know where he stands on these issues. But the Administration has refused to release documents, even though they have done so before, when William Rehnquist and Robert Bork were nominated. 
   "Why do these documents matter? Because they represent his views from later in his career when he held his highest political position and was responsible for making policy recommendations. These documents will illuminate his beliefs and his approach to the law. They will help this Senator determine where Judge Roberts stands on issues that matter - like civil rights, the right to privacy and religious freedom. 
   "It is the constitutional duty of the Senate to conduct a thorough examination of the nominee. We can only do that if the nominee answers questions and we have a complete record before us. We need to know what type of justice John Roberts will be. 
   "Before we left for recess, I joined with six of my Democratic women colleagues - Senators Boxer, Murray, Landrieu, Stabenow, Cantwell and Clinton - to launch a website allowing Americans to have a voice in the confirmation process. To pose a question they would like Judge Roberts to be asked during his confirmation hearings. We knew there were concerns - Judge Roberts' public record raised questions about his commitment to core constitutional and civil rights. The public deserved to have an opportunity to ask about the issues that impact them every day. We wanted to ensure that the members of the Judiciary Committee knew the questions that are on the minds of Americans everywhere. And what a response we got! 
   "Over the past month, we heard from about 25,000 Americans. They wanted to know where Judge Roberts stands on Roe v. Wade, protecting privacy rights in the wake of the PATRIOT ACT, protecting the right to vote and affirmative action, ensuring that there is no prayer in public schools and protecting our air and water. 
   "And I am standing with them. Because the record before us so far shows that Judge Roberts has argued against established constitutional protections against sex discrimination, that disparate treatment of men and women is reasonable when you don't have the resources to provide for both, and to support a narrow interpretation of Title IX, the law that protects women against discrimination in education - all arguments that the Supreme Court has squarely rejected. 
   "Clearly people were troubled - the questions Americans sent to us touch on their deepest and most heartfelt concerns for their families: 
   "A woman in Ohio asked where Judge Roberts stands on women's equality? She said 'Not just on Choice, but also on issues such as wage equality, childcare options, healthcare, glass ceilings and understanding women's unique roles in families?' "A man in Maryland asked Judge Roberts why he did not support Title IX in the past. His niece plays softball, basketball and filed hockey in high school and he wanted to make sure that her college sports teams would have the same resources as the boys' teams. 
   "A mother from Indiana writes about her experience as a single mom in the 1950s and 60s earning 60 cents for every dollar a man earned. She wanted to know if Judge Roberts' beliefs about pay equity issues have changed over time. 
   "A parent from Oregon asks about the constitutional rights of children with disabilities. As a parent of a child with severe disabilities she would like to know Judge Roberts experience with disability law and cases since these laws are so important to allow disabled children to reach their full potential. 
   "A Missouri writer asks Judge Roberts his opinions on Affirmative Action and its benefits to women and minorities. 
   "We all want to know more about the nominee, about his philosophy and beliefs about fundamental rights, including the right to privacy. These questions make clear that the American people take seriously the Senate's constitutional responsibility of advice and consent. I hope Judge Roberts is forthcoming about his views during the hearings. 
   "There is a lot at stake with this nomination. It is not often that the Senate is faced with the solemn duty of evaluating a nominee to be Chief Justice of the United States. Every time that I face the task of voting on a Supreme Court nominee, I view it as a matter of tremendous responsibility. It's one of the two most significant and far reaching votes a Senator makes of the thousands of votes that we cast as Senators. 
   "The decision on a Supreme Court Justice, just as the decision to go to war, is irrevocable and irretrievable. Once a nominee is confirmed he or she will hold the position for life with no further burden of accountability or oversight. That is as it should be - the Court should not be swayed by momentary political passions. But that is also why the confirmation process is critical - why in return for our consent on a nominee we have a right to know for whom we are voting. That's why the White House must release the documents to the Senate, that's why we need to know answers to critical questions. Because that is how we evaluate the nominee and determine our position. 
   "As Judge Roberts begins his testimony and is asked about his past decisions, judicial philosophy and his legal background, Americans everywhere will be watching. I urge the nominee to be forthcoming. He should not conceal his views on issues that the majority of Americans care about like reproductive choice, civil rights, congressional power, the environment and separation of church and state. 
   "I also urge the White House to be forthcoming. They should also not conceal documents that may illuminate those views. Judge Roberts' past career causes concern about his commitment to core constitutional principles and we need to have and the American people deserve to have a complete picture. 
   "We are a nation of laws which protect our life, liberty, and happiness. The Supreme Court is the final arbiter of those laws and it's my responsibility to make sure that anyone I support for the Court, especially anyone I support for the role of Chief Justice, will honor those laws and be fair and just. I can only make that determination on a record that is clear and complete."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 