SEN. MIKULSKI RENEWS CALL FOR AID TO AMERICANS STRUGGLING WITH HIGH ENERGY COSTS
  After a summer of stifling temperatures in Maryland and the D.C. metro area, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today renewed her call for President Bush to provide Maryland access to Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) emergency funds to help people stay cool and help ease the financial burden facing families. 
   Although $50 million in emergency funds was released earlier this week, Maryland was not among the 12 states who received funding. Senator Mikulski joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues today, led by Senators Jack Reed (D-R.I.) and Susan M. Collins (R-Maine), in sending a letter to the President, citing alarming estimates in utility shutoffs and financial hardships facing American families. If the Bush administration fails to release the remaining funding, $131 million of that balance will expire on September 30, 2007.  
   "Families and businesses in Maryland and across the country need immediate relief from rising energy costs. The American public is feeling stretched and strained," said Senator Mikulski. "We need real solutions to deal with our growing energy crisis, but in the meantime we need to help the people who are struggling to care for their families." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   The $50 million released last week from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency fund is a good first step to address hotter than normal conditions experienced in several parts of the country this summer. However, a significant need still exists across the nation for additional home energy assistance to help families and seniors meet rising arrears and shut-off notices. We strongly urge you to immediately release the remaining $151.5 million in the LIHEAP contingency fund and provide funding to all states to address this emergency. If the Administration fails to release the remaining funding, $131 million of that balance will expire on September 30. 
   Earlier this summer the National Energy Directors Association (NEADA) conducted a national survey of utility arrearages and shutoffs. The survey found that millions of low-income households this year are facing a severe hardship paying arrearages from last winter's heating bills, coping with impending and actual shutoff of service, and meeting rising air conditioning costs. The survey estimated that at least 1.2 million households have been disconnected from electric and natural gas service during the three-month period following the end of state shutoff moratoriums. This was a conservative estimate as the level of shutoffs was likely to go higher as utilities completed credit and collection procedures. The statute specifically defines a significant increase in home energy disconnections as an emergency and reason for the release of funds. 
   According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), U.S. residential electricity prices are expected to increase at a rate of 3 percent this year. States undergoing market restructuring continue to experience more rapid price increases as rate caps expire and higher fuel costs are passed through to consumers. In some instances, customers may see rate increases of up to 50 percent. 
   Low-income Americans experience a much higher energy burden than the average American household. Too many of these households face difficult financial choices in trying to meet basic human necessities on an income that simply won't stretch far enough to cover it all. No family in our nation should be forced to choose between paying an energy bill and putting food on the table for themselves and their children. No senior citizen should have to decide between buying life-saving prescriptions and paying utility bills. For individuals and households that may have to face these difficult choices, LIHEAP makes a real difference in their ability to cope with adverse circumstances. 
   It would be unfortunate to permit $131 million in LIHEAP contingency funds to expire given the need to help families and seniors restore service and reduce energy burdens. Thank you for your consideration.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 