SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR ESSENTIAL HEALTH CARE FUNDING FOR LOW-INCOME WOMEN
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) in introducing the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act of 2005, a program she created in 1991. This legislation will authorize the program for five years, which specifically assists low-income women without health insurance gain access to essential medical tests which can detect breast and cervical cancer.  
   Senator Mikulski's statement for the record can be found below: 
   "I rise today with Senator Hutchison to introduce the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act of 2005. In 1991, I fought to pass the important legislation that created the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program (NBCCEDP) to make sure women without health insurance have access to life-saving tests like mammograms. The program reaches out to low-income, underserved women who are uninsured or underinsured. 
   "Breast and cervical cancer strikes America's women in large numbers and continues to be a silent killer in communities across the country. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women, accounting for nearly one of every three cancers diagnosed in the United States. 40,870 deaths from breast cancer are anticipated this year alone. Cervical cancer is often a silent killer, disproportionately affecting minority and medically underserved women. This year, an estimated 10,370 cases of cervical cancer are expected to be diagnosed, and 3,710 women will die from this disease. 
   "Screening and early detection are critical for decreasing the mortality rates of breast and cervical cancer. Our reduction in cancer mortality depends on the increased use of mammography and Pap test screenings for the early detection of the disease. Since its establishment in 1991, the NBCCEDP has been implemented in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, 4 U.S. territories and 13 American Indian/Alaska Native organizations. To date, the program has provided nearly 5.8 million screening exams to almost 2.5 million underserved women. The program has diagnosed approximately 22,878 breast cancers and 1,502 cervical cancers. 
   "These accomplishments have saved women's lives and demonstrate a true nationwide effort. However, for all that we have done, there is still more to do. Currently, this important program is only reaching approximately 20% of eligible women (aged 50-64) nationwide. The legislation that Senator Hutchison and I introduced today would authorize the NBCCEDP for five years. Also, the legislation authorizes $250 million for the program, which is a $55 million increase over the funds appropriated in FY05. These dollars would allow programs to serve more women and potentially save lives. The legislation would also provide grantees greater flexibility with dollars they are allocated to run their programs, and serve women in their communities. 
   "I came to the United States Senate to change lives and save lives. I will continue to fight to reauthorize the Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program, and build on the success the program has had over the past 14 years. Each of us can make a difference, together we make change."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 