SEN. MIKULSKI SECURES VICTORY TO ENSURE FEDERALLY EMPLOYED MILITARY RESERVISTS RECEIVE FAIR PAY WHILE ON ACTIVE DUTY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today joined Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-IL) and Senator George Allen (R-VA) to introduce an amendment to the 2005 Iraq Supplemental that protects federal employees who are in the National Guard and Reserves from a pay cut when they are called to active duty. The Reservists Pay Security Act requires federal agencies to pay their employees the difference between their civilian and military wages while on active military duty. The amendment passed the Senate unanimously.  
   "America owes its troops and their families a debt of gratitude," said Senator Mikulski. "Our troops serve at tremendous sacrifice and great risk. When they are fighting a war, they should not have to worry that their families back home can't make ends meet. That's why I am so proud that the United States Senate has joined me to ensure that our military reservists who work for the federal government receive their full pay when they are called to duty." 
   "Each and every member of our military is part of the American family," Senator Mikulski continued. "The Guard and Reserves are ready and able to serve. They are our citizen soldiers called up in times of national emergency, yet they are being asked to serve for longer periods than ever before. This places a tremendous burden on their families, including the emotional burden of long periods of separation and the financial burden of losing pay and even losing businesses. We need to support our troops. This means more than speeches and parades; we need to put our thanks into actions to defend the men and women who are defending our nation." 
   A Department of Defense survey found that 51% of the members of our National Guard and Reserves suffer a loss of income when mobilized for long periods of active duty because their military pay is less than the pay from their civilian job. The average reservist loses $368 per month, but 11% report losing more than $2,500 per month. Of the nearly 1.2 million members of the National Guard and Reserves, some 120,000 (approximately 10%) are also federal employees. As of January 2005, more than 43,000 federal employees had been activated since September 11, 2001. More than 17,000 are currently on active duty. 
   The Iraq Supplemental bill is expected to pass the Senate, and then in the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. Both Senator Mikulski and Senator Durbin are conferees in this process. The conference report will then be sent back to the floor of both Houses of Congress for a final vote. Once passed by the House and Senate, the bill will be sent to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 