SEN. MIKULSKI SPEAKS AT CONGRESSIONAL HEARING ON CHESAPEAKE BAY RESTORATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today spoke at a House Resources Committee Hearing in Annapolis, Maryland on critical Chesapeake Bay restoration efforts. 
   As the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the EPA, Senator Mikulski fights each year to secure federal funding in the spending bill for key Chesapeake Bay initiatives. In the Fiscal Year 2005 VA-HUD Appropriations Bill, a component of the omnibus spending bill, the Senator secured funding for three important Chesapeake Bay initiatives.  
   The Chesapeake Bay Program is slated to receive $19.84 million for Bay restoration efforts. In addition, Senator Mikulski added $1.984 million for small watershed grants. These grants, which fund grassroots Bay restoration projects, were not funded in the Administration's budget. Also included in this year's bill is $7.936 million for targeted watershed grants that will fund "innovative, cost effective projects" to help reduce non-point source pollution runoff into the Bay. 
   The omnibus spending bill, which passed Congress in November, also includes federal funding for "State and Tribal Assistance Grants" (STAG) special needs water and wastewater infrastructure projects. These grants are typically used for wastewater infrastructure improvements reduce the amount of nutrients entering waterways, and the associated health and environmental impacts. Maryland communities have received about $5 million this year in STAG grants. 
   Communities receiving STAG grants this year include: Hurlock ($248,000), Kent Island ($744,000), Easton ($248,000), Salisbury ($248,000), Cambridge ($248,000), Chesapeake Beach ($248,000), Indian Head ($248,000), Elkton ($744,000), Cumberland ($744,000), Frostburg ($496,000), Brunswick ($248,000) and Prince George's County ($198,400). 
   The following is Senator Mikulski's prepared statement for today's hearing: 
   "I'm pleased to be here this morning. Thank you to Chairman Gilchrest for hosting this hearing. This shows that support for the Bay is bipartisan and bicameral. 
   "Today's topic is the challenges faced by local communities to help clean up the Bay. Communities want to do the right thing. They are doing their part to clean up the Bay by upgrading sewage treatment plants and preventing polluted run-off. But they can't do it on their own. One of the biggest challenges our communities face is that community leaders must forage for funding to help pay for water and sewer upgrades. 
   Successes 
   "That's why I'm pleased we had two major funding successes this year. Despite very stringent spending constraints, we thwarted budget cuts that would have hurt communities and hurt the Bay. 
   "First, the President's budget request cut $500 million from the Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund. This is the main Federal tool to help communities upgrade sewage treatment plants and infrastructure. 
   "The Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund is in the budget for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). I am the Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the EPA. I knew that the President's budget cut meant that States in the Bay watershed could lose up to $115 million in funding to upgrade sewers and reduce nutrients flowing into the Bay. Maryland alone could have lost $12 million. 
   "I opposed the President's budget cut to clean water. I worked on a bipartisan basis to add another $250 million to the President's request for a total of $1.1 billion instead of just $850 million that the President proposed. It was a tough fight, and I wanted to do more. Maryland's communities alone have $4 billion in valid needs. But it is a major success that we prevented such a large cut to the Clean Water State Revolving Loan Fund. 
   "Our second success is that we added funds to the Federal checkbook to help Maryland's communities upgrade sewage treatment plants. We added over $5 million to the Federal checkbook for Maryland communities, from Cumberland and Frostburg in Western Maryland to Salisbury and Cambridge on the Eastern Shore and many places in between. 
   "This earmarked funding is important to help our communities upgrade sewers and prevent nutrients from flowing into the Bay. Maryland's local communities want to do the right thing but they need help to do it. 
   "Communities should know that Maryland's Congressional Delegation is on their side, fighting for them in Washington to help them improve the Bay. 
   Halfway to 2010 Deadline 
   "This hearing is timely. The beginning of 2005 is just around the corner. That's halfway to the 2010 deadline set by the Chesapeake 2000 Agreement, which is the game plan for Bay restoration. 
   "So this is a critical time to examine several questions: Where we are in meeting the goals? What needs to be done in the next five years to meet the goals? What are some practical solutions to get us there? Who is responsible and accountable for making sure the goals are met? What are the consequences if the goals are not met? 
   Consent Order 
   "One major consequence has already been spelled out by the Courts. In 1999, a Consent Decree was filed in a Federal Court says that the Bay must meet water quality requirements by the year 2010. This means that the Bay must be removed from EPA's list of "impaired waters" in the next five years. 
   "If the Bay does not get off the "impaired waters" list by 2010, then Bay States and communities could be subject to new rules called Total Maximum Daily Load, or TMDL, rules. These rules would set strict limits on discharges into the Bay and its tributaries. States could lose control of their environmental programs. And these new rules would come with a price tag including more requirements for local communities to meet with shrinking resources. 
   Chesapeake Bay Program 
   "Finally, I want to say a few words about EPA's Chesapeake Bay Program. In 1973, Senator Charles Mathias began a five-day, 450-mile tour of the Bay. He heard from scientists, watermen, environmentalists, and farmers. He saw a Bay that was suffering from neglect and pollution. Senator Mathias' tour lead to an EPA study of the Bay and this study led to the 1983 Chesapeake Bay Agreement which created EPA's Chesapeake Bay Program. 
   "It is now more than 30 years after Senator Mathias' historic tour and more than 20 years after the creation of the Chesapeake Bay Program. It makes sense for us to look at the Bay Program. What are the lessons learned? What are the best practices? How can we refresh, renew, and reinvigorate the Bay Program? 
   Conclusion 
   "I thank Chairman Gilchrest for holding this hearing today. The Bay is truly a national treasure. I'm in the fight for the Bay for the long haul for our communities, watermen, public health and for our future generations. 
   "I look forward to hearing from our witnesses about how to reinvigorate this fight."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 