SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS INTELLIGENCE BILL RESTORES ACCOUNTABILITY, EFFICIENCY
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today applauded the passage of her two amendments in the Conference Report to the 2008 Intelligence Authorization bill, which is designed to promote accountability and efficiency in U.S. intelligence agencies. The bill now goes to the President for signature.  
   One of the Senator's amendments requires that the directors of the National Security Agency (NSA), and the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) be appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The second seeks to ease an inefficient backlog that has been created for obtaining security clearances at the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), which is headquartered in Bethesda, Md. 
   Senator Mikulski, a member of the Committee since mid-2001, has embraced the findings of the 9/11 Commission Report as a valuable roadmap for intelligence reform. The commissioners noted that "of all our recommendations, strengthening congressional oversight may be among the most difficult and important" (p. 419). Currently, two of the most important intelligence community officials are the directors of technical intelligence collection agencies. Yet by current law and practice, neither are subject to Senate hearings, nor do they receive scrutiny from the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Senator Mikulski's provision makes both Senate-confirmable. 
   "One of the most important responsibilities we have in the Senate is our role of advice and consent when the President nominates an individual to the executive branch. We must evaluate the suitability of individuals nominated for key positions, we must consent to the nominations, and we must establish and cultivate good working relationships with those who are confirmed," said Senator Mikulski. "This proposal will reinforce the prospects for accountability and review." 
   Providing prompt and reliable security clearances is also a very important prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the U.S. intelligence community. Two years ago, some parts of the Top Secret/SCI clearance process were not working - particularly for NGA contractors who support sensitive technical intelligence collection programs. Average waiting times for NGA contractor clearances ranged between one and a half and two years. Under pressure from Senator Mikulski, the Secretary of Defense delegated authority to adjudicate security clearances to the Director of the NGA in October 2007. With the President's signature, this critical authority will become law. 
   "Our intelligence agencies are working on issues critical to our national security. We must give them the resources and tools they need to do their jobs effectively and efficiently," continued Senator Mikulski. "The security clearance backlog at NGA was a problem for the agency, for the intelligence community and for our contractors. This provision goes a long way in helping NGA contractors move more expeditiously."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 