SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON COMMITMENT TO FIGHT FOR FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN SUSQUEHANNA SYSTEM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced the Senate version of the Commerce, Justice, Science spending bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee today, includes $2 million for the essential Susquehanna Flood Forecast and Warning System (Susquehanna System). This system was critical in protecting families and businesses during the recent flooding that devastated communities along the East Coast.  
   "The Susquehanna System is about saving lives and saving communities," said Senator Mikulski. "When I met with Susquehanna River Basin Commission (SRBC) executives, Port Deposit officials and Cecil County Commissioners last year, they showed me the essential work they do, but also the compelling needs of the system. I promised I would go to work in the Senate. I am proud to deliver on that commitment today with an additional $2 million in the federal checkbook for the Susquehanna System." 
   In last year's spending bill, Senator Mikulski delivered on her promise to provide the system with its own $2 million line item in the federal budget. This year's additional $2 million in funding will make additional improvements to the system's technology for better flood notifications, stream flow and snow measurements. 
   The Susquehanna System warns 1,700 communities in three states about devastating floods and protects them from its effects. Early warnings allow residents and businesses the time to secure their property and lives before flood waters strike. Warnings help emergency management officials implement flood control plans to minimize damages. Estimates hold that for every federal dollar invested in the Susquehanna System, it saves $20 in reduced damages and flood recovery payouts. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Both Houses of Congress will vote on the conference bill. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 