SEN. MIKULSKI SPEAKS OUT AGAINST FEDERAL MARRIAGE AMENDMENT ON SENATE FLOOR
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today spoke out against the Federal Marriage Amendment on the floor of the United States Senate. Below is Sen. Mikulski's statement. 
   "Today I rise to talk about the Federal Marriage Amendment. I would first like to talk about timing and then I'd like to talk about content.  
   "First of all, I'd like to talk about timing. Marriage is not under threat, and it is not in any clear imminent danger of being destroyed. But what is in clear and imminent danger and what we have heard is under thread of possible attack is the homeland. There are other issues that families are facing that are eroding their very stability such as their economic situation and the cost of health care. If we really wanted to stand up and protect America and protect families, we would be focusing on those and other issues. This discussion is ill-conceived, ill-timed, and unnecessary. 
   "Just last week Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge announced that Al-Qaeda is planning a large-scale attack on the United States of America. So what should we be doing? We should be working on homeland security. We have a homeland security appropriations bill pending, waiting to come before the United States Senate. That's what we should be talking about today. Not this amendment. 
   "This is why I will vote against the motion to proceed - as a protest that we are not meeting the compelling needs of the nation. We need to show a deterrent strategy, to send a message to the terrorists 'Don't even think that you can affect our elections because we would be united across the aisle and stand up and vote for legislation to protect the homeland - our ports, our cities, our transportation, our schools, and, yes, those moms and dads and children we've been hearing about all day long. But instead, we're debating the motion to proceed to a constitutional amendment. 
   "America is united in the war against terrorism. We should not be divided in a cultural war. 
   "Then let's talk about another war - the war in Iraq. Right now we have men and women who are returning with broken bodies, some who have lost their limbs. You can't go to Walter Reed the way I have and see young men and women who have lost an arm, lost a leg, lost hope, wondering if anybody is going to love them again or if they're ever going to be able to work again, and not want to do everything possible to help these young Americans. 
   "That's why I'm working now on a bipartisan basis with my colleague, Senator Kit Bond, on the VA/HUD Appropriations bill so we can help our veterans, so we can have a prosthetic initiative to give them a smart arm with the best technology, to give them a smart leg so that they could run the race for life and maybe give them back a life. That's what we should be focusing on - working on a bipartisan basis, solving the problems that confront the Nation. 
   "This amendment is not about policy. It's about politics. It's not about strengthening families. It's about helping the other party get elected. If we were serious about helping families, we would be focusing on jobs, on health care, on the rising cost of college tuition. This proposed amendment does not help families. Why? It doesn't create one new job, or keep one in this country. It doesn't pay for one bottle of prescription drugs that a senior desperately needs. This amendment doesn't send one child to college. This amendment doesn't help a family pay for health care for a sick child. 
   "But what it does do is divide. Americans are tired of divisive debates, and I believe that this amendment is just simply a distraction. So on the timing, I wish we would just put it aside and address the Nation's real needs. 
   "But I also want to talk about the content, should we do move to proceed. 
   "Know that I will vote against this amendment because I believe it is unneeded and unnecessary. Congress in 1996 spoke on this issue. They passed something called the Defense of Marriage Act. What this legislation did was define marriage between a man and a woman. It also allowed each state to determine for itself what it considered marriage under its own state law, leaving the concept of federalism intact. 
   "Maryland, my own home state, also has a law on the books that defines marriage as between a man and a woman. So when you look at Maryland law and you look at federal law, this constitutional amendment is unneeded. Now we talk about what the courts are doing. Well, I don't quite see that in the same level of threat as terrorism, the loss of a job on a slow boat to China or a fast track to Mexico. 
   "Now some of my constituents are worried that churches will be forced to perform gay marriages. Well, under separation of church and state, no law, not a federal law, not a state law can force a church, temple or mosque or any religious institution to marry a same-sex couple. That will be up to their religious determination. Why? Because again, under separation of church and state, we cannot dictate what a church does. Because of this Constitutional commitment, there can be no federal law, for example, under equal opportunity that could force the Catholic Church to ordain women. Our First Amendment provides this protection to religious institutions. 
   "So I'm going to reiterate that this amendment is unnecessary. I also oppose this amendment because I take amending the constitution very seriously. In the entire history, over 200 years, we've only amended the constitution 17 times since the Bill of Rights. And we've amended that constitution to extend rights, not to restrict them. 
   "We amended the Constitution to end slavery. We amended the Constitution to give women the right to vote. We amended the Constitution to give equal protection of the law to all citizens. We amended the Constitution to give citizens over the age of 18 the right to vote. We have never used the Constitution as a weapon or as a social policy tool against a minority of the population. 
   "I am concerned that this amendment would condone discrimination. We should not embark today on that path. I believe it's wrong and I believe it undermines the integrity of the Constitution. 
   "So when the roll is called on the motion to proceed, I will oppose that motion because I think there are far more pressing needs that American families and those children we love need. And I also believe that when we amend the Constitution, it should be to expand hope and opportunity, not to shrink it."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 