SEN. MIKULSKI RESTORES BALTIMORE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION OFFICE, INCREASES RESOURCES IN FEDERAL SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, announced today the Senate version of the 2007 CJS spending bill includes a provision that would save the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's (EEOC) Baltimore office from proposed restructuring that was implemented without Senate approval. The bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon, also increases resources for staff in the field, and eliminates funding for the National Contact Center, which received low marks from the EEOC Inspector General.  
   "We must provide the EEOC with the resources they need to protect employees from workplace discrimination. That's why I worked to put money in the federal checkbook that empowers the staff working hard in the field," said Senator Mikulski. "I was very concerned to hear about the EEOC's restructuring plan, which undermined the enforcement of our civil rights laws and targeted Baltimore specifically. I am proud to have fought to keep the Baltimore office open, so people in my home state of Maryland can obtain meaningful services from the Commission." 
   The EEOC was funded at $327 million in this year's spending bill, which is $4 million above President Bush's budget request. The EEOC is the federal agency responsible for enforcing federal Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) laws, as well as providing oversight and coordination of all federal regulations, practices and policies. 
   Despite objections from Senator Mikulski and Senate Democrats, the EEOC moved forward last year with a proposed reorganization plan that not only downgraded the EEOC's Baltimore office, but also threatened to undermine the enforcement of the nation's civil rights laws. The plan would have stripped Baltimore of its regional attorney, and reduced the number and types of charges the office could resolve. This change also meant fewer jobs for federal employees and a potential impact on the Commission's ability to effectively enforce civil rights laws. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Both Houses of Congress will vote on the conference bill. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 