SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES CRITICAL FUNDING FOR MARYLAND'S HOMELAND SECURITY ASSETS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced the 2008 spending bill includes key funding for Maryland's security. The legislation addresses several high-priority items, including grants for firefighters, first responders, port security and a major project for the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay in Baltimore. 
   "This legislation gets us one step closer to keeping our nation safer, standing up for our first responders and making sure that if terror strikes, measures are in place to protect and save lives," said Senator Mikulski. "I will keep fighting to make sure there are resources in the federal checkbook for our homeland security."  
   FIREFIGHTER GRANTS 
   The spending bill includes $560 million, an increase of $20 million, in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). This competitive program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training, equipment, staffing, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. It also includes $140 million, an increase of $25 million, for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants, also under the AFGP. 
   President Bush's budget cut federal support for the AFGP nearly in half, requesting only $287 million. It also eliminated funding for SAFER grants for the second year in a row. 
   "I know these are tight times, but we must do better for our first responders. The federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the best equipment, training and resources they need to do their job safer and smarter," said Senator Mikulski. "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your life on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government. I am so proud to announce this increase in a federal investment in the safety of our first responders." 
   This year, 18,160 departments nationwide applied for funding, requesting more than $2.3 billion. This includes 189 Maryland applicants, who requested nearly $34.7 million. So far this year, Maryland departments have received nearly $11.2 million, making it among the top five states nationwide. 
   PORT SECURITY GRANTS 
   The bill also includes increased funding for the Port Security Grant program at $400 million, a $190 million increase from last year. These funds are granted to localities to finance security enhancements at critical national seaports. The President's budget only requested $210 million - providing no additional funding from last year. 
   "Ports are high-threat targets for terrorism. We need to make sure the Port of Baltimore and all ports across America are safe, secure and growing," said Senator Mikulski. "I have been fighting to upgrade the Port of Baltimore for more than 20 years - and for years my challenge was fixing the twists and turns in our channels that were a safety risk. Today, it's threats that were unthinkable years ago. Keeping our ports and our people safe from terrorism is one of my top priorities." 
   Approximately 11 million containers come into the United States each year, including 19,000 containers daily. The Port of Baltimore, which is the 14th largest port for foreign cargo, currently has to compete with 16 other ports for a share of a tiny $40.2 million pot for federal grants. Having recently celebrated its 300th anniversary, the Port of Baltimore is an economic engine for Maryland and America, supporting more than 42,000 maritime-related jobs in Maryland and almost 20,000 direct jobs. 
   COAST GUARD YARD 
   This year's spending bill also includes $75 million for maintenance and repair projects at the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay. This will extend the service life and increase mission performance for the Coast Guard's aging fleet of boats, and will ensure the survivability of the Yard. The bill also includes language that recognizes the Yard as a critical component of the Coast Guard's core logistics capability that directly supports fleet readiness. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the full Appropriations Committee for a vote, scheduled for tomorrow. After passage, the bill goes to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 