SEN. MIKULSKI PLEDGES TO FIGHT TO PUT MONEY BEHIND OCEAN PROGRAMS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, today celebrated Capitol Hill's Oceans Week with a pledge to fight for a greater federal investment in important oceans programs. Sen. Mikulski's advocacy came at a press conference this morning, where she received the report she had requested from the Joint Ocean Commission Initiative (JOCI), From Sea to Shining Sea: Priorities for Ocean Policy Reform. Sen. Mikulski organized a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues to request the report as part of a national initiative to increase visibility and conservation for oceans.  
   "I asked for this report to give us a framework for future action - things we can accomplish today and tomorrow. As the senior Democrat on the subcommittee that funds the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), our premier ocean agency, I will fight this year to make a down payment on oceans programs," said Senator Mikulski. "I will also continue to work with my colleagues to make sure our oceans reports do not become dust collectors, because our future depends on the progress we make." 
   From Sea to Shining Sea recommends 10 steps Congress can take to better fund and assist the implementation of the commission's previous proposals to ocean policy reform. It calls for Congress to adopt a statement of national ocean policy that acknowledges in legislation the importance of oceans to the nation's economic and ecological health and establishes a framework for all other ocean legislation. Among the pressing priorities: 
   Establish a strengthened NOAA in law 
   Enact legislation to create incentives for ecosystem-based management 
   Secure additional funding to support management, science and education programs 
   Joining Senators Mikulski in this initiative are: John E. Sununu (R-N.H.); Christopher Dodd (D-Conn.); Thad Cochran (R-Miss.); Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.); Richard C. Shelby (R-Ala.); Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii); Ted Stevens (R-Alaska); Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) and Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.). 
   The JOCI is a collaborative effort of the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy and Pew Oceans Commission to catalyze ocean policy reform. The primary goal of the JOCI is to accelerate the pace of change that results in meaningful ocean policy reform. 
   A copy of the report can be downloaded at: www.jointoceancommission.org.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 