SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO KEEP COMMUNITIES SAFE
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, joined Senator Joseph Biden (D-Del.) today in supporting two amendments to the fiscal year 2009 budget resolution that would increase funding for key programs with proven records in making communities safer. The amendments would increase funding for Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grants and programs authorized through the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Votes on the amendments are expected later today.  
   This year, the Bush administration eliminated the COPS program at a time when violent crime is on the rise. This amendment would restore funding for state and local law enforcement with an additional $551 million. This, in addition to the $599 million provided by Senate Democrats in the budget resolution, would fully fund the program at $1.15 billion for fiscal year 2009. This means more cops on the street and less crime in our local communities. 
   "The President has again significantly reduced funding for state and local law enforcement programs, even as the pressures on these agencies continue to rise. We have an obligation to keep our communities safe from violent crime, and I am committed to giving them the resources they need to do their job," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to give law enforcement the tools they need to clean up the streets, protect our families, and fight the crime that is destroying communities." 
   President Bush's budget provided $280 million for victims of domestic violence, without allocating any of the funding to essential programs authorized by VAWA. The VAWA amendment provides an additional $100 million for programs administered through the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Specifically, the amendment raises the DOJ allocation by $60 million and the HHS allocation by $40 million. This amendment, combined with the funding provided by Senate Democrats in the budget resolution, brings total funding for VAWA programs to nearly $500 million. 
   "I have absolutely no tolerance for domestic violence. That's why I strongly support legislation and grant programs that help protect women and their families from continued violence and abuse," said Senator Mikulski, an original champion of VAWA. "I will continue my fight to put funds in the federal checkbook to fund these important programs." 
   The President's budget request proposes to eliminate all DOJ grant programs for victims of domestic violence including: legal assistance to victims of domestic violence, grants for safe havens for children and grants for victims of domestic violence with disabilities.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 