SEN. MIKULSKI JOINS COLLEAGUES IN PASSING SPECIAL EDUCATION BILL, VOWS TO CONTINUE FIGHT TO FULLY FUND SPECIAL EDUCATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today voted with 95 of her colleagues to pass the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) reauthorization bill. The legislation ensures that all students with disabilities have access to the specialized services they need to succeed in public schools.  
   Mikulski said that, while the bill is a good start, she is extremely disappointed that it does not include mandatory full federal funding for special education in schools. In 1975, when Congress passed IDEA, it pledged to fund 40 percent of the excess costs of special education. Despite this commitment made almost 30 years ago, the federal government today pays only 19 percent of the excess costs nationally - and only 11 percent in Maryland - less than half of what was promised under IDEA. President Bush has proposed annual $1 billion increases for IDEA, which would not result in full funding until 2028, over 50 years after the original promise. Senator Mikulski joined 20 of her colleagues in offering an amendment to the IDEA reauthorization bill that would have provided mandatory increases of $2.2 billion per year for the next six years, when full funding would be achieved. The amendment would have resulted in an increase to Maryland's annual state grant for special education from its current level of $175 million to nearly $400 million in 2010. The amendment failed by a vote of 56 to 41 (the amendment needed 60 votes to pass). 
   The following is Senator Mikulski's statement on the passage of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. 
   "I will vote for the IDEA Improvement Act to reauthorize special education - even though I'm disappointed that the Senate didn't pass the Harkin-Hagel full funding amendment. This is a down payment. There are some good policy changes in this bill, and I think we should move the reauthorization process forward. But I'll continue to fight for full funding of special education. It's the single most important thing we can do for children. 
   "I'm going to vote for this bill because it takes some big steps forward, and it's a good compromise. As a member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, I'm proud to say that we reached bipartisan agreements on some very complicated policy issues. It simplifies complicated rules and procedures and makes it easier for schools and parents to navigate - not litigate. And it allows schools to help students who need special attention, but not necessarily special education. 
   "I've talked to Marylanders about this. The women of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority see their children being racially sidelined - pushed into special education, when what they really need is special attention. I'm so pleased that we are doing something in this bill to stop racial sidelining. 
   "Yet I have some concerns about the bill. My biggest concern is that this bill doesn't fully fund special education. I've heard from teachers, principals, and school superintendents who want to know where the resources will come from. This year, the Bush budget provides $1 billion increase for special education. That may sound like a lot, but at that pace, we will never reach full funding. The federal government is supposed to pay 40 percent of the cost of special education. Yet it has never paid more than 19%. In Maryland, the federal government only pays an average of 11%. That means local districts must make up the difference by skimping on special education, by cutting from other education programs, or by raising taxes. 
   "I don't want to force states and local school districts to forage for funds, cut back on teacher training, or delay school repairs because the federal government has failed to live up to its commitment to special education. Full funding would free up money in local budgets for hiring more teachers, buying new textbooks and technology, and repairing old school buildings. It would give teachers the training and support they need. It would help students with disabilities and their families by providing enough funding for special education programs so parents can have one less thing to worry about, and students get the opportunities they deserve. 
   "Everywhere I go in Maryland, I hear about special education. I hear about it in urban, rural, and suburban communities; from Democrats and Republicans; and from parents and teachers. They tell me that the federal government is not living up to its promise, that special education costs about 18% of the average school budget, that schools are suffering, and that parents are worried. 
   "Parents of children with special needs are under a lot of stress. They're worried about their jobs. They're terrified of losing their healthcare when costs keep ballooning. Many are holding down more than one job just to make ends meet. Or they're trying to find day care for their kids and elder care for their own parents. They're racing from carpools to work and back again. The federal government shouldn't add to their worries by not living up to its obligations. With the federal government not paying its share of special education these parents have real questions in their minds: Will my child have a good teacher? Will the classes have up-to-date textbooks? Will they be learning what they need to know? 
   "Parents of disabled children face such a tough burden already. Caring for a child with special needs can be exhausting. School should not be one of the many things they worry about - particularly when the laws are already on the books to guarantee their child a public school education. The bottom line is the federal government is shortchanging these parents by not paying its share of special education costs. 
   "I've heard from parents. They have other concerns, too, besides the money. They are concerned that this bill rolls back the guarantee of a quality education, by getting rid of short-term goals on education plans and scaling back safeguards. I agree that we need to simplify this law to make it easier for schools and parents to navigate. I'm glad that this bill makes some crucial improvements. Yet I want to do what's best for families and schools. 
   "Ninety percent of school districts are out of compliance with the federal law. I know schools and teachers want to do what's best for students with special needs - and if they had the resources, they would. But we need to protect the rights of families to fight for what's best for their children - for the times when the school falls short. Instead of rolling back protections for students, we should provide the resources so that schools can give students the services that they need to succeed with their classmates in public schools. 
   "Special education has made such a huge difference in the lives of students with disabilities. I will vote for this bill because it's so important to reauthorize special education. But I will keep fighting for full funding because I don't want special education to be a hollow promise."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 