SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS SENATE PASSAGE OF VISA WAIVER PROGRAM EASES PATH FOR POLAND
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded the Senate's passage of the Improving America's Security Act of 2007 (S.4), which includes her proposal with Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-Ohio) that would authorize an expansion of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP).  
   "I have fought for years to expand the VWP so our allies can visit family and conduct business in the United States without standing in line to get a visa," said Senator Mikulski. "We know that our borders will be no less secure because of these visitors. But we know that our alliances will be more secure because of this legislation." 
   As a condition for program participation, all participants would implement enhanced travel security requirements, negotiate new agreements on counterterrorism cooperation, and demonstrate their close cooperation with the United States in the Global War on Terror. 
   The bill also includes an amendment by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) that stipulates that countries applying to the VWP must either have a visa refusal rate below 10 percent (up from the current requirement of 3 percent) or their rate of visitors overstaying their visit must be below the cap that would be set by the Departments of Homeland Security and State. A visa refusal rate refers to the percentage of applicants refused visas. Poland's visa refusal rate has been an obstacle for its inclusion, but the overstay rate proposal offers a new alternative for inclusion. 
   Senator Mikulski has fought - and introduced several bipartisan proposals - to have Poland added to the VWP, citing Poland's importance as a close U.S. ally. Polish troops have been fighting alongside American troops since the start of the War in Iraq, with nearly 1,000 Polish troops still on the ground. 
   "The United States is blessed with few allies as stalwart as Poland. But we tell a grandmother in Gdansk she needs a visa to visit her grandchildren in America," said Senator Mikulski. "Poland is a NATO ally and a member of the European Union. But America's visa policy still treats Poland as a second-class citizen." 
   The VWP was established in 1986 as a pilot program to promote better relations with U.S. allies. Currently, 27 countries participate in the VWP. Statutory requirements for program participation include criteria concerning immigration patterns, security and law enforcement, reciprocal visa-free travel for U.S. citizens, as well as passports that are machine-readable.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 