SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS INVESTMENT IN MEDICAL RESEARCH, RELIEF FROM ENERGY COSTS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined Senators Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) in applauding the passage of their amendment to the fiscal year 2009 budget resolution that will increase funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by $2.1 billion and the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) by $1 billion. The amendment passed the Senate with a vote of 95-4. 
   The $2.1 billion for NIH included in the amendment, along with the $950 million already contained in the resolution, provides NIH with a total increase of $3 billion for fiscal year 2009. As a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Mikulski is a consistent advocate for NIH, which is headquartered in Bethesda. She fights to increase funding every year and strongly supported doubling its budget, a bipartisan effort, from 1998 to 2003. Since then, however, funding for NIH has failed to keep pace with biomedical inflation. Fiscal year 2008 marked NIH's fifth consecutive year of no true budgetary growth.
   "NIH is a jewel in the nation's crown - saving lives and making new discoveries every day. NIH needs adequate resources to meet its mission," said Senator Mikulski. "Cuts to NIH funding slow down our transition from science to treatment. We must continue to invest in biomedical research. We cannot turn backwards."
   Insufficient NIH funding means fewer advances in research, fewer scientists entering the field, and a reduction in America's global competitiveness. At a HELP Committee hearing on the current state of biomedical research in our country earlier this week, Senator Mikulski called for a greater federal investment in research at NIH, as experts testified on the effects of providing inadequate funding on America's ability to find cures and remain competitive in the world. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=294543.
   The $1 billion for LIHEAP included in the amendment, along with the $2.5 billion already contained in the resolution, brings the total funding for LIHEAP in fiscal year 2009 to $3.5 billion. Soaring energy costs have exasperated the already challenged individuals who are forced to make decisions to forgo other needs such as food and medicine. Forcing the needy to choose between energy costs or food and medicine poses health and safety hazards - especially to the elderly, the disabled and children. This winter, Americans on average spent $977 to heat their homes, which is 10 percent more than last winter. Nationwide, average home heating oil bills next year are expected to be 22 percent higher than last year.
   "Families and businesses in Maryland and across the country need our help. They are feeling stretched and strained by high energy costs and we need to show them that we are on their side," said Senator Mikulski. "LIHEAP funds provide critical assistance to families in need. I will continue to fight with my colleagues to make sure no one goes cold because they can't afford their heating bill."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 