SENS. MIKULSKI, BINGAMAN AMENDMENT TO STRENGTHEN SCIENCE, INNOVATION PASSES SENATE
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today joined Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) in applauding the passage of their amendment to the fiscal year 2009 budget resolution that would increase the federal investment in science research and education to keep America competitive in the world. The amendment provides an additional $600 million for the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Department of Energy's (DOE) Office of Science. 
   "Right now, our nation is in an amazing race - a race for discovery and new knowledge. We're in a race to remain competitive and to foster an innovation society, to create new ideas that lead to new breakthroughs, new products and new jobs. Our country must remain an innovation economy, because a country that doesn't innovate, stagnates," said Senator Mikulski. "I want America to win the Nobel prizes and the markets. The America COMPETES Act helped set the framework, and this amendment puts money in the checkbook to make it a reality."
   This amendment brings the NSF's budget to $6.9 billion, which is 13 percent above its fiscal year 2008 level. It brings the budget for the Department of Energy's Office of Science to $4.7 billion, which is 18 percent above the fiscal year 2008 level. The amendment continues Congress' commitment to investing in basic research and science education that began last summer with the passage of the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act of 2007. These initiatives were underfunded in President Bush's budget request.
   Senator Mikulski joined several colleagues to launch plans for a legislative initiative to foster innovation in the United States immediately after the release of the 2005 National Academy of Sciences (NAS report, "Rising Above the Gathering Storm." In 2006, they introduced the America COMPETES Act, which was signed into law on August 9, 2007.
   The America COMPETES Act strengthens and maintains America's leading edge by investing in STEM education and research programs - doubling federal funding for research at the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Department of Energy's (DOE) Office of Science and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and providing scholarships to college students majoring in STEM and studying to be teachers.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 