SEN. MIKULSKI URGES ADEQUATE SOCIAL SECURITY FUNDING TO REDUCE EMPLOYEE WORKLOAD, APPLICANT BACKLOG
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined a group of her Senate colleagues today in urging Budget Committee Chairman Sen. Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Ranking Member Sen. Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) to include a sufficient level of funding for the Social Security Administration's (SSA) administrative expenses in order to reduce employee workload and a backlog at the agency. The funding would support efforts to assure only qualified people receive Social Security benefits and to hire more federal employees providing relief to overworked SSA employees and reducing the length of time eligible applicants must wait to receive their disability benefits. 
   "When you're old, sick, or a parent dies, there aren't many things you can count on, but you should be able to count on Social Security. We need to include at least a minimum level of funding for the Social Security Administration in the budget in order to responsibly strengthen the program and improve it, while we keep faith with our mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters, and other family members who depend on America keeping its promises," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding is necessary to help keep those promises."  
   Employees at the SSA are overwhelmed by a backlog of claims. Sufficient funding for administrative expenses would support Continuing Disability Reviews and Supplemental Security Income redeterminations, which are integrity reviews to verify Social Security and Supplemental Security Income program recipients are eligible for the assistance they receive. This process, combined with increased hiring at the SSA, would ease the backlog at the agency and help the program work faster for qualified applicants. It would also save the SSA more money than the cost of the reviews. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Senators Conrad and Gregg: 
   We respectfully request that you include in the FY 2008 Budget Resolution a minimum level of funding for the Social Security Administration's (SSA) administrative expenses. This funding proposal was contained in the Views and Estimates letter which was sent to you by Finance Committee Chairman Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley. We urge you to include the full Baucus-Grassley proposal in the Budget Resolution. 
   The Finance Committee's proposal would reduce the Federal deficit by funding program integrity reviews which help to assure that only qualified individuals receive Social Security and Supplemental Security Income program benefits. Ultimately, conducting a greater number of these Continuing Disability Reviews and Supplemental Security Income redeterminations will reduce benefit payments to ineligible individuals and save substantially more money than they cost. 
   This proposal will also enable the SSA to reduce the long waits applicants must endure before they receive their Social Security disability benefits. As you know, these waiting times are a top concern of many of our constituents and are a constant source of casework in many Senate offices. Below is a detailed description of this proposal, as stated in the Finance Committee's Views and Estimates letter: 
   "Currently, many applicants to the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) program and the disability portion of the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program face significant delays in getting their benefits. Indeed, waiting times can exceed three years in some cases. Such delays create serious or desperate financial situations for the applicants and their families. According to the Social Security Administration (SSA), about half of these waiting times result from huge backlogs of initial claims and hearings before administrative law judges. Unfortunately, if the funding level for SSA's administrative costs for Fiscal Year 2008 that is requested in the President's Budget were enacted, these backlogs would get worse. Therefore, the Finance Committee urges the Budget Committee to assume for SSA's administrative costs in the Budget Resolution a total amount greater than the funding level proposed by the President. 
   "The President's Budget for FY 2008 has proposed that a cap for non-security discretionary spending be enacted for Fiscal Year 2008. He has also proposed to allow this cap and the parallel limits in the Budget Resolution to be adjusted upward to include funds that can be used only for certain program integrity activities. And each cap adjustment is only allowed to occur if the base amount for that activity is fully appropriated. One such adjustment would be for SSA to conduct additional Continuing Disability Reviews (CDRs) and SSI redeterminations. CDRs detect payments in SSA's disability programs to beneficiaries who are no longer disabled. These reviews save $10 for each dollar spent, according to the President's Budget. SSI redeterminations review the eligibility of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries each year. Seven dollars is saved for every one dollar spent on these redeterminations. 
   "The President's Budget proposes an overall appropriation for SSA of $9.596 billion in FY 2008. This includes a base amount of $264 million for CDRs and SSI redeterminations, plus an additional cap adjustment of $213 million for these purposes. Even if the entire $477 million is appropriated, however, there will be at least 300,000 fewer CDRs and at least 700,000 fewer SSI reviews next year than SSA could perform. To achieve the desired goal of 700,000 CDRs and 2.2 million SSI redeterminations would require an additional $316 million of funding for a total of $793 million. Therefore, we recommend that any limits on non-security discretionary spending included in the Budget Resolution for FY 2008 allow for an adjustment of $793 million to accommodate these levels of CDRs and SSI redeterminations. We also recommend that the Budget Resolution assume that the total amount of spending for Social Security's administrative costs underneath the cap would remain at $9.596 billion, thus providing additional resources for reducing backlogs of hearings and initial claims, while the $793 million cap adjustment would result in additional deficit reduction in subsequent years relative to the deficit reduction in the President's Budget request." 
   To summarize, please include in the FY 2008 Budget Resolution language that allows for a total cap adjustment of $793 million for CDRs and SSI redeterminations. This money will enable the SSA to conduct 400,000 more CDR's and 700,000 more SSI redeterminations than were possible under the President's Budget. Ultimately, because of the savings that these integrity reviews generate, this level of funding will be better able to decrease the Federal budget deficit. 
   We also ask that you assume $9.596 billion in the Resolution for SSA's administrative costs other than CDRs and SSI redeterminations. This amount is the same as the President's total request for SSA's administrative costs, but does not include the President's proposal for $477 million dedicated to CDRs and SSI redeterminations. This $477 million has been moved into the cap adjustment of $793 million. This makes available $477 million that can be used to reduce backlogs of disability cases and shorten waiting times for disability benefit applicants 
   Providing SSA with the amount of funding requested by the President - plus a cap adjustment of $793 million - accomplishes two objectives. First, it will free up $477 million of additional funds that can be used to reduce backlogs of disability cases and shorten waiting times for disability benefit applicants. Second, because CDRs and SSI redeterminations save more than they cost, the adoption of both of these proposals in the Budget Resolution will result in lower Federal deficits, not higher ones. We believe this is a win-win situation for everyone.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 