MARYLAND, DELAWARE DELEGATIONS SECURE $13.7 MILLION TO FIGHT AVIAN INFLUENZA
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes today announced the dedication of $13.7 million in federal funds to help protect poultry farms and operations on the Delmarva peninsula, and in other affected areas, from outbreaks of avian influenza. In March 2004, the Maryland and Delaware Congressional Delegations wrote to Ann Veneman, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, urging her to use her authority to transfer existing federal funds with the Agriculture Department to help address this problem.  
   "Securing this funding now is absolutely critical to help guard against devastating episodes of avian influenza in Delaware and across the nation. Efforts to attack avian influenza need to start immediately, and we are grateful that the USDA has recognized the importance of this to the Delmarva poultry industry," the Delegation said. "The additional funding will respond to many needs including expanded monitoring of avian influenza, increased surveillance of the live-birds markets and distributors, advanced research on and implementation of fast and economical tests, and confirmed identification and tracking of avian influenza sources." 
   The $13.7 million will be allocated in the following way: 
   * $10,789,000 for Low Path Avian Influenza Program 
   * $6,136,000 for cleanout and indemnity of live bird markets which can be the source of avian influenza infections that spread to commercial poultry flocks. 
   * $4,653,000 for: - Cooperative agreements with states that will support A.I. monitoring by regional laboratories; - To hire employees to monitor the markets and distributors and to support field activities; 
   Data base support for premises registration and premises identification for all production units, markets and distributors in the live bird market system; 
   Educational materials and training for recognition of avian influenza and for biosecurity practices to protect against it; 
   Support a bird identification system; 
   To continue surveillance in the northeast and begin surveillance efforts outside the northeast that have significant live bird market activity (including Texas, Florida, California); 
   To provide reagents and other laboratory support to allow the commercial program through the National Poultry Improvement Plan to continue on schedule; 
   $497,000 will be used for development and administration of vaccine to support industry affected with low pathogenic avian influenza. 
   * $2. 883 million for support of High Path Avian Influenza outbreak in Texas.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 