SEN. MIKULSKI URGES PRESIDENT TO INCLUDE SUFFICIENT LOW-INCOME ENERGY FUNDS IN BUDGET REQUEST
  As temperatures drop and Americans brace for steep heating costs this winter, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined a group of her colleagues led by Senator Jack Reed (D-R.I.) in calling for the President to provide a sufficient level of funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in his fiscal year 2009 budget request. In a letter to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Jim Nussle, the Senators urged him to include $5.1 billion, the full amount of the most recent reauthorization, for the LIHEAP program, as he prepares the President's budget.  
   "Families and businesses in Maryland and across the country are feeling stretched and strained by high energy costs," said Senator Mikulski. "LIHEAP funds provide critical assistance to families in need. I will continue to fight with my colleagues to make sure no one goes cold in the winter." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Director Nussle: 
   As you prepare the President's fiscal year (FY) 2009 budget request, we urge you to support a funding level of $5.1 billion, the full amount in the most recent authorization, for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). 
   Many Americans are struggling under the burden of high energy prices. According to the Energy Information Administration, households can expect to pay between 10 to 22 percent more for heating fuels than during the 2006-2007 winter. LIHEAP protects public health and safety by helping low-income families pay for these high energy costs. In addition, the program helps low-income homeowners weatherize their homes to save energy and lower their energy burden. Weatherization, on average, reduces heating bills by 31 percent and overall energy bills by $200 to $250 per year. 
   In FY 2007, LIHEAP appropriations totaled $2.2 billion, $1 billion less than the program's peak funding in FY2006 of $3.2 billion. This decrease meant that many low-income households eligible for LIHEAP did not receive assistance. Earlier this summer, the National Energy Directors Association conducted a national survey of utility arrearages and shutoffs. The survey estimated that at least 1.2 million households were disconnected from electric and natural gas service during March - May of this year. No family in our nation should be forced to choose between paying an energy bill and putting food on the table for themselves and their children. No senior citizen should have to decide between buying life-saving prescriptions and paying utility bills. For individuals and households that may have to face these difficult choices, LIHEAP makes a real difference in their ability to cope with adverse circumstances. 
   We believe increased LIHEAP funding should be a top priority in the President's FY 2009 budget. Your support for $5.1 billion in LIHEAP funding in the fiscal year 2009 budget process would help qualified low-income households receive much needed LIHEAP assistance in the coming year.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 