SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR EASTERN SHORE FIREFIGHTERS
 Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced that five Eastern Shore fire departments have been awarded more than $640,000 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFG program and fights each year to increase its federal funding. 
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Eastern Shore communities. Congratulations to these Eastern Shore fire departments on being awarded this well-deserved money."  
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Kent Island Volunteer Fire Department (Queen Anne's County) will use its $150,724 to purchase new Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) units, portable radios and a Cascade compressor to refill air packs in the station. For more information, call Assistant Chief Paul Schlotterbeck at 410-822-7609. 
   The Fairmount Volunteer Fire Company (Somerset County) will use its $103,678 to purchase new SCBA units with individualized face masks and a Cascade compressor and air pump to refill air packs in the station. For more information, call Chief Jim Koons at 410-651-2888. 
   The Princess Anne Volunteer Fire Company (Somerset County) will use its $198,607 to purchase new SCBA units with individualized face masks and integrated pass devices, and a Cascade compressor and air pump to refill air packs in the station. For more information, call Company President Kenny Walston at 410-651-1928. 
   The Mardela Spring Volunteer Fire Department (Wicomico County) will use its $66,690 to purchase new turnout gear. For more information, call Lieutenant Doug Jones at 410-749-5997. 
   The Community Volunteer Fire Company of Millington (Kent County) will use its $120,650 to purchase new SCBA units with individualized face masks and a Cascade compressor and air pump to refill air packs in the station. For more information, call Chief Jesse Downey at 410-928-3171. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 