SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF HOMELAND SECURITY SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski applauded yesterday's passage of the Fiscal Year 2005 Homeland Security spending bill, which will now be sent to the President for his signature. While the legislation includes important funding for our nation's first responders, port security and other homeland security efforts, the Senators say much more still needs to be done.  
   "As a nation fighting a war on terrorism, we need to be safer, stronger and smarter so we are able to better detect, prevent and respond to acts of terrorism," said Senator Mikulski. "This legislation gets us one step closer to meeting those goals by standing up for our first responders and making sure that if terror strikes, measures are in place to protect and save lives. I will keep fighting to make sure the resources are in the federal checkbook for our homeland security." 
   The Fiscal Year 2005 Homeland Security spending bill includes: 
   * Firefighters 
   This legislation includes $650 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters. While this is $150 million more than the President requested, it still falls $96 million short of last year's funding level. In 2003, the U.S. Fire Administration received almost 20,000 applications totaling $2.5 billion in funding requests for local fire departments. The federal grants can be used for things like for protective gear, communications equipment, and fire trucks. 
   Senator Mikulski offered an amendment to the Homeland Security bill during the Senate debate in September that would have increased the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to fund it at its authorized level of $900 million. The funding increase could have meant protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. Unfortunately, Senator Mikulski's amendment failed. 
   * High-Threat, High-Density Urban Areas 
   This bill includes $885 million for High-Threat Urban Area grants. These funds are awarded to states who then distribute them to cities or regions based on risk and preparedness plans. In Fiscal Year 2004, the National Capital Region was awarded $29,301,502 and Baltimore was awarded $15,918,745 through this program. 
   Of this funding, $25 million is designated for high-risk non-profit institutions to help protect them from terrorist attacks. Senator Mikulski joined Senator Bill Frist (R-TN) in offering an amendment to the Homeland Security bill when it was being debated in the Senate in September that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. The Senators were able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   This federal funding will go to the Homeland Security Department's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute so that high-risk non-profit organizations can get much needed funding for security enhancements. These institutions provide vital health, social, cultural, and educational services to the American people and are often the targets of terrorism. Funding can be used to secure their buildings and add safety features like concrete barriers to protect them from terrorist attacks. 
   * Rail and Transit Security 
   The Homeland Security legislation includes $150 million for Rail and Transit Security Grants. The Administration did not include any money for this grant program in their budget this year. Through this program, funding is awarded to states for security improvements such as the installation of physical barriers, the installation of monitoring systems, integrated communication systems and training exercises. 
   Last month, Senator Mikulski attended a briefing by Maryland's Office of Homeland Security on the state's efforts to protect passenger and freight rail service. Senators Mikulski has been instrumental in obtaining federal funding for rail security. In the last three years, they have helped secure $3.2 million in federal Rail and Transit Security Grants for Maryland and $49 million in funding for WMATA for things like explosion containment trash cans, better fencing and lighting, intrusion detection systems, chemical sensors in underground stations (WMATA) and personal protective equipment. 
   * Port Security 
   This legislation includes $150 million in federal funding to help ensure the security of the country's ports. While this is $104 million more than the President requested, it falls far short of what the Coast Guard estimates they need to implement the Maritime Transportation Security Act. 
   Last year, Senator Mikulski helped secure $4.34 million in federal funding to improve security at the Port of Baltimore. Funding was used by the Maryland Port Administration to install a remote video surveillance system to help police immediately respond to intrusions, suspicious activities, and crimes. They are also working to create a centralized security checkpoint and automated "port pass" system to improve security at the Seagirt Terminal. 
   * State Homeland Security 
   The Homeland Security bill includes $1.1 billion for State Homeland Security Grants. Critical to Maryland's first responders, this funding will help state and local public safety and law enforcement personnel pay for training, equipment and planning exercises to prevent, respond to and recover from terrorist attacks or other emergencies. 
   In Fiscal Year 2004, Maryland was awarded $31,495,000 in federal funding through this grant program.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 