SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS MARYLAND WON'T BE GAS-GOUGED
  Demanding an explanation for soaring gas prices in Maryland, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) went to the floor of the U.S. Senate today to introduce an amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science spending bill, which requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to conduct an immediate investigation into gasoline price-gouging.  
   The amendment is cosponsored by Senator Mark Pryor (D-Ark.), and directs the FTC to investigate any evidence of price gouging throughout the supply chain and distribution markets, the effects of price gouging on economic activity in the United States and how price spikes are impacting people's purchasing power. 
   The Department of Energy reported yesterday that the average national price of gasoline dropped below the $3 mark, but the state of Maryland has some of the highest prices in the country: $3.17 today compared to $2.46 one month ago. 
   A transcript of Senator Mikulski's speech as delivered on the Senate floor is found below: 
   "I wanted to rise as a cosponsor of the Pryor Amendment. Why? Because the American people believe that there is gasoline price gouging. We've got to find out if there is and what this amendment would do is add $1 million for the FTC, the Federal Trade Commission, to investigate whether or not there is price gouging. There seems to be evidence of price gouging throughout the supply chain and in the distribution markets. 
   "The impact on our country is really severe. Our price spikes are impacting peoples' day-to-day lives at the family level, at the small-business level and at the macro level. And they deep down believe that there is gouging. Now, all of America knows that we've had a terrible impact on our country because of Katrina. It has had a significant impact on oil production and oil refining capacity in the gulf. 
   "We understand refineries are down, distribution pipelines have been affected, shipping channels have found it difficult and, of course, we've seen offshore drilling impacted. But that happened three weeks ago. Why are the gas prices being spiked an hour and a half after Katrina happened? And we saw it in Maryland even before that. 
   "Now, Marylanders are hot, and this Senator is. My cost of commuting from Baltimore to Washington has already gone up $30 a week. I can afford it; I'm a Senator. But I saw on a local Baltimore TV station a woman who filled up her minivan, a soccer mom, and it was 90 bucks. And she put her head on the windshield and she just wept about how this family was going to afford doing it. 
   "My governor is also so deeply concerned that he brought in the gasoline station operators and so on to find out why prices were third highest in the nation - little Maryland, behind California. And who are the other two highest? New York and the District of Columbia, our neighbor. What are we saying - everything's over 3 bucks compared to $2.46 just a month ago? 
   "Throughout the Baltimore Washington corridor, gas is selling at $3.49, $3.39. But you know what, we think there is some kind of deal going on because it can vary within a three-mile radius. Over where I live, gas has been selling for $3.63 a gallon. You go over into another neighborhood, just five miles away, it's selling for $3.03 - 60 cents a gallon difference! Now, tell me, who is pulling the strings? Who is saying this? 
   "Well, right now we could end up just with finger pointing. I want to pinpoint. First of all, I salute Governor Ehrlich for convening the meetings he is. His meetings broke up and he wasn't satisfied. He's going the next step. I want us to now operate on facts because what we see is it is affecting families. The cost of commuting, and we're a commuter state, is skyrocketing. Small business, from the florist who delivers flowers to the pharmacy that delivers prescription drugs and so on. And then when you look at big business, so much of our food supply comes to our communities, our wonderful supermarkets, by trucks. And also, you go out where people love our shrimp and our crabs - my watermen are just aghast at what it costs to just take their boat out to crab. 
   "So I could give story after story, but Marylanders want to know - is there price gouging? And, if it is, we've got to go after it and stop it. We know that there are record high profits. We know that there's variance with the oil companies. We know that there's variance even block by block between how much is being charged. But most of all, we know that there's going to have to be shared sacrifice because of Katrina. We're going to have to examine how we build refineries in our country. We've got to have an oil conservation strategy. Conservation could be our next North Slope. We could focus on those things. But right now, I'm worried about what's being done at the pump and what we want to make sure is that there's not price gouging and there is no price fixing. We ask the Federal Trade Commission to investigate this, and I'm going to advocate an amendment to put money in the federal checkbook to do so. 
   "So, Mr. President, know that we Marylanders want to move ahead. We want to cooperate and we want to know, why are we so expensive? And our oil companies, if you're listening, if you want to respond to me, I'm right over there at 503 Hart Building. I've got an open line to listen to what you've got to say, because I'm getting an earful in Maryland." 
   To hear and/or broadcast Senator Mikulski's statements from the Senator floor today, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 4384 or visit: http://democrats.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski050913.mp3
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 