SEN. MIKULSKI WORKING TO INCREASE FUNDING FOR EQUIPMENT, TRAINING FOR NATION'S FIREFIGHTERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) is offering an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill, currently being debated in the Senate, that would increase federal funding available to our nation's firefighters. The federal grants, awarded to local fire departments by the Department of Homeland Security, can be used for things like for protective gear, communications equipment, and fire trucks. Sen. Mikulski's amendment is expected to come before the full Senate for a vote today.  
   The Administration requested only $500 million for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program this year - a dramatic decrease from its current funding level of $746 million. The Senate bill provides only $700 million for the grant program. Senator Mikulski's amendment would increase the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, to fund it at its authorized level of $900 million. 
   "This Saturday, America will mark the third anniversary of the September 11th attacks. We will never forget that day. We will never forget those brave first responders who rushed to the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The best way to honor those who died is not with words but with deeds. That's why I am introducing an amendment to support our firefighters. We need to protect our protectors so they can protect us," said Senator Mikulski. 
   "We are facing new threats every day," Senator Mikulski continued. "Just over one month ago, the Administration raised the terror threat level to orange for the financial sectors of Washington, New York, and New Jersey. But this Homeland Security bill actually cuts funding for those who will respond to these threats. We need to do better." 
   By increasing the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, it would mean protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. 
   The Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive grant program open to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for money for training, firefighting equipment, protective gear, fire prevention programs, and firefighting vehicles. 
   In 2003, almost 20,000 local fire departments applied for federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, totaling $2.5 billion in requests. During that same period, only 8,900 grants were actually awarded totaling almost $710 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 