SEN. MIKULSKI: BOONSBORO LIBRARY OPENS WITH HELP FROM FEDERAL INVESTMENT, COMMUNITY FUNDRAISING
  At the grand opening of the new Boonsboro branch of the Washington County Free Library today, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced she was proud to secure a federal investment to help bring the state-of-the-art facility to the community. As a senior member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski secured $196,000 for the project in the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending bill. 
   "I want Marylanders to be able to follow the American dream, and I want Western Maryland to be part of a 21st century economy. But we need pipelines to be able to compete - that means institutions like this library," said Senator Mikulski. "This new library is truly a building for the entire community; I'm so pleased I could play a part."
   In addition to the $196,000 Senator Mikulski secured for the new Boonsboro Library, the community raised nearly $1 million through grassroots fundraising. The new library includes programs and features to benefit the entire Boonsboro community. This includes free wi-fi access, 10 public internet terminals, a children's room with a puppet theater, special programs for teens, and special morning programs and free coffee for seniors.
   This is the second branch of the Washington County Free Library to open a new facility with the help of Senator Mikulski. In 2006, the Smithsburg branch opened due in part to a $298,230 federal investment. Senator Mikulski secured the funding through the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Program in the Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) spending bill in 2004, when she was Ranking Member of the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=221968.
   "I am proud to have done what I could to support this beautiful library and play a role in the development of this terrific community. Resources are one thing, but results are another - you got to work and you did a beautiful job," said Senator Mikulski. "I am proud of you and I will keep fighting to support your efforts to keep your community strong."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 