SEN. MIKULSKI ENDORSES LT. GEN. HAYDEN AS PRINCIPAL DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today introduced Lt. Gen. Michael Hayden, President Bush's nominee to serve as Deputy Director of National Intelligence, to the Senate Intelligence Committee. General Hayden has most recently served as Director of the National Security Agency. If the Committee passes Hayden's nomination, it will be referred to the full Senate for a vote.  
   "It is a great honor to introduce Lieutenant General Michael Hayden as the President's nominee for the new position of Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence. I have come to know General Hayden well as the Director of the National Security Agency. Maryland is proud to be home of the NSA and we are proud of the role it plays in our national security. 
   "General Hayden has distinguished himself as a soldier, a leader, a manager, a patriot and an intelligence professional. I can't imagine a better person to help implement intelligence reform. 
   "Michael Hayden grew up in a blue collar neighborhood in Pittsburgh: his father was a welder and Michael learned that hard work matters and that defending your country is an honor. At North Catholic High School, he excelled as both a student and an athlete. He received his Bachelor's and Master's Degree in history at Duquesne University, and signed up for Air Force ROTC in 1967, entering active duty in 1969. 
   "Michael Hayden served in wide variety of military roles, each time assuming greater responsibilities than before. He was an intelligence analyst, an academic instructor, an Air Attaché in the U.S. Embassy to Bulgaria, a Political-Military Affairs Officer and later Group Chief in the Pentagon, NCS Staff Director, Intelligence Director at US European Command, Commander at the Air Force Intelligence Agency, and Deputy Chief of Staff, UN Command and US Forces Korea. General Hayden has served in US military commands overseas, Air Forces bases in the states and senior, sensitive national security positions in Washington. He has served in direct support of warfighters, and in sensitive diplomatic roles, as when he led military delegation negotiations with North Korean Generals. 
   "General Hayden's most impressive accomplishment is his leadership of NSA at a critical time in the Agency's history. His tenure there has been transformational. He inherited an agency that needed to be changed: from analogue to digital and from Cold War orientation to looking at multiple threats, and that change needed to happen at breathtaking speed. General Hayden led NSA through serious technological crisis in 2000, he streamlined the organization and made it more responsive, he looked for the best people and the best ideas while recognizing the value of his employees and turning to private sector when necessary to get cutting edge technology. 
   "At the NSA, General Hayden has adapted strategy to keep pace with rapid advances in global communications, demystified the Agency without declassifying activities, provided a more public face for NSA mission and built support among American people. Members of this committee are well aware of the historic accomplishments of NSA and the future challenges the agency must confront, including: exploding volume of global communication and increasing sophistication of our enemies' ability to deny us information. 
   "General Hayden has an encyclopedic understanding of where we are and where we must be in signals intelligence, and he has a passion for getting us there. He has never been willing to rest on yesterday's achievements or remain satisfied with today's capabilities; he is always thinking about and planning for tomorrow's challenges. He has been bold, pushed bureaucracy to take risks, and he has found excellent senior staff to implement needed changes. These are the very skills needed to assist the DNI in the historic undertaking of intelligence community reform. 
   "I heartily endorse the nomination of Lt. Gen. Hayden as Principal Deputy DNI.
   Contact: Amy Hagovskym, 202/228-1122.
 
 