SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CARROLL COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Winfield Community Volunteer Fire Company of Sykesville has been awarded $38,950 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Carroll County communities. Congratulations to the Winfield Community Volunteer Fire Company of Sykesville on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Winfield Community Volunteer Fire Company of Sykesville in Carroll County has been awarded $38,950 to purchase a new brush truck. For more information, call Scott Dayhoff at 410-795-1333. 
   This is the third AFGP award for the Winfield Fire Company. In 2005, the department was awarded $106,286 to purchase new breathing apparatuses, and in 2003 the department was awarded $55,375 to purchase new turn out gear. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 