SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR EASTERN SHORE FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Kent and Queen Anne's Rescue Squad of Chestertown has been awarded $26,961 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Eastern Shore communities. Congratulations to the Kent and Queen Anne's Rescue Squad of Chestertown on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Kent and Queen Anne's Rescue Squad of Chestertown in Kent County has been awarded $26,961 to purchase new Emergency Medical Service turn out gear and a washing machine extractor to clean and sterilize the gear. For more information, call Allan Schauber at 410-778-4495. 
   This is the second AFGP award for the department. In 2005, it was awarded $41,401 for a diesel exhaust system. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 