SEN. MIKULSKI PRESSES FOR PROGRESS TOWARD IRAQI SOVEREIGNTY, HONEST ASSESMENT OF ROAD AHEAD
  As the elections in Iraq approach, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has joined her Democratic colleagues in sending a letter to President Bush calling for Iraq to take significant steps toward full sovereignty in 2006. The Senators also urged the President to use his speech today to honestly explain his strategy for the successful completion of the mission in Iraq.  
   "Our military men and women have sacrificed in Iraq. They have honored our country by volunteering to serve," said Senator Mikulski. "We must honor them with faster progress in Iraq and an effective plan to finish their work so we can bring them home. Together, America can do better." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   December 13, 2005 
   President Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 
   Dear President Bush: 
   All Americans recognize the historic nature of the elections for a permanent, democratic government in Iraq on Thursday. We salute our courageous men and women in uniform, who are serving proudly in Iraq under enormously difficult circumstances, and whose dedication and sacrifice are making these elections possible. 
   Like you, we hope the elections will proceed peacefully and the Iraqi people will succeed in electing a legitimate government that is capable of uniting the Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish people. We know that successful elections can play an important part in defeating the insurgency and hastening the day when Iraqis can govern themselves without outside assistance. 
   We also know that the work of the Iraqi people to build the kind of Iraq we would all like to see does not end with these elections. The four month period after the Iraqi elections, when the new government will attempt to finalize a Constitution, is perhaps the most critical time for the Iraqis and our troops. That is why 79 members of the Senate, including 41 Republicans, voted last month for an amendment that said, "calendar year 2006 should be a year of significant transition to full Iraqi sovereignty, with Iraqi forces taking the lead for the security of a free and sovereign Iraq, thereby creating the conditions for the phased redeployment of forces from Iraq." A strong bipartisan majority of the Senate believes Iraqis must now step forward in the months ahead take the lead in defending and governing their own country. 
   We believe your leadership will be essential toward achieving this objective. As was stated in the bipartisan amendment that passed the Senate, "the [Bush] Administration should tell the leaders of all groups and political parties in Iraq that they need to make the compromises necessary to achieve the broad-based and sustainable political settlement that is necessary for defeating the insurgency....within the schedule they set for themselves." Your leadership will also be needed to ensure that we leverage the influence of the international community and Iraq's neighbors to push for a sustainable political compromise and that we stand up sufficient numbers of capable Iraqi security forces so that our troops can begin standing down. 
   Finally, we also believe that you must engage in a frank and honest dialogue with the American people and our troops about the road ahead in Iraq. As the bipartisan amendment stated, "the [Bush] Administration needs to explain to Congress and the American people its strategy for successful completion of the mission in Iraq." While we appreciate your recent speeches on this issue, we regret that the American people have still not been presented with a plan that identifies the remaining political, economic, and military benchmarks that must be met in order to facilitate the phased redeployment of U.S. forces and a reasonable schedule to achieve them. We hope you will use Wednesday's speech to finally provide a detailed explanation of your strategy for the successful completion of the mission in Iraq. 
   The window of time to get things right in Iraq may be rapidly closing. A successful completion of our mission in Iraq is possible only through the hard work of the Iraqi people and leadership from your Administration. We stand ready to work with the Iraqi people and your Administration in the days ahead.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 