SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BALTIMORE COUNTY FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced two Baltimore County Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $61,793 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with enough staff, and the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Baltimore County communities. Congratulations to the Glyndon Volunteer Fire Department and the Hereford Volunteer Ambulance Association on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Glyndon Volunteer Fire Department will use its $26,424 to purchase new turn out gear. This is the first award for the Glyndon Volunteer Fire Department. For more information, call Fire Chief Scott Warner at 410-833-1262. 
   The Hereford Volunteer Ambulance Association has been awarded $35,369 to install a new diesel exhaust system and acquire new communications equipment. For more information, call Stephen Wilcoxson at 410-887-1935. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 