SEN. MIKULSKI INTRODUCES LEGISLATION, SAYS BUREAUCRACY MUST NOT KILL ANOTHER U.S. SERVICE MEMBER
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) took to the floor of the U.S. Senate today to introduce the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act, which would make it easier for military service members to become U.S. citizens and demands better coordination among U.S. immigration and military officials. A companion bill will be introduced in the U.S. House by Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-Md.). 
   The legislation comes after the death of U.S. Army Spc. Kendell Frederick, 21, who was derailed by a number of bureaucratic errors in becoming a citizen. Spc. Frederick was killed on October 19, 2005, by a roadside bomb as he traveled in a convoy to a base to get fingerprinted. A citizen of Trinidad, Spc. Frederick tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen. His application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. He was granted U.S. citizenship a week after he died.  
   "Kendell wanted to become an American citizen, yet a series of bureaucratic screw-ups and unnecessary hurdles prevented that and cost him his life," said Senator Mikulski. "Kendell Frederick's death in Iraq shows clearly how broken our bureaucracy is and why it is so important to pass this bill." 
   Senator Mikulski's floor statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "Today, I rise to introduce legislation to fix a broken bureaucracy and help non-citizens who are serving in our military become citizens of the United States. 
   "There are over 40,000 non-U.S. citizens serving in the U.S. military today. Many want to become U.S. citizens but are caught up in red tape and paperwork, bureaucratic run-a-rounds, backlogs. That is wrong. Many of these young people are on the front lines in Iraq, Afghanistan and throughout the world, fighting terrorists. They are focused on fighting the enemy. They shouldn't also have to fight the bureaucracy just to become a citizen of the country they are fighting for. 
   "My bill makes sure that it is easier and quicker for non-U.S. citizens serving in our military to become citizens. My bill is called the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act of 2005. Why? Because Kendell Frederick's death in Iraq shows clearly how broken our bureaucracy is and why it is so important to pass this bill. 
   "Kendell Frederick was an Army soldier from Maryland killed in Iraq on October 19, 2005. He was 21 years old. Kendell was killed by a roadside bomb on his way to get fingerprinted to become a U.S. citizen. But he was also killed by the botched bureaucracy of the U.S. government - by their incompetence, by their indifference, by their ineptitude. This is inexcusable. 
   "Every military death in Iraq is a tragedy, but this one did not need to happen. 
   "Kendell died in Iraq, fighting for America. Yet, he wasn't born in America. He was born in Trinidad. He came to this country when he was 15 years old. As many who come to this country to pursue the American dream, he was filled with hopes about his future in this country. He got an education and graduated from Randallstown High School in 2003. While in high school, he decided to join the ROTC. After he graduated from high school, he decided to join the Army with hopes that he would be to be able to go back to school. 
   "In the Army he was a generator mechanic, assigned to a heavy combat battalion. His job was to keep all of the generators running, which kept his battalion running. Kendell wanted to become an American citizen, yet a series of bureaucratic screw-ups and unnecessary hurdles prevented that and cost him his life. 
   "Kendell had been trying for over a year to become a U.S. citizen. He started working on it when he joined the Army, while he was training, learning how to become a soldier. 
   "Kendell sent his citizenship application in and checked the wrong box. Spc. Frederick was busy - training for war, packing to go to Iraq, saying goodbye to his mother, his brother, his two sisters. All the while worrying which box to check to become a U.S. citizen. 
   "After that, his application was derailed by Immigration three times. 
   "First, after his mother checked the correct box saying Kendell was in the military, Immigration sent the application to the wrong office - not the office that handles military applications. 
   "Second, Immigration rejected the fingerprints he sent with no explanation. Kendell had his fingerprints taken when he joined the military. He had an FBI background check for the military. We have high standards to be in the U.S. military. There was no reason Immigration could not have used the fingerprints taken when he joined the military, but they refused. 
   "Third, and finally, he was told to get his fingerprints re-taken in Maryland. But he was in Iraq, fighting a war. His mother called 1-800-IMMIGRATION. That's supposed to be the help line. She told them, my boy is in Baghdad. He could not come to Baltimore to get fingerprinted. She would have loved for her son to come to Baltimore. But he was fighting in a war, fighting for America. Immigration told her there was nothing they could do. They were wrong. That was the wrong information. They were no help. 
   "On October 19, Spc. Kendell Frederick was traveling in a convoy to a base to get fingerprinted. He did not usually go on convoys, but that day he was in the convoy, killed by a roadside bomb. Kendell was granted his U.S. citizenship a week after he died. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery. 
   "Kendell was trying to do the right thing, yet he was given wrong information. He got the run-a-round. His Sergeant tried to help, but he didn't know all the rules. It was not his job to know the rules - he was fighting a war. His mother did the right thing, she tried to cut through the bureaucracy, making phone calls, sending letters. She was diligent and relentless. 
   "The system failed - again and again. And a wonderful young man lost his life. 
   "Kendell's mother, Michelle Murphy, could have just sat there, could have boiled in her rage. But no, she wanted to do something with her grief. When I spoke with her, she told me she didn't want any mother to have to go through what she went through, what her son went through. 
   "Service members and their mothers should not be worrying about what box to check on a citizenship application, which of many addresses is the right address to mail it to, where to get fingerprints taken when the service member is fighting for America. Mothers have enough to worry about. Service members have enough to worry about. 
   "The legislation I am introducing today makes it easier for military service members to become citizens. The provisions of the legislation cut thorough the red tape. These provisions are: 
   1. Requires Immigration to use the fingerprints the military takes when the person enlists in the military so a service member doesn't have to keep getting new fingerprints 
   2. Requires the creation of a Military Citizenship Advocate to inform service members about the citizenship process and help with the application 
   3. Requires Immigration to set up a customer service hotline dedicated to serving military members and their families 
   4. Requires the GAO to conduct an investigation into what is wrong with immigration services for our military 
   "No one should ever again have to go through what Kendell and his mother went through. I am proud to stand here today with my Senate colleagues to introduce a bill named after Kendell Frederick, just as his mother asked me to do. 
   "The Kendell Frederick bill will make sure that anyone in the military who wants to be a U.S. citizen will be able to do so quickly and easily. If you are willing to fight and die for America, you should be able to become an American. 
   "I urge my colleagues to join with me in passing this important legislation. Help the brave men and women fighting for this country become the U.S. citizens they deserve to be."
   To hear and/or broadcast Sen. Mikulski's floor statement from today, call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 4921 or visit: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski051214.mp3 to download a high-quality mp3.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202-228-1122.
 
 