SEN. MIKULSKI: CR WAS THE BEST WE COULD DO
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today said the Senate's passage of the fiscal year 2007 Continuing Resolution (CR) was the best congressional Democrats could do based on the failure of Republican leaders in the 109th Congress to pass the nation's spending bills. The Senate is expected to pass the CR within the hour. 
   "While this bill is not what anyone wanted, it's the best we could do considering what we were left with. This joint funding resolution is not what anyone wanted. We are in this position because the last Congress failed to do its job," said Senator Mikulski. "We had no choice. We were determined to stay within strict spending limits while trying to address compelling needs. We were able to take care of the most important priorities facing the nation without going over our spending limits."  
   Senator Mikulski noted that the CJS section of the CR includes a $1.4 billion increase to the Department of Justice to ensure that there were no cuts to the FBI or the war against terror. The increase also offsets cuts to state and local law enforcement proposed in the President's budget. 
   "At a time when crime rates are going back up, according to the most recent FBI crime statistics, we fully fund the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, as well as programs to fight gangs and sexual predators," said Senator Mikulski. "Protecting our neighborhoods and communities remains our number one priority and this extra funding is proof of our commitment to making America safer." 
   Senator Mikulski noted that the CR cuts $3.3 billion in Military Construction (MilCon) funds required to implement the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) decisions. In Maryland alone, this delay restricts the Department of Defense (DoD) from moving forward on more than $300 million worth of projects, preventing the construction of badly needed facilities that directly support our warfighters. Senator Mikulski has led a bipartisan coalition of her Maryland congressional colleagues in urging congressional appropriators to fund these military construction projects in the fiscal year 2007 Emergency Supplemental spending bill, which Congress is expected to debate in March. A copy of the letter is available at: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=268422. 
   Senator Mikulski's statement for the record is below: 
   "This joint funding resolution is not what anyone wanted. We are in this position because the last Congress failed to do its job. We had no choice. We were determined to stay within strict spending limits while trying to address compelling needs. I believe we have done the best we can do. We were able to take care of the most important priorities facing the nation without going over our spending limits. 
   "In the Commerce, Justice, Science chapter of this resolution, we were able to increase funding for the Department of Justice by $1.4 billion over last year to ensure there were no cuts to the FBI or the war against terror. We provided the FBI with a $333 million increase over the old CR which fully funds the FBI, US Attorneys and the Bureau of Prisons. More importantly, the additional $1.4 billion eliminates the cuts to state and local law enforcement proposed in the President's budget. At a time when crime rates are going back up according to the most recent FBI crime statistics, we fully fund the COPS program, as well as programs to fight gangs and sexual predators. Protecting our neighborhoods and communities remains our number one priority and this extra funding is proof of our commitment to making America safer. 
   "We were also able to make a down payment on our innovation and competitiveness agenda. We added $335 million to the National Science Foundation's research account to increase our commitment to basic research that will lead to new breakthroughs in science, technology and future innovation to keep America competitive in the global economy. In addition, we added $38 million to the National Institute of Standards and Technology to increase research grants and an additional $12 million to modernize their laboratory facilities. Finally, we gave the Patent and Trademark Office the full $1.7 billion called for in the President's FY 07 budget request and ensured that all patent fees stay with the Patent Office. 
   "While I would have liked to have increased funding for NASA, there was simply not enough extra funding available for us to do so. Within the limits of NASA's FY 06 operating plan, we added an extra $460 million to exploration while protecting other critical NASA programs in science and aeronautics. With only seven months left in this fiscal year, I believe NASA will be able to manage their programs in exploration with minimal impact to the overall schedule. 
   "This bill cuts $3.3 billion in Military Construction funds required to implement the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round. By putting the entire year's BRAC Military Construction program on hold, the current situation has caused adverse disruptions to important military planning. In Maryland alone, the Defense Department is unable to execute over $300 million worth of projects, preventing the construction of badly needed facilities that directly support our warfighters. This delay also has a huge impact on the economy of the state of Maryland, in the construction industry and other key support industries. Finally, the continuing resolution blocks critical projects required to implement the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) recommendations, jeopardizing the ability of our military installations to complete required BRAC actions on time. 
   "I, along with the other members of the Maryland congressional delegation, have sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Appropriations Committee, urging them to fully-fund BRAC Military Construction in the FY 2007 Emergency Supplemental spending bill. Both the House and Senate Majority Leaders have pledged their support for our effort. I will fight to add this vital funding to the Emergency Supplemental when it comes before the Senate in March. 
   "So while this bill is not what anyone wanted, it's the best we could do considering what we were left with. I will support this continuing resolution and I will fight to do better next year."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 