SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BALTIMORE COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that the Reisterstown Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County has been awarded $106,996 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "The federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support they need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve." 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received more than $44 million through the AFGP. 
   The Reisterstown Volunteer Fire Company will use its $106,996 to purchase new power rescue tools such as "Jaws of Life." The funding will also be used for urban search and rescue training, and vehicle entrapment training. For more information, call Craig Coleman at 410-833-1370. 
   This is the first award for the department under the AFGP, but the ninth for a Baltimore County fire department. So far this year, Baltimore County fire departments have been awarded $449,909. 
   President Bush's proposed fiscal year 2008 budget, released this month, cuts federal support for the AFGP nearly in half - a $245.7 million cut from last year. In addition, the President's budget eliminates funding for firefighter staffing (SAFER) grants for the second year in a row, despite funding them at $105.8 million in fiscal year 2006. 
   "The President's budget continues to leave our first responders behind. Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your life on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never give up my fight to give first responders the tools they need."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 