SEN. MIKULSKI HONORS CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS WITH VOW TO CONTINUE FIGHT
  In recognition of Black History Month, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today honored the memories of civil rights leaders, present and past, by vowing to continue her career-long fight on issues that particularly affect the African American community - including affordable higher education, equitable healthcare research and treatment, keeping neighborhoods safe, and addressing the needs of Hurricane Katrina survivors.
   "We need to reexamine what this country must still do to ensure equality every day," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to evaluate the work we still need to do to guarantee that African Americans are not left behind when it comes to the issues that matter."
   Senator Mikulski's statement for the record is below: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today during Black History Month to celebrate and remember the rich history of the millions of African Americans who have made this country what it is today.
   "It is a time to honor leaders from across the country - some who are well known and others who are almost forgotten. It is a time to cherish the pioneers - to give them the recognition they deserve and to preserve their names, faces and stories for generations to come.
   "This Black History Month, we especially remember and mourn the recent loss of two of the key players in the Civil Rights Movement - Rosa Parks and Coretta Scott King.
   "In October, we said goodbye to the 'First Woman of Civil Rights,' Rosa Parks. When Ms. Parks refused to give up her seat on a city bus in Montgomery, Alabama, in 1955, we know that a movement had already begun, but she poured fuel on the fire - inspiring the historic Montgomery Bus Boycott. She refused to give up her seat to a white man because she was tired - tired of being treated like a second-class citizen, tired of being forced to move because someone else decided they deserved to sit more than she did. And she became a model and a hero for me and generations of Americans looking to make our country truly the land of the free.
   "And then we just lost another icon. Not only was Coretta Scott King married to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., but she was a pioneer with her own voice in the Civil Rights Movement at a time when women were not often recognized for their own talents and merit. She was resolute, but she was feisty - someone after my own heart. She founded the King Center for Non-Violent Social Change and saw to it that the center became deeply involved with the issues that she believed breed violence - hunger, unemployment, voting rights and racism. And when her husband was tragically shot, she comforted a nation that was torn apart. She is the reason we have a national holiday that honors Dr. King.
   "While we remember the lives and deeds of Rosa Parks, Coretta Scott King and countless others, we need to honor their memory not just with words, but with deeds. We need to reexamine what this country must still do to ensure equality every day. We need to evaluate the work we still need to do to guarantee that African Americans are not left behind when it comes to the issues that matter.
   "This Black History Month, I am still concerned and dedicated to fighting for the issues that matter to African Americans. We must make higher education more affordable for families. We must fight for adequate healthcare. We must fight to keep our neighborhoods and communities safe. We must fight to make sure the needs of Hurricanes Katrina survivors are not forgotten.
   "The cost of college tuition has been skyrocketing. It is putting stress on the families and students who have to struggle just to be able to pay their bills. That's why I've introduced legislation to create a tuition tax credit to families and to students who pay for their own tuition. This legislation would offer a tax credit of up to $4,000 a year per student to help them with the cost of the education they deserve. America needs our young people to know that they will not be limited by the size of their wallet to follow their big dreams.
   "I also want to assure African Americans are not limited in the healthcare they receive because of spartan or skimpy funding for the health issues that affect them most. That's why I teamed up with Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones in the Uterine Fibroids Research and Education Act of 2005, to double fibroid research funding and to launch an education campaign for patients and physicians. Uterine fibroids are a terrible, painful ailment that plague mostly African American women. Fibroids affect the entire family - not only the woman that has to endure them - but also those who love her and who hate to see the lady they love in so much pain. They have gone ignored for too long. We need to fight for the resources to find the cause, to find better treatments and hopefully to find a cure for this devastating disease, so that women and families don't have to deal with this pain in their lives.
   "Families also want to know the neighborhoods they live in are safe. The number of gangs nationwide and in my own home state of Maryland has been rising. Families don't want to have to worry about gang violence in their streets. That's why in Maryland I've helped launch a statewide anti-gang initiative that I hope can serve as a model for the country. This initiative will not only go after the bad guys through suppression and enforcement, but it will offer prevention and intervention efforts to help the good kids in the communities who are trying so hard. Mothers and fathers shouldn't have to worry about losing their children to gang violence in their neighborhoods and that's why I am going to continue to give help to our communities to protect themselves.
   "We need to offer protection to the survivors of Hurricanes Katrina in the Gulf Coast communities, because the federal government really let them down. I know the African American community feels very prickly about this and feels abandoned. They should know that even though President Bush hires cronies and doesn't have competent people working for him, the American people haven't abandoned them. We're going to work to rebuild the communities in Louisiana. We're going to get the survivors housing and jobs and healthcare. We're going to open the schools. We're going to stick with them and we're going to fight for them.
   "So this year during Black History Month, I honor the memories of the great leaders who have come before us with my commitment to fighting for these important year-round issues. And I am going to do it not just with words, but with deeds. I urge you all to join me."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 