SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR INCREASED RESOURCES, SUPPORT FOR AMERICA'S SENIORS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, today called for the reauthorization of the Older Americans Act (OAA) and criticized President Bush's FY 2007 budget, which includes a decrease of $72 million for OAA programs. Created in 1965, the OAA is essential for the delivery of social and nutritional services for America's seniors.
   "Seniors today are living longer, healthier lives. We must do what we can to help them be as independent and active as possible. We must provide the resources necessary to meet new challenges and support our seniors," said Senator Mikulski. "Too many OAA programs have been flat-funded, cut or, in this year's budget, eliminated completely. We must commit ourselves, our dollars and our programs to meet the needs of our growing and changing senior population."
   Senator Mikulski's comments came at a committee hearing this afternoon, which presented a roundtable discussion of leading senior organizations that addressed OAA best practices and areas for improvement. Witnesses participating in the discussion included the CEO/Executive Directors from AARP, the National Council on Aging, Meals on Wheels Association of America and National Family Caregivers Association. 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below:
   "I'm very pleased to be here this morning as we meet to discuss how Older American's Act programs and services have benefited our nations' seniors.
   "I look forward to hearing suggestions about what legislative changes should be made to improve these important programs, so they continue to meet the day-to-day needs of America's growing population of Older Americans.
   "I would like to thank the Chairman, Senator DeWine, as well as Chairman Enzi and Ranking Member Kennedy of the HELP committee, for calling this roundtable discussion today. Thank you also to all of the representatives of the senior network in attendance today.
   "I am looking forward to reauthorizing the Older Americans Act. It is an important responsibility that we have to our nation's seniors.
   "However, I must say that I was disappointed last week when I learned that President Bush's FY2007 budget proposed a decrease of $72 million below last years funding level for Older Americans Act programs. The budget completely eliminates two programs - the Alzheimer's Demonstration Grant program and the Preventive Health Services program for seniors. The budget also reduces funding for two programs near and dear to my heart and in many instances the life line for many seniors and the family members who care for them. Nutrition programs were cut by $3 million and the National Family Caregiver Support Program, which is a resource for thousands of families across the country, was cut by $2 million. Our nation's budget for senior programs should be going up - not down.
   "There are several principles that I believe must guide reauthorization. First, we must continue and improve the core services of this Act to meet the vital needs of America's seniors. We need a national program with national standards that ensure consistency but also allows for local flexibility and creativity.
   "Secondly, we must modernize the act to meet the changing needs of America's senior population, including the growing number of seniors over 85, the impending senior boom and the growing number of seniors in minority groups.
   "Next, we must look for ways to help seniors live more independent and active lives. And finally, we must give national, state and local programs the resources they need to carry out these vital responsibilities.
   "Let me expand on these principles:
   "It is vital to continue and improve the core services of this Act. Seniors have come to depend on the many information and referral services under the OAA such as family caregiver support services, congregate and home-delivered meals, transportation, home care and other OAA programs to meet their daily needs.
   "Other important services like counseling or the long-term care ombudsman program are also vital to helping seniors navigate the complex financial and health care systems. Not all seniors have family and friends that can assist them with complicated decisions, like choosing a long-term care insurance plan or a nursing home. These programs put information in terms seniors can understand. These programs are a safety net for many. Where else would they get these services?
   "Our senior population is not the same as it was in 1965. This will be the first time the baby boomers will be eligible for services under the Older Americans Act. That's why we must modernize the OAA to meet the changing needs and diversity of our seniors. What does this mean?
   "Well, it means making sure we have programs and services to meet the needs of the growing population that is 85 or older. It means making sure that we are sensitive to the needs of minority, low-income, and hard-to-reach seniors. And it means preparing for the upcoming senior boom. By 2050, there will be nearly 90 million seniors over age 65, more than twice their number in 2003. We must take advantage of new technology and innovations like the Internet to reach out to these seniors.
   "Seniors today are living longer, healthier lives. We must do what we can to help them be as independent and active as possible. The majority of senior citizens with chronic conditions live in the community and have their care provided by spouses, adult children and other family members. With the reauthorization of OAA in 2000, we worked hard to create the National Family Caregiver Support Program. In 2003, this program provided assistance to nearly 600,000 caregivers. Services include respite care, caregiver counseling and training, information about available resources and assistance in locating services. These services are invaluable to seniors and their families. We must ensure that we are doing what we can to help all seniors live healthy, independent lives for as long as possible.
   "Finally, we must provide the resources necessary to meet these challenges and support our seniors. Too many Older Americans Act programs have been flat-funded, cut or, in this year's budget - eliminated completely. We must commit ourselves, our dollars and our programs to meet the needs of our growing and changing senior population.
   "I want us to reauthorize this Act. This is our responsibility. We must not abandon it. The 1,200 delegates from December's White House Conference on Aging voted as their top priority to reauthorize the OAA within the next six months. We must heed their call.
   "I look forward to working with all of the groups represented on today's panel, as well as others that we will hear from during this reauthorization process. I thank you for your testimony and I look forward to working with you in the coming months to improve the quality of life for all of America's seniors in 2006 and beyond."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 