SEN. MIKULSKI BRINGS NEW CULTURAL CENTER TO PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) was at the North Brentwood Community Center today to announce almost $650,000 in federal funding for a new African-American Cultural and Community Center in the Prince George's County Gateway Arts District. 
   This project was funded through the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Program in the Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) spending bill, which passed the Senate January 22 and was signed into law by the President on January 23, 2004. Senator Mikulski serves as Ranking Member of the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee and secured the federal funding for this project.
   "This new center will be a living testament to the diversity of Prince George's County and an anchor tenant for the Gateway Arts District," said Senator Mikulski. "If we bring the artists back, we will bring the businesses and restaurants back. We will use the arts as a bridge between old and new customs and traditions and to build a sense of community. I'm so proud to be a partner in the Gateway Arts District and the important revitalization of Route 1."
   Mikulski secured $646,165 for Prince George's County to help develop the new Cultural and Community Center in North Brentwood. The new center is part of the economic revitalization effort along Route 1, including Brentwood, North Brentwood, Mount Rainier, and Hyattsville. The center will have museum and exhibit space with displays on the history of Prince George's County and the neighborhoods of the Gateway Arts District. It will also have a performance space for dance classes and recitals.
   Senator Mikulski has been a champion for the Route 1 corridor revitalization effort, securing over $4 million in federal funding since 2000 for Howard and Prince George's County projects. In 2003, Senator Mikulski secured $500,000 to help Prince George's County establish the Gateway Arts and Entertainment District by acquiring and rehabilitating properties to help develop affordable artist housing and work space.
   She has also secured $258,466 in federal funding for Laurel and $497,050 for Howard County to replace sidewalks, create pedestrian walkways, and landscape the business district to help attract business and improve street safety.
   "I remember Sunday trips along Route 1 as a child," added Senator Mikulski. "It was a corridor of commerce and opportunity. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in upgrades to Route 1 to make this Baltimore-Washington gateway prosperous once again."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 