SEN. MIKULSKI, COLLEAGUES CALL FOR NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES WEEK
 Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has called for the Senate to designate the week of September 10, 2006, as National Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) Week in recognition of their rich heritage and the prominent role in U.S. history. The proposal was unanimously accepted by the Senate last night.  
   "Civil rights got us into the stadium, but higher education brings us into the game and HBCUs have always helped make sure African American students don't get left on the bench," said Senator Mikulski. "I want to salute the dedicated faculty and staff at these institutions not just with words, but with deeds, for their tremendous contributions in shaping America's youth." 
   There are 105 HBCUs nationwide, including four in Maryland: Coppin State University, Morgan State University, University of Maryland Eastern Shore and Bowie State University. HBCUs provide the quality education necessary in today's highly technological society, offer opportunities for many underprivileged students to reach their potential, and deserve national recognition for their various achievements and goals. 
   "Education is the opportunity ladder of this nation and higher education is a critical rung in that ladder. Every child, regardless of race or family income, deserves a chance to go to college," continued Senator Mikulski. "HBCUs play a critical role in making sure all our children have a chance to succeed, and in making sure they have the 21st century skills and ways of thinking for 21st century jobs. 
   Senator Mikulski has always been a strong supporter of HBCUs and co-sponsored legislation to observe a National HBCU Week last year. 
   "I'm so proud of the great things historically black institutions do for my own home state of Maryland and the nation. Together, we will continue to fight to increase opportunities for all of our students," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 