SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR FEDERAL FUNDING FOR KEY COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that the 2006 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill addresses several high priority items. This legislation, passed by the Appropriations Committee today, includes increased funding for nursing programs and the National Family Caregiver Support program, and full funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.  
   NURSING PROGRAMS 
   An increase of $5 million for nursing programs, over both the allocation designated in the President's budget and the House of Representatives appropriations bill. These funds are for all education programs, including loan repayment, scholarships for nursing education, and nursing retention programs. 
   "Too often, America's nurses are overworked, underpaid and undervalued. America is facing a nursing shortage, and it is only getting worse," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I worked to make nursing recruitment, education and retention a priority in the federal law book and the federal checkbook." 
   FAMILY CAREGIVER SUPPORT PROGRAM 
   An increase of $5 million for National Family Caregiver Support Program, to establish one stop shops where families can obtain information and assistance to find available services, individual counseling, support groups and caregiver training. 
   "Family caregivers are the backbone of the long-term care system in America, but they face many demands," said Senator Mikulski. "They face emotional, physical and financial stresses. They face high costs for medications, home health care, adult day care, medical equipment and medical bills from care with specialists. I believe that we have to help those who practice self-help: that's why I am proud to have stood up for caregivers in this appropriations bill." 
   CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING 
   This appropriations bill restores full funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), as requested by Senator Mikulski in a letter to the Labor HHS Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman and Ranking Member, Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA). $400 million is included for the CPB to provide funding for public broadcasting, including public television and radio, throughout the country. 
   "Public broadcasting was in the fight for its life, and I promised I would fight for the money that was needed to save it," said Senator Mikulski. "CPB is a public institution, just like a library, and people count on its predictable presence and core programming. That's why I am proud to have joined my colleagues to ensure that CPB will live another day." 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote. Upon passage by the full Senate, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Labor Health and Human Services appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 