SEN. MIKULSKI, COLLEAGUES FIGHT TO PROTECT VETERANS' PERSONAL INFORMATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a group of her Senate colleagues including Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii), senior Democrat on the Veterans Affairs Committee, Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer (both D-N.Y.) in their fight to protect veterans' personal information with the Data Theft Protection Act of 2006. This effort comes after recent disclosures about the mishandling of the personal information of tens of millions of veterans and active duty military by the Department of Veterans Affairs.  
   "This latest example of the incompetence of the Bush Administration is unacceptable. The Department of Veterans Affairs should have been forthcoming with the American people from the beginning, and taken the necessary steps to guarantee that everything possible was being done to protect the personal privacy of our veterans and active duty military," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to stand sentry over our veterans, and will work with my colleagues to make sure this kind of error is never repeated. Promises made to our veterans must be promises kept." 
   The bill would establish federal penalties for anyone who knowingly and without authorization views, uses, downloads or removes any means of identification or individually identifiable health information from a federal database. It makes illegal the transfer of such information to any computer, network, database or other format used to store information other than a federal database. It also establishes federal penalties for any person who uses a means of identification or individually identifiable health information obtained directly or indirectly from a federal database in furtherance of a violation of a federal or state criminal law. 
   "There are now more than 200,000 Americans serving overseas in difficult and dangerous circumstances to keep America safe. They have to know that we honor their service and sacrifice," said Senator Mikulski. "This means using the greatest care in protecting their personal information and records, and continuing to fight so they have adequate health care and financial services to keep them strong."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 