SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT TO REVERSE BUSH'S CUT TO SERVICES FOR CHILDREN, ADULTS IN GREATEST NEED
  In two separate measures, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she has continued her fight to reverse a new rule from the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare (CMS) that would cut off funding for Medicaid case management effective March 3, 2008, for children in foster care, and people with disabilities, mental illness and complex medical problems. Senator Mikulski secured language in the fiscal year 2009 budget resolution to reverse the cut, and introduced a Joint Resolution of Disapproval condemning the rule. 
   "People all over the United States are losing their social workers or their nurses because of a new, harsh punitive rule," said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. "I'm fighting to reverse this cut, not just as the Senator from Maryland who is standing up for her constituents, but also as a professionally trained social worker. As a social worker, I have provided these very services and realize what will happen if my constituents cannot get them."
   Under the new rule, 200,000 Marylanders would lose federal funding for case management services. These services help adults and children with complicated problems, people with disabilities, complex medical problems, mental illness and children in foster care.
   Senator Mikulski successfully included language in the budget resolution, which passed the Senate late last night, to reverse the Medicare cut for one year, so it can not be implemented in fiscal year 2009. She also introduced a Joint Resolution of Disapproval - an official way for Congress to oppose and overturn federal agency rules. Congressman Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) introduced a companion bill in the House of Representatives.
   Last month, the Senate passed Senator Mikulski's amendment to the Indian Health Care Bill (S. 1200) to halt CMS from implementing the measure. However, that bill is stalled in the House, so her amendment did not become law before the March 3 cut-off date. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=293621.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 