SEN. MIKULSKI ASKS FDA COMMISSIONER FOR COMMITMENT TO NON-POLITICIZED AGENCY
  At a Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee hearing today, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), urged Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Andrew von Eschenbach to use his leadership to guide the agency away from the politicization that has marked its recent history.  
   "The FDA is very important to the nation and certainly to me as a Senator from Maryland. Over the years I have fought for the right facilities, the right resources, and now the right leadership at the FDA," said Senator Mikulski. "But recently, there is the perception that the FDA has been politicized, particularly with the Office of Women's Health. We need to hear from you a commitment to leading an agency that is not political." 
   Senator Mikulski specifically asked Dr. von Eschenbach to explain recent reports of efforts to cut funding from the FDA's Office of Women's Health. According to news reports, the FDA intends to reallocate $1.2 million in funding from the FY 2007 budget of the Office of Women's Health for other uses. Congress allocated $4 million for the office for FY 2007. 
   "The FDA sets the gold standard. Yet today, we have ideology over science, ideology over competence," said Senator Mikulski. "We need Dr. von Eschenbach's commitment to ensure that the best possible science informs the decisions the FDA makes every day. Help us once again create the confidence that we had in the FDA." 
   In addition to fighting against cuts to the FDA's Office of Women's Health, Senator Mikulski joined Senator Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) to introduce the Women's Health Office Act in February. The bill would make women's health offices in major federal agencies permanent, as well as authorize and strengthen women's health offices or officers at federal health agencies in the Department of Health and Human Services. The legislation also increases coordination between and sets standards for the women's health offices (unauthorized by Congress) in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the FDA, the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 