SEN. MIKULSKI: MILITARY HAS A RESPONSIBILITY TO LOOK OUT FOR LONG-TERM CARE OF SOLDIERS AND THEIR FAMILIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) questioned Acting Secretary of the Army Peter Geren at a Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing today about his, and the Army's, commitment to the long-term care of America's Soldiers.  
   "Many of the injured men and women coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan are now in their 20s, and many are in need of chronic care. Some will need assisted living; some will need assistance with living. If they've lost an arm or have TBI [Traumatic Brain Injury], they are looking at a 50-year situation," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to not only treat the warrior, but also the family. We have to think about the next 50 years for our wounded veterans in terms of compensation, care, and how we are going to help families get through this." 
   Specifically, Senator Mikulski asked Acting Secretary Geren how he intends to reform the Army's Disability Benefits System. Yesterday, the Army's Inspector General released a report on the system that was requested by former Army Secretary Francis J. Harvey in April 2006. The report, which analyzed 32 Army posts in the United States and overseas, confirmed that the system is understaffed and ill-equipped to properly care for the large numbers of wounded Soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "I am very concerned about the Disability Benefits System and yesterday's report, but our returning wounded warriors are terrified. They are worried that if they go into VA [the Veteran's Administration], they will face a huge backlog and continue to suffer from chronic, long-term injuries in the meantime," said Senator Mikulski. "I am also concerned about the out of date protocol you are using. We have new types of injuries like TBI and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). How are you evaluating these young men and women?" 
   Senator Mikulski referenced her heated questioning of Army Surgeon General Lt. Gen. Kevin Kiley at last week's subcommittee hearing, where she discussed his lack of outreach and coordination with the VA and his failure to plan to improve the relationship. Lt. Gen Kiley has since submitted his retirement papers, and Chief of Nurses Maj. General Gale Pollock has assumed his duties as Acting Surgeon General. Senator Mikulski noted that Maj. General Pollock is the first woman to hold that role.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 