SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR SMALL BUSINESSES, FOREIGN STUDENT WORKERS IN OCEAN CITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded efforts to address current problems and solutions involving the exploitation of foreign student workers in summer employment through the J-1 visa. The Seasonal Workforce Conference for Employers convened today in Ocean City, Md., and was sponsored by Sen. Mikulski, the Ocean City Seasonal Employee Quality of Life Task Force and the Ocean City Hotel-Motel Restaurant Association.  
   "This conference shows what can be accomplished when federal, state and local authorities work together with community members. I know that our work will help all employees, foreign and local, have a safe and productive summer," said Senator Mikulski. "We all know how important our seasonal industries are to our state economies and local communities. Without being able to get the seasonal workers they need, these businesses would not survive." 
   Under current law, foreign college students can obtain temporary J-1 visas to travel to the United States during the summer as part of a cultural exchange program. The students have a U.S. sponsor who assists them in finding a job and housing. 
   While most students have a positive experience, there has been an increase in unscrupulous sponsors who have left students stranded without a job or a place to live once they arrive in the country. To address this issue, former Ocean City Mayor Jim Mathias and the City Council of Ocean City convened a task force of local business leaders, community organizations and religious institutions in February 2006. Current Ocean City Mayor Richard (Rick) Meehan has continued the "Maryland Task Force on Quality of Life for Seasonal Workers" and, working with Senator Mikulski, organized today's conference to find a comprehensive solution. 
   "I commend the members of the task force who have worked hard to protect foreign students who come here to work. Our Ocean City businesses depend of foreign workers when they cannot find American workers," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to stand up for our small businesses and the students working to make them a success."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 