SEN. MIKULSKI WORKING TO MAKE SURE EVERY VOTE COUNTS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) is joining her colleague, Sen. Bob Graham (D-FL), in pushing for legislation to make sure every person's vote is counted - and counted accurately. The legislation would require computerized voting systems to have a paper record to ensure that people can verify their votes. The legislation would also make sure a paper record is available in case of a manual recount.  
   "It is imperative that we take every possible step to ensure the integrity of the vote in Maryland and across the nation," said Senator Mikulski. "On November 2, we must make sure that every vote counts - and is recorded accurately. That's why I'm fighting for legislation that requires all computerized voting systems to have a paper record. 
   The Restore Elector Confidence in Our Representative Democracy (RECORD) Act (S.2313) would require computerized voting systems to also have a voter-verifiable paper record so that each person can confirm his or her vote was accurately cast and recorded. The paper ballot would become the official record and would be used in the event of a manual recount. 
   In addition, the RECORD Act provides $150 million to states to implement the legislation, as well as $5 million to help them in the interim with using a paper ballot system. 
   In order to assist with implementation of verification systems and improved security measures, the bill provides $5 million to the Election Assistance Commission. Additionally $2 million would be given to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to help state and local governments with voter verification and the security of electronic voting machines. The Commission must report to Congress within three months of enactment on operational and management systems that should be used in Federal elections and within six months of enactment on a proposed security review and certification process for all voting systems. 
   The bill would require random recounts to help ensure that the process it working and to verify the accuracy of the systems that are in use. It would also put in place mandatory security standards for the development, maintenance and transfer of software used in electronic voting systems. This will make sure that the technology works and protects the voting rights of everyone using this equipment. 
   "The American system of democracy is founded on the concept that every citizen has the right to vote, to know that their vote is counted, and that the vote is counted accurately," said Senator Mikulski. "Now more than ever, we need to make sure that those principles are reinforced and reinvigorated." 
   The RECORD Act is currently pending in the Senate Rules and Administration Committee. Identical legislation (H.R. 2239) was introduced in the House of Representatives by Representative Rush Hold (D-NJ).
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 