SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI URGE BUSH ADMINISTRATION TO SUPPORT BEACH REPLENISHMENT EFFORTS
  In the wake of the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf Coast and the threat of severe erosion and potential flooding along the Atlantic Coast associated with Hurricane Ophelia, Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) have written to President Bush urging his support for the continuation of hurricane protection and beach replenishment efforts at Ocean City.  
   The text of the letter to President Bush follows which outlines their concerns: 
   September 12, 2005 
   The President
  The White House
  Washington, D.C. 20500 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   One of the many lessons of Hurricane Katrina was the tremendous cost, both human and financial, associated with the failure to make timely and needed investments in hurricane protection. Two decades ago, local, state and Federal officials reached an agreement to share in the costs of providing hurricane protection to the Town of Ocean City on Maryland's Atlantic coast. Unfortunately, your Administration's budget request for Fiscal 2006 would zero out the funding required by the Army Corps of Engineers to maintain this hurricane protection project, break this agreement, and potentially jeopardize storm protection for the citizens of our State and the $3 billion in public and private infrastructure in the area. We urge you to review this decision and submit a budget amendment to the Congress to restore these funds. 
   The Atlantic Coast of Maryland Hurricane Protection Project, authorized in the Water Resources Development Act of 1986, is a unique two-phase project designed to provide storm protection and erosion control for Ocean City. The State of Maryland, Worcester County and the Town of Ocean City committed more than $12 million and successfully completed Phase I in 1988. It resulted in a beach 220 feet wide over eight miles providing the "recreational" beach rebuilding component, protection against a 10-year storm and the foundation for Phase II hurricane protection. The Army Corps of Engineers, with cost-sharing assistance from the State and local government, completed Phase II in 1991 at a total cost of $48 million. The project involved construction of a steel bulkhead, widening and raising the beach, and construction of a sand dune to provide 100-year storm protection. Since it was completed, the project has repeatedly demonstrated its value by preventing an estimated $230 million in damages from storms over the years. During every major storm, the project performed exactly as intended sacrificing sand in order to protect the town and its citizens. Without this project the Federal government would have been faced with the financial burden of helping to rebuild Ocean City and its infrastructure after the storms. 
   As part of the project design, every four years the beach must be renourished with approximately 800,000 cubic yards of sand in order to maintain the integrity of the project. State and local authorities made the initial financial investments in the project and executed agreements committing to a 47% non-federal share of the periodic nourishment costs in good faith and according to law, with the expectation that the Federal government would meet its commitment to the project. Your budget would eliminate the $5 million in federal funding needed this year for the periodic beach replenishment, break a longstanding agreement with State and local authorities and potentially jeopardize the entire hurricane protection project. 
   In the Senate's Fiscal 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, we succeeded in restoring the $5 million needed for periodic nourishment of the Ocean City hurricane protection project, but there is no funding in the House-passed bill and without the support of your Administration we are concerned that the funding could be reduced or eliminated in the Conference Agreement. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina we urge you to reconsider your policy and budget decisions and commit the $5 million necessary to undertake the work and protect the citizens of Ocean City and Worcester County. Failure to provide these funds and maintain the integrity of this project ignores the reality of the great responsibility and financial burden the Federal, State and local governments would face in the event of another disastrous storm - to say nothing of the danger to human health and life. 
   Your attention to this matter is appreciated and we look forward to hearing from you. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senator Paul S. Sarbanes
  United States Senator 
   Senator Barbara A. Mikulski
  United States Senator
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 