SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR NATIONAL AQUARIUM, HURRICANE PREPAREDNESS IN BAY
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has awarded more than $1.3 million in grants to two Maryland-based organizations - the National Aquarium and the Chesapeake Research Consortium. Senator Mikulski is Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee and fought to secure the funding for these grants in the continuing resolution for fiscal year 2007.  
   "The Chesapeake Bay is part of who we are as Marylanders - our heritage and our culture. These grants will support conservation efforts in the region, preserve it's natural history and better protect the Bay area from major storms," said Senator Mikulski. "I am proud to have fought for funding that supports Maryland's world-class programs at the National Aquarium in Baltimore and the Chesapeake Research Consortium." 
   The National Aquarium in Baltimore will receive $833,000 to support critical animal care programs and Chesapeake Bay-related exhibits. The funding will support the aquarium's internationally recognized Animal Health Program, refurbish the Wings in the Water and Children's Discovery exhibits, and improve communications relevant to Chesapeake Bay conservation. It will allow the aquarium to advance standards for aquatic animal care and expand partnerships that promote ecological aquaculture and coastal ecosystem conservation, while at the same time educating the public and inspiring positive conservation behaviors. 
   The Chesapeake Research Consortium Inc. (CRC) will receive $500,000 to develop a Chesapeake Inundation Predication System to help make predications about storm surges in the Bay. The grant will be used to develop and evaluate a prototype inundation forecasting system to facilitate emergency management decision-making in the challenging case of intricate coastlines of the Bay. The complex coastal features of the Bay can either protect large population centers or render them vulnerable and amplify storm surges, as was the case during Hurricane Isabel in 2003. This will help improve storm surge predications, and enhance public safety by saving lives and property. The CRC is a non-profit corporation chartered by the State of Maryland.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 