SEN. MIKULSKI VIEWS DEMONSTRATION OF HYDROGEN FUEL TECHNOLOGY AT NIST
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) visited the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) today to announce that she has fought for $22 million to increase research capability at the NIST Center for Neutron Research in this year's Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) spending bill. This will include initiatives like the current partnership between NIST and General Motors (GM) to develop more efficient hydrogen fuel cells. Today's press conference included a demonstration of fuel-cell technology and a test drive of the HydroGen3, a GM hydrogen-fueled minivan.  
   "NIST in Gaithersburg is a vital national asset - that's why I'm fighting to make the agency a priority in the federal checkbook," said Senator Mikulski. "Our future depends on NIST for the discovery of new technologies that will lead to new products and create the jobs of the future that will stay in this country." 
   Today's visit is part of Senator Mikulski's innovation tour of the state, which is focused on efforts to keep Maryland competitive and at the forefront of America's innovation economy. The Gaithersburg facility is playing a key role in advancing hydrogen fuel cell technology, which may one day power cars instead of gasoline. This means cleaner air, a healthier environment and a reduced dependence on foreign oil. This facility is the only U.S. location where this research can be developed. 
   Every year, NIST gets 4,000 proposals, similar to GM, from scientists who want to use the neutron facility for cutting edge research. On average, 3,000 of those proposals are turned away because of limited capacity. This year's funding will increase research space to maximize opportunities. 
   "NIST makes us safer in our daily lives - from research and standards to make buildings safer from disasters, to keeping communities safe by developing new innovations to protect our first responders and providing the most up-to-date standards in healthcare, such as mammography and prostate cancer screenings," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to do all I can to provide the federal investment NIST needs to continue taking care of us." 
   NIST, an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology Administration, was founded in 1901 as the nation's first federal physical science research laboratory. The measurements, standards and technologies developed by NIST's laboratories help U.S. industry and science invent and manufacture superior products and to provide services reliably. The NIST Gaithersburg facility supports 2,410 employees and hosts 1,700 visiting researchers. 
   Senator Mikulski is the senior Democrat on the CJS Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds NIST. Today's announcement is part of $764 million in total federal funds for the agency that passed the Senate Appropriations Committee in July. In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 