SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO KEEP AMERICA'S FIREFIGHTERS BUDGET PRIORITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) this week announced she has fought for $552.5 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. Sen. Mikulski, a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, fought for the funding as part of the 2007 DHS spending bill, which was recently passed by the full Senate. Sen. Mikulski criticized President Bush's drastic cuts to the program in his proposed FY 2007 budget, which made $244 million in cuts to the critical grant program.  
   "I know that these are tight times, but we must do better for our first responders. Firefighters risk their lives to protect others. We need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight this year for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders." 
   Senator Mikulski met with Baltimore County Fire Chief John Hohman, Baltimore County Volunteer Firemen's Association President Buddy Staigerwald and firefighters from the English Consul Volunteer Fire Department in Baltimore County yesterday, and vowed to continue her fight for our America's firefighters and first responders. 
   "First responders are our true heroes. Every day when you report for duty, you don't know what you will face. You have to be prepared for any event: a six-alarm fire at a warehouse in Halethorpe, a tunnel fire under Baltimore or a tanker truck fire on I-95," said Senator Mikulski. "You are our volunteer force - working on your own time. You shouldn't have to pay for the equipment you need with your own dime." 
   The AFG is a competitive grant opportunity for local fire departments and Emergency Medical Service (EMS) organizations that are not affiliated with a hospital to fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles and firefighter/first responder safety projects. 
   Since 2001, Maryland fire departments have received more than $34.7 million through the AFG program. This includes more than $3.44 million for Baltimore County fire departments.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 