SEN. MIKULSKI MEETS WITH LOWER SHORE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) met at the Berlin Fire House today with Commissioners from Worcester, Somerset and Wicomico Counties. This meeting is the first of a series the Senator is conducting throughout Maryland to announce federal funding Senator Mikulski, with Senator Paul Sarbanes, secured in the Fiscal Year 2005 appropriations process.  
   "I know the Eastern Shore, I fight for the Eastern Shore, and I deliver for the Eastern Shore," said Senator Mikulski. "I fight for the day to day needs of the community, like upgrades to Route 113 and water sewer infrastructure. I also fight for long term needs, like job creation and education. The residents and elected officials of the Lower Shore can count on me in the U.S. Senate." 
   At today's meeting, Senator Mikulski announced several key Eastern Shore projects that are slated to receive federal funding in the FY05 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski was instrumental in ensuring these projects were included in the "federal checkbook" this year. 
   Upgrades to US 113 
   Senator Mikulski secured $3.472 million to upgrade US 113, a four lane divided highway, from Woodside Lane to north of Public Landing Road. Route 113 is a major north-south road connecting Delaware, Maryland and Virginia. The number of accidents on this roadway is more than twice the state average. Senator Mikulski has obtained $18 million to upgrade US 113 since 1998. 
   Wallops Upgrade 
   As the senior Democrat on the Senate Subcommittee that funds NASA, Senator Mikulski worked this year to secure $5.4 million to upgrade facilities at Wallops Flight Facility. This funding will help NASA develop a strategic plan for Wallops that will keep jobs at the facility and create new jobs for the future. The funding will also help Wallops upgrade infrastructure to ensure it remains a first class facility and help them attract new businesses. 
   Salisbury Water and Sewer Infrastructure 
   The FY05 omnibus appropriations bill includes federal funding for the "State and Tribal Assistance Grants" (STAG) for special needs water and wastewater infrastructure projects. These grants are typically used for wastewater infrastructure improvements that reduce the amount of nutrients entering waterways, and the associated health and environmental impacts. Maryland communities are receiving $2.8 million this year in STAG grants. This includes a $250,000 STAG grant for Salisbury. 
   Senator Mikulski also used this meeting with the County Commissioners as an opportunity to focus on ways the federal government can continue to work with the counties to meet the day to day needs of the citizens and the long-range needs of the region. 
   "I'm here to give the County Commissioners a Washington update, but I'm also here to listen. As I fight for the day-to-day needs of Marylanders, I need to hear directly from the people. That's where I get my best ideas," noted Mikulski.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 