SEN. MIKULSKI, KENNEDY EXPRESS RENEWED CONCERNS OVER EEOC RESTRUCTURING, IMPACT ON FEDERAL EMPLOYEES IN BALTIMORE
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) have sent a letter to Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) Chair Cari Dominguez expressing disappointment in her unwillingness to have a productive dialogue about the proposed EEOC reorganization. The Senators reiterated their concerns that the restructuring plan will undermine the enforcement of our civil rights laws.  
   The EEOC's current reorganization plan would downgrade the Baltimore office and would move five Maryland counties into a different jurisdiction, which is already unable to handle its current workload. This change will also mean fewer jobs for federal employees and a potential impact on the Commission's ability to effectively enforce civil rights laws. 
   Senator Mikulski is the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, which appropriates funds for the EEOC. Senator Kennedy is the senior Democrat on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which authorizes funds for the EEOC. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   December 13, 2005 
   The Honorable Cari Dominguez, Chair 
  Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
  1801 L Street, N.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20507 
   Dear Ms. Dominguez: 
   We appreciate your response to the November 9 letter we sent expressing our continuing concerns about the EEOC restructuring plan, but we are disappointed in your unwillingness to have a productive dialogue about the reorganization. 
   In addition to expressing our deep concerns about the transparency of the reorganization process and the extent of public participation, our letter suggested specific improvements in the reorganization proposal to preserve the agency's capacity to deter, detect, and litigate violations of our civil rights laws. Instead of agreeing to modify the proposal, or providing concrete information detailing how the current proposal would achieve the same goals as the modifications that we proposed, you declined to commit to any changes in the reorganization and refused to provide any concrete explanations for rejecting our suggestions. 
   We continue to be concerned about our constituents and their ability to obtain meaningful services from the Commission. You claim that the reorganization will not affect the Commission's ability to provide services to the public, but it is unclear to us how downgrading offices and greatly expanding the territory allocated to other offices will, "permit [EEOC] to better serve the public and strengthen our enforcement and litigation programs." 
   For example, we understand that the Commission intends to vote later this month on whether or not the Baltimore Office will retain jurisdiction over all counties in Maryland. This potential modification in the plan does not address concerns we raised about downgrading the Baltimore Office from a District Office to a field office. We remain concerned that downgrading district offices impacts the Commission's ability to effectively enforce civil rights laws. 
   We understand that you now intend to implement the reform proposal immediately, despite Congressional opposition, and without any further opportunity for discussion of these issues. We urge you to reconsider this decision. We are certainly willing to work with your office on these issues, but we remain strongly opposed to the current restructuring proposal. 
   With respect and admiration, 
   Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) 
  Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.)
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 