SEN. MIKULSKI HELPS SET STAGE FOR INNOVATION ECONOMY WITH NEW LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Sens. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) at a press event today to discuss their new initiative to create an innovation economy in the United States. The Senators plan to introduce legislation as a result of the October 2005 report released by the National Academies of Sciences and Engineering and the Institute of Medicine, "Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future."  
   "We're talking today about a legislative agenda to help us develop a new innovation economy and create the building blocks that will carry us through the next decade and even the next century," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to create an innovation-friendly government. I will do my part to work on the Appropriations Committee to put money in the federal checkbook to support these important initiatives." 
   "We have to look at where the new ideas that are going to generate the new products for the 21st century are going to come from," continued Senator Mikulski. "If we're going to be safer, if we're going to be stronger, we truly have to act smarter." 
   In May 2005, Senators Bingaman and Alexander asked the National Academies the question, "What are the ten top actions, in priority order, that federal policy makers could take to enhance the science and technology enterprise so the United States can successfully compete, prosper and be secure in the global community of the 21st century?" 
   The National Academies responded by assembling a distinguished panel of business, government and university leaders headed by Norm Augustine, former CEO of Lockheed Martin. As part of its deliberations, the panel reviewed over 150 proposals and made 20 recommendations in four broad categories: K-12 education, research, higher education and incentives for innovation. 
   "I am particularly excited that this is going to be a bipartisan effort because together, we can do better," said Senator Mikulski. "A stronger America begins right here at home and this is a key way to move forward with not only a legislative agenda, but a national movement to create an innovation economy."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 