SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR BUDGET TO SUPPORT SCIENCE, TECH INITIATIVES TO KEEP AMERICA COMPETITIVE IN WORLD
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today called for the budget resolution for fiscal year 2009 to include sufficient funding for programs outlined in the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act of 2007, which became law last August. In a letter to Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Ranking Member Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), Senator Mikulski urged them to back up the programs with funding to support its investment in research and education in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). 
   "Right now, our nation is in an amazing race - a race for discovery and new knowledge. We're in a race to remain competitive and to foster an innovation society, to create new ideas that lead to new breakthroughs, new products and new jobs. Our country must remain an innovation economy, because a country that doesn't innovate, stagnates," said Senator Mikulski. "I want America to win the Nobel prizes and the markets. The America COMPETES Act helped set the framework, but we need money in the federal checkbook to make it a reality."  
   The America COMPETES Act strengthens and maintains America's leading edge by investing in STEM education and research programs - doubling federal funding for research at the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Department of Energy's (DOE) Office of Science and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and providing scholarships to college students majoring in STEM and studying to be teachers. Senator Mikulski joined several colleagues to launch plans for a legislative initiative to foster innovation in the United States immediately after the release of the 2005 National Academy of Sciences (NAS report, "Rising Above the Gathering Storm." In 2006, they introduced the America COMPETES Act, which was signed into law on August 9, 2007. 
   As CJS Chairwoman, Senator Mikulski originally secured significant funding for critical science and research initiatives in the Senate-passed fiscal year 2008 CJS spending bill. Unfortunately, President Bush threatened vetoes and forced Congress to cut millions of dollars for these programs. Keeping her commitment to promoting American competitiveness, the Senator focused the CJS portion of the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending package on keeping America competitive in the global economy and rejected several of President Bush's cuts to science programs, many of which were recommended in the America COMPETES Act. The President signed the omnibus into law in December. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Chairman Conrad and Ranking Member Gregg: 
   We are writing to request that the Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2009 allocate sufficient resources to accommodate the programs authorized in the America COMPETES Act of 2007 (P.L. 110-69), which the President signed into law on August 9, 2007. 
   In enacting the America COMPETES Act last year, Congress and the President recognized that investing in basic scientific research and education - especially in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) - is critical to preserving American's brainpower advantage so we can compete in the global economy and keep our good jobs from going overseas. Full implementation of the Act's provisions in FY09 will require substantial increases in the major functional categories for science and education. 
   For Functional Category 250 (General Science, Space and Technology), in addition to the budget baseline including inflation, we request an increase of at least $1.566 billion for America COMPETES Act programs at the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Department of Energy. 
   For Functional Category 370 (Commerce and Housing Credit), in addition to the budget baseline including inflation, we request an increase of at least $208.6 million for America COMPETES Act programs at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). 
   For Functional Category 500 (Education, Training, Employment, and Social Services), in addition to the budget baseline including inflation, we request an increase of at least $707.9 million for America COMPETES programs at the Department of Education. 
   We recognize the challenges you face in crafting a Budget Resolution during these trying times. However, we strongly believe that investing in the programs listed above will pay important dividends to our economy and future generations of Americans. 
   Thank you for your consideration.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 