SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR K-12 OUTDOOR EDUCATION
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues led by Senator Jack Reed (D-R.I.) in introducing the No Child Left Inside Act (S. 1981) to improve environmental and outdoor education in our schools. Senator Mikulski is a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee.  
   "I've always fought to make sure we do all we can to ensure no child is left out or left behind - and we don't want them left inside either. This bill will make sure all of our students nationwide get the resources they need to understand our environment," said Senator Mikulski. "It's our responsibility to preserve our wildlife, take care of our parks, keep our air and water clean for future generations - this bill gives our children the tools to do that. I will continue to fight to keep education and our environment priorities in the federal checkbook." 
   The No Child Left Inside Act authorizes $100 million a year for an environmental education grant program. The program would provide federal funding to states to train teachers in environmental education and support programs in schools that engage students in hands-on, outdoor activities. Congressman John P. Sarbanes (D-Md.) introduced a companion bill the bill in the House of Representatives last year. 
   Environmental education teaches students about the environment and how to tackle the challenges it faces - from protecting and restoring the Chesapeake Bay to fighting climate change. It provides students with the tools they need to become the next generation of environmental leaders. 
   Also co-sponsoring the bill are: Senators Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Chris Dodd (D-Conn.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), John Kerry (D-Mass.), Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.), Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), Ken Salazar (D-Colo.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.).
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 