SEN. MIKULSKI INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO KEEP COMMUNITY COLLEGES AFFORDABLE, AVAILABLE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today introduced The Community College Opportunity Act to give community colleges the resources they need to increase enrollment and keep tuition affordable. This bill authorizes $500 million for a new competitive grant program to help prevent community colleges from turning students away because of lack of space or cost. Colleges could use grants to construct and renovate facilities, hire and train faculty, and buy computers, technology and other instructional equipment. Community colleges are often forced to choose between raising tuition to pay for expansion or turning qualified students away. This competitive grant program will help community colleges expand to serve more students while keeping tuition low.  
   "Community colleges are one of America's great social inventions - a gateway to the future for first time students looking for an affordable college education, and for mid-career students looking to get ahead in the workplace," said Senator Mikulski. "Yet our community colleges are bursting at the seams. That's why I am working in the Senate to invest in our community colleges and to give them the resources they need to create a world-class workforce." 
   The American workforce is increasingly reliant on community colleges for higher education: 80% of new jobs in the next ten years will require a college education, and as tuition at 4-year institutions continues to rise, students are turning to community colleges. Enrollment at Maryland's community colleges is expected to grow 30% in the next ten years. 
   Senator Mikulski has long fought for community colleges in Maryland and across America. She fought for a federal investment of $3.2 million over three years to improve training for high tech jobs, particularly in the health care field, in all of Maryland's community colleges. In the 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, Senator Mikulski included money to expand nursing education programs at community colleges across the state and to equip two wireless classrooms at Montgomery College.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.  
 
 