SEN. MIKULSKI VISITS BALTIMORE AREA HOSPITALS, ANNOUNCES FUNDS FOR MAMMOGRAPHY EQUIPMENT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) will visit three Baltimore- area hospitals today to announce she secured a total of nearly $1.8 million for mammography equipment at the medical centers. The funding was included as part of the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending package that was signed into law last month.  
   "Today we are announcing we have secured funding to give these hospitals the tools they need to continue fighting breast cancer in the Baltimore-area. We know that to win the race for the cure, we need early detection and early treatment," said Senator Mikulski. "These hospitals make a difference in the lives of women they treat in their communities every day. You can count on me to continue to make sure women's health is on the agenda in Congress. Each of us can make a difference, but together we are making change." 
   Senator Mikulski visited St. Agnes Hospital, Mercy Medical Center, and Northwest Hospital Center today. The funding will be used to purchase critical mammography equipment for the early detection and reduction of breast cancer among low-income women. 
   St. Agnes Hospital and Mercy Medical Center, both in Baltimore, were each awarded $718,000. Northwest Hospital Center in Randallstown in Baltimore County was awarded $359,000. In the same bill, Northwest Hospital Center also received an additional $119,000 for facilities construction of its Intermediate Care Unit. 
   This year's funding is part of Senator Mikulski's ongoing efforts to champion women's health nationwide. The omnibus bill also included a 25 percent increase at $5 million for the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Office of Women's Health, and $1 million for the Institute of Medicine (IOM) to review the status and future of women's health research. Since 1994, Senator Mikulski has fought for increased funding for the Office of Women's Health, which has received approximately $4 million a year since 2002. 
   Throughout her career, Senator Mikulski has been a consistent advocate for women's health. She established the Office of Research on Women's Health at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and fought to pass the Mammography Quality Standards Act and the Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening Act. She has worked to increase breast cancer research funding, which has increased by 700 percent since 1990. She continues to work with her colleague Senator Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) to pass the Women's Health Office Act to protect women's health offices at federal agencies.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 