SEN. MIKULSKI CONDEMNS FDA ENDORSEMENT OF CLONED FOOD
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) released the following statement after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued their endorsement of the use of meat, milk and other food from cloned animals despite congressional directives, objections from the American public, and the recent comments by the FDA's own Science Advisory Board that said the agency lacks expertise in risk benefit assessments, cannot adequately monitor the development of food products, and has been unable to keep up with scientific advances:  
   "The FDA has acted recklessly and I am profoundly disappointed in their rush to approve cloned foods. Dr. von Eschenbach, an experienced and respected scientist, should have known better. He said he is committed to reforming food and drug safety based on science. Did he believe that more science was unnecessary? 
   "Just because something was created in a lab, doesn't mean we should have to eat it. If we discover a problem with cloned food after it is in our food supply and it's not labeled, the FDA won't be able to recall it like they did Vioxx - the food will already be tainted. 
   "The FDA has refused to listen to their own advisory board, to Congress, and to the American people, who pleaded for more scientific and economic research before allowing cloned food on U.S. shelves. What's the urgency? We had time to do the work - now the FDA has rushed into a decision that could have dangerous consequences. The long term effects of these products are still unknown and could be harmful to consumers." 
   Senator Mikulski has spent months urging the FDA to delay any major decision on cloned food without greater intellectual rigor and more time to review the impact of bringing cloned food into the nation's food supply. The Senate overwhelmingly passed Senator Mikulski's amendment to the Farm Bill (H.R. 2419) to halt the FDA's endorsement until two studies were completed by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=289130. A week later, Congress passed the fiscal year 2008 omnibus package in which Senator Mikulski included language "strongly encouraging" the FDA to delay any major decision on pending additional studies. The omnibus was signed by the President in December. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=289462. 
   With news that a decision was imminent, Senator Mikulski then sent a letter to FDA Commissioner Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach on December 19, urging the FDA to wait before making a final decision until more information is known, heeding the call of Congress and the American people. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=289661.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 