SEN. MIKULSKI WORKS TO INCREASE NURSING SUPPORT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a group of bipartisan Senators, including Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii), Susan M. Collins (R-Maine) and James M. Inhofe (R-Okla.), to support a proposal to increase the number of nurse faculty at schools of nursing nationwide to expand enrollments and alleviate the ongoing nursing shortage in the civilian and military sectors. The amendment to the pending Defense Authorization bill was unanimously accepted by the Senate this afternoon.  
   "We must make sure our troops have enough nurses to keep them safe. The nursing shortage affects every state, every city, every town. And it affects our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq," said Senator Mikulski. "There are so many dedicated military nurses that still want to give back to their country, and they can do this by teaching the next generation of military nurses. But we must empower them to choose nurse education - making it more affordable, providing opportunities for advancement - so nurses can move up instead of moving on and so our troops get the care that they need." 
   The pilot program, Troops-to-Nursing Teachers, would create a two-track program. One track would place qualified military registered nurses, who are separating from the Armed Forces, into faculty positions at accredited schools of nursing after completion of a faculty development program. This would provide career placement assistance, transitional stipends and educational training from schools of nursing to expedite the transition for these service members from the military to the nurse educator role. The second track would create a scholarship fund for separating nurses, corpsmen, medics, other service members, or their spouses to attend an accredited school of nursing full-time with the intent of becoming nurse faculty members. Tuition, stipends, and financing for other educational expenses would be provided. Participants must commit to teaching at an accredited school of nursing for one year for every year of educational support received. 
   "Medicine is a 24-hour job, and military medicine is even harder. Our military medical professionals have accomplished something truly remarkable in this war: injured troops who make it to a field hospital have a 96 percent rate of survival. That is a testament to our military doctors and nurses on the front lines," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to make sure there are enough military nurses to continue to provide this outstanding care."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 