SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES FIGHTING FOR PATUXENT RIVER FACILITIES
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes are fighting this week to build the Presidential Helicopter Program Support Facility at Patuxent River Naval Air Station in southern Maryland. Sens. Mikulski and Sarbanes are offering an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill, currently being debated in the Senate, to include authorization for the $80 million complex. 
   "Pax River is the best place to test and evaluate the new Presidential Helicopter," said Senator Mikulski. "Pax River has a proven track record of excellence in managing our aviation programs. This helicopter is critical to our national security, because it will carry the Commander in Chief. It's also important to our economic security, because the Presidential Helicopter program will bring good government and private sector jobs to southern Maryland. This amendment is just one way I'm working to make Maryland safer, stronger and smarter."
   "Locating the Presidential Helicopter Program Support Facility at Pax River simply makes sense," added Senator Paul S. Sarbanes. "The military base features a highly-skilled workforce, excellent testing facilities and expansive secure air space. The Southern Maryland base is already home to the F/A-18 fighter program and will soon begin testing the Joint Strike Fighter, so I strongly support locating the Presidential Helicopter Program Support Facility at this state of the art military testing facility."
   The Presidential Helicopter Replacement program, known as VXX, is working to have a new aircraft in service in 2009. The $80 million military construction project authorized by the Mikulski-Sarbanes amendment includes a new, highly-secure hangar as well as a new control tower and other facilities at Patuxent River NAS.
   The Navy supports construction of the facilities beginning in fiscal year 2005 so the Presidential helicopter program can remain on schedule; the first VXX test aircraft are scheduled to arrive at Patuxent River NAS in 2006.
   Senator Mikulski joined with Senator Sarbanes in offering an amendment authorizing the transfer of the Point Lookout lighthouse from the Navy to the State of Maryland, in exchange for nearby land. That amendment passed the Senate on May 19, 2004. This will provide for better preservation of a historic lighthouse while freeing Patuxent River NAS to perform its critical national security missions.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 