SEN. MIKULSKI OPPOSES PROPOSED LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS SITE AT SPARROW'S POINT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today voiced her opposition to a proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) site at Sparrow's Point in Baltimore, in a letter to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Chairman Joseph T. Kelliher.  
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Mr. Joseph T. Kelliher, Chair
  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
  888 1st Street, NE
  Washington, D.C. 20426
   Dear Chairman Kelliher, 
   I am writing to express my opposition to the proposed Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) facility at Sparrows Point in Baltimore, Maryland. 
   In this post 9-11 era, LNG facilities poise a serious target for potential terrorist activities and require a heightened level of protection and surveillance. Yet this proposal would locate the LNG facility in a densely populated area. 
   I am deeply concerned for the safety of communities surrounding the site as well as for all areas through which the pipeline alignment is proposed. The neighborhood of Turner Station is less than two miles away from the proposed site, with major populations just beyond in Dundalk and throughout Southeastern Baltimore City and County. 
   The site is at the mouth of our Baltimore Harbor and one of the nation's largest seaports. Tankers would travel under the Bay Bridge, the major connector between Maryland's western and eastern shores and through heavily used commercial fishing and recreational boating areas. 
   I have voiced my concerns in the past about the Department of Homeland Security ability to secure our ports as well as the U.S. Coast Guard that is stretched in its role as protector of our coastlines and waterways. The USCG currently secures the Cove Point LNG Facility, where a proposed expansion before FERC would add more responsibility for protecting the Chesapeake Bay and its communities. 
   I appreciate your consideration of this important issue and look forward to hearing from you.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 