SEN. MIKULSKI HOLDS HEARING ON BREAKTHROUGHS IN ALZHEIMER'S RESEARCH
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's Subcommittee on Retirement Security and Aging, convened the second hearing in her series on the state of Alzheimer's research today. The hearing, Alzheimer's Disease: Current and Future Breakthrough Research, examined ongoing breakthroughs in Alzheimer's research in the public and private sectors, and the need for a greater federal investment. 
   In March, Senator Mikulski and Senator Kit Bond (R-Mo.) introduced The Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2007 (S. 898) and The Family Assistance Act of 2007 (S. 897). The Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2007, which was referred to the HELP Committee, doubles funding for Alzheimer's research at National Institutes of Health (NIH) from $640 million to $1.3 billion. The increase will give researchers the resources they need to make breakthroughs that are on the horizon in diagnosis, prevention and intervention. It will create a national summit on Alzheimer's to look at the most promising breakthroughs. The bill also creates a system for caregiver support that provides updated news, resources and tools for caregivers, families and physicians.  
   The Family Assistance Act of 2007 would provide a $3,000 tax credit for families caring for a loved one with a chronic condition like Alzheimer's to help them pay for prescription drugs, home health care and specialized day care. It also includes a long-term care tax deduction, making long-term care insurance more affordable for people. This bill is being considered by the Senate Finance Committee and is co-sponsored by Ranking Member Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). 
   Witnesses at today's hearing were: Dr. Paul Aisen, MD, Professor, Neurology and Medicine, Director of the Georgetown Memory Disorders Program, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C., Dr. Arthur Kramer, Ph.D., Professor, University of Illinois Departments of Psychology and Neuroscience and Beckman Institute, University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill., Robert Essner, Chairman and CEO, Wyeth, Madison, N.J., and J. Donald deBethizy, Ph.D, President and CEO of Targacept Inc., Winston-Salem, N.C. 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "Thank you to all of our witnesses today on our panel for being here this morning - the researchers who are doing breakthrough Alzheimer's research supported by the National Institutes of Health, as well as researchers who are doing great breakthrough Alzheimer's research at private sector drug companies. I am excited to hear about the cutting-edge work you are all doing. 
   "Alzheimer's disease is an all-American disease that needs an all-American effort. Direct and indirect costs of Alzheimer's and other dementias amount to more that $148 billion annually. In 2005, Medicare spent $91 billion on beneficiaries with Alzheimer's and other dementias. That number is projected to nearly double to $189 billion by 2015. 
   "I thank you all for your dedication to finding a cure for Alzheimer's. There are millions of individuals who currently have Alzheimer's and millions who are not yet diagnosed. Their family members are counting on the current research that is going on today, anxiously awaiting breakthroughs. 
   "This subcommittee held a hearing in March on the state of Alzheimer's research 100 years after discovery of the disease, examining the current state of Alzheimer's research and support programs. Today, I look forward to hearing about breakthrough research that is on the horizon and the investments necessary to get us there. 
   "Like so many other Americans, I am very familiar with Alzheimer's disease. My own dear father struggled with Alzheimer's - like the 5 million Americans currently suffering from the disease. I remember when I would go to visit him. It didn't matter that I was a United States Senator - the Senator who represents NIH. It didn't matter that I could get Nobel Prize winners on the phone. The information that would have made his life easier just wasn't there. My family and I knew about the long goodbye. We lived the 36-hour day. It was devastating to him, heartbreaking to my mother, and heartwrenching for my sisters and I. 
   "There was no safety net for our family. What was difficult was not just the disease - we felt powerless. All we could do was make my father comfortable. There was no cure. There was no safety net for our family. 
   "I vowed to do everything I could, not just to support research - the search for a cure or a cognitive stretch out - but also to create a safety net for families, because we know how hard it is. Ten million Americans have a family member with Alzheimer's. I believe 'Honor thy mother and father' is not only a good commandment to live by, it's also a good policy to govern by. 
   "I created the National Family Caregiver Support Program. This is a successful program that helps people help themselves with information, resources and respite care. The experts have told us: 'We are on the verge of amazing breakthroughs. We will lose opportunities if we don't move quickly. We are at a crucial point where NIH funding can make a difference.' 
   "We need to do more and we need to do better. That's why I introduced bipartisan legislation with my colleague Senator Bond in March - Alzheimer's breakthrough and family assistance legislation - the Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act (S. 897) and the Family Assistance Act of 2007 (S. 898). 
   "Our bills do 3 things: 
   1. Doubles funding for Alzheimer's research at NIH from $640 million to $1.3 billion. We need to give researchers the resources they need to make breakthroughs that are on the horizon in diagnosis, prevention and intervention, to bring us closer to a cure and find early interventions for cognitive stretch-out. We are on the verge of breakthroughs, however, we must move at a faster pace. 
   2. Creates a National Summit on Alzheimer's so the best scientists in the country can come together to look at the current state of research, discuss the most promising breakthroughs, and chart the course for future research. 
   3. Offers family support because we know the family is always the first caregiver. This bill provides news you can use for families and physicians. Incredible advances are being made every day and we need to get the word out. The bill would provide a $3,000 tax credit for families caring for a loved one with a chronic condition like Alzheimer's. It helps them pay for prescription drugs, home health care and specialized day care. It also includes a long-term care tax deduction to help make long-term care insurance more affordable for people and to help people help themselves as they plan for retirement and their future. 
   "Today's hearing will focus on breakthroughs in Alzheimer's research, examining the cutting-edge research that is being done by researchers supported by NIH dollars, as well as exciting research that is going on in the private sector on Alzheimer's drugs and vaccines - breakthrough research that people should know about so they can see that there is hope on the horizon. We're also going to focus on the clinical trials that are currently examining how modifications to diet and exercise might be able to slow the progression of Alzheimer's and the exciting research that is being done on an Alzheimer's vaccine that could delay the onset of Alzheimer's. 
   "Research that is going on right now is the master key that will one day open doors to finding a cure for Alzheimer's. Ninety-five percent of what we know about Alzheimer's disease we've learned in the past 15 years. We must stay the course and continue the investment. Expanding the cognitive stretch-out for people with the disease by five years could save billions. Public investments in research now will mean savings to Medicare and Medicaid in the future. 
   "I'm on the side of people with Alzheimer's and the families who love and care for them. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today and getting facts about current breakthroughs in research - where we are today and what federal investments are needed to make a difference in the lives of millions of people nationwide impacted by Alzheimer's."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 