SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS LIFETIME TELEVISION SERIES ON HUMAN TRAFFICKING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) sent a letter to the president of Lifetime Television today, commending the network for its Human Trafficking miniseries. The series drew attention to the atrocity of trafficking women and children, while handling the issue delicately.  
   Senator Mikulski has fought against this terrible crime by supporting the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 and helping to secure nearly $15 million over the years to prevent trafficking and prosecute perpetrators. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   November 15, 2005 
   Ms. Betty Cohen 
  President and CEO 
  Lifetime Television 
  309 West 49th Street, 16th Floor 
  New York, NY 10019 
   Dear Ms. Cohen, 
   Tuesday evening, I watched Lifetime's excellent miniseries, Human Trafficking. I want to commend you for handling this difficult issue with care and sensitivity. I also want to thank you for raising public awareness of this terrible crime and supporting our efforts in Congress to put a stop to it. With our combined efforts, I hope we can bring an end to the trafficking of women and children around the globe. 
   Since 1998, I have been working in the Senate to prevent trafficking, protect and support its victims, and prosecute its perpetrators. As you may know, the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 became law as part of the re-authorized Violence Against Women Act. I strongly supported this legislation, which helps to combat the trafficking of women and children and provides refugee status for its victims. Over the years, I have also helped secure nearly $15 million to support U.S. programs to prevent trafficking and punish its perpetrators. 
   I have no doubt that Lifetime's efforts to raise public awareness of this problem will increase support in the Congress for policies to combat the trafficking of women of children. The International Marriage Broker Regulation Act of 2005, which would increase scrutiny of efforts to bring women and girls into the United States under the auspices of arranged marriages, is currently pending in the Senate Judiciary Committee. I will continue to monitor its progress as it makes its way to the Senate floor. 
   Again, I congratulate you on tackling such a difficult issue in such a sensitive way. I look forward to the opportunity to work with you in the future on other issues that matter to American women. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 