SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES, WARNER URGE PRESIDENT TO DEMONSTRATE LEADERSHIP IN BAY RESTORATION
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) and John Warner (R-Va.) joined today in sending a letter to President Bush, urging him to take leadership and be accountable for the federal government's efforts to restore the Chesapeake Bay. Today's letter is in response to a recent report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), which raises serious concerns about the Bay Program's ability to achieve the goal of restoring the health of the Bay. GAO's review was prompted by direct requests from the Senators in August 2004. Highlights of the GAO report can be found online at: http://www.mikulski.senate.gov/pdfs/GAOBayReportHighlights.pdf. The full GAO report will be available on the GAO website later today. 
   "The Federal bureaucracy charged with protecting and restoring the Chesapeake Bay is falling down on the job. The President must take responsibility to ensure stewardship of our Bay and taxpayer dollars," said Senator Mikulski. "We're asking President Bush to show the leadership required to get Bay restoration back on track." 
   "Coming on the heels of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation's report on the overall health of the Chesapeake Bay, this GAO report clearly reveals that a lack of Executive leadership is having a detrimental impact on the health of the Bay," said Senator Sarbanes. "From the lack of the development of a goal-oriented implementation plan to the failure to provide the necessary resources to improve the Bay watershed, this Administration has yet to come to grips with how to move forward in a positive and productive way to clean-up this valuable and treasured national resource. It was done in the Everglades; it is now time to do it with the Chesapeake Bay." 
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   November 15, 2005 
   The President 
  The White House 
  Washington, D.C. 20500 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   We are writing to request that you take immediate action to ensure the stewardship and accountability of the Federal government's efforts to restore the Chesapeake Bay. 
   The Chesapeake Bay is a national treasure, and the Federal effort to restore the Bay - The Chesapeake Bay Program - should be the Nation's gold standard for environmental restoration. Last year, we were concerned that the Chesapeake Bay Program had overstated its progress in restoring the Bay, and we asked the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to undertake a review of the Bay Program. 
   The GAO recently completed its review and its report raises serious concerns about the Bay Program's ability to achieve the goal of restoring the health of the Bay. Specifically, GAO found that the Bay Program lacks: comprehensive, coordinated implementation strategies; independent and credible reporting; and integrated approaches to measure overall progress. 
   We have written to you in the past appealing for help for the Chesapeake Bay and urge you, once again - in view of the recent GAO findings - to make the Bay's restoration a top priority. Specifically, we ask that you take the following actions: 
   1. Direct the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), who is the lead Federal official on Chesapeake Bay restoration, to immediately implement GAO's recommendations for executive action. 
   2. Establish a White House Interagency Task Force on Chesapeake Bay Restoration charged with conducting a top-to-bottom review of all federal programs, resources and regulatory tools that can be directed toward expediting restoration of the Chesapeake Bay. The GAO report makes clear that Federal and State partners have made a substantial investment in Bay restoration over the past decade, but that a better-coordinated and managed implementation approach and more resources are needed to meet the goals of the Chesapeake 2000 Agreement. As we have pointed out previously, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and NOAA have expertise and programs which can be particularly beneficial to the Bay's restoration if properly targeted, managed and adequately funded. Appointing a White House Task Force and issuing an Executive Order immediately would help ensure that expedited and coordinated decision-making occurs and that your Administration's budgets and other policies appropriately reflect the importance and scope of this endeavor. 
   3. Endorse S. 1490, the Chesapeake Bay Program Reauthorization and Environmental Accountability Act of 2005, and the four other consecutive measures which we have introduced to reauthorize and enhance Chesapeake Bay restoration activities and increase the Chesapeake Bay Program's accountability for improving the health of the Bay. 
   As the GAO pointed out, "restoring the Chesapeake Bay is a massive, complex and difficult undertaking. The ultimate success of the restoration hinges on several factors, of which a well-coordinated and managed implementation approach is key." Such an approach is only possible through executive leadership and the highest levels of attention and support. 
   Your attention to this important matter is greatly appreciated and we look forward to hearing from you. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski 
  United States Senator 
   Paul S. Sarbanes 
  United States Senator 
   John W. Warner 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 