SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR ST. MARY'S COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Hollywood Volunteer Fire Department in St. Mary's County has been awarded $100,700 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and  
   "With a new Democratic majority on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I will continue to fight to increase federal funding for the AFGP," said Senator Mikulski. "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others. But we need to protect our protectors with enough staff, and the best equipment, training and resources. Congratulations to the Hollywood Volunteer Fire Department on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Hollywood Volunteer Fire Department will use its $100,700 to purchase 40 sets of personal protective gear, 65 individualized face masks to prevent the inhalation of carcinogens while responding to fire calls, and a machine to test the fit of each firefighter's mask. For more information, please call Steve Facini at 301-757-7128. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 