SEN. MIKULSKI SUPPORTS TAX RELIEF FOR KATRINA CARE GIVERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded the Katrina Tax Relief Act of 2005, passed unanimously by the Senate this afternoon. The tax relief package contains a number of provisions including access to retirement funds for hurricane victims as well as incentives for charitable giving, taxpayer assistance and protection for those donating items and money to the rescue and recovery efforts.  
   "We must make sure that the victims of Hurricane Katrina have the assistance they need to rebuild their lives and take care of their families," said Senator Mikulski. "Words and prayers are not enough. Action is necessary. That's why I am pleased to stand with my Senate colleagues in support of this legislation, which takes a good first step in assisting in the recovery effort." 
   Specifically, Senator Mikulski supported the inclusion of incentives for housing aid in the legislation. The proposal would provide taxpayers who house dislocated persons from Hurricane Katrina for a minimum of sixty days in their principal residences a personal exemption of $500 per dislocated person (maximum $2,000 deduction). This proposal will help defray some of the costs incurred by compassionate neighbors and encourage others to do the same. 
   "Family members are often the first caregivers to assist their loved ones when situations such as Hurricane Katrina occur - providing housing and basic necessities such as clothing and food. Thousands of ordinary people across our country have stepped up to the plate to assist family members, friends and sometimes even strangers - and they should be commended," continued Senator Mikulski. 
   "In my own home state of Maryland, I have heard stories of families that have taken in up to 25 people in their homes to assist evacuees from the Gulf Coast region," added Senator Mikulski. "These good deeds should not go unnoticed, and I am proud to have supported this important legislation which will provide assistance to these good Samaritans."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 