SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE AMTRAK RETREAT ON SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN FARES
  Two days after sending a letter to the President and CEO of Amtrak protesting a significant increase in fares that were scheduled to go into effect on September 20, Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today received word that Amtrak has announced that they have postponed the September 20 fare increase and "no new date for the fare action has been set."  
   In their September 13 letter to David Gunn, the President and CEO of Amtrak, the two Maryland Senators, who are both strong supporters of Amtrak, wrote, "While we recognize that Amtrak, like all transportation providers, is experiencing higher fuel costs, it would appear that the fare increases - particularly for Smart Pass passengers -substantially exceed the rate of increase in locomotive diesel fuel prices. It is our understanding that, over the past year, diesel fuel has increased by approximately 40 percent, while Amtrak fares for commuters traveling between Baltimore and Philadelphia would increase by 67 percent. Moreover, the Northeast corridor is electrified and electricity costs have not increased substantially over the past year. Your decision to raise fares would place a disproportionate and unjustified burden on Amtrak's loyal riders in the Northeast corridor." 
   Sarbanes applauded Amtrak's decision saying that, "this will enable current travelers on Amtrak to continue to do so instead of returning to their cars, and should encourage those who have not tried Amtrak to give the trains a closer look in view of the escalating gas prices associated with other means of transportation. I remain a strong supporter of Amtrak and continue to call on the Bush Administration to provide the needed and necessary funds for them to carry out their mission as our Nation's rail carrier." 
   "Family budgets are feeling the pinch of longer commute times, soaring gas prices, and wear and tear on vehicles. Rail and transit alternatives, like Amtrak, are a vital component of our commuter transportation network. I have fought for years to ensure that Amtrak stayed alive. We in the Northeast corridor understand what rail service means for air quality, road congestion and quality of life," said Senator Mikulski. "I am pleased to hear of today's decision to postpone the proposed fee hike and will continue to work in the Senate to fight for legislative proposals that support Amtrak."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 