SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES STAND UP FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES IN SENATE SPENDING BILL
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) scored major victories in a key Senate spending bill. The Fiscal Year 2005 Transportation, Treasury and General Government appropriations bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee, includes a major provision to rewrite the privatization process and give federal workers a fair chance to compete for their own jobs. The legislation also provides pay parity for all federal workers, and includes substantial funding for the consolidation of the Food and Drug Administration at Maryland's White Oak.  
   The legislation now moves to the full Senate for consideration. A vote has not yet been scheduled. 
   Contracting Out Federal Jobs
   This bill includes an amendment, offered by Senator Mikulski last week in the Subcommittee markup, which would overturn the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) 2003 revision of the privatization process (OMB Circular A-76). That amendment passed by a vote of 9-6. 
   The Mikulski amendment allows OMB to use the previous version of A-76 while the Administration develops a more fair and balanced process for contractors and federal workers and gives the taxpayers the best deal for their money. 
   "My amendment throws out the new rules for public-private competitions, which put federal employees at an unfair disadvantage. It sends the Administration back to the drawing board to come up with new guidelines for competitions that are truly fair." 
   The new rules for the privatization process are unfair for four reasons: They don't guarantee employees the right to submit their own best bids; they don't require contractors to show significant savings; the privatization process is destabilizing; and gives an unfair advantage to contractors who provide inferior benefits. 
   "America needs an independent civil service," added Senator Mikulski. "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. These hardworking men and women deserve to be treated fairly and, at the very least, deserve to have the same rights that contractors do." 
   Pay Parity
   This bill includes a 3.5% cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) for all federal employees, including wage grade employees and civilian employees and the Department of Defense and all employees at the Department of Homeland Security. 
   "Military personnel and federal civilian employees - both white collar and blue collar - work for the same employers, often side-by-side in the defense of our nation's homeland security," said Senator Mikulski. "They all earn and deserve the same COLA." 
   "The inclusion of the pay parity provision in this appropriations bill recognizes that both members of the uniformed services and civilian Federal employees are fighting the war on terrorism and making remarkable contributions to the safety of this country and its citizens," added Senator Sarbanes, who has spearheaded efforts in the Senate Budget Committee to include pay parity provisions since the Bush Administration has failed to acknowledge the significant contributions of Federal civilian employees in our workplace. 
   FDA Consolidation at White Oak
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes successfully secured $88.7 million in this bill to consolidate the Food and Drug Administration at White Oak, the 130-acre site of the former White Oak Naval Surface Warfare Center in Montgomery County. The FDA has been trying to consolidate offices for nearly 20 years. Since the 1995 Base Closure and realignment Act closed White Oak, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes have worked vigorously with their colleagues in the Senate and the community to consolidate the FDA facilities. 
   "This money will help transform a closed naval base into a world-class federal research facility," said Senator Mikulski. "Now more than ever, the American people are relying on the FDA to ensure the safety of our food supply and continued access to the most up-to-date prescription drugs and treatments. This project has been a top priority for the community and a top priority for me because it means economic development for Montgomery and prince George's counties and jobs for the people of Maryland." 
   "I am pleased that we continue to move forward with the needed funding to complete the consolidation of the antiquated Food and Drug Administration's labs and facilities at the White Oak campus," said Sarbanes. "This consolidation, when completed, will create a unique research campus which will have a major spillover effect with private bioscience, bio-tech, and hi-tech companies, as well as the educational institutions in our region."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 