SEN. MIKULSKI FOCUSES FINAL HEARING ON SUPPORT FOR LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) closed a series of hearings on the federal government's fiscal year 2009 budget priorities with an examination of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) today. As FBI Director Robert Mueller testified this afternoon, Chairwoman Mikulski noted her concern that the agency is being pulled in too many directions, with too few resources. 
   "Whatever we do in this year's budget will be the operating budget for the first year of the new presidency. As chairwoman, I want to make sure the FBI has the right resources to fulfill its mission to keep our nation safe from terrorists, violent criminals, child predators and cyber intruders," said Senator Mikulski. "Since 9/11, the FBI has shifted 2,000 agents from violent crime into counterterrorism and forced state and local law enforcement to take up the slack. But state and local law enforcement are stretched to the limit. We must do more to support the FBI's partnership with locals."  
   Chairwoman Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "Good afternoon and welcome to the fifth and final hearing of the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. Today we welcome FBI Director Robert Mueller's appearance before the subcommittee. We have had a very productive relationship with Director Mueller and his team. 
   "We are in a year of transition. This time next year, we will have a new President. Whatever we do in this year's budget will be the operating budget for the first year of the new presidency. As chairwoman this year, I want to make sure the FBI has the right resources to fulfill its mission to keep our nation safe from terrorists, violent criminals, child predators and cyber intruders. 
   "The FBI is our domestic security agency with many responsibilities competing for scarce resources. FBI has a growing international role and new responsibilities at home to keep us safe from terrorists while keeping us safe from violent crime. The FBI is also responsible for keeping us safe from weapons of mass destruction (WMDs). We need a new mandate to prevent the horror of WMDs through prevention and detection, and we need to be ready to dismantle WMDs, which is a high-tech and dangerous mission. But the FBI also needs to have resources to respond to crises at home, like the mortgage fraud that is spinning out of control, destroying neighborhoods and ruining lives. 
   "The President's budget request for the FBI is $7.1 billion, a $450 million increase of the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending bill, or a 7 percent increase. The request includes funding for 12,225 special agents - an increase of 280 new agents, and 2,647 intelligence analysts - an increase of 271 new analysts. While we work to get the FBI the right resources, we must also make sure we have the best management practices. The FBI is aggressively hiring to meet our nation's security needs. We must make sure the FBI places high priority on hiring, retention and training the best and the brightest. 
   "Most increases in the fiscal year 2009 budget are for the FBI's counterterrorism and intelligence. We all agree that this is a top priority. In counterterrorism, the budget proposes $3 billion, a $234 million increase over the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending bill. Counterterrorism now accounts for over 40 percent of the FBI's budget. For intelligence, the budget proposes $1.4 billion, an 18 percent increase, or $208 million increase of the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending bill. We need to be assured you are improving the management of your investigative tools - national security letters, the terrorist watch list and wiretaps. 
   "The budget request for the FBI's traditional crime fighting efforts is $2.3 billion, $105 million above the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending bill. Unfortunately, there are no new funds to fight violent crime, organized crime, and despicable child predators. Since 9/11, the FBI has shifted 2,000 agents from violent crime into counterterrorism and forced state and local law enforcement to take up the slack. But the state and local law enforcement are stretched to the limit. We should do more to support the FBI's partnership with locals. Joint Federal-State Task Forces are the most effective way to combat violent gangs, drug dealers, and child predators. We should expand Federal-State Task Forces to help locals fight crime on the streets. If we can have a surge in Baghdad, we can have a surge against violent crime in Baltimore. 
   "Given all of the FBI's important roles and responsibilities, we must ensure that the FBI has the resources it needs to protect the lives of 300 million Americans. But we also want to make sure the FBI is a steward of taxpayer dollars. We want to make sure every dollar we spend to keep our nation safe is a dollar well-spent."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 