SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS CUTS TO NIH ARE STALLING CRITICAL MEDICAL DISCOVERIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today criticized President Bush's cuts in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) at a press conference at the University of Maryland Medical Center. The President's 2008 budget request provides only $28.62 billion for the agency, a $310 million cut from last year's funding level.  
   "How can we search for cures for America's illnesses without the proper funding for research? I'm on the side of cures - that's why I have fought for years to increase NIH's budget," said Senator Mikulski. "NIH improves the health of the nation by conducting and supporting research on the causes, diagnosis, prevention and cures of human diseases. NIH needs adequate resources to meet its mission and that's why I will keep up my fight to make sure they get the federal investment they need." 
   Senator Mikulski received a briefing on groundbreaking research and new developments in cardiac surgery at the Medical Center, conducted by Dr. Bartley Griffith, Chief of Cardiac Surgery and Director of Heart and Lung Transplantation. Dr. Griffith discussed critical research and discoveries he has made that rely on a federal investment from NIH. Among his work, Dr. Griffith is looking at ways to revitalize heart muscles using stem cells and other types of human cells as a treatment for severe heart failure. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski has a long history of fighting for adequate NIH funding. This includes a bipartisan effort to double the NIH budget from $13.6 billion in fiscal year 1998 to $27 billion in fiscal year 2003. 
   "We must continue to invest in biomedical research - we cannot turn backwards. Increased funding for NIH means more money to fund research and clinical trials so we can continue to make discoveries that will save lives today and tomorrow," said Senator Mikulski. "The President's shortfall is slowing the transition from science to treatment. That means fewer trials, smaller trials, and trials that take longer to complete. These trials could lead to treatments for conditions like heart disease, autism and mental disorders." 
   Founded in 1823 as the Baltimore Infirmary, the Medical Center is one of the nation's oldest academic medical centers. It is a national and regional referral center for trauma, cancer care, neurocare, cardiac care, women's and children's health, and physical rehabilitation. The Medical Center is part of the University of Maryland Medical System, an eight-hospital system with academic, community and specialty service missions.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 