SEN. MIKULSKI: BUSH'S SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST LEAVES RETURNING SOLDIERS, COMMUNITIES BEHIND
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, today criticized funding shortfalls for vital programs in the fiscal year 2008 emergency supplemental request submitted by President Bush. Jim Nussle, Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), testified before the full committee today on the administration's request. The Senate is expected to consider the spending bill in late April. 
   "How can the Bush Administration ask Congress for $25 million to stimulate the Iraqi economy and add to our deficit, while the Iraqi government builds up a $25 million surplus in oil profits? I was one of 23 members of the Senate who voted against this war. However, while our troops are fighting for us, I will continue to fight for them," said Senator Mikulski. "No one could ask more of our troops; they are brave and courageous and have fought valiantly. No one could ask more of their families and their communities. This supplemental shortchanges those communities and other Americans struggling to meet pressing needs."
   In particular, Senator Mikulski called for $45 million to fully fund reintegration initiatives for National Guard members and Reservists returning from combat. Neither the President's fiscal year 2009 budget, nor emergency supplemental request, provides funding for the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, which was authorized as part of the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 4986). While the supplemental includes $2.6 billion for wounded Soldier and family support, it fails to fund vital programs that ensure returning members of the National Guard and Reserve have full access to the benefits they have earned. For more information, please visit: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=295509.
   Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee that funds local law enforcement through the Department of Justice (DOJ), also called for $490 million to be included in the supplemental to restore funding for Byrne/Justice Assistance Grants. Senator Mikulski pointed to the President's request for an additional $603 million to train Iraqi police as hypocritical, given his trend of underfunding state and local law enforcement. Since 2005, the administration has spent $5.5 billion on the training of Iraqi police, while it has slashed funding for state and local law enforcement in America. The President's fiscal year 2009 budget request includes a staggering 61 percent cut for state and local law enforcement programs at DOJ, and eliminates several grant programs including the Byrne/Justice Assistance Grants. For more information, please visit: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=295841.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 