SEN. MIKULSKI URGES MILITARY'S TOP DOCTORS TO FIGHT FOR THEIR PATIENTS, REFORM HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
  At today's Defense Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) questioned the nation's military surgeons general on the status of reforms to the military health care system based on the recommendations of the Dole-Shalala Commission. The commission was convened following the Washington Post series that revealed substandard living conditions, bureaucratic delays and inadequate benefits for seriously injured service members at the Army's flagship military hospital, Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. Army Surgeon General Eric Schoomaker, Navy Surgeon General Vice Adm. Adam Robinson Jr. and Air Force Surgeon General Lt. Gen. James Roudebush testified this morning on the state of Department of Defense medical programs. 
   "For those of us that have never worn a uniform, we feel that the best way to support our uniformed service members is not only on the battlefield, but with military medicine. The ops-tempo that you face, the challenges of a war that has gone on for so long, the volume of injury, the new kinds of injury and the old kinds of injury," said Senator Mikulski. "When we look at these men and women who come back - some bear the permanent wounds of war, all will bear the permanent impact of war. And we need to know what that means - from stress, to terrible injuries like amputation."
   Senator Mikulski has been a supporter of using the Dole-Shalala recommendations as the baseline for reforming our military health system since the report's publication. The Senator believes the military's surgeons general must take a leading role in ensuring our military heath system serves our wounded warriors and their families, supports their recovery and return, and simplifies the delivery of care and disabilities.
   "Over 30,000 troops have been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. We know that acute care for our injured troops has been astounding with historic rates of survival. We owe a debt of gratitude to our military medical professionals," said Senator Mikulski. "Yet, while we've saved their lives on the battlefield, we are failing to give them their life back. Our soldiers have earned the best care and benefits we can provide. They should not have to fight another war to get the care they need. We need our surgeons general to fight hard to achieve this reform."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 