SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS GAO REPORT SHOWS LEVEL PLAYING FIELD FOR MAMMOGRAPHY SERVICES, NEED FOR ANNUAL INSPECTIONS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today commended the findings of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study that suggests women are receiving adequate mammography services nationwide. Current capacity can serve up to 80 million women annually, although current statistics show that only approximately 35 million women get mammograms annually. In 1992, Sen. Mikulski authored the Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA), which has improved the quality of mammograms by setting federal safety and quality standards for mammography facilities.  
   Senator Mikulski requested a Senate hearing on MQSA in April 2003, where she heard testimony from experts on ways to strengthen current mammography standards. As a result of that hearing, Senator Mikulski requested the GAO study on mammography service capacity. 
   "Before MQSA became law 12 years ago, there were no standards for mammography in this country. Radiation levels used on patients varied widely, equipment was shoddy, and physicians often didn't have proper training," said Senator Mikulski. "I went to work in Congress to set national standards, helping to make mammograms a more safe and reliable tool for detecting breast cancer." 
   The study also concluded that current yearly inspection requirements of mammography facilities are still necessary. When allowed to go up to two years without inspection, nearly half failed in the second year. 
   "Today's report shows that we have leveled the playing field for mammography services nationwide. It also shows that current requirements for mammography facilities are necessary for quality assurance," said Senator Mikulski. "I will not stop my fight to ensure that research and standards are developed to further discoveries for women's health. I will continue to stand sentry to make sure women are taken care of across the country." 
   After seeing the realized benefits of her legislative priority, Senator Mikulski has repeated her commitment to work with her colleagues, as a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, to reauthorize MQSA in 2007. 
   A copy of the GAO report can be found online later today at: www.gao.gov/cgi-bin/getrpt?GAO-06-724.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 