SEN. MIKULSKI TELLS SEC. CHERTOFF USCIS FAILED FALLEN U.S. SOLDIER FIGHTING FOR AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) sent a response today to correspondence she received late Thursday evening from Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff regarding her demand for immediate action to improve the bureaucratic incompetence that led to the death of Army Spc. Kendell Frederick. The 21-year-old Randallstown resident was killed in a convoy on his way to be fingerprinted for his citizenship application, while serving in Iraq.  
   "I apologized to Spc. Frederick's mother, Mrs. Michelle Murphy, for the failings of the United States government. I would hope you would do the same," said Senator Mikulski. "With a shrug of the shoulders, your Department seems to have put the burden on the military, on a soldier fighting in Iraq, and on his mother. Where was DHS?" 
   Spc. Frederick, a citizen of Trinidad, tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen, but his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. Senator Mikulski introduced the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act this week, which will make it easier for service members to get their citizenship applications processed and demands better coordination among U.S. immigration and military officials. 
   The text of the letter from Senator Mikulski follows. The letter from Secretary Chertoff is also provided below: 
   December 16, 2005 
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff 
  Secretary, Department of Homeland Security 
  Washington, DC 20528 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff, 
   I have received your December 14, 2005 letter in response to my concerns about the death of Army Specialist Kendell Frederick, a Marylander who died in Iraq on his way to becoming a U.S. citizen. I was disappointed. It looks like you are being bamboozled by your staff, who want to whitewash what went wrong. 
   Bureaucratic confusion and misinformation led to significant delays and confusion for Spc. Frederick and his family. The consequence was - Kendell Frederick died trying to become a United States citizen. I apologized to Spc. Frederick's mother, Mrs. Michelle Murphy, for the failings of the United States government. I would hope you would do the same. 
   First, Mrs. Murphy received no help from your employees at USCIS when she called the customer service line for assistance with her son's citizenship application. The streamlined procedures that USCIS has created for those serving in the Armed Services didn't help Mrs. Murphy, because USCIS employees answering the customer service line knew nothing about them. This was very clear when Mrs. Murphy called the line and was told that Kendell would have to be fingerprinted in Baltimore to complete his application, even though he was serving in Iraq. Mrs. Murphy was told over and over again that USCIS customer service couldn't help her. This response was inaccurate, insensitive and indifferent to a customer - and to a mother fighting for her son while he was in Iraq fighting for us all. 
   In your letter, you point to the streamlined citizenship application for military personnel created by USCIS in 1999 as evidence that your Department did all it could to help Kendell and his mother. But this process seems to exist only on paper. Department employees dealing with customers knew nothing about it and took no steps to find out if the application process was different for military service members. With a shrug of the shoulders, your Department seems to have put the burden on the military, on a soldier fighting in Iraq, and on his mother. Where was DHS? In this regard, USCIS clearly failed Spc. Frederick. 
   Second, your letter did not address other problems with how the application process for service members is being implemented. For example, the citizenship application itself is outdated and does not reflect the current law. Information in the application conflicts directly with the information contained in the brochure for military service members. How is a person being shipped off to fight a war supposed to know which instructions are correct? If the Department can update the application to reflect an increase in fees, why can't the Department update the application to inform service members of what the current law is? These are the problems my legislation, the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act, seeks to fix. 
   I suggest you get the forms, and that you call the hotline. Act like you are a soldier's dad and see what happens to you. 
   Mr. Secretary, I'm trying to work with you in a constructive and civil manner to pinpoint the problem and take action to improve the citizenship process for service members. I don't want to be in a letter-writing war with you. I believe my legislation is a good place to start and I look forward to hearing your suggestions. Together, I know we can do better. If we can't work together, I will raise the decibel level. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski 
  United States Senator 
   The text of the letter from Sec. Chertoff follows: 
   December 14, 2005 
   The Honorable Barbara A. Mikulski 
  U.S. Senate 
  503 Hart Senate Office Building 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Senator Mikulski: 
   Thank you for your December 5 letter regarding citizenship processing for U.S. military personnel and the tragic death of Army Specialist Kendall Frederick. We sympathize with the family's grief over the loss of a loved one and we are saddened by the loss of a valued member of our Armed Services. SPC Frederick gave his life in the service of his country. 
   While it is my understanding that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) followed normal procedures in this case, I am sympathetic to your concern that the naturalization process can be burdensome and confusing. We are always striving to streamline our process further and are particularly cognizant of the need to facilitate requests from military personnel. We welcome your suggestions for changes to improve the citizenship process for service members and look forward to working with you on this issue. 
   In 1999, USCIS created a streamlined process specifically for military personnel serving in active-duty status or recently discharged. The Department of Defense has "military liaisons" specifically dedicated to supporting this activity. These military liaisons are available at every military installation and can be reached through a soldier's chain of command. In Fiscal Year 2005, USCIS naturalized nearly 9,000 members of the U.S. military domestically and, under new statutory authority, USCIS naturalized over 1,000 members of the military overseas. Over twenty percent of these new citizens were naturalized in either Iraq or Kuwait. 
   I understand that our Office of Legislative Affairs has had discussions with your staff about providing a briefing on the specifics of SPC Frederick's case, and we stand ready to provide that briefing. Please contact Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs Pam Turner at your earliest convenience to schedule this briefing. 
   Sincerely, 
   Michael Chertoff
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 