SENS. MIKULSKI, CARDIN ANNOUNCE U.S. SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM DELEGATES
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (both D-Md.) have announced the appointments of Sean Dzierzanowski and Sage Snider as the Maryland delegates to the 45th Anniversary United States Senate Youth Program in Washington, D.C.  
   "I am so proud of Sean Dzierzanowski and Sage Snider, who have demonstrated their leadership and commitment to public service as they continue their studies," said Senator Mikulski. "These young people are America's future leaders. The United States Senate Youth Program will help prepare them to take up the challenge of making the world a safer, stronger and smarter place to live." 
   "All Marylanders can be proud of Sean Dzierzanowski and Sage Snider and their commitment to our system of government. The Senate Youth Program will give them a wonderful opportunity to see first hand how our government works, and at the same time it will provide them with a significant college scholarship," said Senator Cardin. 
   Sean Dzierzanowski, a resident of Burtonsville, is President of the Student Government Association at Paint Branch High School. His additional leadership experience includes service as a Senior Patrol Leader of Boy Scouts, Commander of Naval Junior ROTC, member of the Resurrection Church Youth Leadership Team, and member of the Debate Team. Sean also participates in community service work as volunteer for Renaissance Assisted Living Facility. 
   Sage Snider, a resident of Severna Park, is Second Vice President of the Chesapeake Regional Association of Student Councils (CRASC) at Severna Park High School. Her additional leadership roles include serving as Treasurer of CRASC, co-chair for the Educational Liaisons Committee, co-chair for the Environmental and Community Action Committee and liaison to the Anne Arundel County School Board. Sage is a member of the International Thespian Society and the Chesapeake Youth Symphony Orchestra. 
   Chosen as alternates to the 2007 program were Andrew Vogl, a resident of New Market who attends Linganore High School, and Brian Levy, a resident of Towson who attends Loch Raven High School. 
   The student leaders will be in Washington, D.C., March 3-10, for a week of intensive study of the federal government, focusing on the United States Senate. Each of the 104 delegates will also receive a $5,000 college scholarship. The scholarship, and the program week in Washington, D.C., is made possible by a grant from the William Randolph Hearst Foundation.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 