SENS. MIKULSKI, BOND PROPOSE ?LIVING MEMORIAL' TO HONOR PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN, COMBAT ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) and Kit Bond (R-MO) announced today that, in honor of President Ronald Reagan, they are introducing The Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2004 - legislation that would double the funding for Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health. The bipartisan bill, which currently has 30 cosponsors, will also provide critical support for caregivers and launch a public education campaign to get the word out on the latest advances in research and prevention.  
   "I believe the greatest tribute to President Reagan and the Reagan family is a living memorial," said Senator Mikulski. "We should honor his life with new research and new initiatives on how to prevent Alzheimer's, how to care for those who have it, how to support those who are caregivers, and how to find a cure. We are truly on the brink of something that can make a huge difference for American families. We know the emotional cost and the financial cost families face when a loved one has Alzheimer's. We know what we'd get for additional investment in research - new treatments that extend a patient's memory or ability to go about day-to-day tasks. Every month that we can delay admission to a long-term care facility is important to the family - and important to the taxpayers." 
   "This bill will serve as a living tribute to President Reagan and will offer hope to all those suffering from the disease today," said Senator Kit Bond. "As we celebrate the life and legacy of Ronald Reagan, it is critical that we move quickly to pass this bill and confront this expanding public health crisis with renewed vigor, passion, and compassion." 
   "Former president Ronald Reagan and Nancy Reagan gracefully and privately struggled for a decade as Alzheimer's took over their lives, but theirs is a story that millions of Americans now share, and which millions more will soon know all too well. We need too act now to get in front of this growing epidemic, and the best way to do so is to pass this legislation as soon as possible," said Congressman Ed Markey (D-MA), who is introducing similar legislation with Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ) today in the House of Representatives. 
   Last month, Senators Mikulski and Bond held a hearing on Alzheimer's research in the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Subcommittee on Aging. Numerous experts testified that increased funding for NIH research over the next year would help scientists make important breakthroughs in the discovery of methods to detect, prevent and treat Alzheimer's. 
   Key provisions of The Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2004 include: 
   1. Strengthens Federal Government's Commitment to Alzheimer's Disease Research 
   By doubling the funding for Alzheimer's Disease research at the National Institutes of Health (from $700 million to $1.4 billion), researchers will have the resources they need to make the breakthroughs that are on the horizon. For example, more funding would mean more clinical trials to test new ideas to prevent Alzheimer's and the best therapies to treat the disease and slow the onset of symptoms. 
   The legislation also calls for a National Summit on Alzheimer's Disease that would bring in the best minds from across the country to examine the NIH's current research agenda for Alzheimer's, future research priorities, and challenges and opportunities for the research community and the public. 
   2. Provides Critical Support to Caregivers
   The legislation helps family caregivers pay for the costs of caring for loved one with Alzheimer's by providing a tax credit of up to $3,000 to help pay for caregiving costs like prescription drugs, home health care, and specialized day care. 
   This legislation also works to increase the availability of services such as respite care, home health care, counseling and training. The bill proposes doubling funds for two existing initiatives - the National Caregiver Support Program (from $125 million to $250 million) and the Alzheimer's Demonstration Grant Program (from $12 million to $25 million). 
   The bill also increases access to respite care services for caregivers by providing grants to states, nonprofit organizations and others to inform the public about respite care, increase respite care services, and train respite care workers/volunteers. 
   3. Educates Public with "News You Can Use" 
   This legislation would launch a "News You Can Use" education campaign to get the word out about advances in research. While scientists are working for a cure, this public education campaign will help families and doctors find out the latest information on how to help prevent Alzheimer's disease and how to slow the onset of symptoms. 
   "Today, 4.5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease," said Senator Mikulski. "They live in every state. They live in cities, suburbs and on farms. They may own small grocery stores like my father - who suffered from this disease. They could be President of the United States. Alzheimer's is an All American disease that affected an All American President. Now we need an All American effort to find breakthroughs and speed up the day when no family has to go through the long goodbye." 
   Full bill summary available upon request.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 