SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES WORKING TO PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski and Sen. Paul Sarbanes (both D-MD) announced today that the 2006 Homeland Security Appropriations bill includes federal funding to help protect high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks. This $25 million is an important victory for institutions that provide vital health, social, cultural and educational services to the American people and are often the "soft targets" of terrorism.  
   "We must help protect our hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches from terrorist violence," said Senator Mikulski. "This is a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk of terrorist attacks. Know that I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   "This funding will be critically important in making needed infrastructure safety improvements and protecting those citizens who work in non-profit institutions that may be deemed 'high risk' in our continued war on terrorism," said Senator Sarbanes. "Senator Mikulski has been a champion in this effort and I applaud her work in keeping our people safe." 
   This $25 million in federal funding would go to the Homeland Security Department's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute to high-risk non-profit organizations. The non-profits will use the federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers. 
   Senator Mikulski has worked for the past two years to secure funding for high-risk non-profits. Last year, Senator Mikulski offered an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security bill that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. She was able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. Senator Mikulski's efforts received broad national support from groups such as United Jewish Communities, Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, American Red Cross, United Way, American Hospital Association, American Association of Museums, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), American Jewish Congress, Theatre Communications Group, and YMCA of the USA. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. The conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Homeland Security Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee. Senator Sarbanes is a member of the Budget Committee.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 