SEN. MIKULSKI RAISES CONCERNS ABOUT COMMUNICATION, COORDINATION IN TIMES OF PUBLIC HEALTH CRISES
  As the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions begins the reauthorization of the Bioterrorism Act of 2002, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member, called for a comprehensive evaluation of the nation's public health infrastructure. This morning, Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt, testified before committee members on Capitol Hill. 
   "The American public must have the information it needs to prepare and respond to a bioterror or public health emergency and the equally dangerous panic that can follow. Americans need information that is both credible and competent," said Senator Mikulski. "An informed, prepared American public will make better decisions and will react more calmly in a public health emergency."  
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "Chairman Enzi and Ranking Member Kennedy, thank you for holding this hearing. I look forward to hearing from our panel of witnesses about the status of the Bioterrorism Act of 2002 - where we are, where we have been, and where we need to go to strengthen our country's public health infrastructure. 
   "I was proud to support this legislation when it passed in 2002. This committee worked diligently to create a comprehensive piece of legislation that would improve our country's public health infrastructure, protect our food supply, and prepare us for a bioterrorist threat. This legislation was crafted after our country witnessed the events of September 11, and our own Senate complex was hit with Anthrax. This Act was our battle plan for homeland defense against disease, security threats and fear. Many of the programs and provisions in the Act have been successful and have moved federal, state and local government partners in the right direction. However, there are still major issues that must be addressed. 
   "Our country's public health system was put to the test during Hurricane Katrina and it failed. As we turn to the responsibility we have to reauthorize this legislation this year, we must look at the lessons learned from Hurricane Katrina. Many of us will never forget the individual at the Super Dome in New Orleans holding the sign that read 'Aren't we American's too?' In many ways, our public health system failed the people of New Orleans. We must figure out how we improve our existing efforts to strengthen the nation's public health infrastructure. 
   "We must also look at ways we must plan for our nation's senior population during a bioterror or public health emergency. Older adults were particularly hard hit by Hurricane Katrina - diabetic seniors were unable to access proper medical care and frail seniors were abandoned and left to drown in nursing homes. Older adults have distinct needs that present challenges to community- wide planning and response. We must come up with a plan for how we can serve this population during an emergency. 
   "When we worked on this bill in 2002, an issue of great importance to me was communication. That is why I authored a provision in the Act that established an Emergency Public Information and Communications (EPIC) Task Force to develop recommendations on how best to communicate information to the public during an emergency. I look forward to hearing from Secretary Leavitt about how these recommendations have been disseminated inside HHS as well as to local and state governments. 
   "The American public must have the information it needs to prepare and respond to a bioterror or public health emergency and the equally dangerous panic that can follow. Americans need information that is both credible and competent. An informed, prepared American public will make better decisions and will react more calmly in a public health emergency. 
   "Another issue that we must clarify is 'who is in charge during a bioterror or public health emergency?' It is shocking, disturbing, unnerving and scary to me that we do not have the answer to who is in charge or have a clear command chain. 
   "Again, I look forward to hearing from our witnesses this morning and look forward to working with my colleagues to reauthorize this important piece of legislation."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 