SEN. MIKULSKI SECURES NAVY COMMITMENT ON BLOODSWORTH ISLAND
  At a Capitol Hill hearing today, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) secured the Navy's commitment that they would not increase military activity at Bloodsworth Island in the Chesapeake Bay - including dropping bombs on the island. It was reported last week that the Navy was proposing to expand military training exercises on Bloodsworth Island, which was used for bomb practice by the Navy until nine years ago.  
   In questioning two top Navy officials - Navy Secretary Gordon England and Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Vern Clark - Senator Mikulski demanded to know the Navy's plans for using Bloodsworth Island for new military exercises. 
   "The community is very concerned," said Senator Mikulski. "For all of you who've lived in Maryland, who've gone to school in Maryland, you know we're Navy supporters. But we're concerned about live ammunition and the destruction and saving some lives when you threaten the livelihood of the things that thrive on the Chesapeake Bay." 
   In response to Senator Mikulski's questions, Secretary England stated, "We're not going to have any amphibious assaults or drop bombs or all those things on Bloodsworth Island...Now let me make it real clear. There are no plans for any kind of increased operations on Bloodsworth." 
   Mikulski further pressed, "So you don't intend to bomb it? You don't intend use live ammunition?" Admiral Clark responded, "No, that's correct. There are no plans and there will be no changes in the operational status of Bloodsworth." 
   Mikulski declared today's commitment by the Navy a victory. "This is a real victory for neighbors of Bloodsworth Island and for our Chesapeake Bay. Maryland is a Navy-backing state. But we cannot allow the Navy to use Bloodsworth Island for target practice. The Navy now needs to go back to the community and do a better job of communicating with them about their plans for Bloodsworth Island." 
   The Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee held today's hearing on the Navy's budget. Senator Mikulski is a new member of this Subcommittee.
   To hear and/or broadcast audio from today's hearing, go to http://democrats.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski050316.mp3, or call 1-800-511-0763 and enter actuality number 7134.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 