SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES AT WALTER REED ARMY MEDICAL CENTER
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined several of her Senate and House colleagues, including Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes, Reps. Steny Hoyer and Albert Wynn (all D-Md.) in sending a letter to Secretary of the Army Francis J. Harvey, urging him not to enter into a contract for base operations support services, which would result in the outsourcing of 350 federal jobs at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. In the letter, the members criticize the highly unusual circumstances of this particular privatization review and express concern that the Army may be violating provisions in the Defense Appropriations bill, as well as rules set by the Department of Defense that limit A-76 reviews to 48 months. The letter also warns that Congressional intervention may be necessary if the Army proceeds with this contract. 
   "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. These hardworking men and women deserve to be treated fairly and, at the very least, deserve to have the same rights that contractors do," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue my fight to give federal employees a level playing field in the competition process that is shamefully slanted in favor of private contractors."  
   Senator Mikulski has fought for years to improve the contracting out process. In 2005, despite a veto threat by the White House, Senator Mikulski secured a major victory for federal employees by including provisions in the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development 2006 spending bill to help government workers compete with contractors and provide improved guidelines for a more fair competition process before jobs are contracted out. 
   In May 2003, the administration issued new guidelines for these public-private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These new procedures favored contractors and stacked the deck against federal employees. Under the new provisions, federal employees are permitted to submit their own best bids and contractors are required to demonstrate a savings of at least 10 percent or $10 million. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   March 16, 2006 
   The Honorable Francis J. Harvey, Secretary of the Army 
  101 Army Pentagon 
  Washington, D.C. 20310-0101 
   Dear Secretary Harvey: 
   The undersigned lawmakers urge you not to enter into a contract for base operations support services at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center (WRAMC). A September 29, 2004, decision in favor of the in-house workforce was subsequently reversed earlier this year, resulting in a tentative decision to contract out the jobs of 350 federal employees in favor of a $120 million contract. The highly unusual circumstances surrounding this particular OMB Circular A-76 privatization review, particularly the apparent violation of the Anti-Deficiency Act, demand sustained Congressional scrutiny and if necessary decisive Congressional intervention. 
   The WRAMC OMB Circular A-76 privatization review was started on June 13, 2000, under the previous Administration. The Department of Defense (DoD) received a waiver, special permission, from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to continue the WRAMC A-76 review under the rules of the Circular prior to its revision on May 29, 2003. However, OMB set certain conditions on how the WRAMC A-76 was to be conducted. OMB "expect(ed) DoD to make final decisions for these cost comparisons (including the WRAMC privatization review) no later than September 30, 2004, the completion date projected by the DoD Competitive Sourcing Official in his October 24, 2003, letter to OMB...The DoD Competitive Sourcing Official is responsible for ensuring use of the previous Circular is limited to timely completion or cancellation of any initiative..." However, the Army continued the WRAMC A-76 privatization review past September 30, 2004. Under the current Circular, DoD could not unilaterally change the terms of the waiver from OMB. While it could have asked OMB for an extension, it appears that DoD never submitted such a request. The WRAMC privatization review should have been cancelled when the deadline in the waiver had expired but the Army had failed to complete the WRAMC privatization review in a "timely" fashion. 
   The excessive length of the WRAMC privatization review appears to be in violation of both DoD's own rules, which limit A-76 privatization reviews for multi-function activities to 48 months, and, more importantly, the Defense Appropriations Bill, which limits A-76 studies for multi-function activities to 30 months. As you might imagine, the Congress takes very seriously any violations of the Anti-Deficiency Act. The apparent failures of the Army to abide by the terms of the OMB waiver, its own rules, and the law, in conducting the WRAMC privatization review long past the established deadlines, are not mere technicalities. Deadlines for the completion of A-76 privatization reviews are established for a very good reason: such exercises generate significant costs and can undermine productivity. The longer A-76 privatization reviews continue, the higher their costs; and the higher their costs, the less likely that those A-76 privatization reviews will generate any actual savings. 
   We appreciate that the Army understands very well the highly unusual circumstances surrounding the WRAMC A-76 privatization review as well as the strong arguments for its cancellation. After all, after the sixteenth solicitation to the solicitation was issued, one which included more than 1,500 changes, many of them involving significant increases in workload, the in-house bid was decertified. That's why the Army's Assistant Secretary for Installations and Environment reported in an August 8, 2005, letter to the contractor that the "Army will request approval to cancel the (WRAMC privatization) study." Given its troubled history, that was clearly the correct course of action. 
   Again, the undersigned lawmakers urge you not to enter into a contract for base operations support services at WRAMC.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 