SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTING TO MAKE COLLEGE TUITION MORE AFFORDABLE
  In an effort to make college tuition more affordable for families, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today introduced legislation that would provide families with a $4,000 tuition tax credit for every year of college. If passed, Sen. Mikulski's amendment would become part of the Fiscal Year 2006 budget. "College is part of the American dream. It shouldn't be part of a financial nightmare for families," said Sen. Mikulski. 
   "College tuition is on the rise. Our students are graduating with so much debt, it's like their first mortgage. Families are looking for help. Unfortunately, the President's budget doesn't offer much hope. That's why I'm offering an amendment that would give every family sending a child to college a $4,000 tuition tax credit. I want to make sure every student has access to a college education." 
   Senator Mikulski's amendment would provide a $4,000 tax credit for tuition for each of the four years of college. It would also be refundable, so that families that don't owe taxes at the end of the year can still get the full credit. The tax credit would help everyone from the first-time student attending a four-year college to a mid-career student attending a community college. 
   Tuition at colleges across the country has been steadily increasing in recent years. In Maryland, for example, University of Maryland tuition has increased by 30% over the last two years, and tuition at some of Maryland's community colleges is up approximately 10% since last year. Financial aid isn't keeping up with these rising costs. Today, Pell Grants cover only 40% of average costs at a four-year public college, compared to 80% twenty years ago. The average undergraduate student debt from college loans is $17,000. 
   "Our middle class families are stressed and stretched," continued Senator Mikulski. "They don't know how they can afford to send their kids to college: college tuition is on the rise and Financial Aid isn't keeping up. I believe we need to invest in human capital. My amendment will help make college affordable for middle class families and give help to those who practice self help."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 