SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT FOR AMERICA'S SENIORS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, today continued her fight to support America's seniors through programs like Naturally Occurring Retirement Communities (NORCs). Sen. Mikulski used this morning's subcommittee hearing to learn the best practices from current NORCs and NORC support programs to help provide a national model.  
   "As our nation anticipates the retirement of 78 million baby boomers, we must look at model programs that help keep seniors at home and independent. Seniors should be able to stay in the communities they know for as long as possible," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I work so hard to support NORCs and stand up to make sure seniors can age in place. I will continue to fight for seniors in Maryland and across the country." 
   Twenty-seven percent of all Americans over the age of 60 live in NORCs, which are neighborhoods where residents are able to age in place. Without them, older Americans would have to move to institutional facilities prematurely because of the lack of resources available to help them continue to live at home. 
   In the past several years, organizations and government entities have developed supportive service program models for NORCs that include providing residents with social work services and health, transportation and recreational programs. These programs allow seniors to remain in their neighborhoods and live independently while receiving essential services in their homes. 
   "I have worked with the United Jewish Communities since 2001 to establish NORC models and programs for Maryland communities. I have visited the NORCs in Maryland and seen their tremendous impact," said Senator Mikulski. "My best ideas come from the people - that's why I want to hear about lessons learned and best practices that can be used to expand these programs to other communities across the country." 
   Witnesses at today's hearing included: Elinor Ginzler, Director of Livable Communities Program for the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP); Julia Pierson, Director of the Senior Home Services division of the Jewish Federation of Washington, D.C.; and Beth Shapiro, Manager of Community Partners, The Associated: Jewish Community Federation of Baltimore.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 