SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR YOUTH AFTERSCHOOL PROGRAMS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) joined with a bipartisan group of her colleagues today to introduce legislation that would make sure more children and teens have a safe place to go after school while many of their parents are still at work. This legislation would increase funding to afterschool programs by $1.25 billion: the full amount promised in the No Child Left Behind Act. The administration only included about $1 billion for after school programs in its budget.  
   The proposed legislation is a bipartisan effort that would fund the 21st Century Community Learning Centers, which provides resources to afterschool programs nationwide. If passed, it will become part of the Fiscal Year 2006 budget. 
   This increase would include a $16.5 million boost to Maryland afterschool programs and would allow the state to double the amount of children it could serve - giving nearly 38,000 children the opportunity to benefit from the programs. 
   "Parents today are stressed and strained," said Senator Mikulski. "Many are working two jobs just to make ends meet. Parents want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own. That's why the federal government must live up to its obligations to fund afterschool programs for our nation's children. I will continue to fight to make sure the federal government keeps the promise it made in the No Child Left Behind Act to fully fund afterschool programs for our children." 
   Nationwide, 14 million children in kindergarten through high school, including twenty-five percent of Maryland's youth, come back to an empty home after school. Afterschool programs offer both a safe haven to these children and peace of mind to their parents. The programs also help students to better succeed in their schoolwork. If the afterschool programs were available in their area, parents of more than 15 million children say they would participate, according to 
   In a letter dated Dec. 9, 2003, Senator Mikulski joined her women colleagues in the Senate to ask President Bush to allow for enough funding for the programs in the fiscal year 2005 budget. The letter, in part, reads: 
   "These programs are critical to children's success in school and in life, as well as their parents' ability to work ... Communities in our states are increasingly searching for additional afterschool programming to meet these needs. They rely on these programs to keep kids safe, help working families, and provide children with a much needed opportunity to learn and grow."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 