SEN. MIKULSKI, REP. TUBBS JONES CONTINUE FIGHT FOR UTERINE FIBROID RESEARCH FUNDING
  As we recognize National Women's Health Week, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today introduced the Uterine Fibroid Research and Education Act, which would double federal funding for uterine fibroid research and fund a public education campaign on the condition. Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-Ohio) also introduced companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. Identical legislation was introduced in the 109th Congress. 
   "Even though 20-25 percent of all reproductive age women have uterine fibroids, little is known about them and there are still few good treatment options available. Women deserve better," said Senator Mikulski. "Since my first days in Congress, I have been fighting to make sure women don't get left out or left behind when it comes to their health. This legislation will address this silent epidemic among American women." 
   "Right now, hysterectomy is the most common treatment for uterine fibroids, accounting for 200,000 or 30 percent of all hysterectomies in the United States," said Rep. Tubbs Jones. "That is why I am pleased to once again join Senator Mikulski in reintroducing the Uterine Fibroid Research and Education Act to find new and better ways to treat or even cure uterine fibroids." 
   Uterine fibroids are non-cancerous tumors that form within a woman's uterine lining. A recent study found that by the age of 50, the incidence of uterine fibroids is over 80 percent for African American women and about 70 percent for white women. Fibroids result in a substantial cost to the U.S. health care system. The study also found that the disease results in $2.1 billion in direct costs annually, $1.7 billion of which are a direct result of inpatient hospital costs due to hysterectomy. 
   This legislation will authorize $30 million in federal funding for uterine fibroid research each year for five years, doubling the budget from last year's $15 million. Research is needed to find out what causes uterine fibroids, why African American women are disproportionately affected, and what can be done to prevent and treat the condition. In addition, this bill creates a program to educate doctors and their patients about uterine fibroids so that women get the information they need to make the best decisions regarding their health. 
   National Women's Health Week is May 13-19, 2007, and is designated as a time to raise awareness on women's health issues and recognize the importance of programs that help all women access the care they need. Senator Mikulski joined a group of her colleagues to introduce the National Women's Health Week Resolution honoring the week, which passed the Senate unanimously last night.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 