SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO RESTORE ESSENTIAL FUNDING FOR HEALTH, EDUCATION PROGRAMS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Senate colleagues including Sens. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) today to fight for an additional $7 billion in federal funding for critical health, education, training and low-income programs. The effort, an amendment to the FY2007 budget currently being considering in the U.S. Senate, would restore funds that have been cut from the Labor-HHS spending bill.  
   "This budget has all the wrong priorities. Instead of easing the burden on middle-class families and helping to curb the costs of education and health care, President Bush and the Republicans want to cut funding for these programs by more than $4 billion and spend billions on tax breaks for multi-millionaires," said Senator Mikulski. "Families are looking for help and President Bush doesn't offer them much hope." 
   The Labor-HHS spending bill funds the federal programs that keep America competitive and provide health, education, and job opportunities to those who need it most. This includes programs like No Child Left Behind, Pell Grants, National Institutes of Health (NIH) and nursing education. President Bush's proposed FY2007 budget slashes $4.2 billion from the FY2006 Labor-HHS bill and is $7 billion below the level in the FY2005 bill. 
   "Our middle-class families are stressed and stretched," said Senator Mikulski. "Families in my state of Maryland are worried - they're worried about their jobs, they're terrified of losing their health care, and they don't know how they're going to afford to send their kids to college." 
   While the Senate budget resolution says it has more funding for health and education than the President's budget does, it includes the same total amount for discretionary spending. Therefore, there is no guarantee health and education increases will ever materialize in the Labor-HHS spending bill. This amendment is the only way to ensure more funding for Labor-HHS programs by adding money to the total spending level. 
   "These additional funds are crucial for so many important programs that change lives and save lives," continued Senator Mikulski. "I will keep fighting so that these programs get the funds that they need and to ensure that Americans have health care at any age, public schools they can depend on, and access to higher education."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 