SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS ANSWERS NEEDED ON CONFLICTING STATUS OF NATION'S HEALTH RESEARCH FACILITIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today sent a letter to National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director Dr. Elias A. Zerhouni, asking for answers on the state of the new NIH and National Institute of Aging (NIA) facilities on Johns Hopkins University's Bayview campus. Recent reports have suggested the facility has fallen victim to cost-cutting and fails to meet NIH guidelines, both of which could severely impede research. Sen. Mikulski is the prospective incoming Chair of the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. 
   The full text of the letter is below:  
   Dear Dr. Zerhouni: 
   As the future chairman of the Retirement Security and Aging subcommittee to the HELP committee, I am concerned to learn that there may be problems with the new National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Institute on Aging (NIA) buildings on the Johns Hopkins Bayview campus. 
   I supported the decision of the National Institutes of Health to build a $250 million state-of-the-art research laboratory on the Johns Hopkins Bayview campus. The Biomedical Research Center (BRC) will not only provide a facility for NIH to advance research, but will serve as a major anchor for a community that is transforming from heavy industry to the knowledge based economy of the 21st century. 
   At the time of the BRC groundbreaking, it was anticipated that the facility would provide the Institutes already housed at Bayview with much needed space to support their critical work. 
   Yet, I am very concerned about the facility after reading in the Baltimore Sun that "the New Lab Built for NIH Vibrates." The article suggests that the facility has fallen victim to cost-cutting, fails to meet NIH guidelines, and could severely impede research. 
   In order to clarify the issues reported in the article, I ask you to respond to the following questions: 
   1. Is there a vibration problem facing the new Biomedical Research Center? If so, how severe is the problem? 
   2. Was vibration known to be an inherent risk with the type of steel construction chosen by NIH for the building? If so, what assurances were received from the architect or other consultants to justify proceeding notwithstanding such risk? 
   3. What engineering studies of the vibration issues have been conducted and when? 
   4. What additional engineering assessments are planned? Please specify the stage of construction when the assessment will be performed. 
   5. What advice have you received from your architect regarding the extent of the vibration issue? 
   6. What remedies have been proposed and what are their potential costs? When must decisions be made about the implementation of these potential remedies? 
   7. Does NIH view the vibration problem as potentially causing the building to not meet requirements for "substantial completion" under its lease and financing documents? 
   8. What research in the two institutes slated to occupy the BRC may be affected by the vibration issue? To what extent? 
   9. The article states that NIA research requiring sensitive equipment may be impacted by the vibration. Has NIDA raised similar vibration concerns? 
   10. What is the status of NIA and NIDA occupancy of the BRC? 
   11. Is it feasible to reassign the NIA research that would be impacted by the vibration issues to other floors of the BRC or other facilities at Bayview? If alternative space is not available at Bayview, what is your plan regarding NIA's continued presence in Baltimore? 
   12. If NIA cannot occupy the space, are there other NIH programs that can occupy the space? 
   13. When do you expect to fully occupy the BRC? 
   14. If the space cannot be used as planned, how does NIH plan to pay the costs associated with the lease backed bonds? 
   I look forward to your response to these questions. The success of biomedical research is of tremendous importance to our nation and I want to ensure that the dedicated investigators of NIH have the facilities needed to advance their work.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 