SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that four Maryland Fire Departments are being awarded a total of $453,114 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Maryland. Congratulations to these departments on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Bladensburg Volunteer Fire Department, located in Prince George's County, will use its federal award of $278,527 to purchase new communications equipment. This new equipment will give firefighters the ability to communicate with each other and other first responders while responding to an emergency. This improvement in interoperability will also enable the Department to coordinate with local, state and federal agencies in the event of a major incident. 
   For more information about the Bladensburg Volunteer Fire Department, please contact Lieutenant Scott Glazer at 240-832-7199. 
   This is the fifth award for a Prince George's County Fire Department through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program this year, totaling $394,000 in federal funding. 
   The Madison Volunteer Fire Company, in Dorchester County, will use its $90,720 federal grant to purchase new turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats) and a thermal imaging camera. The thermal imaging camera will enable firefighters to find people in smoke-filled buildings or other low-visibility situations who may be hurt or otherwise unable to get out of the buildings themselves. Firefighters can use the camera to locate hidden fires and minimize property damage. 
   The department will also use its federal award to purchase several new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units. The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   For more information on the Madison Volunteer Fire Company, please contact Wade Kenny at 410-228-5567. 
   So far this year, Dorchester County Fire Departments have received five awards totaling $339,386 in federal funding. 
   The Mechanicsville Volunteer Fire Department, located in St. Mary's County, will use its federal award of $76,167 to purchase two diesel exhaust systems. 
   The Department will also use its funding to purchase physical and cardiovascular fitness equipment. This updated equipment will help firefighters implement physical fitness regimens, lowering their risk of heart attack. Heart disease is the leading cause of death among firefighters nationwide. 
   For more information on the Mechanicsville Volunteer Fire Department, please contact Joseph Guyther at 301-342-1174. 
   This is the first award to a St. Mary's County Fire Department through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program this year. 
   The Bel Air Volunteer Fire Company, in Harford County, will use its federal award of $7,700 to purchase an air compressor. 
   For more information on the Bel Air Volunteer Fire Company, please contact Thomas Schaech at 410-638-4401. 
   This is the fifth award for a Harford County Fire Department through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program this year, totaling $416,232 in federal assistance. 
   So far this year, 51 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $6,253,076 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.5 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. This will fund less than one-third of the requests received this year. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $200 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old. 
   Increasing the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, this amendment could have meant protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 