SEN. MIKULSKI REQUESTS FURTHER REVIEW OF PUBLIC SAFETY AT FORT DETRICK
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that earlier this week she formally wrote to Dr. Ralph J. Cicerone, President of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), to request that the NAS explore a National Research Council (NRC) review of safety measures to protect the community surrounding the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) at Fort Detrick. Her letter follows a Frederick County Commission vote last week to ask Senator Mikulski to forward their request to the NAS. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=295914. 
   "Community concerns continue to exist about health and safety risks, environmental impacts, and the adequacy of the environmental impact study and its risk assessment," wrote Senator Mikulski. "A National Academy of Sciences independent, scientific peer review of risk assessments and preventive measures would assure my constituents of their right to be heard."
   A copy of the letter is below:
   Dear Dr. Cicerone,
   I am writing to request that the National Academy of Sciences explore a National Research Council (NRC) review of safety measures to protect the community surrounding the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) at Fort Detrick, Maryland. The Army finalized its environmental impact study for the expansion of USAMRIID in December 2006. However, as the attached letter from the Frederick County Board of County Commissioners indicates, community concerns continue to exist about health and safety risks, environmental impacts, and the adequacy of the environmental impact study and its risk assessment.
   A National Academy of Sciences independent, scientific peer review of risk assessments and preventive measures would assure my constituents of their right to be heard. The attached letter from the Board of County Commissioners proposes a very thoughtful scope of the review.
   Please meet with the Frederick County Board of County Commissioners as soon as possible to explore this proposal and the steps needed to initiate an NRC Review.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 