SEN. MIKULSKI, REP. CUMMINGS CALL FOR INVESTIGATION INTO STUDY THAT SPREAD HUMAN, INDUSTRIAL WASTE IN BALTIMORE NEIGHBORHOODS
  Responding to troubling news report by the Associated Press (AP) and Baltimore Sun that scientists used federal grants to spread fertilizer made from human and industrial wastes on yards in poor, black neighborhoods in Baltimore to test whether it might protect children from lead poisoning in the soil, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski and Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (both D-Md.) today wrote Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Alphonso R. Jackson to ask for a federal investigation into safety concerns raised by the study. The members pledged to follow up with Secretary Jackson's successor, who has yet to be named following his resignation, which is effective Friday. 
   According to the original AP story, nine low-income families in Baltimore rowhouses agreed to let researchers till the sewage sludge into their yards and plant new grass. In exchange, they were given food coupons as well as the free lawns as part of a study published in 2005 and funded by HUD. Families were assured the sludge was safe and were never told about any harmful ingredients.
   The letter is below:
   Dear Secretary Jackson:
   We are writing to ask you to investigate reports involving a HUD-funded study on lead dust in residential yards in Baltimore. We are strong supporters of federal efforts to abate the damage caused by lead paint. Yet this study has raised serious questions about the safety of the families who participated in the study.
   The Associated Press has reported that scientists using federal grants provided by HUD conducted a test in which they spread fertilizer made from human and animal waste in the yards of nine low-income, African-American families in Baltimore. The purpose of this grant was to see if this substance would protect children from lead poisoning in the soil.
   The Maryland Chapter of the NAACP has raised serious questions that deserve to be answered. In particular, we would like HUD to answer, but not be limited to, the following questions:
   * What safeguards were in place in awarding and monitoring this grant?
   * Were families given adequate information about the potential harmful health effects from the sludge?
   * Did the families give adequate consent?
   * Why and how were the nine families chosen to participate in this study?
   We urge HUD to investigate this matter immediately and look forward to your prompt response.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 