TEAM MARYLAND CELEBRATES ARMY'S DISPATCH OF FIRST WAVE TO ABERDEEN PROVING GROUND
  Senators Barbara A. Mikulski, Benjamin L. Cardin and Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (all D-Md.) released the following statements today after U.S. Army Materiel Command (AMC) announced it will move forward with an early move of an "advance team" from Fort Monmouth, N.J., to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) in Harford County, Md. The move is the first of many in the transition of Fort Monmouth to APG, in accordance with the recommendations of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission.  
   AMC's release is attached. 
   "Today's announcement is another step in demonstrating the Army's commitment to APG. We will continue to work as Team Maryland to ensure that APG and its surrounding community has the resources it needs to accommodate the anticipated new growth," said Senator Mikulski, Chair of the Maryland congressional delegation. "As we move forward, I hope we will continue to focus on what is best for the nation as a whole. The BRAC recommendations, and its great news for APG, were based on mission and merit. The recommendations are a testament to the strength of Maryland's military bases, our military and the communities that support them." 
   "I am pleased that the Army is moving forward with its plans to move personnel to APG. The BRAC recommendations are geared to strengthening our nation's military so that we can deal with challenges we may face in the future. Our goal is for an efficient and orderly transition, and Maryland is ready to assist in that process," said Senator Cardin. 
   "Team Maryland salutes America's warfighters as they make this move to our state. Maryland is at the ready to help to ensure a smooth and orderly transition as they work to keep our country safe. BRAC is about strengthening the security of our nation. Team Maryland is working hard to ensure that our servicemen and women, military bases, and surrounding communities have the resources they need to get the job done," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. 
   Staff from the member's offices met with U.S. Army representatives earlier this month and received a briefing on AMC's step-by-step timeline for moving assets into Maryland and a detailed funding plan to support these moves while ensuring no disruption in support for the warfighter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 