SEN. MIKULSKI: FISA REFORM EMPOWERS INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, SAFEGUARDS CIVIL LIBERTIES
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, urged her Senate colleagues to pass the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) in a floor speech this afternoon. Senator Mikulski highlighted the need for FISA reform in the face of new technologies, challenges and threats, and discussed the importance of a sunset provision that allows congressional leaders to continue review and oversight. 
   "As a United States Senator, I have two responsibilities - to protect the American people, and to protect the privacy and civil liberties of American citizens. The Intelligence Committee's bill to modernize FISA does both," said Senator Mikulski. "Our bill gives the intelligence community the tools it needs to disrupt terrorist plots while safeguarding the civil liberties of American citizens." 
   Video of Senator Mikulski's floor statement will be available on Pathfire's Digital Media Gateway later today. Instructions to access Pathfire's content can be found at: www.mikulski.senate.gov/pdfs/pathfire.pdf.  
   To hear and/or broadcast a radio actuality of Senator Mikulski's floor statement, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 1920 or go to http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski071217.mp3.
   Senator Mikulski's statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "As a United States Senator I have two responsibilities - to protect the American people, and to protect the privacy and civil liberties of American citizens. The Intelligence Committee's bill to modernize FISA does both. It gives our intelligence community the tools it needs to disrupt terrorist plots while safeguarding the civil liberties of American citizens. 
   "The FISA Act was created in 1978. Since then, technology has changed with great speed and sophistication. Constantly emerging, radical and treacherous threats demand a new, comprehensive reform of the FISA law. Yet while technology and the nature of the threats we face have changed, Democratic values and the Constitution have not. It is imperative that this Congress uphold both our Constitution and our democratic values. 
   "I believe that the Intelligence Committee's bill will make America safer. It does this by giving U.S. intelligence professionals the tools they need to safeguard and protect Americans from terrorist attacks. 
   "Six years after 9/11, terrorists remain on the hunt for U.S. vulnerabilities, using disposable phone cards, laptop computers and different email addresses. Current law makes it impossible for the U.S. to engage in techno hot pursuit. This bill enables intelligence personnel to keep pace with terrorists who have predatory intent toward the American people. U.S. intelligence professionals must be able to monitor terrorists overseas with the speed and flexibility they need. This reform legislation empowers the intelligence community to detect, disrupt and prevent terrorist attacks on the United States and our allies. 
   "I believe this bill also safeguards and enhances the constitutional rights of Americans, both in the United States and overseas. This bill protects their privacy in two important ways. First, it strengthens the role of the FISA court. The Intelligence Committee bill requires a FISA court-approved warrant to monitor a U.S. person in the United States. This means the FISA court must determine whether surveillance is legal. The FISA court must judge that the procedures used to target terrorists overseas are lawful. Second, this bill protects the privacy rights of all Americans, whether they are in the United States, living or traveling overseas as students, conducting business or on personal travel. 
   "I voted for the Wyden amendment, which says 'your privacy rights as an American don't stop when you leave the borders of the United States.' The Wyden amendment requires that the FISA court approve the targeting of Americans overseas. This means that FISA court approval is required to investigate a person overseas. This means your constitutional rights are based on your citizenship, not your geographic location. The Constitution travels with you wherever you go. 
   "There are important concerns about granting immunity to the telecom companies that cooperated with the Bush Administration in the days following September 11. We must examine what the telecom companies were asked to do, what legal assurances were they given and by whom, and the context in which they acted. There had been an attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Other attacks were being planned. The nation was gripped by fear and apprehension that another attack was imminent. Anxiety filled the air - whether you were getting on a plane or a train or going to a football game. The U.S. Capitol was hit by an anthrax attack. People were snapping up gas masks and survival kits. Every single American was clear that they wanted to do anything to detect, prevent or disrupt the next attack. We were all asked to do our part. 
   "It was in this context that the Bush Administration went to the telecom companies. These companies were asked to assist with a communications program to prevent further attacks. They were given letters that said the requested assistance was considered lawful by then Attorney General John Ashcroft or then White House Counsel Alberto Gonzalez. The written correspondence also stated that the activities were authorized by the President. Within this context, the telecom companies thought they were being patriotic corporate citizens at a time when the U.S. felt itself to be under threat of imminent attack by a new kind of emerging threat. Having been given this legal assurance, I believe the telecom companies should be given targeted, limited immunity. We should not go after companies who thought what they were doing was patriotic and legal. What I do not support is the Bush Administration's request that immunity be given to Bush officials who knowingly broke or sidestepped the law and that's not what the Intelligence Committee's bill does. Bush Administration officials who knowingly broke the law will be held accountable. 
   "This bill will sunset after six years. This is a critical provision that I worked hard to include in the bill. In the heat of war, we must continue to reevaluate and improve this law. Congress must provide oversight and review of this important law to ensure that the principles of this act protect the American people. 
   "As a United States Senator, I took an oath to protect and defend the people against all enemies - foreign and domestic - to protect its people and its Constitution. I also have a duty and responsibility to protect the privacy of the American people. The Intelligence Committee's bill takes important steps forward in modernizing FISA. This bill is a significant improvement from the temporary legislation passed in August. It provides the intelligence community with the tools it needs to identify, disrupt, and disarm terrorists, while protecting the civil liberties of Americans. I urge my colleagues to support it."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 