SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS INTEGRITY OF FEDERAL SCIENCE AGENCIES MUST NOT BE COMPROMISED
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies, sent a letter today to Government Accountability Office (GAO) Comptroller General David Walker requesting a GAO review of the policies and practices of federal science agencies to ensure openness in scientific communication.  
   "Government scientists must be able to research and report their findings to the public without fear of censorship or intimidation," said Senator Mikulski. "And American taxpayers have the right to know the facts." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   February 17, 2006 
   The Honorable David Walker, Comptroller General 
  U.S. Government Accountability Office 
  441 G Street, NW 
  Washington, D.C. 20548 
   Dear Mr. Walker: 
   I am writing to request that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) undertake a review of the policies and practices of our federal science agencies to ensure openness in communication of federally supported science results. 
   Specifically, I request that GAO's review include the federal science agencies within the jurisdiction of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies, on which I serve as the Ranking Member. These agencies include: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). 
   In recent weeks, the press has reported allegations that scientists at NASA and NOAA are routinely prevented from reporting their findings on climate change. If true, these serious allegations threaten the integrity of federally supported science. 
   I have always advocated funding and policies that support robust, independent and credible scientific research. Government scientists must be able to research and report their findings to the public without fear of censorship or intimidation. And American taxpayers have the right to know the facts. 
   Thank you for your attention to this request.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 