SEN. MIKULSKI PUSHES FOR ACCOUNTABILITY, EFFICIENCY IN INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today applauded the passage of her two amendments to the 2007 Intelligence Authorization bill, which is designed to promote accountability and efficiency in U.S. intelligence agencies. The bill now goes to the Senate floor for consideration.  
   One of Senator Mikulski's amendments requires that the directors of the National Security Agency (NSA), the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), and the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) be appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The second seeks to ease the inefficient backlog that has been created for obtaining security clearances at NGA, headquartered in Bethesda, Md. 
   Senator Mikulski, a member of the Committee since mid-2001, has embraced the findings of the 9/11 Commission Report as a valuable roadmap for intelligence reform. The commissioners noted that "of all our recommendations, strengthening congressional oversight may be among the most difficult and important" (p. 419). Currently, three of the most important intelligence community officials are the directors of the three technical intelligence collection agencies. Yet by current law and practice, none are subject to Senate hearings, nor do they receive scrutiny from the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Senator Mikulski's amendment will turn this around, making all three confirmable. 
   "One of most important responsibilities we have in the Senate is our role of advice and consent when the President nominates an individual to the Executive Branch. We must evaluate the suitability of individuals nominated for key positions, we must consent to the nominations, and we must establish and cultivate good working relationships with those who are confirmed," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so pleased that my colleagues have unanimously passed this proposal to reinforce the prospects for accountability and review." 
   Providing prompt and reliable security clearances is also a very important prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the U.S. Intelligence community. However, there are some parts of the Top Secret/ SCI clearance process that are not working - particularly with NGA contractors who support sensitive technical intelligence collection programs. Average waiting times for NGA contractor clearances currently range between one and a half and two years. One of the reasons for this backlog is because NGA lacks the authority to do its own background checks, as is done at NSA and NRO. Senator Mikulski's second amendment allows the Secretary of Defense or the Director of National Intelligence to delegate security clearance authorities to the Director of NGA, addressing this urgent and critical problem. 
   "Our intelligence agencies are working on issues critical to our national security - we must give them the resources and tools they need to do their jobs effectively and efficiently," continued Senator Mikulski. "The security clearance backlog at NGA is a problem for the agency, for the Intelligence community and for our contractors. This amendment goes a long way in helping NGA contractors move more expeditiously."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 