SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE BALTIMORE TO RECEIVE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CLEAN UP OF BROWNFIELD SITE
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the City of Baltimore will receive $200,066 in federal funding to clean up petroleum and other hazardous substances from the Old Fairfield site, a former salvage yard in the Brooklyn and Curtis Bay neighborhoods of Baltimore. The federal funding is being awarded by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through the Brownfields Program. 
   "By cleaning up Brownfield sites, we are turning blighted, abandoned tracts of land into economic assets," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding will help Baltimore create jobs, put land back to use, and make a real difference in building our community. I will continue to fight for funding to clean up brownfields in Maryland and across the country."
   "This funding represents a significant step forward in our continuing efforts to reclaim and breathe new economic life into these abandoned or underutilized industrial sites in Baltimore," said Sarbanes. "By working to redevelop these sites, we are not only expanding business and job opportunities for our citizens in Baltimore, but also helping to improve and protect our environment."
   EPA's Brownfields Program provides funding for the redevelopment of America's estimated 450,000 brownfield waste sites. To date, Maryland has received almost $1.5 million for the revitalization of six brownfield sites. The Small Business Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 2002 expanded the definition of what is considered a brownfield, to now include sites contaminated with petroleum. This year's awards are the largest ever distributed through the Brownfields Program. 
   Senator Mikulski is the senior Democrat on the Senate Subcommittee that funds the EPA and was a co-sponsor of the Brownfields Revitalization and Environmental Restoration Act. In both 2003 and 2004, Senator Mikulski secured $170 million for the EPA's Brownfields Program, almost double the amount provided in 2002. Senator Mikulski continues to fight to fund the Brownfields Program at its fully authorized level of $250 million.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 