SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR SOMERSET COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Crisfield Fire Department is being awarded $150,759 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program. 
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Maryland's Eastern Shore. Congratulations to the Crisfield Fire Department on being awarded this well-deserved money."
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities."
   The Crisfield Fire Department will use its $150,759 in federal funding to purchase 30 high-pressure self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units and individualized facemasks, which protect firefighters from the noxious gases created by fires. The funding will also provide a new compressor and fill station, as well as two rapid intervention (RIT) kits. The compressor and fill station will save the Department time and money by allowing them to fill their SCBA tanks on their own. The RIT kits are used to protect and rescue fallen firefighters that may be trapped in burning buildings.
   At the request of the Crisfield Fire Department, Senator Mikulski sent a letter to FEMA's U.S. Fire Administrator, R. David Paulison, to draw his attention to the merits of their application and urge him to give it every appropriate consideration.
   Last year, the Crisfield Fire Department received an award of $45,000 for a new four-wheel-drive brush truck.
   For more information on the Crisfield Fire Department, contact Charles Cavanaugh at (410)-968-1262.
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded weekly until September 2005.
   Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year.
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year.
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 