SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR SENIORS IN CAPITOL HILL HEARING ON REAUTHORIZATION OF OLDER AMERICANS ACT
  As the Senate prepares to reauthorize the Older Americans Act, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today took part in a Senate Aging Subcommittee hearing on recommendations for the reauthorization. Sen. Mikulski is the senior Democrat on this Subcommittee.  
   This is the 40th anniversary of the Older Americans Act. Authored in 1965, the OAA is instrumental for the delivery of social and nutritional services for our nation's seniors. Senator Mikulski was instrumental in the last reauthorization of OAA in 2000. Included in that legislation was an important program she created called the National Family Caregiver Support Program which provides caregiving services, including respite care, for families. Senator Mikulski also secured the initial funding for this program - $125 million - and is working to double the funding level to $250 million. In 2003, this program provided assistance to nearly 600,000 caregivers, including respite care, caregiver counseling and training, information about available resources, and assistance in locating services. 
   Following is Senator Mikulski's hearing statement, as prepared: 
   "I'm very pleased to be here as we meet to discuss ways to improve the Older Americans Act - an extremely important Act that meets the day-to-day needs of America's seniors. 
   "I am looking forward to reauthorizing the Older Americans Act. It is an important responsibility that we have to our nation's seniors. There are several principles that I believe must guide reauthorization. First, we must continue and improve the core services of this Act to meet the vital needs of America's seniors. Secondly, we must modernize the act to meet the changing needs of America's senior population, including the growing number of seniors over 85, the impending senior boom, and the growing number of seniors in minority groups. Next, we must look for ways to help seniors live more independent and active lives. Finally, we must give national, state, and local programs the resources they need to carry out these vital responsibilities. 
   CORE SERVICES 
   "It is vital to continue and improve the core services of this Act. Seniors have come to depend on the information and referral services, congregate and home-delivered meals, transportation, home care, and other OAA programs to meet their daily needs. Whether it is pension counseling or the long-term care ombudsman program - these are vital to helping seniors navigate the complex financial and health care systems. Not all seniors have family and friends that can assist them with complicated decisions, like choosing a long-term care insurance plan or a nursing home. These programs put information in terms seniors can understand. These programs are a safety net for many. 
   MODERNIZATION 
   "Our senior population is not the same as it was in 1965. This will be the first time the baby boomers will be eligible for services under this reauthorization of the Older Americans Act. That's why we must modernize the OAA to meet the changing needs and diversity of our seniors. What does this mean? It means making sure we have programs and services to meet the needs of the growing population that is 85 or older. It means making sure that we are sensitive to the needs of minority, low-income, and hard-to-reach seniors. And it means preparing for the upcoming senior boom. By 2050 there will be nearly 90 million seniors over age 65, more than twice their number in 2003. We must take advantage of new technology and innovations like the Internet to reach out to these seniors. 
   INDEPENDENCE 
   "Seniors today are living longer, healthier lives. We must do what we can to help them be as independent and active as possible. The majority of senior citizens with chronic conditions live in the community and have their care provided by spouses, adult children and other family members. With the reauthorization of OAA in 2000, we worked hard to create the National Family Caregiver Support Program. In 2003, this program provided assistance to nearly 600,000 caregivers. Services include respite care, caregiver counseling and training, information about available resources, and assistance in locating services. These services are invaluable to seniors and their families. We must ensure that we are doing what we can to help ALL seniors live healthy, independent lives for as long as possible. 
   RESOURCES 
   "Finally, we must provide the resources necessary to meet these challenges and support our seniors. Too many Older Americans Act programs have been flat funded for too long. We must commit ourselves, our dollars, and our programs to meet the needs of our growing and changing senior population. 
   "I want us to reauthorize this Act. This is our responsibility. We must not abandon it. I look forward to working with the Administration on Aging and the Department of Labor to get their input."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122. 
 
 