SEN. MIKULSKI DEMANDS ANSWERS ON DELAYED, DENIED BENEFITS TO FAMILIES OF DECEASED FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today called for President Bush to honor our nation's first responders by following a nearly four-year-old law that ensures financial benefits to families of public safety officers who die from a heart attack or stroke in the line of duty. In a letter to the President, Sen. Mikulski demanded an explanation for Department of Justice (DOJ) delays or denials of the vast majority of these claims under his administration, and demanded that the DOJ expedite backlogged claims.  
   "Public safety officers and first responders risk their lives to protect others. Our protectors deserve to know that their families will be cared for if they die while protecting us," said Senator Mikulski. "President Bush owes Congress, first responders and their families answers. I will continue to fight to protect our nation's first responders - not just with words, but with deeds." 
   More than 30 years ago, Congress created the Public Safety Officer Benefit Program to provide families of public safety officers killed in the line of duty with a one-time financial benefit. On December 15, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Hometown Heroes Survivors Benefit Act to correct a technicality in the law that had made it difficult for families to claim the benefit if their loved one died from a heart attack or stroke in the line of duty. However, under the Bush Administration, in direct opposition to the intent of Congress, the DOJ has made only two positive determinations from the nearly 250 applications it has received to date. 
   Our firefighters, law enforcement officers and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) workers face stressful and strenuous situations every day as they respond to a myriad of threats, protecting their communities and our entire nation from natural and man-made disasters. First responders face high levels of stress that can result in a heart attack or stroke. In fact, a recent Harvard study found that firefighters engaged in emergency response are up to 100 times more likely to die of a heart attack than the general public.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 