SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATION
  Statement of Senator Barbara A. Mikulski on 50th Anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education 
   "Today I rise to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education. Today, we celebrate the historic and unanimous Supreme Court decision that called for an end to racial segregation in schools throughout the nation. And as we honor those individuals who risked so much to challenge discrimination and establish a constitutional right to an equal education, I am filled with both hope and promise. Hope that the legacy of Brown will endure. Hope that equality and opportunity will soon be the reality for millions of school children who today still face segregation and inequality in their schools. And the promise that today we will renew our commitment to achieving the goal of equality that began 50 years ago with the Brown decision.  
   "I am so proud to honor today the important role that the great state of Maryland played in this history of Brown. Maryland is the birthplace of Thurgood Marshall, the architect of the blueprint to end racial segregation in education. Thurgood Marshall grew up and attended racially segregated schools in Baltimore, he knew the impact of segregation first hand and he took the fight for racial justice all the way to the Supreme Court. His thoughtful and strategic legal arguments were instrumental in knocking down racial segregation in our country. Maryland is also the home of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Founded in 1909, the NAACP successfully fought to integrate the University of Maryland in 1935 and its leaders painstakingly planned and organized the challenge to racial segregation in public schools. 
   "Brown marks a momentous beginning in American history. For the first time, the Supreme Court recognized a constitutional right to an equal public education for all students. And for the first time, the Supreme Court recognized that separate can never be equal. Brown is the foundation on the road to dismantling segregation in our society. The fight for equality started with the schools and progressed through the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the Fair Housing Act of 1968 - all critical steps to rid the nation of segregation and disparities it fostered. Yet 50 years later we're still a long way from the promise of Brown v Board of Education - equality in public education and opportunity for all students. 
   "Why was the Brown decision so important? Because the Supreme Court said that regardless of race, color, creed or ethnicity education "is a right which must be made available to all students." The Court took the unprecedented step of examining how African-American children were being educated and the environments that they were learning in. And for the first time the Court used social science research to show that learning is compromised by segregation - and as a result Black students were receiving inferior educations. It was clear that poor schools, which invariably lacked resources, resulted in a lower quality of education for Black students than their white counterparts. Most importantly, the Brown decision, with a mighty hand, challenged Americans to confront the discrimination, segregation and inequality that existed in schools and in their communities. 
   "Today, I stand here to urge Americans to renew that challenge. We must address the growing disparities in our schools and the re-segregation of students of color in our classrooms. Even a quick glance at our nation's schools, including schools in Maryland, shows that the promise of Brown has not been realized. We know that students are still segregated - and that schools still aren't equal. Students of color and poor students are more likely to be in overcrowded schools, without enough books and computers, in buildings that are often literally falling apart. They're often sidelined into special education classes - when what they really need is special attention. 
   "I don't want the quality of education to depend on a family's income or the location in which they live. As the Brown Court understood, having adequate resources and decent facilities matters. We need to make sure we have a public school system that works. That means smaller classes, a good teacher in every classroom, and making sure schools have resources to meet special needs - like bilingual education and special education. We need to keep fighting against the soft bigotry of low expectation. 
   "Today, as we commemorate the Brown decision and the progress that has been made in the past 50 years, we renew our commitment to increase diversity and provide educational opportunities for all children regardless of race, ethnicity, or socioeconomic status. We must stand up for what America stands for: opportunity, equality, and empowerment. We must make sure there is no discrimination of any kind, anywhere in the United States of America - whether it's the old fashioned kind or the new fashioned kind. That means saying no to continued racial discrimination in education, and saying no to racial sidelining: pushing children of color into special education. Brown established education as a right to all students. We must continue to fight to protect that right, to make sure that the promise of an equal education is in fact a reality for all school children."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 