HOUSE-SENATE CONFERENCE COMMITTEE PASSES LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE EDUCATION FOR SPECIAL NEEDS STUDENTS
  Members of the House and Senate Education Committees met today to take up and pass the reauthorization of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act - important legislation will improve special education in our nation's public schools. This bill will now be sent back to both the House and Senate for final passage before being sent to the President for his signature.  
   The following is Senator Mikulski's statement on The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. 
   "Mr. Chairman, I am so pleased that we are finally reauthorizing this important legislation, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. I want to thank Senator Kennedy, Senator Gregg, Congressman Boehner, and Congressman Miller. I know how hard you worked on this bill. You tackled complicated issues and found common ground. I appreciate your efforts. 
   "Overall, I think this is a good bill. It's not perfect. I know there are Marylanders who will be disappointed. I've heard from parents who are concerned that this bill rolls back the guarantee of a quality education for their children. And I've heard from teachers, principals, and school superintendents who want to know where the resources will come from, because this bill doesn't fully fund IDEA. But I'm going to vote for it because we can't let the perfect be the enemy of the good. 
   "This bill takes important steps towards improving special education for students, families, and schools. It sets a clear path for fully funding IDEA and protects the rights of students. It simplifies complicated rules and makes it easier for schools and parents to navigate - not litigate. And it allows schools to help students who need special attention, but not necessarily special education. 
   "I've talked to Marylanders about this, like the women of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority. They see their children being racially sidelined - pushed into special education when what they really need is special attention. I'm so pleased that we are doing something in this bill to stop racial sidelining. 
   "My top priority in this reauthorization was full funding. I think it's a shame that the bill doesn't fully fund IDEA. But I'm pleased it takes the first step toward full funding by authorizing specific funding levels for each year, until we get to full funding in 2008. 
   "Why is this important? The federal government is supposed to pay 40% of the cost of educating children with disabilities, yet it has never paid more than 18%. That means local districts must make up the difference by skimping on special education, cutting from other education programs, or raising taxes. I don't want to force states and local school districts to forage for funds, cut back on teacher training, or delay school repairs because the federal government has failed to live up to its commitment to special education. As a member of the Appropriations committee, I will fight to put this money in the federal checkbook so special education is not a hollow promise. 
   "Parents today are under a lot of stress, sometimes working two jobs just to make ends meet. They're trying to find day care for their kids and elder care for their own parents. The federal government shouldn't add to their worries by not living up to its obligations. With the federal government not paying its share of special education, these parents have a real question in their minds: Will my child have a good teacher? Will the classes have up-to-date textbooks? Will they be learning what they need to know? 
   "Parents of disabled children face such a tough burden already. Caring for a disabled child can be exhausting. School should not be one of the many things they worry about, particularly when the laws are already on the books to guarantee their child a public school education. 
   "Special education has made such a huge difference in the lives of students with disabilities. It gives disabled children a chance to succeed in school and in life. I want to do what's best for families and schools. Parents and students need to be able to count on a quality education. That's why I'm voting for this legislation. But know that I will continue to fight for full funding of IDEA, because I don't want special education to be a hollow promise."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 