SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS U.S. EFFORTS TO ASSIST SOUTH ASIA EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS, PLEDGES FURTHER SUPPORT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) introduced a resolution today commending the efforts by members of the U.S. Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of State and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) in response to the earthquake in South Asian on October 8, 2005. Sen. Mikulski called for further financial support without delay.  
   "Expressions of sympathy are not enough. The United States must set an example and lead the world in the humanitarian effort of recovery and rebuilding. That's why I supported the initial pledge of $156 million in humanitarian aid from the United States," said Senator Mikulski. "Our U.S. military and the employees of the State Department and USAID are working hard to extend support to our friends in this terrible time of need. We thank them for their service and pledge that we, too, will do our part." 
   The Senator's floor statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "Today, I am introducing a Senate Resolution commending relief efforts in response to the earthquake in South Asia and urging a commitment by the United States and the international community to support long-term relief and reconstruction efforts in the affected areas. 
   "On October 8, 2005, a devastating magnitude 7.6 earthquake hit remote mountainous regions of northern Afghanistan, Pakistan and India. More than 75,000 people have died, nearly 70,000 have been injured and 2.8 million remain homeless. On a bipartisan basis, the President and members of Congress joined the world community in expressing our sympathy and pledging our assistance to help those suffering in the face of this terrible disaster. 
   "But expressions of sympathy are not enough. The United States must set an example and lead the world in the humanitarian effort of recovery and rebuilding. That's why I supported the initial pledge of $156 million in humanitarian aid from the United States. 
   "The Department of Defense, the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) have taken the lead in making good on that pledge. USAID has provided more than $50.1 million in assistance to Pakistan and more than $600,000 to India. The Defense Department has so far spent about $56 million on relief efforts, including sending more than 1,000 troops into Pakistan to provide urgent medical care, delivering much-needed supplies and clearing roads and opening routes for ground transportation so more help can reach those most in need. 
   "The American private sector has also pitched in. U.S. charities have raised more than $21 million to support earthquake relief efforts. Non-government organizations like Catholic Relief Services, Mercy Corps and Save the Children all have a presence in Pakistan and are providing aid and relief. At President Bush's request, five major American corporations are encouraging additional private donations. General Electric, Pfizer, Citigroup, Xerox and UPS are coordinating a nationwide fund raising effort through the South Asia Earthquake Relief Fund. To date, more than $46 million has been donated by American corporations. 
   "As Americans, we can all be proud of these efforts to help the people of South Asia survive, recover and rebuild. I applaud President Bush and his administration for acting quickly to provide relief and support. But I know that, together, we can do better. 
   "That's why I support the immediate reprogramming by USAID of assistance funds for Pakistan in the FY 2006 Foreign Operations Act to help meet the immediate, emergency need for medical care and shelter. The nearly 3 million Pakistanis left homeless by the earthquake are already facing snow and freezing rain. Conservative estimates suggest another 80,000 people could die from exposure in the next few months without a massive effort to provide thousands of heated tents. Those people can not afford to wait for the next supplemental appropriations bill - we must act now. 
   "The United States should also engage with the international community to boost relief and recovery efforts. The United Nations has already responded, convening a donors' conference to organize international relief efforts. Economic institutions like the World Bank and the Paris Club can assist long-term recovery efforts by re-examining their debt policy toward the affected countries. And members of NATO and the European Union must step-up their support for relief and recovery. NATO in particular has unique assets that can make a difference today for people on the ground in South Asia. 
   "I also believe the United States should make a long-term investment in rebuilding the areas devastated by the earthquake. We have strong partnerships with the nations of South Asia, and we have strong affection for their people. We must commit to work with our friends for as long as it takes to help them rebuild their infrastructure, with a particular emphasis on boosting medical resources for a health care system now overwhelmed by caring for the weak and injured. 
   "Mr. President, the people and governments of Pakistan, India and Afghanistan must know that the United States will be an unwavering partner in their recovery and reconstruction. Our U.S. military and the employees of the State Department and USAID are working hard to extend support to our friends in this terrible time of need. We thank them for their service and pledge that we, too, will do our part."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 