SEN. MIKULSKI: MY PROMISES TO SUSQUEHANNA WARNING SYSTEM ARE PROMISES KEPT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced the Senate has approved the fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which includes $2 million for the essential Susquehanna Flood Forecast and Warning System (Susquehanna System). This system has been critical in protecting families and businesses during flooding that has devastated communities along the East Coast.  
   "The Susquehanna System is about saving lives and saving communities," said Senator Mikulski. "I have seen firsthand not only what the warning system accomplishes, but also its ongoing and compelling needs. I am proud to continue my commitment with an additional $2 million in the federal checkbook." 
   In the 2006 CJS spending bill, Senator Mikulski delivered on her promise to provide the system with its own $2 million line item in the federal budget. In last year's bill, she successfully fought for another commitment, but the bill was never brought up for a vote in the 109th Congress. This year's additional $2 million in funding will make needed improvements to the system's technology, as well as support maintenance and operation. 
   The Susquehanna System warns 1,700 communities in three states about devastating floods and protects them from its effects. Early warnings allow residents and businesses the time to secure their property and lives before flood waters strike. Warnings help emergency management officials implement flood control plans to minimize damages. Estimates hold that for every federal dollar invested in the Susquehanna System, it saves $20 in reduced damages and flood recovery payouts. 
   The Susquehanna River is the nation's 16th largest river and is the largest river lying entirely in the United States that flows into the Atlantic Ocean. The Susquehanna and its hundreds of tributaries drain 27,510 square miles, an area nearly the size of South Carolina, spread over parts of the states of New York, Pennsylvania and Maryland. The river meanders 444 miles from its origin at Otsego Lake near Cooperstown, N.Y., until it empties into the Chesapeake Bay at Havre de Grace, Md. 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the spending bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 