SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES SENATE APPROVAL OF EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION REFORM, FUNDING INCREASES IN SPENDING BILL
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced the Senate has approved the fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which includes $378 million for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), a $50 million increase above the President's budget request. The EEOC is the federal agency responsible for enforcing federal Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) laws, as well as providing oversight and coordination of all federal regulations, practices and policies.  
   "The EEOC is tasked with fighting to keep the playing field level and ending discrimination at the workplace. My job is to make sure they are doing theirs," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I worked to put not only money, but reform provisions, in this bill. We must provide the agency with the resources they need to protect employees." 
   There has been a dramatic rise in complaints of employment discrimination and increasing backlogs of cases at the EEOC, yet it has downsized its staff and contracted out work. It has cut the number of staff investigating claims, reduced the number of district offices, decreased the number of attorneys, and reduced staff by 575 employees since 2001. 
   "In the past, the EEOC has ignored the intent of Congress and has compromised the important mission of enforcing our civil rights laws," said Senator Mikulski. "This Committee must ensure hardworking taxpayers' dollars are being well-spent and that the EEOC is not wasting resources or undermining civil rights protection. I look forward to working with the new EEOC leadership to implement the reforms necessary to get the agency back on track." 
   Persistent concerns about discrimination within the EEOC are part of what motivated Senator Mikulski to emphasize congressional oversight, accountability and fiscal stewardship in this year's spending bill. The bill requires each agency to notify the Committee immediately after learning of program cost overruns greater than 10 percent. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) is directed to conduct biannual reports of programs and projects greater than $100 million to identify cost overruns and mismanagement. This will help to address the dramatic backlogs reported at the EEOC's call center. 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the spending bill will go to the President for his signature. For more information on the CJS spending bill, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/Newsroom/releases.cfm.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 