SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Showell Volunteer Fire Department, the Baltimore City Fire Department and the Clarysville Volunteer Fire Department are being awarded a total of $461,271 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Maryland. Congratulations to these departments on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Showell Volunteer Fire Department, located in Worcester County, will use its $26,550 in federal funding to purchase five self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units, five spare air cylinders and a thermal imaging camera. This will bring the department into compliance with National Fire Protection Agency standards. 
   The new equipment also includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   The thermal imagine camera will enable firefighters to find people in smoke-filled buildings or other low-visibility situations who may be hurt or otherwise unable to get out of the buildings themselves. Firefighters can use the camera to locate hidden fires and minimize property damage. 
   For more information on the Showell Volunteer Fire Department located in Worcester County, contact Nicholas Busby at 443-497-1499. 
   This is the first award for a Worcester County Fire Department through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program this year. Last year, two Worcester County Fire Departments received a total of $111,288 in funding assistance through this grant program. 
   The Baltimore City Fire Department will use its award of $371,910 to purchase 150 800 MHz radios that will be distributed to every fire station in the city. These will ensure that every firefighter will have adequate communications equipment while responding to an emergency, allowing them to coordinate with each other, local emergency response organizations and surrounding counties. Currently, each department has only two radios, one for the engine truck and one for the driver of the truck. 
   This is the third award for the Baltimore City Fire Department, totaling $1,305,710 in federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program. 
   For more information on the Baltimore City Fire Department, contact Chief Kevin Cartwright at 410-396-5616. 
   The Clarysville Volunteer Fire Department in Alleghany County will use its $62,811 in federal funding to purchase 20 new sets of turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats), four new mobile radios, six hand-held radios and 15 Minitor pagers. The department will also use their award to upgrade their fire hoses and outfit their engines with new hose adapters and hydrant connections. 
   The new mobile radios will enable firefighters to coordinate response efforts with other local responders and fire departments. The new pagers will give firefighters the ability to communicate with each other and other first responders while responding to an emergency. 
   For more information on the Clarysville Volunteer Fire Department, contact President Bill Sivic at 301-687-0114. 
   This is the second award this year for an Allegany County Fire Department through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, totaling $122,963 in federal funding. Last year, eight Allegany County Fire Departments received a total of $826,779 through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. So far this year, 29 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $3,077,131 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.5 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. This will fund less than one-third of the requests received this year. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   Last week, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $200 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old. 
   By increasing the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, it would have meant protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 