SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT FOR IMPACT AID INCREASE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today continued her commitment to fight for an increase to the federal Impact Aid program by urging the Senate Armed Services Committee to provide $5 million for a provision designed to relieve the financial strain on school districts that educate large numbers of military children with severe disabilities. Sen. Mikulski, a member of the Senate Impact Aid Coalition, believes increased funding will provide significant relief to communities affected by the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission recommendations.  
   "I promised Maryland's leaders that I would fight for increased funds, and my promises made are promises kept," said Senator Mikulski. "BRAC brings opportunities, but it also brings great challenges. We need to focus on how federal dollars can help the state and our counties to accommodate the thousands of families coming to our state." 
   Impact Aid funds can be used for school construction, hiring new teachers, and updating technology. The program provides federal funding to school districts that have increased enrollment due to "federally connected children." These are students with a parent who is either a member of the Armed Forces living and/or working on a military base, or who is a civilian contractor working on a military base or other federally owned land. 
   This provision, included in the fiscal year 2001 Department of Defense (DoD) Authorization Act, must be reauthorized every year and is being considered in the fiscal year 2008 DoD Authorization bill. School districts with a large military presence have higher percentages of students with disabilities than districts with non-federally connected students - in part because military personnel who have children with disabilities often receive compassionate post assignments to these districts, many of which have strong special education programs. 
   It is estimated that Maryland will receive at least an additional 4,000 federally connected students between 2007 and 2011, with Harford and Anne Arundel County school districts being among the most heavily impacted. 
   Senator Mikulski has pledged to fight for increased program funding in her meetings with Maryland's state and local leaders, and successfully worked with Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) to increase the Impact Aid program by $100 million in the congressionally-approved fiscal year 2008 budget resolution, despite President Bush's proposal to freeze funding for the third year in a row. This increase brings federal funding of the program to its full authorized level of $1.338 billion.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 