SEN. MIKULSKI: BILL STRENGTHENS DRUG SAFETY AT FDA
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, today praised the committee's consideration of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA). The reauthorization bill is an opportunity to improve drug safety standards at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Sen. Mikulski worked hard with her colleagues, including Chairman Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Ranking Member Michael B. Enzi (R-Wyo.), to bring the strongest bill to the committee.  
   "This is our moment. Congress now has a unique opportunity to change the way we monitor the safety of drugs for all Americans with the reauthorization of PDUFA. This is not about ideology. This is about protecting the American people," said Senator Mikulski. "FDA has always been the gold standard in maintaining drug safety and drug efficacy. I have fought for years for the right facilities and the right resources for FDA. Now, I will continue to fight for the strictest standards to protect our drug supply." 
   In particular, Senator Mikulski fought to add language in the bill based on Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommendations to improve the scientific environment at the FDA. This includes important measures to promote transparency, such as public summaries of drug approval processes (including scientific disagreements), as well as requiring notice of the actions of the Drug Safety Oversight Board, and a report on the involvement of safety staff in drug review activities at FDA. The Senator also included language that establishes an Office of the Chief Scientist, and requires consultation with the Drug Safety and Risk Management Committee on priority drug safety questions and the effectiveness of the risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) process. This bill will finally mandate that scientists from offices for drug safety are integrated into the drug review process. 
   Senator Mikulski also offered an amendment at today's committee mark-up to clarify FDA scientists' ability to publish scientific papers. While scientists can currently submit papers, they often do not hear back from their supervisors. This provision puts a time limit on how long supervisors can take to review papers. This is an issue that is critical to not only FDA scientists, but also to the recruitment of new scientists to the agency. 
   "We must heed the call of our nation's scientific community," said Senator Mikulski. "FDA is losing our intellectual capital. We are losing scientists who are choosing other paths because of restraints. This is about innovations and discoveries that can save lives today and tomorrow." 
   The bill is expected to pass the Committee later this afternoon, and will then move to the full Senate for a vote.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 