MARYLAND DELEGATION ADVOCATES FOR BRAC FUNDING FOR SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES
  The Maryland Delegation today announced that Anne Arundel County, Howard County and the City of Laurel, have been awarded an initial grant of $1,447,630 to address Base Realignment and Closure growth expected in the areas surrounding Fort George G. Meade.  
   "The 2005 BRAC announcements were great news for Maryland and the nation," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.). "They were a testament to the strength of Maryland's military bases, our military and the communities that support them. But we must now work together to help Maryland address the increased demands on our communities. That's why I am so proud our counties will have these funds for community adjustment assistance with the realignment at Fort Meade. We fought to win BRAC as Team Maryland, and we will fight to make sure Maryland communities have what they need in the federal checkbook to implement the BRAC decisions." 
   Congressman John P. Sarbanes, MD-03, who represents many communities surrounding the base, sent the attached letter to the Department of Defense, "OEA funding, to be used in coordination with significant state and local resources, is critical to ensuring that the necessary infrastructure is in place to assimilate these hard working men and women in a way that is least disruptive to Fort Meade's surrounding communities. In Maryland, we are very proud of the military installations across our State and we stand ready to support these facilities." 
   "Maryland has been chosen through the BRAC process for an expanded military and intelligence presence," said U.S. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.). "We are proud of this new mission, and the $1.4 million Community Adjustment grant to Anne Arundel County will assist the County in helping to prepare for the changes that will be needed." 
   "It is important that we work together on a local, state, and federal level to plan for the additional jobs and residents that will be moving to Maryland through BRAC," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.). "This $1.4 million will help us do that in a coordinated effort so that we do not negatively impact the residents already living here. This is just the beginning. I intend to fight for more funding on Capitol Hill to help with the expected transportation, education, healthcare, economic, and other infrastructure needs." 
   "I am proud to have worked with Congressman Sarbanes and other Members of the Maryland delegation to secure these funds. We must do everything we can to help Maryland-based service members adjust to the changes caused by BRAC," U.S. Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), the only Maryland Democrat to serve on the House Armed Services Committee said. "Additionally, the number of jobs provided by this opportunity will have a positive impact on Maryland's economy." 
   As many as 22,000 new jobs may be added to Fort Meade by 2013. Anne Arundel County applied for a grant to assist with Base Realignment and Closure planning projects.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 