SEN. MIKULSKI BRINGS INFORMATION SUPERHIGHWAY TO EASTERN SHORE BUSINESSES, COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Maryland elected officials at a press conference today to break ground at the Mid-Atlantic Institute for Space and Technology (MIST) to bring broadband network capability to the Eastern Shore. The project features a unique partnership with the private sector and state officials, and will be a major source of future economic development for area communities and universities.  
   "America is in an amazing race - a race for breakthroughs and new ideas, a race for discovery and new knowledge, a race to remain competitive in the new century. I want the Eastern Shore to win this race," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I have worked hard to provide a federal investment to help build a broadband superhighway. The Shore can now remain competitive to attract new jobs and to educate the next generation." 
   As the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski secured a $2 million down payment for the broadband construction as part of the CJS 2006 spending bill. Today, Senator Mikulski also announced she will fight for an additional $4 million in the 2007 spending bill to build the next phase of the information superhighway. The bill has been approved by the full Senate Appropriations Committee and is pending a vote by the Senate, which has not yet been scheduled. 
   "Bringing broadband to the Eastern Shore means economic development, job growth and innovation whether you are a small business, a school, a major employer or a NASA Center," said Senator Mikulski. "Forty years ago, interstate highways were crucial for economic growth in our rural areas, now it's the information superhighway. The Eastern Shore is changing - our space, high tech, health care and higher education facilities need broadband - so do our poultry producers, construction companies and our small businesses. Today, we can finally see a future where all Eastern Shore residents will have access to affordable high speed internet service." 
   This network will be a major source of future economic development, spurring job creation and innovation on the Shore. It will connect NASA's Wallops Island Flight Facility, schools, universities, medical centers, businesses and consumers along the entire Shore. Fiber optic cables will be laid along existing highways from Wallops going north through Somerset, Worcester and Wicomico Counties toward Salisbury. When completed, the broadband network will cover the entire Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 