SEN. MIKULSKI HONORS PURPLE HEART RECIPIENT IN CEREMONY AT CAPITOL
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) was joined by U.S. Army Maj. Gen. Galen Jackman today to present Prince George's County resident retired Staff Sgt. Arnold M. Forte with the Purple Heart which he earned in combat in 1950 during the Korean War. The medal was presented at a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol with several members of Mr. Forte's family and representatives from the Army and DC AMVETS.  
   "Today we gather to pay honor and express our respect and gratitude to Mr. Forte. We thank him for his lifetime of service and sacrifice to the nation," said Senator Mikulski. "We are so proud of him and this honor is so well-deserved." 
   After serving in occupied Japan from 1948-1950, Mr. Forte served in the 25th Infantry Division in Korea, and was wounded by an enemy grenade on September 18, 1950. After being hospitalized for more than a year, Mr. Forte returned to active duty, serving at Ft. Benning, Ga. and Ft. Belvoir, Va. before returning for another tour in Korea. After 21 years of service in uniform, Mr. Forte retired in 1969 and continued his service in the Army as a civilian employee for 22 years at Ft. Myer, Va. 
   "Today we stand in the Senate Armed Services Committee's hearing room. This is where Congress holds hearings about our military - often the nitty gritty topics of how many troops are needed where, the equipment they need, and how we manage troop pay and benefits," explained Senator Mikulski. "It is in this room of so much prestige, that I present you with this honor. Its dignity matches your own." 
   The Purple Heart is the oldest military decoration in the world in present use, and the first American award made available to the common Soldier. It was initially created as the Badge of Military Merit by General George Washington during the Revolutionary War. It is awarded to members of the U.S. Armed Forces who are wounded by an instrument of war in the hands of the enemy. More than 800,000 Purple Heart medals have been earned by American Soldiers.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 