SEN. MIKULSKI CRITICIZES PRESIDENT BUSH'S EXPECTED CUTS TO HOMELAND SECURITY GRANTS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a group of her colleagues led by Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) in expressing concern that President Bush is reportedly slashing funding for critical domestic homeland security and eliminating Department of Homeland Security (DHS) grant programs in his fiscal year 2009 budget request. While the President continues to ask for more funding for the war in Iraq, the Port Security, Transit Security, and Emergency Performance Management Grant Programs are all reported to be at risk. 
   "We are a high-risk and high-threat nation, and today's threats were unthinkable years ago. Our Homeland Security grant programs play an integral role in keeping us safe. President Bush must not sacrifice our security here at home to fund the war overseas," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to safeguard this much-needed federal investment in hometown security."  
   Senator Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the DHS and its grant programs, and fights each year to increase its federal funding. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Mr. President: 
   As you prepare your Fiscal Year 2009 Budget to Congress, we write to express our concern about reported cuts to important homeland security grant programs. Specifically, a November 26 document from the Office of Management and Budget indicates that the FY09 Budget will slash funds for domestic homeland security and eliminate grant programs that benefit port security, transit security and emergency management. 
   The Port Security Grant Program funds security improvements at our nation's ports. These grants are awarded through a competitive, risk-based process to address critical vulnerabilities, conduct training and exercises, and develop the ability of our ports to be full security partners with federal, state and local agencies. Our ports are hubs of our nation's economy but remain a vulnerable presence in many communities. As you know, the SAFE Port Act signed into law October 2006 authorized $400 million for port security grants. 
   The Transit Security Grant Program helps secure high-risk/high-consequence transit, provide a deterrent presence, train key security personnel, and conduct public awareness campaigns. The bombings of commuter trains in Madrid and the transit system in London demonstrate that mass transit continues to be a prime target for terrorist attack. Millions of Americans use mass transit every day, and we should continue to provide the funds to keep them safe. As you know, transit security grants were authorized in the 9/11 Recommendations bill signed into law August 2007. 
   The Emergency Performance Management Grant Program allows our communities to develop emergency management plans to respond to a disaster. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the collapse of the I-35W bridge in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the California wildfires, and the recent storms in the Pacific Northwest highlight the critical importance of effective, pre-incident disaster planning in all of our communities. These emergency response plans are developed at the local level, by local officials who are most familiar with the capabilities and needs of their communities. As you know, the Emergency Performance Management Grant Program was authorized in the 9/11 Recommendations bill. 
   These homeland security programs were all authorized by legislation this Administration supported and signed into law. Unfortunately, real security does not come cheap and cannot be achieved with mere words of support. At a time when this Administration asks for hundreds of billions of dollars to conduct its war in Iraq, it should also provide adequate support to protect Americans here at home and reject these misguided cuts to vital homeland security programs.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 