SEN. MIKULSKI HONORED FOR SUPPORT OF POLISH AMERICANS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has been recognized by the Polish American Congress with an award of appreciation for her support of Polish-related legislation in the 109th U.S. Congress.  
   "I am honored to accept this award from the Polish American Congress. I remain committed to strengthening ties between the United States and a free, democratic Poland," said Senator Mikulski. "The United States is blessed with few allies as stalwart as Poland." 
   In the final hours of the 109th Congress, Senator Mikulski joined Senator George A. Voinovich (R-Ohio) in introducing the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2006 that would authorize an expansion of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) by up to five additional countries for a probationary period of three years. Senator Mikulski expects Poland would likely be one of the five countries. 
   Senator Mikulski has been fighting to include Poland in the VWP for years. Last summer, she introduced an amendment to the immigration bill with Senator Rick Santorum (R-Penn.) that would have added Poland to the VWP, but the immigration bill failed to pass Congress. 
   "Shouldn't we make it easier for the Pulaskis, Kosciuszkos and Marie Curies of today to visit our country?" continued Senator Mikulski. "We know that our borders will be no less secure because of these Polish visitors to our country, but we know that our alliance will be more secure because of this legislation." 
   Senator Mikulski has a long history of fighting in the U.S. Congress for legislation that supports Poland, a close U.S. ally. In August 2005, she introduced a Sense of the Senate resolution celebrating the 25th anniversary of Poland's Solidarity movement. In September 2006, she introduced a resolution recognizing December 13, 2006, as a Day of Remembrance for the 25th anniversary of the imposition of martial law by the Communist government in Poland. 
   Polish troops have been fighting alongside American troops since the start of the War in Iraq, where 17 Polish soldiers have been killed and more than 20 have been injured. Today, nearly 1,000 Polish troops are still on the ground in Iraq, and next year Poland will send more than 1,000 troops to Afghanistan to lead NATO's International Security Assistance Force.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 