SEN. MIKULSKI SUCCEEDS IN FIGHT TO KEEP BROOMES ISLAND POST OFFICE OPEN
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that the U.S. Postal Service has decided not to close the Broomes Island Post Office in Calvert County, Md. After Maryland State Senator Roy Dyson and Calvert County Commissioners brought this issue to her attention, Senator Mikulski put the resources of her office behind the effort to save the facility from closure. 
   "Today's announcement is a great victory for the hardworking employees and residents of Broomes Island. Postal facilities are part of the fabric of our neighborhoods," said Senator Mikulski. "Residents can count on me to continue to fight for Calvert County."
   The Broomes Island Post Office is a treasured landmark in the Broomes Island community and is on the list of Maryland Historic Properties. If the facility had been closed, residents of Broomes Island, which total more than 350 people, would have had to commute more than 11 miles to the St. Leonard Post Office - a particular hardship on the communities' aging population.
   Senator Mikulski forwarded Postmaster General and CEO John E. Potter petitions signed by more than 100 Broomes Island residents in opposition to the closure. This came on the heels of the October 27, 2007, closure of the Sunderland Post Office, in which Calvert County residents and leaders were given very little notice.
   In a letter to Senator Mikulski today, U.S. Postal Service Government Relations Manager Mitch King said: "The Broomes Island Post Office will be maintained at its current location at this time. This determination largely was based upon community comments and the adequacy of the present facility."
   "I applaud the hardworking advocates in Calvert County who refused to stand by while this decision was being made. They took action and they knew their elected leaders would fight for them," said Senator Mikulski. "Today is an example of what happens when we put values into action."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 