SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR HOWARD COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that the Savage Volunteer Fire Company in Howard County has been awarded $58,540 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "I believe the federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support they need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve." 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received nearly $42.5 million through the AFGP. 
   The Savage Volunteer Fire Company will use its $58,540 to purchase 25 sets of turn out gear and a respiratory fit test machine to ensure the proper fit of the breathing apparatus masks. The department will also use funds from this award to purchase a specialized gear washer and dryer to allow the department to clean their gear on premises, which will reduce costs for its volunteer members and ensure a quicker turn around of gear. For more information, call Chief Francis Mowbray at 301-498-5061. 
   This is the second award for the Savage Volunteer Fire Company. In 2003, the Department was awarded $225,000 to purchase a new engine. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your lives on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never give up my fight to give first responders the tools they need."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 