SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT TO REDUCE BACKLOGS AT SSA
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has continued her efforts to fight significant backlogs at the Social Security Administration's (SSA). In a letter to Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), Sen. Mikulski called for an additional $430 million above President Bush's request for the SSA in order to eliminate long delays for applicants waiting to receive their Social Security benefits. 
   "When you're old, sick, or a parent dies, there aren't many things you can count on, but you should be able to count on Social Security. We need to provide the Social Security Administration with the resources it needs to get rid of their backlogs and fulfill America's promise to our seniors and disabled citizens," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding will help keep those promises."  
   Employees at the SSA are overwhelmed by a backlog of claims. By the end of fiscal year 2007, the backlog of initial claims is projected to reach 577,000, and the number of cases pending for appeals hearings are expected to be 752,000. This backlog has increased, and will continue to increase, because the SSA has not had the funding it needs to hire staff to process cases and appeals. This funding will allow the SSA to eliminate its backlogs for initial claims and appeals hearings in five years or less. 
   In March, Senator Mikulski also urged Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Ranking Member Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) to include sufficient funding in the fiscal year 2008 Budget Resolution for the SSA to address the backlog. This funding was included in the fiscal year 2008 budget, but in order for the SSA to receive it, it must be included in this spending bill. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Chairman Harkin and Ranking Member Specter: 
   We respectfully request that you include in the FY 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies appropriations bill an additional $430 million above the President's request for the Social Security Administration's (SSA's) administrative expenses, per the recommendation set forth in the FY 2008 Budget Resolution Conference Report on S. Con Res. 21. 
   Increased funding will enable the SSA to reduce the long delays applicants must endure before they receive their Social Security disability benefits. Currently, many applicants to the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) program and the disability portion of the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program face significant delays before receiving benefits. Indeed, waiting times can exceed three years in some cases. Such delays create serious or desperate financial situations for the applicants and their families. According to the SSA, about half of these waiting times result from the Agency's huge backlogs of initial claims and hearings before administrative law judges. 
   As you know, these waiting times are a chief concern for many of our constituents and are a constant source of casework in Senate offices. By the end of FY 2007, the backlog of initial claims is projected to reach 577,000, and the number of cases pending for appeals hearings are expected to be 752,000. This backlog has increased, and will continue to increase, because the SSA has not had the funding it needs to hire sufficient staff to process cases and appeals. 
   In recent years, Congress has increased the SSA's responsibilities. Today, the SSA is required to evaluate Medicare beneficiaries' incomes in order to determine whether their Part B premiums must be increased pursuant to current law. The SSA is also responsible for implementing a low-income subsidy program to help individuals with limited incomes and assets obtain Medicare Part D coverage. Furthermore, the implementation of the Intelligence Reform legislation has increased the SSA's workload. 
   Given these concerns, we request that you include $430 million above the President's request for the SSA's administrative expenses. This money will enable the SSA to eliminate its backlogs for initial claims and appeals hearings in five years or less. 
   Thank you in advance for consideration of this important issue.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 