SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS ON ADMINISTRATION TO GET A GRIP ON SKYROCKETING GAS PRICES
  With gas prices at record-high levels, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today joined Sens. Charles Schumer, Ron Wyden, and Debbie Stabenow in calling on the Administration to release stored government oil reserves that would quickly lower gas prices. The Senators are introducing a Senate Resolution that calls on the Administration to release one million barrels of oil a day for 30 days with an option to extend the release program for an additional 30 days. The resolution will also ask the White House to leverage pressure against OPEC to increase oil production.  
   "Gas prices are putting a tremendous burden on family budgets at a time when they are already stretched and stressed," said Senator Mikulski. "The Administration needs to take immediate action to help get a grip on skyrocketing gas prices. It's time for the Administration to stand up to OPEC, use our own petroleum reserves in a targeted way, and crack down on price gouging." 
   Gasoline prices across the country have hit record highs in the past week and are expected to climb even higher this summer. Gas prices are up 26.5% since President Bush took office in 2001. In Maryland, the average gas price is $1.94 per gallon, compared to $1.67 one year ago. Families with two cars could pay $400 more for gas this year, or even more if families have a long commute to work. 
   High gas prices also hurt businesses. Shipping companies like UPS are paying almost 14% more for fuel this year than last year. In Maryland, lawn care companies have seen gas bills go up 15% in the last three months and many have had to raise their rates to try and make up some of the difference. 
   The Senate Resolution - to be introduced next week by Senators Schumer, Mikulski, Wyden, Stabenow and others - calls on the Administration to do three things: 
   * Challenge OPEC to immediately increase oil production (Just last month, OPEC cut production, causing prices to increase even more) 
   * Direct the Federal Trade Commission and Attorney General to exercise vigorous oversight over the oil markets to protect the American people from price gouging and unfair practices at the gasoline pump 
   * Suspend deliveries of oil to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) and release 1,000,000 barrels of oil per day from the SPR for 30 days following the date of adoption of the Senate Resolution and, if necessary, for an additional 30 days beyond that (the SPR is at 94% capacity and is currently being filled at 2 ? times the average rate) 
   "The summer travel season starts in just a few weeks," said Senator Mikulski. "The American people shouldn't be afraid that filling up their gas tank will wreck the family budget. It's time for the Administration to stand up to OPEC, crack down on price gouging, and use our own petroleum reserves in a targeted way to get a grip on skyrocketing gas prices."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 