SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR MARYLAND'S FAIR SHARE OF TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today joined 88 of her Senate colleagues to pass the transportation reauthorization bill, and ensure that more federal transportation funding would come to Maryland.  
   This bill boosts the amount of highway dollars going to Maryland by an additional $142 million in highway formula money per year, or a 32% increase. Funding to upgrade and maintain existing transit systems (like MARC) will be increased 52%. Over the next 6 years, this will mean an increase of almost $300 million. 
   "I fight every year to make sure that Maryland's transportation needs are a priority in the federal checkbook - so that Maryland gets its fair share," said Senator Mikulski. "This bill is a step in the right direction. I am proud to secure these federal funds, which are critical in helping to keep Marylanders on the move." 
   According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, for every $1 billion spent on transportation funding, 47,500 jobs are created in the United States. This will mean tens of thousands of jobs for Marylanders and a boost to the economy. 
   "More money for Maryland's highway and transit systems means safer and faster commutes to work, better air quality and jobs today and jobs tomorrow. I'm proud to stand up for the day-to-day needs of Marylanders and long-range needs of the nation." 
   This legislation now moves to a House-Senate Conference Committee, to reconcile the difference between the two versions of the bill. Funding for specific Maryland mass transit projects requested by Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes - such as the Bi-County Transitway (Purple Line) in Montgomery and Prince George's, the Corridor Cities Transitway in Montgomery County, the Baltimore Metro Red and Green Lines, and the MARC Capacity Expansion Program - will be added once the bill goes to conference. The transportation bill will then be returned to both the Senate and House for final passage before being sent to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 