SEN. MIKULSKI: BETHLEHEM STEEL RETIREES DESERVE RESPECT AS OVERPAID PENSIONS ARE RECOUPED
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Chairwoman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's Subcommittee on Retirement and Aging, today stood up for retirees from Baltimore's Bethlehem Steel Corporation as they receive notices that many will see changes in their monthly pension checks. In a letter to Charles E.F. Millard, acting director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), Senator Mikulski called for the organization to be transparent, fair and respectful to widows of retirees as they move forward with the process of recouping pension overpayments. Because of technical errors at the PBGC and the complexity of the Bethlehem Steel pension plan, some retirees' benefits were over-calculated. To correct it, approximately 3,000 retirees will now receive lower pensions and 1,100 of these will have to pay back money they've already received.  
   "When the PBGC took over the pensions of Bethlehem Steel retirees in 2002, there were serious problems and steel workers and their families were treated unfairly. Now, the PBGC is trying to again recoup what it paid out because of its own errors. This is a yet another hardship on steelworkers who have already endured a great deal," said Senator Mikulski. "The PBGC has already let down my constituents. These Maryland workers must be treated with the respect they deserve as the organization collects its overpayments. I will continue to fight to improve the PBGC and to make sure this does not happen again." 
   The PBGC is in the process of sending letters to Bethlehem Steel retirees that give the final amount they will have to pay back to PBGC. The PBGC is required by law to recoup overpayments and does not have the authority to waive this requirement. Retirees could be required to pay back as much of 10 percent of their monthly check until full amount of overpayment is paid back. 
   Senator Mikulski has a long history of fighting for Bethlehem Steel employees and retirees. She was a leader in the bipartisan negotiations that led to critical pension reform legislation last year in the Pension Reform Act, and has remained dedicated to promises made in the bill, including strengthening the PBGC. The PBGC is a federal corporation created by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. It currently protects the pensions of nearly 44 million American workers and retirees in 30,330 private single-employer and multi-employer defined benefit pension plans. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Mr. Millard, 
   One of the most important topics we discussed last month at your nomination hearing was the retirement security of the thousands of steel workers in my state and throughout the country. Their hard work built this country and helps keep it safe, but they've been let down by their employers. I will always fight to get these steel workers the respect they deserve which is why I'm writing to you today. 
   I understand that the PBGC is sending out important notices to Bethlehem Steel retirees that say how much each retiree will receive per month. I know that some will have their monthly checks reduced. We must make sure we don't make this any more difficult than it already is. I have three main concerns as the process moves forward. 
   First, the process must be transparent. Your agency is telling workers they aren't going to get the pensions they've been promised and worked decades for. We owe it to them to explain, in plain English, why. I think it would be helpful for a PBGC representative to speak with retirees in Baltimore and would be happy arrange such a meeting. 
   Second, the appeals process must be fair. Retirees deserve to know if PBGC made a mistake. They should also know what their chances are of having an appeal decided in their favor. Retirees who have the right to higher pension paychecks should have access to a fair and simple appeals process, but retirees also shouldn't be given false hope. 
   Finally, widows of steel workers must be treated with respect. Many steel workers' widows barely have enough to pay rent, buy food, or afford the medicine they need to stay healthy. What will happen to the surviving widows of Bethlehem Steel as a result of PBGC's determinations? We owe them all the support we can provide. 
   At your nomination hearing, you and I talked about the importance of treating workers with respect. Making sure they have all the information that is affecting their families and giving them the opportunity to have their concerns heard is one of the most important ways to show this respect. 
   I look forward to your answers and to working with you to help the Bethlehem Steel workers through this challenging stage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 