SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN SCIENCE, ENGINEERING PARTNERSHIP FOR AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDENTS
  At a press conference this morning at Morgan State University (MSU), Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced she has secured $4 million to support the Chesapeake Aeronautics Consortium, a joint partnership led by Morgan State with Bowie State University and University of Maryland, Eastern Shore. Sen. Mikulski was joined by MSU School of Engineering Dean Dr. Eugene DeLoatch and engineering students.  
   "America is a nation of pioneers, innovators and discoverers. We must continue to invest in our human capital," said Senator Mikulski. "This partnership highlights Maryland as a leader in innovation. It will help our universities target students thinking about engineering as a profession and continue to keep Maryland at the forefront of innovation." 
   The Chesapeake Aeronautics Consortium partners with NASA to provide opportunities for African American students to explore careers in science and engineering. By combining electrical engineering, computer science, physics and mathematics into a multi-disciplinary program, the consortium conducts innovative research in airplane safety and develops new cockpit technology. Through the establishment of a university-based applied research program, the consortium is at the forefront of an emerging industry in Maryland and attracts students to engineering as a career choice. 
   "Our nation today is in an amazing race for discovery and new knowledge to foster an innovation society. I want Maryland to win that race," Senator Mikulski said. "With programs like this, and dedicated students like these, I know we can make it happen. I will keep fighting to put funds in the federal checkbook to make your dreams a reality." 
   Founded in 1867, MSU is a historically black institution (HBCU) offering both undergraduate and graduate programs of study. Each year, Morgan State awards more than 50 percent of all undergraduate degrees earned by African Americans in Maryland and is among the top five universities nationally in the number of undergraduate degrees awarded to African Americans yearly. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and the senior Democrat on the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science, which funds NASA.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 