SEN. MIKULSKI ASKS LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES WHAT THEY NEED TO KEEP COUNTRY SAFE
  At today's Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, Chairman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) asked what the federal government can do to help the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF), the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), and the U.S. Marshals Service keep America safe from terrorism, violent crime and drugs. Senator Mikulski acknowledged the impact of this week's tragedy at Virginia Tech University and noted that it highlights the importance of our law enforcement agencies keeping our kids and our communities safe. 
   "As a Senator from the National Capital Region, I know how important these federal agencies are to fighting violent crime and stopping drug trafficking across state lines. They work around the clock to keep this country safe," said Senator Mikulski. "Today, we want to hear how we can help you protect us from terrorism, and keep our communities safe from violent crime and drugs."  
   Administrative officials from all three agencies testified at today's hearing on their fiscal year 2008 budgets, including ATF Acting Director Michael Sullivan, DEA Administrator Karen Tandy and U.S. Marshals Director John Clark. 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "We are meeting today at a very grim and melancholy time. On Monday, we watched in shock and horror as Virginia Tech came under fire, leaving 32 dead, and a dozen injured. We are devastated for students, faculty, family and friends. 
   "We planned today's hearing months ago to examine the budget requests for our dedicated law enforcement agencies - ATF, the DEA, and the Marshals Service - and to discuss how the CJS subcommittee provides for our nation's security. This terrible tragedy highlights the importance of our law enforcement agencies to keeping our kids and our communities safe. 
   "When the massacre at Virginia Tech happened, the ATF was immediately on the scene. They sent 12 ATF expert agents to Virginia immediately and recovered the guns. ATF is working in my home state of Maryland at the state-of-the-art ballistics lab in Ammendale, Md. They confirmed the bullets came from two different handguns. I am proud of ATF's role and expertise in enforcement and forensics analysis. I want to know what Congress can do to help Virginia Tech and ATF's mission, not just putting money in the federal checkbook, but also what ATF needs to do its job. 
   "I appreciate all the agencies represented here today and the hard-working, dedicated agents in the field. As a Senator from the National Capital Region, I know how important these federal agencies are to fighting violent crime and stopping drug trafficking across state lines. They work around the clock to keep this country safe - 24 hours a day, seven days a week, on weekends and holidays - these dedicated agents put themselves on the front line. 
   "Today, we want to hear how we can help you protect us from terrorism, and keep our communities safe from violent crime and drugs. 
   "The DEA is part of the intelligence community. It plays a unique role - disrupting terrorist funding sources. Terrorists are using drug trafficking to finance terror. The sales of illegal drugs fund the Taliban. Drugs sold in the United States are putting money in the pockets of jihadists. The DEA has a strong presence in Afghanistan. Today, I want hear specifically about what DEA is doing to identify and disrupt heroin distribution. 
   "The DEA is also fighting a war here at home against Meth. Meth destroys lives and communities. It is highly addictive, cheap and easy to make. The DEA works with state and local law enforcement to shut down and clean up toxic meth labs and to stop meth trafficking across our borders. 
   "Last year, Congress passed the Adam Walsh Act to protect our children on the streets and in cyber space from sex offenders and child predators. U.S. Marshals are on the front line, charged with apprehending child predators. We are committed to putting dollars in the federal checkbook to locate, arrest and prosecute child predators. The Marshals also have the mission and challenge of tracking down and arresting felons, protecting federal judges, courthouses, and witnesses - including over 2,000 sitting judges and 400 court facilities, and transporting prisoners. 
   "And the Marshals are playing a critical role in the War on Terror. They offer protection during high-threat terrorist trials here in the United States - like the Moussaoui trial - and security for judges in Iraq and Afghanistan. They protected witnesses and judges in the trial of Saddam Hussein. So we want to know how to we can support these important missions in the federal checkbook. 
   "There is a lot of expertise on our panel today: ATF Acting Director Michael Sullivan, DEA Administrator Karen Tandy, and U.S. Marshals Director John Clark. I look forward to hearing their testimony on how these law enforcement budget requests will make our communities safer, reduce violent crime, and protect our national security."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 