SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS ON GOV. EHRLICH TO ADDRESS PROBLEMS WITH THOMAS JOHNSON BRIDGE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today called on Maryland Gov. Robert Ehrlich to address concerns about the safety of Southern Maryland's Thomas Johnson Bridge and its ability to meet current and future traffic needs. Sen. Mikulski requested the Maryland State Highway Administration evaluate the bridge's safety and look into the need for a second span to handle the region's booming population.  
   "Every day, Marylanders depend on our roadways to get them back and forth to jobs, schools and home. As a member of the Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee, it is one of my top priorities to make sure federal transportation funding is used to fight for the resources Maryland needs to make sure our roads are safe, efficient and reliable," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I will continue to fight to keep Maryland commuters on the go." 
   Maryland State Senator Roy Dyson recently expressed his concerns about the Thomas Johnson Bridge in a letter to Senator Mikulski. In a response Senator Dyson, Senator Mikulski wrote: "Your views on the need for improvements and expansion of the Thomas Johnson Bridge are very helpful to me as I work toward securing federal funding for transportation projects across the state. I look forward to continuing to work with you on ways to solve the traffic concerns facing our constituents." 
   The text of Senator Mikulski's letter to Governor Ehrlich is below: 
   Dear Governor Ehrlich: 
   I am writing to share the concerns of our constituents that live in St. Mary's and Calvert Counties. 
   As we both know, the Thomas Johnson Bridge was completed in 1977 - and since that time St. Mary's and Calvert Counties have grown extraordinarily. I know traffic problems all across the state have become a real burden to our constituents. Traffic makes it harder for Marylanders to spend time with their families, it damages our environment and harms our economy. One of my top priorities is making sure that federal transportation spending in Maryland goes toward projects where it can do the most good. 
   Maryland State Senator Roy Dyson also recently contacted me about the Thomas Johnson Bridge. Senator Dyson is concerned about the safety of the current bridge span and capacity of the bridge to handle current and future traffic needs of the area. 
   I am writing to request that the Maryland State Highway Administration consider undertaking a study of the safety and structural integrity of the current bridge. I am also requesting that Maryland SHA look into the feasibility and need for a second span to deal with the tremendous growth in the St. Mary's and Calvert Counties. 
   I appreciate you taking time to consider this matter. I look forward to hearing from you and to continuing to work together on behalf of the citizens of Maryland.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 