SEN. MIKULSKI CONGRATULATES ST. MICHAELS FIRE DEPARTMENT ON RECENT FEDERAL GRANT, VOWS TO KEEP FIGHTING FOR PROGRAM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today visited the St. Michaels Volunteer Fire Department to congratulate them on being awarded $225,000 in federal funding for new equipment through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and to talk about what this federal program has meant for communities on the Eastern Shore. St. Michaels Fire Department is one of 31 departments on the Eastern Shore to receive federal funding through this grant program since 2001, totaling $2,874,879. 
   "We need to protect the protectors with the best vehicles, training and safety gear so they can save homes and save lives," said Senator Mikulski. "But I know how expensive this equipment can be. Fire departments like St. Michaels can't rely on Bingos and fish fries to pay for it. Volunteer firefighters are already working on their own time. They shouldn't have to do it on their own dime. That's why I fight for a federal investment in the fire grant program. Marylanders count on fire departments to keep them safe. I want firefighters to know they can count on me to make sure they are a priority in the federal checkbook." 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles.
   The grant program is run by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and is currently funded at $750 million. Senator Mikulski serves on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and fights each year to increase federal money for the grant program to help meet the need of local communities. This year alone, approximately 20,400 fire departments from across the country applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests.
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment narrowly failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Senator Mikulski works hard to make sure Maryland fire departments have access to these federal grants. Every year, she sends a letter to each Maryland Fire Department to make sure they know how and when to apply for these federal grants. Senator Mikulski also organizes grant writing workshops for the firefighters in conjunction with the Department of Homeland Security, the Maryland Fire and Rescue Institute and the Maryland State Firemen's Association. At the workshops, representatives from fire departments across Maryland learn how to write effective grant proposals.
   St. Michaels Volunteer Fire Department is using their federal grant to purchase a new 2,500 gallon pumper tanker. The department does not have a pumper/tanker and must rely on assistance from nearby departments when responding to emergencies. This new pumper will also replace St. Michael's 1979 truck, which does not meet safety guidelines. Replacement parts often have to be custom made because they are no longer manufactured for the out-dated vehicle.
   Thirty-one Eastern Shore fire departments have received federal grants since the program was created in 2001. In addition to St. Michaels Volunteer Fire Department, three Eastern Shore fire departments have been awarded federal grants in the last four weeks alone.
   Eldorado-Brookview Volunteer Fire Department was awarded $18,630 to purchase a new communications system that will be compatible to the 800 MHz system recently installed by Dorchester County. The Tilghman Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. was awarded $225,000 in federal funding to replace the 1984 pumper/tanker that the company has been using. And Hoopers Island Fire Co., Inc. was awarded $101,250 for new communications equipment, Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) units, and six new sets of turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats) to replace gear that was damaged while responding to incidents during Hurricane Isabel.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 