CHAIRWOMAN MIKULSKI SAYS PRESIDENT'S CUTS WON'T STOP HER FIGHT TO KEEP COMMUNITIES SAFE
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she has continued her commitment to protecting America from terrorism and violent crime despite imposed cuts to state and local law enforcements in the CJS portion of the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending package. Senator Mikulski acknowledged the challenges faced by congressional leaders who were forced to cut billions of dollars for domestic priorities in the face of President Bush's veto threats. The House and Senate's agreement represents a $2.6 billion cut from the Senate-passed CJS bill. The bill, which has been approved by Congress, now heads to the President for his signature.  
   "The rise in violent crime and the critical ongoing fight against terrorism have placed new pressure on the law enforcement agencies working hard every day to keep our nation and our neighborhoods safe. Unfortunately, President Bush's refusal to negotiate with congressional Democrats has shortchanged our nation's domestic priorities. This bipartisan, bicameral effort is a product of hard work and tough choices to meet a very tight allocation," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to give law enforcement the tools they need to clean up the streets, protect our families, and fight the crime that is destroying communities." 
   PROTECTING AMERICA FROM TERRORISM 
   The bill provides $6.7 billion for the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), which is $133 million above the President's budget request. Counterterrorism now accounts for 40 percent of the FBI's budget. Understanding the FBI's leading role in securing domestic national security by safeguarding against weapons of mass destruction, terrorist attacks and internal espionage, the FBI's funding includes $132 million for initiatives to improve intelligence, including additional agents devoted to counterterrorism efforts. The bill also includes $143.5 million in emergency designated funds for the FBI to address emerging counterterrorism and cyber security threats. 
   Also included in the bill's funding is a $19 million increase to enhance the Weapons of Mass Destruction Directorate, providing the FBI with significant resources to detect, identify and track individuals that pose threats. 
   "We have an obligation to keep our communities safe from violent crime and terrorism. Given all of the stress placed on the FBI with increased roles and responsibilities, we must ensure the agency has the resources it needs," said Senator Mikulski. "The lives of 300 million Americans depend on it." 
   The bill also includes: 
   * $5.4 billion for the Bureau of Prisons, which is $62 million above the President's budget request. 
   * $2.1 billion for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), with an additional $53 million above the President's budget request to lift a hiring freeze and to restore a program that provides DEA support to state and local law enforcement officials. 
   * $1 billion for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), including $24 million for the National Center for Explosives Training and Research. 
   * $867 million for the U.S. Marshals Service, including new funding to support the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, which Senator Mikulski co-sponsored. 
   COMMUNITY SECURITY 
   Chairwoman Mikulski has criticized the President's budget request, which reduced federal resources to fight and assist state and local communities in fighting violent crime. Instead, this year's spending bill restores funding for state and local law enforcement to nearly $2.7 billion, filling a major gap after the President cut its budget in half. It provides $1 billion for state and local law enforcement grants for states and $587 million for Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grants, including $20 million to put 260 new cops on the beat in our communities. 
   The bill includes $1.2 billion above the President's budget request to help state and local law enforcement fight crime, child exploitation, gangs and drugs. This includes: 
   * $36.4 million for Indian tribes to combat crime and improve criminal justice. 
   * $175 million to eliminate DNA and other forensic backlogs at crime labs across the country. 
   This bill also includes $383 million, $100 million above the President's request, to keep children safe with programs to prevent juvenile delinquency through after school, job training, mentoring and gang prevention programs. This includes $15 million to put cops into schools to prevent school violence. 
   VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN 
   An original author of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), Chairwoman Mikulski fought to provide $400 million for the Department of Justice's (DOJ) Violence Against Women Office for counseling, hotlines, shelters and training programs to prevent domestic violence. This funding restores a $20 million cut by President Bush, and funds programs authorized through VAWA. The funding includes $4 million to engage men and youth in domestic violence prevention programs, and increased workplace resources for victims of domestic violence. 
   "I have absolutely no tolerance for domestic violence. That's why I strongly support legislation and grant programs that help protect women and their families from continued violence and abuse," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue my fight to put funds in the federal checkbook to fund these important programs." 
   Domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking are crimes of epidemic proportions, exacting terrible costs on individual lives and our communities. Nearly 25 percent of U.S. women report that they have been physically assaulted by an intimate partner during their lifetimes, 1 in 6 have been the victims of attempted or completed rape, and the cost of intimate partner violence exceeds $5.8 billion each year. 
   FIGHTING CRIMES AGAINST CHILDREN 
   "We have made some amazing progress over the years, starting out with billboards and milk cartons. But crimes have gotten more sophisticated, and we've had to become more sophisticated," said Senator Mikulski. "Our bill focuses the resources of the federal government on child predators like a laser. I will keep doing my part in this war against child predators to help keep our children safe." 
   Within the DOJ budget, Senator Mikulski has included $148 million to protect our nation's children from predators. The funding will support efforts to prevent, investigate and prosecute crimes against children, including: 
   * $50 million for the Missing Children's Program to help find missing children and to protect them from internet sexual exploitation. 
   * $16 million for a new national initiative for grants to locate, arrest and prosecute child sexual predators. 
   * $15 million for grants to keep kids safe from violence at school. 
   Chairwoman Mikulski has emphasized congressional oversight, accountability and fiscal stewardship in this year's bill. Insisting on discipline and vigorous oversight, the bill requires agencies to notify the committee immediately after learning of program cost overruns greater than 10 percent. It also prohibits the use of federal funds for lavish banquets and conferences. The committee will work with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to begin biannual reports of programs and projects greater than $100 million as an early warning system to identify cost overruns and mismanagement. The bill also requires that Inspectors General conduct audits of grant funding. 
   Working with CJS Ranking Member Richard C. Shelby (R-Ala.), Chairwoman Mikulski instituted criteria for all congressionally designated projects in this year's spending bill, requiring that they be specifically focused on the mission and mandate of the organization. The CJS bill substantially reduces earmarks, and all projects in the bill comply with the requirements of the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act (S. 1), as passed by the Senate.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 