SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR IMMEDIATE INTELLIGENCE HEARINGS INTO SECRET NSA SPYING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence since 2001, called for the committee to hold expedited hearings into the recent admission by President Bush that he secretly authorized spying on some Americans. Sen. Mikulski made the request in a letter delivered today to Senators Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and John D. Rockefeller IV (D-W.Va.), Chairman and Vice Chairman respectively, of the Intelligence Committee.  
   "The President seems to have admitted that he secretly eliminated this entire legal process. That raises very serious questions about U.S. intelligence operations and about the President's commitment to obeying the law," said Senator Mikulski. "Part of being a nation of laws includes Congressional oversight." 
   The text of the letter from Senator Mikulski is provided below: 
   The Honorable Pat Roberts, Chairman 
  The Honorable John D. Rockefeller IV, Vice Chairman 
  Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 
  211 Hart Senate Office Building 
  Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Mr. Chairman and Mr. Vice Chairman: 
   In the face of unprecedented threats to our country, we must be vigilant and stand sentry against our enemies. But, we are a nation of laws and we all must live by the rule of law. That is what it means to be a democracy and it is one of the most important characteristics of our country that separates us from our enemies. It is also why the President's admission that he secretly authorized spying on some Americans, apparently in violation of the law, is so troubling. I strongly urge that the Senate Committee on Intelligence hold expedited hearings on this matter. 
   As you know, I have been trying for some time to get a clear answer to the question of when U.S. intelligence agencies may legally spy on Americans. For example, at an April 2005 Intelligence Committee hearing and in follow-up questions, I specifically asked the Attorney General and the Director of the FBI whether and under what circumstances the National Security Agency could spy on Americans. 
   My understanding of the law is that a court order is required before spying on Americans is permissible, unless there are emergency circumstances, when immediate spying is allowed for up to 72 hours without a court order. Importantly, the law provides for a secret process for such requests so that our enemies cannot be tipped off. This process and these laws balance our need to act quickly against our enemies while also protecting Americans' constitutional rights. 
   The President seems to have admitted that he secretly eliminated this entire legal process. That raises very serious questions about U.S. intelligence operations and about the President's commitment to obeying the law. Part of being a nation of laws includes Congressional oversight. The Intelligence Committee has a duty to investigate how, when and under what circumstances our intelligence community may spy on U.S. citizens. At a minimum, we need to establish the following facts as soon as possible: 
   What exactly was specified in the president's secret order? 
   What was the rationale for the necessity of the secret order? 
   What was the statutory or other legal basis for that secret order? 
   If the actions in the secret order were believed to be necessary, why was there no request to change the existing statutory law or for a new law? 
   What action(s) have been taken by or on behalf of any agency, department or division of the U.S. government (including in particular any member of the intelligence community) in response to that secret order? 
   Was there any judicial or other review of this secret order and, if so, what was it and by whom? 
   What limitations, if any, on spying on U.S. citizens were included in the secret order? 
   What protections were put in place to ensure that Americans' constitutional rights were not violated? 
   What was done with any information collected on U.S. citizens pursuant to such secret order? 
   Are there any other secret orders relating to spying on U.S. citizens? 
   Only hearings will enable us to learn the facts and protect our nation from predators while protecting the constitutional rights of U.S. citizens. Hearings by the Intelligence Committee will be a service to our intelligence professionals, our political leadership and to all Americans. 
   I therefore urge the Committee to hold hearings on an expedited basis to get to the bottom of this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski 
  United States Senate
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 