SEN. MIKULSKI: A COUNTRY THAT DOESN'T INNOVATE, STAGNATES
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Sens. Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) today to announce plans to introduce a package of three bills next week aimed at helping America maintain its leading edge in science and technology. The bills will be collectively titled the Protect America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act. The PACE Act implements 20 recommendations contained in a recent report by the National Academy of Sciences titled "Rising Above the Gathering Storm."  
   "We're talking about a legislative agenda to help us develop a new innovation economy and create the building blocks that will carry us through the next decade and even the next century," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to create an innovation-friendly government. I will do my part to work on the Appropriations Committee to put money in the federal checkbook to support these important initiatives." 
   "If we're going to be safer, if we're going to be stronger, we truly have to act smarter," continued Senator Mikulski. 
   In May 2005, Senators Bingaman and Alexander asked the National Academies the question, "What are the ten top actions, in priority order, that federal policy makers could take to enhance the science and technology enterprise so the United States can successfully compete, prosper and be secure in the global community of the 21st century?" 
   The NAS report, "Rising Above the Gathering Storm," concludes the United States' world economic leadership will erode in the coming years if the United States doesn't proactively seek to improve the scientific and technological expertise of its workforce. 
   The PACE Act will consist of three separate bills which, taken together, will enact each of the report's 20 recommendations. Provisions in the bills will include doubling federal funding for basic research, competitive merit-based scholarships for future math and science teachers, visa reform for foreign science and mathematics students, and an extension of the research and development tax credit.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 