SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR STEM CELL RESEARCH
  As the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee holds its first hearing on the necessity of stem cell research today, committee member Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) reiterated her commitment to fighting for federal support. Sen. Mikulski has joined several of her colleagues to introduce the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007 (S.5). This is the same legislation vetoed last year by President Bush despite passage in both the U.S. House of Representatives and the Senate. Today's hearing was a joint event with the Senate Labor, Health and Human Services, Education Appropriations Subcommittee.  
   "I am a firm, clear, unabashed supporter of stem cell research," said Senator Mikulski. "There must be strong federal support for embryonic stem cell research with federal scrutiny, regulation and transparency that provides the sound ethical framework that supports the best science and research to find the cures that will save lives." 
   The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007 would direct the Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary to expand stem cell research, and requires a strong ethical framework for conducting the research. 
   "One of the reasons I came to the Senate was to help save lives. Today I continue that fight by supporting a strong federal investment in stem cell research," said Senator Mikulski. "For too long, this federal health research effort has been operating with one hand tied behind its back." 
   Maryland's state legislature, recognizing the importance of stem cell research, passed legislation last year to provide $15 million in state funding. State institutions, like Johns Hopkins University, are already conducting breakthrough research. Recent findings included demonstrating the potential of embryonic stem cells to enable paralyzed animals to move. 
   "Stem cell research cannot be done piecemeal, state-by-state. We need a national framework," continued Senator Mikulski. "We have heard the American public's outcry for expansion of the federal government's current stem cell research policy. We owe it to every American suffering from diseases who could benefit from this research - like Alzheimer's, diabetes and Parkinson's - to explore the scientific possibilities in front of us."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 