SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES INCREASED FUNDING FOR FDA, MARYLAND'S AGRICULTURE INITIATIVES
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Agriculture, Rural Development and Food and Drug Administration 2008 spending bill includes $90.6 billion in federal funding for Department of Agriculture (USDA) initiatives, including agricultural research and education programs, natural resources conservation programs, domestic food assistance programs and rural housing, economic and community development throughout the country. The legislation, passed by the full Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon, also funds the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), headquartered in Maryland.  
   "Every community around the country is impacted by this federal funding. In Maryland, it means good news for our agriculture and farming industries, and all of our hardworking employees at FDA," said Senator Mikulski. "I applaud the people who work on Maryland's farms, and in our federal labs, universities and other research facilities for their commitment. I will continue to fight to put money in the federal checkbook to support their important work." 
   The bill provides $1.75 billion for the FDA, a $186 million increase over last year's funding request. The funding includes a 25 percent increase for the Office of Women's Health, funded at $5 million this year. Since 1994, Senator Mikulski has championed increased funding for the Office of Women's Health, which has received approximately $4 million a year since 2002. 
   "For 16 years, the Office of Women's Health has led the way in improving the health and well-being of women across the United States. It ensures that women's needs are safeguarded when drugs and medical devices are evaluated, and they serve as advocates for women's health research programs and activities," said Senator Mikulski. "It is critical that we make sure women are not left behind when it comes to their health." 
   Senator Mikulski also secured $500,000 for the Appalachian Center for Ethnobotanical Studies at Frostburg State University in Allegany County. The center, which collaborates with the University of Maryland Biotechnology Institute, will continue researching the medicinal uses of native plants and promote this industry for economic development purposes in Appalachia. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 