SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT AGAINST LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS FACILITY AT SPARROW'S POINT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has joined Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) in introducing an amendment to the CLEAN Energy Act (H.R. 6) that would restore state government's authority to make decisions on siting, construction, expansion or operation of new Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) terminals. A vote on the amendment is expected later today.  
   "This amendment gives states and communities a stronger voice by making sure that the Army Corps of Engineers gets the approval of the affected state before giving permits for construction or expansion of an LNG facility," said Senator Mikulski. "We can't let a federal agency rubber stamp plans for an LNG facility. I don't want permits issued by federal agencies when our states are adamantly opposed and not involved in the decision-making." 
   The amendment would require the Army Corps of Engineers to secure the approval of the affected state's governor before issuing permits to construct or expand an LNG terminal. 
   A new LNG facility has been proposed in Sparrows Point, Md. If approved, LNG tankers would have to travel through the narrowest portions of the Chesapeake Bay, under the Bay Bridge, through heavily used commercial fishing and recreational boating areas, to the mouth of the Port of Baltimore. This is a densely populated area that is less than two miles away from residential communities that are home to over 65,000 residents. 
   "I am absolutely opposed to a new LNG facility in Sparrows Point. As the state's senior Senator, I must do all I can to protect the Port of Baltimore and the people of the Baltimore metropolitan area," said Senator Mikulski. "I worry about a terrorist attack. I worry about an accident with ghoulish consequences. I want to make sure every single agency with authority over LNG plants and shipping has looked at the risk of a terrorist attack. It is my responsibility to ensure the right people are asking the right questions to protect the American people from terrorism."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 