SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PROGRAMS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined a group of her Senate colleagues today in sending a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt, urging them to fully fund critical and lifesaving Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) programs within their agencies. Currently, neither department's budget includes full funding for VAWA programs.  
   "I have absolutely no tolerance for domestic violence. That's why I strongly support legislation like VAWA, which helps protect women and their families from continued violence and abuse," said Senator Mikulski. "I'm outraged that the budgets of these two critical federal agencies don't fully fund VAWA programs. Marylanders can count on me to work hard for full funding of these very important programs." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Attorney General Gonzales and Secretary Leavitt: 
   We write to encourage you to fully fund programs addressing domestic and sexual violence in the FY 2008 Budget. Last year, Congress reauthorized the landmark Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which both continues successful and lifesaving programs and crafts new initiatives to end sexual and domestic violence. We appreciate the Administration's support of critical VAWA programs that help our nation better respond to the needs of victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. We ask that you demonstrate that commitment by fully funding new and existing VAWA programs in the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services in the FY 2008 Budget. 
   Domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking are crimes of epidemic proportions, exacting terrible costs on individual lives and our communities. Nearly 25 percent of U.S. women report that they have been physically assaulted by an intimate partner during their lifetimes, 1 in 6 have been the victims of attempted or completed rape, and the cost of intimate partner violence exceeds $5.8 billion each year. 
   Recent studies indicate that domestic violence has begun to decline since VAWA was first authorized, yet more work remains to be done. Studies also demonstrate that VAWA is more than good social policy, it is good fiscal policy - VAWA 1994 saved nearly $14.8 billion dollars in net averted social costs in its first 6 years. The Act is working to break the cycle of violence, but to see further savings, both in lives and in dollars, VAWA programs in the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services must be fully funded in the FY 2008 Budget. 
   The Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services have an important responsibility to maintain the Administration's strong commitment to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking and to make additional gains by implementing new VAWA programs. VAWA does more than just provide critical interventions and services for victims; VAWA programs help prevent violence, meet the needs of children and youth, support the criminal justice system and courts, provide new resources for Native communities and communities of color, train health care providers, assist employers, and reduce homelessness. We urge that you support full funding in the FY 2008 Budget for programs that address these crimes, and provide needed services for victims. Full funding for VAWA is a crucial investment in our communities that will save lives, rebuild families and prevent future crimes.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 