SEN. MIKULSKI: CAL RIPKEN WAS AN 'IRON MAN' ON AND OFF FIELD
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today paid tribute to Maryland's own Baltimore Oriole, Cal Ripken Jr., who will be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame on July 29, 2007. Senator Mikulski introduced a Senate resolution, co-sponsored by Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.), that she will present to Cal Ripken Jr. at a ceremony during Baltimore County's tribute to him on Saturday, July 21, 2007.
   "For we Orioles' fans, it was never if we would be celebrating such an amazing feat, but when we would be celebrating it. All baseball fans know about 'The Streak.' We remember the victory lap he took around Camden Yards," said Senator Mikulski. "But the most important thing we remember is the strong, dependable presence of Cal - night after night, day after day - through broken bones, through the wide range of emotions and pressures he experienced as a major leaguer, as a father, and as an active citizen in our community."  
   Senator Mikulski's congressional statement is below: 
   "Today I honor and congratulate Cal Ripken Jr. on his induction to the Baseball Hall of Fame. Throughout his storied 21-year career, Cal has been the epitome of an 'Iron Man,' both on and off the field. 
   "I watched Cal go from being unknown to being the best known baseball player from Baltimore since Babe Ruth. I was there on the last day at Memorial Stadium and the first day at Camden Yards. And I will watch him when he is inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame on July 29. 
   "For we Orioles' fans, it was never if we would be celebrating such an amazing feat, but when we would be celebrating it. All baseball fans know about 'The Streak.' We fans remember the victory lap he took around Camden Yards. And the countdown - where the numbers were displayed not just at the Camden Warehouse or in the Baltimore Sun, but also at my office in Hart Senate Office building: 2,632 consecutive games, 431 home runs, 19 All-Star game starts, two American League Golden Glove awards, eight Silver Slugger Awards, two American League MVPs, and on and on. 
   "But the most important thing we remember, which the numbers cannot fully reflect, is the strong, dependable presence of Cal - night after night, day after day - through broken bones, through the wide range of emotions and pressures he experienced as a major leaguer, as a father, and as an active citizen in our community. Every game, there he was - at third base and short stop, smiling, and doing his job. And doing it well. 
   "I remember that fateful night when Cal broke Lou Gehrig's long-standing consecutive game record. To see that banner drop from 2130 to 2131, and to hear the admiration and jubilation from the crowd in Baltimore, was something I will always remember. The sustained cheers were never ending as Cal, urged by Rafael Palmeiro, took a lap around the field. It was a proud night for the Ripken family, for the Orioles, and for Maryland. 
   "It was such a magical night. Families from all over came with their kids to celebrate the 'Iron Man' and his achievement. The evening had as much dignity as the player himself. 
   "Cal's accomplishments transcend well beyond the baseball field. His character and demeanor is reflected in the success he experiences every day off the field. He shows up and gives maximum effort in every aspect of life. He puts his family above all, he is a consummate community activist, and is committed to living and teaching the 'Ripken Way.' 
   "The 'Ripken Way' is simple, really, but its wisdom is enough to build great players and bind generations together. It states: 'Keep it Simple, Explain the Why, Celebrate the Individual, and Make it Fun.' This style emphasizes clarity and simplicity, while also stressing empathy and interest. 
   "I've certainly used the 'Ripken Way' in my life and I believe many Marylanders and Americans also use it. In Maryland, I can tell you the 'Ripken Way' is not just on our ball fields. It is in our factories. It is in our homes. It is in the bread we serve our families. It is in our hospitals in Baltimore, where Cal has contributed so much to children in need of hope and a smile. And it is in our hearts today as we salute Cal Ripken Jr. and this wonderful honor he is receiving. 
   "Cal applies the 'Ripken Way' both on and off the ball field, particularly in his philanthropic work at the Cal Ripken Sr. Foundation. The Cal Ripken Sr. Foundation was established in 2001 in memory of Cal's father. To this day, Cal carries the torch and legacy of his father. It is a legacy that has shaped Cal's life, and a legacy that has shaped the entire Orioles' organization. 
   "By emphasizing work ethic, playing by the rules, putting the team first, and showing up every day, the Cal Ripken Sr. Foundation serves disadvantaged youth across the country. The foundation has even built a beautiful state-of-the-art stadium in Aberdeen, Md. where kids can play. Cal has put much of his own money into the foundation and the stadium's construction, while also working to secure private donations. 
   "Cal may be a local boy, but he's no ordinary man. There's no question that Cal has earned his way into the Hall of Fame, the respect of the world, and the admiration of generations to come. 
   "Baltimore may have lost the powerhouse company Bethlehem Steel, but it will always be home to 'Iron Man' Cal Ripken Jr. I congratulate Cal on his stellar career, his strong work ethic, his commitment to family and community, and for the well-deserved, wonderful honor of being inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. 
   "While he has already achieved so much I can't help but think that the best is yet to come."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 