SEN. MIKULSKI SUCCEEDS IN FIGHT FOR IMPACT AID INCREASE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) praised the Senate Budget Committee's increase to the federal Impact Aid program in the fiscal year 2008 budget resolution, the details of which were released today. Sen. Mikulski worked with Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) to increase the Impact Aid program by $100 million in the budget, despite President Bush's proposal to freeze funding for the third year in a row. This increase brings federal funding of the program to its full authorized level of $1.338 billion.  
   Senator Mikulski has met with several of Maryland's incoming and returning local leaders since January to discuss the impact of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2005 recommendations. In light of the expected increase of students, Senator Mikulski believes fully funding Impact Aid will allow more county funds to support BRAC-implementation efforts. As she toured the state, the Senator promised to fight for an increase to the program, which could dramatically ease pressure on local and state government budgets. 
   "BRAC brings opportunities, but it also brings great challenges. We need to focus on how federal dollars can help the state and our counties. The President's budget ignores the impact these funds have on our schools in Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "One of the reasons we were so successful with BRAC is that we worked together. Now Team Maryland will move forward to provide the resources our communities need to accommodate the thousands of families coming to our state." 
   The Impact Aid program provides federal funding to school districts that have increased enrollment due to "federally connected children." These are students who have a parent who is either a member of the Armed Forces who lives and/or works on a military base, or who is a civilian contractor who works on a military base or other federally owned land. This also includes children residing on Indian lands or federally-owned low-rent housing facilities. Impact Aid funds can be used for school construction, hiring new teachers, and updating technology. 
   "The BRAC announcements were great news for Maryland and the nation. They were a testament to the strength of Maryland's military bases, our military and the communities that support them," said Senator Mikulski. "But we must now work together to help Maryland address the increased demands on our communities." 
   It is estimated that Maryland will receive at least an additional 4,000 federally connected students between 2007 and 2011, with Harford and Anne Arundel County school districts being among the most heavily impacted.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 