SEN. MIKULSKI HOLDS SPECIAL EDUCATION ROUNDTABLE TO ADDRESS CHALLENGES FOR FAMILIES, TEACHERS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today hosted a roundtable discussion with families and school administrators to address the challenges facing special education students and teachers, and the impact of the underfunding of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Anne Arundel County School Superintendent Dr. Kevin Maxwell and County Director of Special Education Mary Tillar participated in Senator Mikulski's roundtable at the Central Special Education Center.  
   A member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Mikulski has consistently supported legislation to fully fund IDEA at $21.5 billion, despite the significant underfunding by the federal government every year. In his fiscal year 2009 budget request, President Bush again shortchanged IDEA by providing only $11.3 billion in funding. 
   "Special education has made such a huge difference in the lives of students with disabilities. It gives disabled children a chance to succeed in school and in life," said Senator Mikulski. "Parents of disabled children face such a tough burden already. School should not be one of the many things they worry about, particularly when the laws are already on the books to guarantee their child a public school education." 
   IDEA entitles children with disabilities to a public education and provides federal funds to help schools with the cost. In theory, the federal government pays 40 percent of a state's special education costs, with the rest subsidized by the state and local governments. However, the federal government has not made good on its commitment. At its height, the federal government has never paid more than 18 percent to Maryland. In fiscal year 2008, Anne Arundel County will spend over $100 million in special education programs, but will only receive 15 percent of that from the federal government. This means counties like Anne Arundel must make up the difference by skimping on special education, cutting from other education programs, or raising taxes. 
   The underfunding of IDEA has become increasingly critical for counties like Anne Arundel that expect a significant increase in residents as they implement the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2005 recommendations. The Department of Defense has estimated that Anne Arundel County school districts will be among the most heavily impacted in the state. Senator Mikulski has pledged to fight for increases to IDEA that could dramatically ease pressure on local and state government budgets, and allow more funds to support BRAC-implementation efforts. 
   "I don't want to force states and local school districts to forage for funds, cut back on teacher training, or delay school repairs because the federal government has failed to live up to its commitment to special education," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight for funding of IDEA, because I don't want special education to be a hollow promise."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 