ONE YEAR AFTER SERVICE MEMBER'S DEATH, SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS CITIZENSHIP PROCESS HAS MADE PROGRESS
  On the one year anniversary of the death of U.S. Army Spc. Kendell Frederick of Randallstown, Md., in Iraq, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today commended the progress that has made in cutting through red tape to make it easier for military service members to become U.S. citizens.  
   "A year ago, we lost Kendell Frederick, a U.S. service member who so badly wanted to become a citizen of the country he died defending. His death in Iraq showed clearly how broken our bureaucracy is," said Senator Mikulski. "Kendell Frederick's death will not be in vain. This must not happen to another man or woman serving in our Armed Forces." 
   A citizen of Trinidad, Spc. Frederick, 21, was serving America in Iraq as a generator mechanic. He did not usually leave the base, but on October 19, 2005, he was sent off in a convoy to get fingerprinted in order to process his citizenship application. En route, he was killed when the convoy hit a roadside bomb. Spc. Frederick had tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen, but his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. He was granted citizenship a week after he died. 
   In December 2005, Senator Mikulski introduced the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act to make it easier for U.S. service members to become citizens, demanding better coordination among U.S. immigration and military officials. The act was included in the comprehensive immigration bill that has stalled in the U.S. Congress. It outlined several steps to improve the process. 
   Since then, Senator Mikulski's office has worked closely with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to make administrative changes to the visa processing system for those serving in the military. They are committed to exhausting every effort to ensure that all military naturalization applications are processed expeditiously so that service members receive this honor on behalf of a grateful nation. Together, they have taken several steps forward, by: 
   * Implementing a change in the fingerprinting process. 
   * Creating a dedicated customer service hotline for military service members who are applying for citizenship and their families. 
   * Updating instructions and clarifying misinformation for applicants. 
   "Every military death in Iraq is a tragedy, but Kendell Frederick's death did not need to happen. There are over 40,000 non-U.S. citizens serving in the military today. Many are on the front lines in Iraq, Afghanistan and throughout the world, fighting terrorists. If you are willing to fight and die for America, you should be able to become an American," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to cut through the bureaucracy and improve this process, because service members and their families have enough to worry about."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 