SEN. MIKULSKI TOURS BALTIMORE COUNTY TO SEE HURRICANE ISABEL RECOVERY EFFORTS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today joined Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith and other elected officials on a tour of some of the Maryland areas hardest hit by Hurricane Isabel. Mikulski, Smith and others witnessed first hand the recovery efforts still taking place one year later in areas such as Millers Island and Dundalk.  
   "When Hurricane Isabel hit, I toured hard hit areas to see the damage and meet people who lost homes and businesses," said Senator Mikulski. "I wanted to see what I could do to help. I was moved by what I saw - not only the heartbreak but the way that Marylanders pulled together. I promised that the federal government would help and not turn its back during their time of need." 
   "I am committed to helping this community fully recover from the devastation of Hurricane Isabel," continued Senator Mikulski. "People are getting back on their feet, but there is still work to be done. I will continue to do all I can to make sure every last family is moved out of their FEMA campers and garages and back into their homes." 
   In the months following Hurricane Isabel, Senator Mikulski organized six community meetings and appeals hearings in Baltimore, Dorchester, and Anne Arundel Counties to help Marylanders get better information about filing claims and appealing decisions. She made sure representatives from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the National Flood Insurance Program, and the Small Business Administration came to the meeting to provide on-site assistance. Almost 400 people attended these workshops. 
   "Many of the people I met with after the hurricane told me they didn't understand their flood insurance or what it paid for," said Senator Mikulski. "They didn't know, for example, that the contents of their homes weren't covered without a separate policy. When they asked their insurance agent to explain things to them, they couldn't get a straight answer because the agents didn't really know what these policies covered. No one was told how to appeal a claim decision, or even that an appeal was possible." 
   Senator Mikulski also worked with Senator Paul Sarbanes to improve the National Flood Insurance Program to make sure other families would not have to go through what Hurricane Isabel victims went through. The Senators made four recommendations, which were signed into law June 30, 2004 as part of the reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program. 
   1. Full Information and Disclosure of Flood Insurance Policies
  The National Flood Insurance Program must provide a clear and understandable outline of policies so policyholders understand their coverage. 
   2. Better Training for Insurance Agents
  Agents who sell flood insurance must understand what they are selling and how claims are processed so consumers can get the answers they need. 
   3. A Straightforward Formal Appeals Process
  There must be a clear way for policyholders to appeal claims awards or appraisals of loss. 
   4. Adequacy of Payments
  Consumers need assurance that the insurance they pay for will pay the real world cost of repairing the damage and replacing their loss. 
   On September 14, 2004, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes met with FEMA Federal Insurance Administrator David Maurstad to discuss the status of the Hurricane Isabel reviews being conducted by FEMA and to address their concerns about the manner in which the reviews were being conducted. At that meeting - and in a follow-up letter sent to Administrator Maurstad (attached) - the Senators pushed for a fair and quick resolution of the flood victims' outstanding claims.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 