SEN. MIKULSKI: WE'RE OUT OF TIME IN IRAQ
  As the Senate renews its consideration of the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1585), Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) went to the Senate floor today to call on her colleagues to support the "Webb amendment," which sets minimum time requirements for our troops' stays at home between tours of duty. Senator Mikulski is a co-sponsor of the amendment, which was introduced by Senator Jim Webb (D-Va.). The amendment requires time at home between deployments for active-duty troops to be at least as long as the length of their previous deployment. It also sets a minimum 1-to-3 year ratio for deployment of National Guard and Reserve members.  
   "More time. More time. More time. What did more time get us? It got us nowhere. President Bush says the Iraqis need more time. Well, I think we're out of time. I want more time for our troops to be at home," said Senator Mikulski. "It's not that they went once. It's that they go again and no sooner do they come back and say, 'Hello, honey - I think your name is Mary Beth,' then they have to be back out again. What are we doing to our families?" 
   For audio of Senator Mikulski's floor speech, call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter radio actuality number 1628 or download a high-quality mp3 at: 
   http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski070919.mp3.
  Senator Mikulski's excerpted statement as delivered is below: 
   "I rise as a supporter of the Webb Amendment. I want to compliment the Senator from Virginia for offering this amendment. Though a freshman Senator, he's certainly no stranger to war - a combat veteran, a warrior's warrior, and he's fully aware of the stresses our men and women in our military are facing, along with their families. 
   "I support the Webb Amendment because I think we need a different direction in Iraq. I think we need a different direction to do what we can to contain the violence and also to move ahead with a political solution. I'm going to support the Webb Amendment because I'm never going to vote to cut off money, but I will vote to protect our troops in the best ways, at least to give them more time. 
   "First, I would like to salute our troops. I think, by every account, regardless of how one feels about the war, one is very proud of the men and women who are part of our military, who have been on the ground and have been on the job. They've done their part. And that's what the two reports that we got last week said - that if you send in more people, that the violence will temporarily come down. But what happens when you don't keep that level? Well, that's a point of discussion. But let's go back to why they went. They went this summer in blazing heat with blazing guns to give the Iraqis more time. And what did the Iraqis do while our guys and gals were out there in 100-pound armor, driving to avoid IEDs? The Iraqis took a vacation. 
   "More time. More time. More time. What is wrong with this picture here? What did more time get us? It got us nowhere. With their two-month break, they still didn't go anywhere near a political solution. Now we're told we've got to keep this up and we could be there indefinitely because, what? The Iraqis need more time. Well, I think we're out of time. I think we're genuinely out of time. 
   "While we're giving the Iraqis more time, how about giving our troops more time to be at home? I'm really hot about this. It was 106 degrees in July, they took a break. 110 degrees in Baghdad, out there, they took a break. They, the Iraqis, took a break.  
   "I'm also going to be supporting the Biden Amendment, because if the Iraqis won't come up with a political solution, not with the so-called soft partition, it's time to go to the international community and see if there needs to be a hard solution. And I'm beginning to explore and believe that perhaps Iraq needs to be partitioned. 
   "So part of our solution, while the Iraqis want more time, I want more time for our troops. I want more time for our troops to be at home. That's why I'm supporting this brilliant amendment by Senator Jim Webb. For our men and our women in the military, we know what his amendment says. It says that they have to be at home for as at least as long as the length of their last deployment. So if they were there for 15 months, they should be home for 15 months. Then for the National Guard and for the Reserves, no one would be redeployed within three years. 
   "No home again, back again, while the Iraqis want more time. Our employers are wondering how they can keep those jobs open because they don't want to turn their back on the military. We've got to get real here. $20,000 bonuses for a quick-fix military doesn't cut it. 
   "Jim Webb is really on to something here. Our troops are exhausted. Their families are living with tremendous stress. Every day they wonder what is happening there. Every family that hears a news report about another attack, they wonder if their loved one is in it. Every time they're at home and they hear CNN breaking reports of 'four U.S. military killed,' 'ten killed,' '"four killed,' they first wonder if it is a zone where their husband or wife or son or daughter is. Then when they hear that, they wonder is it the Army or the Marines? And they want to know, because what they're doing is wondering how close to home is it? 
   "Well, then they hear that news. For some units, it's unbearable news. But all the news is unbearable for the families at home. We are crushing the very spirit that these families have to keep it going. It's not that they went once. It's that they go again and no sooner do they come back and say, 'Hello, honey - I think your name is Mary Beth,' then they have to be back out again. What are we doing to our families? I want more time for the troops. I want to give them more time the way the Iraqi politicians want more time. 
   "When we think about our troops, we know what they're laboring under. I check the temperature every day in Baghdad. Yesterday, it was 102 degrees. For us, it was 73. It was a beautiful day. What a day to be out on the Bay. I know a lot of our National Guard that are already deployed who would love to be there. I think about our troops, carrying 100 pounds of armor, brutal heat, being shot at, being attacked by IEDs. 
   "Well, we have a policy that's going to give the Iraqis more time. While they're there doing their duty, let's talk about these families. You know, in World War II, they would say, if the Army wants you to have a wife, we would have issued you one. Well, it was primarily a single military. That's not true [now]. And for our families, the stress of maintaining a family during all of this, while their spouse is at war, is enormous. Not only are they facing traumatic stress, but so is the spouse at home. And they're trying to protect their children. They're trying to shield their children and the children wonder how is Daddy doing? How is Mommy doing? The children learn e-mail. They e-mail Mom, they e-mail Dad. I know how they communicate. Mom and Dad will communicate by e-mail. The little guys and gals will often read the first two paragraphs. But the last two paragraphs are often the spouses talking about what's going on. The fear, the financial stress is amazing. And we are talking about 19-year-olds. We're talking about 21-year-olds. We're talking about people with two and three children. 
   "But boy, you know, we've got to give the Iraqis more time. Well, we're out of time. I know my time is up on the floor. But I will tell you, I'm going to vote for this Webb Amendment because I'm going to give our troops more time, and I'm going to vote to give our troops more time at home."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 