SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR LOWER ENERGY COSTS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues led by Senators Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Olympia Snowe (R-Maine) in supporting the Consumer Protection and Cost Accountability Act to make sure customers receive the lowest reasonable cost for their energy.  
   "We know people are nervous about growing energy prices and we know what it means to their families. Families and businesses in Maryland and across the country need immediate relief from rising costs," said Senator Mikulski. "The American public is feeling stretched and strained. They must not be gouged." 
   Specifically, the bill calls on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to make sure Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) and Independent System Operators (ISOs) provide or facilitate reliable service at the lowest reasonable cost for customers, while meeting all applicable system requirements, including reliability requirements. 
   To date, RTOs and ISOs have not been attentive to consumer and stakeholders' concerns, and FERC has not made sure they perform their functions with the consumer focus that the Federal Power Act (FPA) requires. The FPA is - and always has been - a consumer protection statute that, along with its companion the Natural Gas Act, is supposed to guarantee that consumers would pay "the lowest possible reasonable rate consistent with the maintenance of adequate service in the public interest." Unfortunately, it is questionable whether FERC has applied that standard to RTO and ISO operations. 
   Earlier this month, Senator Mikulski led the Team Maryland congressional delegation in calling on FERC to address growing electricity costs amidst the looming economic crisis, urging them to investigate taking steps to reduce the burden of high energy prices on American families. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=294490. 
   This is yet another in a series of steps Senator Mikulski is taking to help families struggling with the unstable job and housing markets and the high costs of gas, energy and health care.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 