SEN. MIKULSKI MILITARY TOUR CELEBRATES PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP FOR INNOVATION AT APG
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) made another stop on her military innovation tour today at the Edgewood Chemical Biological Center (ECBC) to announce she has succeeded in her fight for $1.5 million for the Aberdeen Technology Transfer Initiative (ATTI). ATTI is an economic development program designed to increase cooperation between Aberdeen Proving Ground's (APG) research laboratories and private sector companies and entrepreneurs. Sen. Mikulski secured $1 million in federal funding in 2004 to get this project off the ground.  
   "I've brought my innovation tour to Edgewood to highlight the work being done to keep America strong - developing smarter tools for our military with high-tech jobs for Harford and Cecil Counties and public-private partnerships for innovation," said Senator Mikulski. "A stronger America begins at home. The work done here will protect our troops on the battlefield, protect our first responders here at home, protect our jobs in a highly competitive global market and protect our taxpayers." 
   Since 2004, ATTI has provided grants to Maryland companies with innovative solutions to the Army's technology problems. This public/private collaboration develops smart tools to protect soldiers against new and emerging threats and encourages innovative use of military technology by the commercial sector. Today's federal funding will help provide grants to 16 small businesses to collaborate with scientists at APG and ECBC. 
   Senator Mikulski will visit several more military facilities on her multi-city innovation tour of Maryland as she addresses the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for the state and innovative technology that will protect our troops. 
   Senator Mikulski fought for the $1.5 million as a member of the Senate Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "We face a global war against terrorism with predatory nations and groups that want to do us harm. But they won't succeed. We are developing the smart new technologies and smart new weapons that are going to keep America safe," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to make sure we are making the right investments to develop the new ideas that will protect us."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 