SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MONTGOMERY, FREDERICK COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that the Middletown Volunteer Fire Company in Frederick County and the Wheaton Volunteer Rescue Squad in Montgomery County have been awarded a total of $182,550 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "I believe the federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support they need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve." 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received nearly $43.7 million through the AFGP. 
   The Middletown Volunteer Fire Company in Frederick County will use its $156,750 to install a diesel exhaust system, and to purchase a new thermal imaging camera, 70 individualized face masks, and a Cascade Air Compressor. For more information, call Steve Leatherman at 301-694-2073. 
   The Wheaton Volunteer Rescue Squad in Montgomery County will use its $25,800 to purchase 129 sets of reflective turn out coats, which will greatly reduce hazards to emergency personnel responding to roadside emergencies, particularly along the heavily traveled Colesville Road corridor and Interstate 495. For more information, call Chief Allan Platky at 301-949-9673. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your lives on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never give up my fight to give first responders the tools they need."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 