SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CARROLL COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
 Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that the Sykesville-Freedom District Fire Department in Carroll County has been awarded $29,768 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "I believe the federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support they need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve." 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received nearly $43.7 million through the AFGP. 
   The Sykesville-Freedom District Fire will use its $29,768 to purchase an All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV) to aid in rescue operations in remote areas with poor and hazardous road conditions that would otherwise be inaccessible to ambulances or brush trucks. For more information, call Bill Rehkopf at 410-795-8021. 
   This is the second award for the Sykesville-Freedom District Fire Department. In 2004, the department was awarded $130,500 for a new breathing apparatus and thermal imaging cameras. This is also the second award this funding cycle for a Sykesville-area department. Earlier this year, the Winfield Community Volunteer Fire Department was awarded $38,950 to purchase a new brush truck. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your lives on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never give up my fight to give first responders the tools they need."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 