SEN. MIKULSKI PLEDGES TO KEEP UP THE FIGHT TO FUND FDA CONSOLIDATION AT WHITE OAK
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today vowed to continue her fight for full funding of the consolidation of the FDA at White Oak, the 130-acre site of the former White Oak Naval Surface Warfare Center in Montgomery County. The FDA has been trying to consolidate offices for nearly 20 years, and Senator Mikulski has worked vigorously in the Senate and the community to consolidate the FDA facilities, beginning in 1990.  
   "This money will help transform a closed naval base into a world-class federal research facility," said Senator Mikulski. "This project has been a top priority for the community and a top priority for me because it means economic development for Montgomery and Prince George's Counties, and jobs for the people of Maryland." 
   As a senior member of the Senate Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski fought for $178.5 million in federal funds in the 2007 TTHUD spending bill, which the 109th Congress failed to bring up for a vote. 
   As a result, the 2007 Continuing Resolution (CR) being considered by Congress has retained funding, but not designation, for specific construction projects. Senator Mikulski is leading delegation efforts to urge the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), which oversees the FDA consolidation, to maintain the $178.5 million in funding approved in committee. 
   "While I applaud the bipartisan effort that worked on the CR, I am frustrated that the failure of the Republican leadership in the 109th Congress means that crucial programs have been cut, including in my home state of Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to make sure that the FDA consolidation receives the funds they need." 
   Failure to fund the FDA's consolidation at the full amount would impair the vital work of the FDA and result in construction delays and increased project costs. The CR has been passed by the House and is expected to be considered by the Senate next week.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 