SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), one of the bill's original sponsors, today applauded the Senate's passage of the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 (S. 2), which would raise the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour. The last time Congress voted to raise the minimum wage was in 1996 to its current $5.15 an hour.  
   "For too long now, Americans have been working longer and harder only to see their paychecks get smaller and smaller. Our vote today is a step toward ending this vicious cycle," said Senator Mikulski. "Those Americans who are working for minimum wage are not asking for handouts - they're asking for fair pay for hard work. I am proud that the Senate has come together in bipartisan support for this important initiative." 
   Minimum wage employees working 40 hours a week, 52 weeks a year, earn $10,700 a year, which is $6,000 below the poverty line for a family of three. Over two-thirds of minimum wage earners are adults, and nearly 60 percent are mothers - many with young children to support. An increase would benefit 13 million Americans working and living in poverty, and over 115,000 Marylanders. 
   During the Senate's debate last week, Senator Mikulski, Dean of the Senate Women, gave a speech on the Senate floor to highlight the importance of raising the minimum wage for women in the workforce. Senator Mikulski said the increase, which is crucial for all minimum wage employees, is especially critical for female workers. 
   "Two-thirds of all minimum wage workers are women - that's 7 million women nationwide and more than 100,000 in Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "Women already go into the workplace earning less, working in industries that are often without unions and other workplace protections. Many women are single mothers trying to support their children. This legislation is critical to give these women and their families a chance." 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 