SEN. MIKULSKI HONORS MARYLAND'S SKATER KIMMIE MEISSNER
  In honor of her Olympic success, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today congratulated Maryland's Kimmie Meissner on her performance as a member of the U.S. Olympic figuring skating team.  
   Senator Mikulski's statement for the record is below: 
   "I rise today to honor Kimmie Meissner, a great Olympian and the pride of Bel Air, Maryland. We in Maryland are so proud of Kimmie. Sixth at the Olympics at the age of sixteen is a monumental achievement! 
   "Like many of my colleagues, I was glued to the television set to watch our United States athletes in Torino. I was so impressed with Kimmie's performance, I only wish I could have been there to lead the applause for our hometown girl. She may have come in sixth in Torino, but she came in first in the hearts of the people of my great state. 
   "But Kimmie's accomplishments didn't begin in Torino. She began her figure skating career 10 years ago at the age of six. At the age of six! She has been a true student athlete for almost her entire life, balancing her school work with her training. Kimmie goes to Fallston High School in Harford County every day and when school is over she drives to Delaware to train for her second shift as a competitive figure skater. 
   "Kimmie shows maturity far beyond her years, both on and off the ice. She supports the Leukemia Society and the Johns Hopkins Hospital Children's Center, taking time out of her life to visit with sick young people. 
   "On the ice, Kimmie couldn't have a better attitude. She says her motto is, 'enjoy what you do; do what you enjoy.' I can think of few young people who have such a thoughtful approach to life. At 16 years old, she has the brightest future of anyone one of our Olympic skaters and I can't wait for the Vancouver Olympics in 2010. 
   "March is Women's History Month and the time when we celebrate the achievements and struggles of women in America. Frequently, we point to those who have come before us and who have paved the way for current advances. But it is only right and proper that in this 2006 Women's History Month we salute young women like Kimmie and the honor she brought the United States with her talent, skill and sportsmanship. 
   "Thank you, Kimmie, for making us so proud. Thank you for representing all that is good and true about America's young people. And though I cannot tell a salchow from an axel, let alone a loop from a lutz, even I could recognize your grit, grace and promise of an even more glittering future."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 