SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES TO DEMAND ANSWERS ON WALTER REED CONDITIONS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has joined Sens. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) and Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) to introduce the Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act. This legislation is one of Sen. Mikulski's multiple efforts to address the deplorable living conditions facing returning Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans at the Army's flagship military hospital, Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. The issues were first brought to public attention in a Washington Post series that revealed substandard living conditions, bureaucratic delays and inadequate benefits for seriously injured service members.  
   "It seems our troops are facing one enemy in Baghdad, and then a bureaucratic enemy at home," Senator Mikulski remarked to Defense Secretary Robert Gates as he testified before the Senate Appropriations Committee on Tuesday. "For too long in this war, we've seen little people be blamed while we see Generals go on to get medals and book deals." 
   The Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act requires immediate improvements to some of the most troubling deficiencies detailed in The Post report. It also directs the Department of Defense (DOD) to streamline the bureaucracy to reduce the time, financial and emotional burdens placed by the currently flawed Physical Disability Evaluation System (PDES) on recovering service members and their families. The Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act would also: require improved facilities and robust inspections, reduce paperwork and eliminate red tape for recovering service members, provide improved counseling services for service members and their families, and give improved support for families of recovering service members. 
   After reading The Post's series, Senator Mikulski and Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) called on Secretary Gates to launch an immediate Inspector General investigation of both Walter Reed and Bethesda Naval Hospital. 
   "If conditions at Walter Reed, the crown jewel of military health care facilities, have degraded to the point where mouse traps are handed out to patients, how can we feel confident that our troops and veterans truly have the care and transition assistance they have been promised at any facility across the country?" the Senators wrote. 
   Senators Mikulski and Murray are both members of the Senate's Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the two facilities. For more information on their request, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=269542.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 