POSTAL OFFICIALS NEGOTIATING FOR NEW SPACE FOR BROOKLANDVILLE POST OFFICE IN SAME NEIGHBORHOOD
  Officials from the United States Postal Service say they are negotiating for new space for the Brooklandville Post Office in the same neighborhood. Postal officials made the announcement at a meeting on Capitol Hill with Rep. Benjamin Cardin (D-Md.), Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.), and representatives from Sen. Paul Sarbanes (D-Md.) and Sen. Barbara Mikulski's (D-Md.) Office on February 28, 2006.  
   The Brooklandville Post Office located at 10751 Falls Road in Green Spring Station is a high-volume facility that serves between 40,000 to 50,000 customers a year. It houses 700 rented post office boxes and generates approximately $960,000 in revenue each year. The Postal Service announced that it will close the Brooklandville Post Office on June 30, 2006. 
   "Post offices are part of the fabric of our neighborhoods. I'm pleased that postal officials have listened to our concerns and the concerns of the Brooklandville community. Brooklandville has always been an important community to Maryland. Residents can count on me to continue to fight to make sure Brooklandville keeps its post office and its identity," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.). 
   "It appears that we are moving forward in maintaining a local postal facility in the community of Brooklandville," said Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-Md.). "It is my hope that we have a final new site announcement soon to reassure the residents of the community that their postal operations will be handled close by and in a timely manner." 
   "I am extremely pleased that the Postal Service has identified a new site for a full-service post office in the community," said Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-Md.), whose district includes many residents who use the Brooklandville Post Office. "This Post Office is a high-volume facility which is why it is so important that it be kept in the same neighborhood. I am pleased that we can say that the customers of the Brooklandville Post Office are the real winners." 
   "The Brooklandville Post Office is a vital part of the community. Residents depend on it to send and receive their mail and handle their other shipping needs. I am pleased that postal officials are negotiating for space that will allow them to keep this important facility in the same neighborhood," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.). 
   During the meeting, postal officials assured Congressman Cardin, Congressman Ruppersberger, and the representatives from Senator Sarbanes and Senator Mikulski's Office that they are making every effort not to disrupt service to postal customers but will not know if that will be possible until the new lease is signed and construction plans are approved. 
   The offices of all four elected officials have been inundated with constituent phone calls and emails asking that they urge the Postal Service to relocate the Brooklandville Post Office within the neighborhood. The Senators and Congressmen agree and have written several letters including a joint letter to the Postmaster General on February 24, 2006, and held several meetings with officials involved in the situation to encourage them to find a new location nearby.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 