CHAIRMAN MIKULSKI RAISES GAVEL AT SESSION'S FIRST CJS APPOPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), chairman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today convened the first of many subcommittee hearings to evaluate fiscal year 2008 budget priorities. As the new chair, Sen. Mikulski set the subcommittee's focus on innovation, security and accountability. Testifying before the subcommittee today were Department of Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Dr. William Jeffrey and Under Secretary for Intellectual Property and Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) Jon Dudas. 
   "When I look at the agencies in our jurisdiction, I see tremendous opportunities to promote innovation that creates jobs and make our communities more secure, while ensuring accountability and stewardship of taxpayer dollars," said Senator Mikulski. "The funding we put into the federal checkbook must meet the mission and mandate of each agency, and make a down payment on these priorities."  
   Senator Mikulski's statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "Good morning and welcome to the first hearing of the newly organized Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS). Although our gavel has switched hands, we'll continue our bipartisan work together. Senator [Richard] Shelby [R-Ala.] is not just my ranking member, he's my Vice Chairman. 
   "As chair, my priorities for the subcommittee this year are: innovation, security and accountability. When I look at the agencies in our jurisdiction, I see tremendous opportunities to promote innovation that creates jobs and make our communities more secure, while ensuring accountability and stewardship of taxpayer dollars. The funding we put into the federal checkbook must meet the mission and mandate of each agency, and make a down payment on these priorities. 
   "This CJS Subcommittee is the 'Innovation Subcommittee.' If America is going to be more competitive, we must focus on funding and policies to develop new technologies that lead to new products and industries that create new jobs. Our agencies provide the basic and applied research that result in new products and technologies. And our agencies set the policies that will make sure we have an innovation friendly government. 
   -more- "The National Science Foundation (NSF) funds promising research and cultivates our science and engineering workforce. The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) researches new technologies that make us more competitive. Science at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) helps us better understand our planet and provides the scientific building blocks for innovation. Our science agencies inspire our next generation of scientists and engineers. Nothing gets kids interested in science like exploration and discovery, out in space and deep in our oceans. 
   "The CJS Subcommittee also ensures that we have an innovation friendly government. NIST sets measurements and standards. The Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) protects our inventions. The International Trade Administration (ITA) enforces our trade agreements so our intellectual property is protected. 
   "The CJS Subcommittee is also about the safety and security of our communities. We help state and local law enforcement keep our communities and children safe from criminals, gangs, sexual predators and drugs like methamphetamines (meth). The subcommittee puts funds in the federal checkbook for federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to arrest and prosecute child predators, identify and disable violent gangs, make our schools safer, and fight violence against women. We support a strong Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that protects our national security, giving us critical intelligence to combat and prosecute terrorism. 
   "The CJS Subcommittee demands accountability. We are facing a very austere budget situation. This means tough choices. The subcommittee will not tolerate waste, fraud, abuse, mismanagement or poor performance. We take our oversight role very seriously and demand the competency and accountability that our taxpayers deserve. 
   Today, we'll kick off our innovation hearings with the Commerce Department. We'll hear from Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez and also from the leaders of two of our key innovation agencies - Dr. William Jeffrey, Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and Jon Dudas, Under Secretary for Intellectual Property and Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO). 
   "I have three goals for this hearing. First, I want to know how the budget meets Commerce's mission to foster, serve, and promote the nation's economy. Second, I want to know how the budget will promote the innovation we need to create jobs in this country. Third, I want to know how the Commerce Department will improve accountability. Specifically, the 2010 Census must be managed competently. PTO must improve its operations, and cost overruns on NOAA's satellite programs must end. 
   "NIST's research is world class - with three Nobel Prize winners! The NIST budget request emphasizes basic research such as nanotechnology, quantum information sciences and neutron research. But the overall request for NIST is $36 million below the fiscal year 2007 level. So there is concern that NIST's applied research programs have been shortchanged. Specifically, the Advanced Technology Program (ATP) is eliminated. ATP develops high risk technologies. The Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) is cut in half. MEP makes U.S. manufacturers more efficient. We must have a balanced scientific research portfolio that meets the needs of industry. 
   -more- "The PTO is a key component of an innovation-friendly government and protects the intellectual property of our inventors. Our innovators need timely access to patent protections and strong enforcement of those protections. I am encouraged that the administration has proposed robust funding for the PTO. But I am very troubled by the backlog of patent applications and the time it takes to process them. This year, the backlog could reach 800,000, and it now takes over two years before the PTO will take first action on an application. The PTO's operations are not keeping pace with innovation - processing times are getting worse, labor-management relations are complicated and difficult, and recruitment and retention are problematic. I want a roadmap and timetable for improvement. 
   "The budget is tight and we face tough choices, so we need to be smart and fiscally responsible. I look forward to hearing from Secretary Gutierrez, Dr. Jeffrey and Mr. Dudas about how the department's budget request fosters innovation and makes America more competitive."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 