SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS ABC APOLOGY TO PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY IS NOT ENOUGH
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today sent the following letter to Disney-ABC network executives in response to the offensive portrayal of Prince George's County residents in last week's episode of Commander-in-Chief:  
   Dee Johnson, Executive Producer 
  Commander in Chief 
  500 S. Buena Vista Street 
  Burbank, CA 91521-4551 
   Dear Ms. Johnson, 
   I am writing to express my frustration with last week's episode of Commander-in-Chief (4/27/06), which depicted Maryland's Prince George's County, the most affluent majority African American county in the nation, as a poor, violent community lacking law and order and in need of a federal takeover. ABC's apology, issued Friday after protests from the Maryland community, is a good first step, but it is not enough. 
   The decision to federalize a situation, as you did in your episode, is not to be taken lightly. In 2002, at the height of the sniper shootings that terrorized our state, no one federalized Maryland's law enforcement. The competency of our local law enforcement was never called into question, yet your depiction casts a negative light on the hard work of the county's leadership and law enforcement professionals. 
   In stereotyping for the benefit of your storyline, you have done a great disservice to a vibrant, diverse community. Prince George's African American leaders are working every day to protect the safety and security of its families. Why not create a storyline where President Mackenzie Allen visits one of the new innovative centers in Prince George's County? She can check out the newest in technology at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, or find out what they are developing at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to prevent another devastating hurricane like Katrina. She can discuss the consequences of the underfunding of No Child Left Behind while evaluating our public schools, or come to Bowie State University, honored as one of the nation's historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs), where science and engineering students are working with NASA scientists on cockpit and aviation safety. 
   President Allen should return to Prince George's to see what we're all about. I, and the Maryland delegation, look forward to receiving her. 
   Barbara A. Mikulski 
  United States Senate 
   cc: 
   Anne Sweeny 
  Co-chair, Disney Media Networks 
  President, Disney-ABC Television Group 
   Paul Lee 
  President, ABC Family 
   Kate Juergens 
  Senior Vice President for Programming, ABC Family
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 