SEN. MIKULSKI: IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION MUST INCLUDE PERMANENT FIX IN GUEST WORKER VISA FIGHT
  As comprehensive immigration legislation makes its way through Congress, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today fought for the inclusion of a permanent fix to the federal H2B (non-skilled seasonal worker) visa program to protect small and seasonal businesses from a devastating cut to their workforce. Sen. Mikulski sent a letter to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Chairman Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), urging them to include a permanent exemption to the H2B visa program in the final version of the bill that would ensure returning guest workers will not count against the annual H2B visa cap.  
   "My promises made are promises kept. I told small businesses they could count on me to keep fighting for a fix to the H2B problem so that our companies can get the workers they need to stay in business," said Senator Mikulski. "Without these seasonal workers, many businesses would not survive - forced to limit services, lay off permanent U.S. workers or, worse yet, close their doors. It is time to permanently protect workers and small businesses, so that we do not have to fight year after year for temporary fixes!" 
   Over the past several years, the H2B program has come under increasing stress and the statutory cap on these visas has expired earlier and earlier each year. This means that many small businesses are unable to get the workers they need to keep their businesses going and to employ their year-round American workers. 
   Senator Mikulski introduced the Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act in 2004 to address this problem and it was signed into law by President Bush in May 2005, making significant changes to the federal H2B visa program. Among the changes, it exempted returning seasonal workers from counting against the national cap of 66,000 people, created new anti-fraud provisions, and ensured a fair allocation of H2B visas among spring and summer employees. The cap exemption has been providing significant relief to Maryland's seafood and cannery industry that often hires the same dependable workers every year. 
   For the past two years, Senator Mikulski has successfully fought for Congress to extend this exemption, but this much-needed relief is set to expire in October 2007. A permanent solution is needed to address this annual problem or else seasonal businesses - like the seafood industry in Maryland - will surely suffer.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 