SEN. MIKULSKI URGES SENATE TO PASS CHILDREN'S HEALTH INITIATIVE DESPITE PRESIDENT'S VETO THREAT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today urged her colleagues to swiftly approve a new version of legislation to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which was revised by congressional leaders after President Bush's veto last month. This legislation, which the Senate is expected to vote on this afternoon, will continue to protect the health care coverage of nearly 6.6 million children nationwide, including more than 100,000 in Maryland. It will also provide new coverage for an additional 4 million, including 22,000 in Maryland.  
   "Everywhere I go in the country, Americans are confused by President Bush's veto of this legislation. Congress has done our job and fulfilled our responsibilities to America's families, now we are giving the President a second chance to do his," said Senator Mikulski, who helped create CHIP in 1997. "Families are counting on us to help them as they continue to feel stretched and strained. This bill may not be perfect, but it is a compromise that will help nearly 10 million children. We must stand up so our children get a healthy start, not a late start." 
   CHIP is a joint federal and state program that provides low-cost health insurance to children in low-income families. In recent years, annual increases in health care costs, combined with a nationwide growth in CHIP enrollment, has caused the costs of the CHIP program to outpace the federal funding available. 
   The legislation protects Maryland, which was among a number of states at risk of running out of funding this fiscal year. The bill creates a new funding formula, which would allow Maryland to continue its proud history of funding all children in the program without exception or delay. This has been a top priority for Governor Martin O'Malley, who pledged to work with the federal delegation to address the shortfall. 
   Senator Mikulski also joined Team Maryland and a coalition of her Senate colleagues to insist that congressional leaders include a guaranteed dental benefit provision following the tragic dental-related death of Deamonte Driver in Prince George's County, Md. 
   "Deamonte Driver died because he didn't have access to dental care. This did not happen in some foreign country, it happened in Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "We have to work together to make sure a tragedy like this never happens again. I will continue to fight for children like Deamonte and for the health of children everywhere."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 