SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $900,000 IN GRANTS FOR MARYLAND HIGH-RISK JEWISH INSTITUTIONS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded 19 Maryland high-risk non-profit Jewish institutions a total of $903,290 to help protect them from terrorist attacks. Senator Mikulski fought to secure this funding, and it has been one of her top priorities for several years, despite a lack of support from the Bush Administration. The grants are funded through the fiscal year 2007 Urban Areas Security Initiative's Non-profit Security Grant Program.  
   "This funding is an important victory for the community cornerstones that need protection from terrorist violence. It is a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk," said Senator Mikulski. "I promised to continue my fight for to protect our country's high-risk non-profit institutions. I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   In the past, non-profits have used these federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers. Institutions receiving these grants are: Suburban Orthodox, Shearith Israel Congregation, The Community Kollel, Beth Abraham Anshe Sfard Congregation, Congregation Shomrei Emunah, Jewish Museum of Maryland, Bais Yaakov School for Girls, Beth El Congregation, Oheb Shalom Congregation, Bais Haknesses Ohr Hachaim, Torah Institute of Baltimore, Maimonides Academy of Baltimore-Yeshivat Rambam, Kehilath B'Nai Torah, Mikvah of Baltimore, Agudath Israel of Baltimore, Talmudical Academy of Baltimore, B'Nai Jacob Shaarei Zion Congregation, Beit Yaakov and Bais Hamedrash. For more information on grants, please contact institutions individually. 
   Senator Mikulski worked to secure funding for high-risk non-profits in the 2005, 2006 and 2007 spending bills. Last year, the Senator and colleague Senator Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) were unable to add additional funding to the 2007 spending bill. However, they successfully fought for language in the bill to release the $25 million in funding that was signed into law by the President in the 2006 bill, but had been held up by the Bush Administration. 
   In the 2008 spending bill, Senator Mikulski worked to include a $20 million increase in federal funding to help protect high-risk non-profit institutions. Differences between the House and Senate passed bills will be worked out in Conference Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 