SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Queenstown Volunteer Fire Company and Whiteford Volunteer Fire Company Inc. are being awarded a total of $183,870 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program. 
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Maryland. Congratulations to the Queenstown Volunteer Fire Company and the Whiteford Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities."
   The Queenstown Volunteer Fire Company, located in Queen Anne's County, will use its $91,800 grant to replace 60 sets of turnout gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats). This is especially important because the Department's current turnout gear is over 15 years old and most of it does not comply with National Fire Protection Agency standards. The Queenstown Volunteer Fire Company is an all volunteer company with 60 active members. This is the first award for a Queen Anne's County department so far this year. This is the second grant awarded to the Queenstown Volunteer Fire Company since the federal program began, totaling $147,119 in federal funding.
   For more information on the Queenstown Volunteer Fire Company, contact Vinnie Palmer at 410-827-8377.
   The Whiteford Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., located in Harford County, will use its $92,070 in federal funding to replace 22 self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units. The new SCBA units will have the latest technology, allowing for future upgrades without having to replace the whole device, which will reduce future costs to the department.
   The SCBA units will be equipped with individually-fitted face masks. They will also be equipped with integrated pass devices that operate as an alarm when a firefighter stops moving, which could be an indicator of trouble. The alarm sounds to alert others that the firefighter is in distress.
   The new equipment also includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire.
   This is the first award for the Whiteford Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., which is an all volunteer company with 60 active members. This is the second award for a Harford County Fire Department this year, totaling $269,923 in federal funding so far.
   For more information on the Whiteford Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., contact John Williamson at 410-638-3630. 
   So far this year, 24 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $2,518,973 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 