SEN. MIKULSKI KICKS OFF BALTIMORE COUNTY TOUR ON INNOVATION, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) kicked off her innovation tour of Baltimore County today with a stop at Becton, Dickinson Diagnostics Inc. (BDDS), a division of Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD). Sen. Mikulski was joined by Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith and BD President of Diagnostics Bill Kozy.  
   "Baltimore County is home to facilities that are critical to economic development for not only the county, but for Maryland as a whole. They continue to attract the best and brightest from science and industry, while solidifying Maryland's leadership in the innovation economy," said Senator Mikulski. "Companies like BDDS represent excellence in Baltimore County. Science and new technologies developed here are quickly and efficiently put into operation and help our communities become safer, stronger and smarter." 
   Senator Mikulski's stop at BDDS included a tour of the manufacturing facilities and a demonstration some of the newest technology being developed. During her tour, the Senator was briefed on BDDS' current focus and products, which includes developing new technologies to help detect hospital acquired infections and continuing to produce life-saving medical equipment. 
   "America is in an amazing race for discovery and new knowledge. Innovation is key to ensuring that we continue to lead," continued Senator Mikulski. "I'm working to create an innovation-friendly government to work with private sector companies to keep our nation and economy competitive." 
   BD is a leading medical technology company that serves health care institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories and the general public. The fourth largest manufacturing employer in Maryland, BD's Baltimore division, BDDS, develops medical products that help save lives and employs over 1,700 people in Maryland. 
   Senator Mikulski will use her Baltimore County Innovation Tour to promote her Freedom to Achieve Initiative, which will focus on promoting competitiveness abroad and providing opportunities at home to compete in the global workplace. The tour will highlight how local and federal government is fostering innovation, promoting innovation-friendly government and promoting jobs in the private sector.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 