SEN. MIKULSKI RE-INTRODUCES LEGISLATION, SAYS BUREACRACY MUST NOT KILL ANOTHER SERVICE MEMBER
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she has re-introduced the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act, which would make it easier for military service members to become U.S. citizens, and demands better coordination among U.S. immigration and military officials. A vote on the legislation is expected when the Senate reconvenes in January 2008. A companion bill has been passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-Md.).  
   Senator Mikulski and Congressman Cummings originally introduced this legislation in December 2005, following the death of U.S. Army Spc. Kendell Frederick of Randallstown, Md., in Iraq. A citizen of Trinidad, Spc. Frederick, 21, was serving as a U.S. Army generator mechanic. He did not usually leave the base, but on October 19, 2005, he was sent off in a convoy to get fingerprinted in order to process his citizenship application. En route, he was killed when the convoy hit a roadside bomb. Spc. Frederick had tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen, but his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. He was granted citizenship a week after he died. 
   "Kendell died in Iraq, fighting for America. If you are willing to fight and die for America, you should be able to become an American," said Senator Mikulski. "Kendell Frederick's death will not be in vain. This must not happen to another man or woman serving in our Armed Forces." 
   The Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act will make it easier for service members to get their citizenship applications processed, and demands better coordination between the military and immigration officials. The provisions cut through the red tape by: 
   Directing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to use fingerprints provided by individuals at the time of enlistment to satisfy any fingerprint requirements as part of an application for naturalization. 
   * Ensuring that enlistment fingerprints are provided in an acceptable form for the naturalization process once the application for citizenship is submitted. 
   * Requiring DHS to update any applications, instructions and guidebooks, and the DHS website when naturalization procedures pertaining to members of the military are changed. 
   Importantly, the bill does not change existing safeguards in the naturalization process that prevent abuse of the process by those seeking to harm our country. 
   Senator Mikulski's original bill was not brought before the Senate for a vote, so it was included as an amendment to comprehensive immigration legislation, which has since stalled in Congress. Because legislative changes have been bogged down, Senator Mikulski's office has worked closely with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to make administrative changes to the visa processing system to immediately help those serving in the military. However, legislation is still necessary to ensure these changes will be permanent.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 