SEN. MIKULSKI EXPRESSES OUTRAGE OVER RELEASE OF CONVICTED TERRORIST RESPONSIBLE FOR MARYLAND DEATH
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) expressed outrage following today's press reports that Mohammed Ali Hamadi, who was serving a life sentence in Germany for the 1985 hijacking of a TWA jetliner and killing of U.S. Navy diver Robert Dean Stethem, 23, of Waldorf, Md., has been paroled after 19 years. Sen. Mikulski sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice, requesting her personal attention into this matter. TWA flight 847 from Athens, Greece, to Rome was hijacked to Beirut, Lebanon, where hijackers beat, shot and killed Petty Officer Stethem and dumped his body on the tarmac. He was the only casualty during the hijacking ordeal, in which 39 Americans were held hostage for 17 days. "Petty Officer Stethem was killed because he was a United States serviceman. This United States Senator is grateful for his service and will never forget him and will not rest until justice is done," said Sen. Mikulski.  
   The text of the letter from Senator Mikulski is provided below: 
   December 20, 2005 
   The Honorable Condoleeza Rice Secretary of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, DC, 20520 
   Dear Secretary Rice: 
   I write to express my outrage that a cold blooded murderer and terrorist, Mohammed Ali Hamadi, has just been released from German custody. As you know, Hamadi brutally murdered a United States Navy diver, Robert Dean Stethem. Petty Officer Stethem was 23 years old and from Waldorf, Md. He was killed solely because he was an American serviceman. 
   Hamadi and his fellow terrorists bound, gagged, beat unconscious and then shot Petty Officer Stethem in the head when they hijacked a jetliner traveling from Athens, Greece to Rome, Italy in June 1985. The terrorists then dumped Petty Officer Stethem's dead body out of the plane onto the Beirut tarmac, proving the utter indifference for life that is the hallmark of such despicable people. 
   Hamadi was arrested by German authorities at Frankfurt Airport in January 1987 when he was trying to enter Germany with bottles of liquid explosives in his luggage. He was convicted in May 1989 for Petty Officer Stethem's savage beating and murder and also of participating in the brutal beatings of two other passengers on the hijacked airplane. He was sentenced to life in prison, which I understand was the maximum term allowable under West German law at the time. 
   The families of our servicemen always hear that "a grateful nation never forgets." These need to be more than just words. The United States government must act to show its strong opposition to Germany's release of this convicted terrorist. 
   Petty Officer Stethem was killed because he was a United States serviceman. This United States Senator is grateful for his service and will never forget him and will not rest until justice is done. 
   I urge you to raise this matter with the highest levels of the German government. Thank you for your prompt, personal attention to this issue. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski United States Senate
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 