SEN. MIKULSKI VISITS ABERDEEN, ANNOUNCES FUNDS IN ONGOING FIGHT TO MAKE HARFORD COUNTY BRAC-READY
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) visited the Science and Mathematics Academy (SMA) at Aberdeen High School in Harford County today to announce she has fought for a total of more than $1.3 million for the academy since 2003, including the $292,000 she secured in the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending bill that became law in December. The SMA is a unique science and math program that partners the Department of Defense's (DOD) Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG) with the Harford County Board of Education to establish a new level of excellence in secondary education. This funding is part of Senator Mikulski's ongoing fight to prepare Harford County and the state for the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process.  
   "Right now, our nation is in an amazing race - a race for discovery and new knowledge, a race to remain competitive and to foster an innovation society. At the heart of this race is education," said Senator Mikulski. "We must strengthen math and science education in this country in order to cultivate the students who will go on to generate the new workforce for the 21st century - the people who will create the new ideas that lead to new breakthroughs, new products and new jobs. America is a nation of pioneers, innovators and discoverers, and the Science and Math Academy is proof it will stay that way." 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee. Since 2003, she has secured a total of more than $1.3 million to develop this advanced math and science partnership between Aberdeen High School and APG. In addition to the $292,000 she fought for in the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending bill, she secured $317,440 in the fiscal year 2005, and $695,450 in the fiscal year 2003, omnibus spending bills. 
   The SMA is a special program at Aberdeen High School that gives students hands-on experience conducting research with APG scientists and engineers, and first-rate technology. Students take high-level math and science classes, and receive mentoring and help from APG scientists on their own science projects. Through this partnership, APG experts help teachers and students learn how to use equipment at APG, learn the latest lab techniques, participate in research projects at APG through internships, and get exposure to science in real life - not just the classroom. APG is one of the world's top 20 sites for high-performance computing, and has more than 5,000 scientists and engineers and 2 million square-feet of lab space with state-of-the-art equipment. 
   Senator Mikulski has been a key leader in the fight to prepare and defend Maryland's military bases in the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. At today's event, she also discussed BRAC as a stimulus for Harford County and Maryland. The BRAC Commission's recommendations were a huge success and will bring thousands of new employees to the state. This includes 10,000 new jobs that will never leave the country, in addition to 85,000 existing jobs on bases and up to 40,000 non-direct jobs. 
   "BRAC brings great opportunities, but it also brings great challenges. This funding will help students of Harford County benefit from the BRAC process," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight for the funding in the federal checkbook to implement the BRAC decisions."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 