SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Kitzmiller Volunteer Fire Department in Garrett County has been awarded a federal grant through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and our communities. Congratulations to these firefighters on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Kitzmiller Volunteer Fire Department in Garrett County will use its $47,776 federal grant to purchase 12 new sets of turnout gear, including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats. They will also purchase a new computer and training software for self-guided training exercises so the firefighters do not have to take a day off from work to travel for training at regional training centers. 
   The department will also use their federal funding to purchase a new ATV vehicle with a trailer, which will be used for both rescue and brush fire work. This is especially important in rural parts of the county where even SUVs have difficulty getting to certain areas. 
   In addition, the Kitzmiller Volunteer Fire Department will purchase a backup generator to replace their aging generator. Kitzmiller is prone to flooding and the Department is often used as a community center and shelter when there are power outages in the area. 
   This is the first award for the Kitzmiller VFD and the third award for a Garrett County fire department this year. So far this funding cycle, Garrett County fire departments have been awarded a total of $209,236 in federal grants. 
   For more information on the Kitzmiller Volunteer Fire Company, please contact Jim Browning at 301-453-3323. 
   So far this year, 57 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $7,058,408 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.5 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $200 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old. 
   Increasing the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, this amendment could have meant protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 