SEN. MIKULSKI RESPONDS TO BUSH'S SPEECH AT PORT OF BALTIMORE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), released the following statement in response to President Bush's appearance this morning at the Port of Baltimore:  
   "I'm pleased that President Bush visited the Port of Baltimore, and I hope that he has had an opportunity to learn about the security needs at the Port. Our economy depends on moving goods via our ports and rail, our security depends on ports that are safe and protected from attacks. That's why I've been fighting to upgrade and protect our Port of Baltimore for more than 20 years. For years, it was fixing the twists and turns in our channels that were a safety risk. Today it's threats that were unthinkable years ago. Keeping our Port and our people safe from terrorism is one of my top priorities. 
   "But it hasn't been a top priority for the President, who failed to provide one penny for port security grants for three years in the aftermath of 9/11. I fought for funding during each of those years, but when the President doesn't support these investments it's an uphill battle. We don't need port photo ops from the President; we need dollars for port security. Even this year, the President's budget included no specific funding for port security grants. I fought for $200 million to upgrade entry gates, perimeter fencing, installing surveillance equipment, and purchasing new patrol boats. The Coast Guard estimates that roughly $8 billion is needed to address port security nationwide. I ask the President to listen to the Coast Guard, and provide the needed funding to protect our ports. 
   "I applaud those who put their lives on the line everyday to ensure a safer and stronger America, not only our police and fireman, but our Customs agents and Coast Guard, our bay pilots, tugboat operators, longshoreman, and rail yard workers who keep our economy on the move - they are also on the front lines of the War on Terror. They deserve to be protected with deeds, not just words."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 