SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA IN BALTIMORE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a group of Maryland Democrats in sending a letter to National Park Service Northeast Region Director Mary Bomar, urging her to consider making the state-certified Baltimore City Heritage Area a National Heritage Area. Sen. Paul Sarbanes and Reps. Ben Cardin, Elijah Cummings and Dutch Ruppersberger, also signed the letter. 
   The text of the letter is below:  
   Dear Ms. Bomar: 
   We write to respectfully request your strong consideration of the steadfast effort by the State-certified Baltimore City Heritage Area (BCHA) to become a National Heritage Area. 
   With the efforts of the Northeast Region of the National Park Service (NPS), the process has been cooperative in exploring the most effective ways BCHA and NPS can partner to advance the mutual goals of its national adoption. Regional Director Marie Rust wrote Mayor Martin O'Malley of Baltimore, in March 2004, following an extensive field visit by NPS staff. Ms. Rust outlined a number of possible actions that could be pursued. A copy of that letter is enclosed. Since that time, there has been a rich exchange between BCHA and NPS, consistent with Regional Director Rust's recommendations: 
   BCHA has strongly supported authorization of the Star Spangled Banner National Historic Trail. Its Young Defenders program has brought more than 1400 public school children to visit Fort McHenry. A cooperative agreement between NPS and BCHA to provide War of 1812 interpretive and educational programs emanating from the Inner Harbor Visitor Center is under negotiation. 
   The Chesapeake Bay Gateways Network has funded the design and construction of a 15-trail trailhead adjacent to the Visitor Center which will be unveiled in June. The Network has also funded a map and guide for Heritage Walk (a copy of which is enclosed), a 5k long interpreted trail loop based upon Boston's Freedom Trail. 
   NPS and BCHA co-hosted a workshop in May 2005 on the identification, protection, preservation and interpretation of historic, cultural and natural resources, which attracted representatives from more than 70 organizations. 
   Although these are just a few of the cooperative activities being undertaken, they reveal a sustained commitment that BCHA has made to the cultural and natural resources of the Baltimore area. The BCHA has provided a list of its major accomplishments over the last three years that directly reflect just how strong a partner BCHA is in advancing NPS goals in Baltimore. The list is attached for your consideration. 
   In addition, there is a strong investment on the part of BCHA in this mission. BCHA has raised more than $100,000 in funds and hired a consultant, Mary Means and Associates, to develop a National Heritage Area Feasibility Study. The request for proposals, the selection and the supervision of the consultant has been undertaken by the BCHA Planning Committee. The Committee has included input from NPS. In return, NPS has provided consistent representation from the very beginning of the process. The Feasibility Study will continue into late-2006. Upon its completion and confirmation, we would foster continued cooperation between BCHA and NPS, in hopes of the formation of a new National Heritage Area in Baltimore. 
   We are very encouraged by all of this cooperative activity for BCHA, particularly with the support of the National Park Service. Like its previous track record with other major historic cities in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast, herein lies a unique opportunity for NPS to increase engagement with BCHA, taking it from the state-level certified area to a nationally recognized landmark of cultural and natural resources. 
   Thank you for your strong consideration.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 