SEN. MIKULSKI TESTIFIES ON HOPE VI LEGISLATION TO REBUILD COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) testified today before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development on her HOPE VI reauthorization bill. For the past 15 years, HOPE VI has been one of the most important federal programs for revitalizing communities and offering real opportunities for residents of public housing. Sen. Mikulski, Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) and Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.) introduced the reauthorization bill in March 2007. The bill builds on the past success of the HOPE VI program and makes several improvements to ensure that grants are cost-efficient, and effective at improving resident and community life.
   "Where HOPE VI has been most successful, it has transformed communities and transformed the lives of people living in public housing," said Senator Mikulski. "We've had 15 years to see the successes of HOPE VI and the areas where we need change. This reauthorization will turn the best practices from around the country into law and reform the program so new physical and social architecture can create real opportunity to change lives."  
   HOPE VI has been one of the most important federal programs for revitalizing communities and offering real opportunities for residents of public housing. HOPE VI was created by Senator Mikulski in 1992 with the aim of replacing dilapidated public housing with mixed-income developments connected to schools, retail and community services. Since the program started, over $5 billion has been appropriated for it and billions more has been leveraged from the private sector. This legislation incorporates lessons learned to ensure the future success of the program. 
   Senator Mikulski's testimony, as prepared, is below:
   "Thank you, Chairman Schumer and Senator Crapo, for holding this hearing on the reauthorization of HOPE VI. HOPE VI has been the most important federal program for revitalizing communities and offering real opportunities for public housing residents and new hope for the communities surrounding pubic housing. 
   "I created the original HOPE VI program in 1992, when Jack Kemp and HUD [U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development] were proposing to sell off dilapidated public housing to the poor, like Maggie Thatcher was doing in England. I knew the poor didn't want to buy 100,000 units of distressed public housing. I worked with my good friend Art Naparstek, a great thinker about community-building and opportunity-building. The HOPE VI program would take down dangerous public housing, reduce the concentration of poverty that fostered additional social problems, and replace it with mixed-income developments. My goal was to build a new physical architecture and a new opportunity structure for people living in public housing. 
   "HOPE VI has been a tremendous success, but problems arose - there are important lessons learned on how to improve it. Now it is time for reform. This year, I introduced the HOPE VI reauthorization bill with Senator Mel Martinez and Senator Jack Reed. Our reauthorization bill takes HOPE VI into the new century: reformed, refreshed and reinvigorated. Our bill codifies best practices and corrects weaknesses. I am proud of the work we have done and I am proud of our bill. I am ready to do what we need to do to empower communities and the hardworking people living and working in them. 
   "Our vision has been realized in communities around the country. Since the program started, over $5 billion has been appropriated for HOPE VI and billions more have been leveraged from the private sector. 63,100 old housing units have been demolished and 6,700 units have been rehabilitated. 
   "But that's not the real story of HOPE VI. HOPE VI is not only about tearing down, it is about building up. Where HOPE VI has been most successful, it has transformed communities and transformed the lives of people living in public housing. I am proud to work with a bipartisan coalition in both the House and Senate and send a special thank you to Senator Martinez, who kept hope and help alive as Housing Secretary, working constructively with us then and now. 
   "In 2004, I asked Renee Glover, Executive Director of the Atlanta Housing Authority and nationally recognized as having some of the best HOPE VI programs in the country, and Elinor Bacon, the pioneering Director of HOPE VI at HUD, to develop a framework for HOPE VI reauthorization. They assembled a group of the 30 finest 'HOPE VI minds' in the country who worked on their own time and their own dime. Their recommendations form the foundation of this reauthorization bill. 
   "This bill continues to end concentration of the poor in distressed neighborhoods by creating mixed-income housing with residents of new developments from a variety of economic backgrounds. It creates healthy communities with an emphasis on reforming neighborhood schools. If you want to change a neighborhood, you must reform neighborhood schools. The bill continues to create mixed-income neighborhoods, combining private dollars invested in mixed-use properties and giving tax incentives to landlords to rent to individuals in different income brackets. It also develops communities through public-private partnerships, requiring private sector investment for all HOPE VI projects and emphasizing the importance of having a grocery store in every development. Lastly, it provides adequate supportive resources to help residents achieve self-sufficiency by helping them transition to the new development, making sure residents in the old neighbor have safe and healthy living conditions while the new HOPE VI project is being built, and ensuring that HOPE VI developments are as much about social architecture as physical architecture. 
   "Where HOPE VI has been most successful, it has transformed communities and transformed the lives of people living in public housing. We've had 15 years to see the successes of HOPE VI and the areas where we need change. This reauthorization will turn the best practices from around the country into law and reform the program so new physical and social architecture can create real opportunity to change lives."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 