SEN. MIKULSKI SAVES JOBS, PROMOTES INNOVATION AT FDA
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) and the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee came one step closer today to saving nearly 150 FDA jobs in Montgomery County and creating a stable and sufficient funding base for device review programs in the Medical Device User Fee Stabilization Act of 2005 (MDUFMA).  
   "Over the years, I have fought for the right facilities, the right resources, and the right leadership at the FDA, which is based in my home state of Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "Today, I am proud to have fought to protect FDA employees from lay-offs and to ensure that patients have timely access to lifesaving and life enhancing innovations." 
   Congress unanimously passed MDUFMA in 2002, giving the FDA additional resources and expertise to help provide timely patient access to new medical technologies. A stable funding base for device review programs was developed through a combination of industry-paid user fees and increased appropriations for the Agency over five years. 
   Today's passage by the HELP Committee will eliminate the "trigger" provision that would have caused the program to sunset at the end of fiscal year 2005 (October 1). It will also lock in a user fee rate for medical device companies while ensuring sufficient funds for the FDA to keep the program running. 
   "The nations of the world who cannot afford an FDA look to our FDA to be the gold standard," added Senator Mikulski. "Physicians and other allied health people who are using technologies need to know that they have an FDA that they can count on. And also we, the patients of the United States of America, need to know that we can count on the FDA." 
   The legislation also improves upon language included in the original bill which has created obstacles for the FDA to bring new information to the public, including changing the requirements on how companies label their devices to better facilitate giving providers and patients the information they need about the use of and adverse events related to certain medical devices. 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. The House is working on legislation which is pending approval in the Energy and Commerce Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 