SEN. MIKULSKI JOINS BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO IMPROVE PATIENT CARE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today joined Sens. Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Bill Frist (R-TN), Edward Kennedy (D-MA) and Michael Enzi (R-WY) to move forward legislation to improve health care quality, reduce medical errors and advance the delivery of patient focused medical care. The Wired for Healthcare Quality Act, S. 1418, moved out of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee at today's hearing.  
   "We must continue to improve the way that patients around the country have access to personal medical records, and work to reduce health care costs from medical errors, insufficient care or incorrect information," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so proud to stand with my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation which will bring our hospitals and medical facilities into the 20th century with new information technology." 
   IT systems linked securely and with strong privacy protections to a patient(s medical records can improve care by warning a doctor or nurse if an order or prescription may harm a patient. These systems can issue reminders for screening tests, so that needed preventive care is not overlooked. Computerized records also allow doctors to look at a patient's entire medical record at once, improving care coordination in our fragmented health care system. While ensuring patient privacy, the Wired for Healthcare Quality Act will help patients gain better access to their own health records. 
   The legislation improves the coordination of care by creating an integrative and secure system to exchange healthcare information among hospitals, laboratories, physician offices and other entities. It formalizes the Office of the National Coordinator of Health Information Technology (ONCHIT) within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The office will coordinate and oversee programs and activities to develop a nationwide health information technology (health IT) infrastructure. 
   In addition, the Act awards competitive grants to states, nonprofit hospitals, group practices and other health care providers to facilitate the adoption of health-related information technology. It also makes recommendations to identify uniform national policies to the federal government and private entities to support the widespread adoption of health IT.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 