SEN. MIKULSKI: HIGHER EDUCATION PACKAGE INCREASES ACCESS, STRENGTHENS MARYLAND COLLEGES, NURSING PROGRAMS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, announced that the Higher Education package, which passed the committee today, includes several priorities she has been fighting for to improve access to education, strengthen nursing programs, and support Maryland colleges and universities. 
   "To have a safer America and a stronger economy, we need to have a smarter America. We need to invest in our human capital to create a world class workforce. That means making a college education affordable and strengthening our higher education programs and institutions," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to keep higher education a priority in the federal checkbook."  
   FREEDOM TO ACHIEVE 
   "College is part of the American Dream, it shouldn't be part of the American financial nightmare. Families want help and they want to know what the United States Senate is doing to help them," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I'm proud this legislation offers good news for students who want access to an education and the freedom to achieve the American dream." 
   The package addresses five of Senator Mikulski's priorities to make a college education available for all students: 
   Increases Pell Grants from $4,310 to $5,400 over five years, as well as makes them available year-round and to students enrolled less than part-time. It also establishes automatic maximum Pell Grants for students whose family income is $30,000 or less. 
   Money for students, not banks: increases student aid by $17.3 billion and cuts back on student loan-related government subsidies to banks. 
   Loan forgiveness: forgives student loans for borrowers who have worked 10 years in public service, and provides income protection for borrowers who make less than $65,000 per year. 
   Loan deferment for active military: expands loan deferment for active duty military, including the National Guard, while they serve during a war or military operation. 
   Grants for community college students: makes part-time students, often those at community colleges, eligible for American Competitiveness Grants, which provide $2,050 over two years to students who completed rigorous high school programs and are eligible for Pell Grants. 
   STRENGTHENING NURSING PROGRAMS 
   "America is facing a nursing shortage. We need to empower men and women to consider nursing. We need to provide them with the education and the resources to do their jobs. We need to make it more affordable and we need to provide opportunities for advancement, so nurses can move up instead of moving on," said Senator Mikulski. "It's essential for our hospitals and it's essential for our patients." 
   The legislation includes two initiatives Senator Mikulski has been fighting for to benefit nurses in Maryland and around the nation: 
   Graduate nursing fellowships: designates nursing as a high-demand profession so nurses can qualify for fellowships providing tuition, fees and a $30,000 stipend. 
   New grant program for nursing schools: provides $3,000 grants per student to community colleges, undergraduate and graduate nursing schools, so they can recruit faculty, increase the number of low-income students and create accelerated training programs. 
   SUPPORTING MARYLAND COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 
   "Maryland is home to outstanding universities and colleges that are doing great things for the state and the nation. That's why I am proud to salute the dedicated faculty and staff at these institutions not just with words, but with deeds," said Senator Mikulski. "Together, we will continue to fight to increase opportunities for all of our students." 
   The package includes provisions that will benefit several Maryland colleges and universities:
   * Adds Coppin State University to the list of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), making it eligible to receive up to an extra $1 million per year for the next five years.
   * Adds Morgan State University's graduate program in psychometrics to the list of eligible fields of study for graduate student program grants, making them eligible to receive up to an extra $1 million per year for the next five years. 
   * Keeps Johns Hopkins University and University of Maryland College Park as experimental sites, giving them freedom and flexibility in delivering financial aid to students faster and improve student service. 
   * Makes students at St. John's College eligible for Science and Mathematics Access to Retain Talent (SMART) grants, which give $4,000 to junior and senior year students who are eligible for Pell Grants and are pursuing math, science or high-need foreign language majors. St. John's was not previously eligible because it does not offer majors. 
   The legislative package also includes a grant to increase participation in the Teach for America program, with funds going toward teacher recruitment, retention and training for the program.
   In the next step of the legislative process, the bills will go to the Senate floor for a vote, which have not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 