SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES DELIVER ON $100 MILLION COMMITMENT TO VITAL HOUSING PROGRAM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, joined Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) to announce the TTHUD 2007 spending bill includes $100 million for HOPE VI, which President Bush's budget proposal eliminated. The bill, approved by the full Senate Appropriations Committee today, also rejects President Bush's effort to rescind $99 million in funds already appropriated for fiscal year 2006.  
   HOPE VI was created by Senator Mikulski in 1992 with the aim of replacing dilapidated public housing with mixed-income developments connected to schools, retail and community services. Since the program started, over $5 billion has been appropriated for HOPE VI and billions more have been leveraged from the private sector. 
   "We need to support federal programs that help those who help themselves. The President talks about creating a better life for Americans, but his budget fails to deliver on his words," said Senator Mikulski. "HOPE VI has always been about creating new opportunities for residents of public housing and new hope for the communities surrounding public housing. I will continue my fight to guarantee a federal investment in this vital program." 
   "HOPE VI has transformed neighborhoods of despair into communities of hope. Yet the Bush Administration has repeatedly sought to eliminate this proven and effective program," added Senator Sarbanes who, as the Ranking Democrat on the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, led the last successful effort to reauthorize the HOPE VI program for three years as part of the American Dream Downpayment Assistance Act. "Federal investments, such as HOPE VI, are catalysts for broader investments that create new opportunities, including homeownership and jobs. These are the federal investments that we should be making to move Maryland and America forward." 
   Today's bill also extends the HOPE VI program, which expires at the end of 2006, for another year. Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes are working with a bipartisan group of their colleagues, including Senators Kit Bond (R-Mo.) and Jack Reed (D-R.I.), to reauthorize the HOPE VI program. This legislation incorporates lessons learned from the initial years of HOPE VI to ensure the future success of the program. The reauthorization bill has been referred to the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee for review. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.  
 
 