SEN. MIKULSKI, REP. VAN HOLLEN VISIT ROCKVILLE FIREFIGHTERS, ANNOUNCE FUNDS FOR MONTGOMERY COUNTY FIRST RESPONDERS
  At the Rockville Volunteer Fire Department this morning, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and Congressman Chris Van Hollen were joined by Montgomery County Executive Ike Leggett, state and local officials, to announce that the Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Service has been awarded nearly $1.3 million in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). 
   "First responders protect our homes and communities, and the federal government has a responsibility to protect them by providing the tools they need to do their jobs safer and smarter," said Senator Mikulski. "Protecting our protectors is not a political issue; it's a safety issue. If you are willing to put your lives on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government. That's why I fight every year for the equipment, training, and staffing our protectors and communities deserve."
   "This funding is vital to our community," said Congressman Van Hollen. "First responders put their lives on the line every day to protect our families and our homes. I will continue working to ensure that they have the funding and equipment necessary to do their jobs."
   The Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Service will use its nearly $1.3 million to purchase new interoperable communications equipment. Since 2001, Montgomery County Fire and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Departments have received more than $5.8 million through the AFGP.
   In his fiscal year 2009 budget proposal, President Bush cut funding for the AFGP program by 60 percent. President Bush only proposed to fund the AFGP at $300 million for fiscal year 2009, down from $750 million in fiscal year 2008 - a $450 million cut. President Bush completely eliminated funding for the third year in a row for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants, which are funded under the AFGP. However, Senate Democrats were able to restore funding last week to fiscal year 2008 funding - $560 million was restored in fire grant funding and SAFER grants were funded at $190 million. Senator Mikulski, a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP, pledged to work with colleague Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.), a member of the Budget Committee, to continue to fight for increased funding America's first responders in the Senate.
   "First responders have always been on the front lines, keeping our families and our neighborhoods safe from harm. I thank these brave men and women for their continuing service and sense of duty to our community," said Senator Cardin. "I am proud to support federal investment through local grants like this, which is essential to ensure our community heroes have the equipment and training they need to do their jobs safely and efficiently."
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received more than $59 million through the AFGP.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 