SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT AT HELP COMMITTEE HEARING ON PRESCRIPTION DRUG REIMPORTATION
  Opening Statement of Senator Barbara Mikulski at the HELP Committee Hearing on Prescription Drug Reimportation
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this important hearing today on reimportation of prescription drugs. 
   * High Burden of Drug Costs  
   The ballooning cost of health care is one of the biggest problems facing American families, especially the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs. In 2002 alone, prescription drug costs grew more than 15%. Last year, Americans spent $184 billion on prescription drugs. Families are being squeezed, and so are businesses. Rising health insurance costs mean employers pass on more of their costs to their employees in the form of higher co-pays for prescription drugs and more out-of-pocket costs for patients. Or, they stop offering health insurance altogether. 
   Americans are paying more for their prescription drugs than anyone else in the world. This is unfair and offensive. Americans should not have to pay more for access to medicines that come from innovation and research conducted right here in the United States, funded by taxpayer dollars. 
   * Legislation 
   That's why I'm proud to cosponsor the bipartisan Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act, introduced by Senators Dorgan, Snowe and others. If passed, this legislation will help Americans get the same drugs for lower prices and put in place new safeguards against counterfeit drugs. It meets the day-to-day needs of Americans by helping them get the medicines they need at a price they can afford. 
   This legislation would allow individual Americans to import drugs from Canada. It would also allow pharmacists and wholesalers to import drugs from 19 other industrialized countries. 
   * Safety 
   Americans must have access to affordable drugs. But they must also be safe to use, whether they are from this country or another country. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is the gold standard for approving safe and effective drugs. Congress must help ensure a strong safety standard for imported drugs. 
   That's one of the reasons I'm supporting the Dorgan/Snowe legislation. While it opens the door to consumers to buy drugs from Canada, it also puts in place stronger and smarter tools to prevent unsafe drugs from reaching American consumers. 
   To protect the health of the American public, the bill requires tracking of drugs from manufacture to sale, frequent FDA inspections of importers and exporters, and additional resources for FDA to do the job. It also gives the FDA the ability to ban imported drugs that are counterfeit, contaminated, or adulterated. These are important measures that must go hand-in-hand with reimportation itself. 
   * Reimportation Is Only One Step 
   Reimportation is just one tool to help make prescription drugs more affordable to Americans. To get a grip on drug costs, Congress must pursue a number of policies that, combined, will make a difference in the lives of American families. 
   Last year, Congress helped improve access to lower-cost generic drugs. But last year's Medicare drug law doesn't do enough to get a grip on rising drug costs. In fact, Medicare is prohibited from using the purchasing power of the federal government to negotiate better prices for seniors. That's what VA does, and it works. VA negotiates discounts on drugs of 25% or more. That saves veterans money and it saves taxpayers money - $1.1 billion over the last three years. That's why I am fighting for legislation that encourages Medicare to negotiate lower prices. 
   * R&D for New Drugs 
   I know that drug companies must have the resources to invest in research and development so they can make the breakthroughs that lead to new treatments and cures. That's why I support entrepreneurship and extending the research and development (R&D) tax credit. But drug company bottom lines aren't the only lines that are important. What about the people standing in line at the pharmacy? The federal government must be on their side, making sure they can afford the medications they need. 
   I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today about how Congress should design the best framework to allow Americans access to safe, imported prescription drugs. I know there are several proposals on the table. I hope that this Committee can take the best ideas and put them to work to lower drug costs for Americans.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 