REP. VAN HOLLEN, SEN. MIKULSKI VOW TO KEEP FIGHTING FOR FAIR TREATMENT OF FEDERAL WORKERS
  Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) issued the following statement, vowing to keep fighting for federal workers after the Bush Administration and the Republican leadership removed provisions to make job competitions fair for federal employees from the final Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill.  
  "By eliminating those provisions that ensure the fair treatment of federal employees, the Bush Administration has once again shown its disdain and disrespect for the people who deliver valuable public services every day," said Van Hollen. "It is unfair to rig the process to outsource more federal jobs. I will keep fighting for a competitive sourcing process that is fair to the American taxpayer, federal workers, and private contractors." 
  "I fought hard to save my amendment, which would have leveled the playing field for federal employees," said Senator Mikulski. "There was bipartisan support for fixing the privatization process to make it fairer. But the White House ignored the will of Congress and, behind closed doors, stripped out the A-76 provisions. This is unfair to federal employees and unfair to the democratic process. I will keep fighting to fix the competition process that is shamefully slanted in favor of private contractors."
  The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is requiring federal agencies to put as many as 416,000 jobs up for bid. Last year, the Administration issued new guidelines for these public/private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These new rules favor contractors and stack the deck against federal employees. Congressman Van Hollen has worked to fix the unfair and biased privatization process and make competitions fair for federal workers competing to keep their jobs. Earlier this year, Congressman Van Hollen's amendment to make this process more fair passed the House with bipartisan support by a vote of 220-198. A similar amendment offered by Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) passed the Senate.
 
 