SEN. MIKULSKI RECEIVES RAIL SECURITY BRIEFING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today joined Sen. Sarbanes, Rep. Cardin, Gov. Ehrlich and other elected officials at the MTA Light Rail Facility in Baltimore for a briefing on rail security. This briefing is one in a series of three addressing transportation security issues, particularly those of airport, port and rail.  
   Senator Mikulski and others were briefed on Maryland's Office of Homeland Security efforts to protect passenger and freight rail service. Speakers included MTA's Chief of Police, Colonel Douglas DeLeaver and Dennis Schrader, Director of the Governor's Office of Homeland Security. 
   "Homeland security is not just about airports. Our economy depends on moving people and goods via rail, and our national security depends on protecting our rail system," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. "That why I'm fighting in the U.S. Senate for a federal investment in our rail security." 
   Maryland's extensive rail system serves over 25,000 people a day on MARC trains, includes over 29 miles of light rail, and travels to points all over the United States. And in the Washington D.C. region, more than 1.1 million trips per day are made on Metro and Metro bus. During a normal rush hour, 3- percent of the region's commuters rely on Metrorail service. Passenger rail is especially vulnerable and difficult to secure because it makes scheduled stops along fixed routes and passengers cannot be subjected to the same kind of security screenings they get at airports. 
   Senator Mikulski has been instrumental in obtaining federal funding for rail security. In the last three years, she has helped secure $3.2 million in federal Rail and Transit Security Grants for Maryland and $49 million in funding for WMATA for things like explosion containment trash cans, better fencing and lighting, intrusion detection systems, chemical sensors in underground stations (WMATA) and personal protective equipment. 
   In the FY05 Homeland Security Bill, which passed the U.S. Senate last week, Senator Mikulski fought to include $278 million for Rail and Transit Security Grants. The Administration did not include any money for this grant program in their budget this year.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 