SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that first responders in Washington and Allegany Counties have been awarded over $129,900 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "I believe the federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support needed to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Western Maryland communities." 
   AFGP grants go toward firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles and firefighter/first responder safety projects. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received more than $41.5 million through the AFGP. 
   The Sharpsburg Area EMS (Washington County) has been awarded $32,786 to purchase 36 sets of EMS specific turn out gear and 2 stair chairs. This is the second award for the department since 2005. For more information, call Donald Weigel at 301-432-5348. 
   The Shaft Volunteer Fire Department of Frostburg (Allegany County) has been awarded $97,185 to purchase new interoperable communications equipment, an emergency generator and a new air compressor which will allow the Department to refill oxygen tanks. For more information, call Bryan Miller at 301-777-5908. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your lives on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never give up my fight to give first responders the tools they need."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 