CONGRESS APPROVES DEFENSE SPENDING BILL, INCLUDES $2.5 MILLION FOR WASHINGTON COUNTY DEFENSE PROJECT
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul Sarbanes (both D-Md.) announced today that both the U.S. House and Senate have given final approval and sent to President Bush for his signature the 2006 Defense spending bill, which includes an additional $150 million for Maryland defense projects. The legislation funds the Department of Defense and will go toward critical research, development, test and evaluation programs, as well as weapons and equipment required for the U.S. Armed Forces.  
   "We need to do everything we can to support our troops - not just with words, but with deeds. Together, we can do better. These much needed funds will help our troops fulfill their mission both at home and abroad," said Senator Mikulski. "I will keep fighting to put money in the federal checkbook for U.S. troops and their families." 
   "We continue to work hard to ensure that Maryland's military installations and their personnel have the resources and capabilities necessary to carry out their critical missions and this funding helps in these endeavors," said Senator Sarbanes. "The funding to develop this new vehicle is an example of the significant spillover opportunities in our hi-tech and defense related sectors associated with our close proximity to the Pentagon and the quality work being performed at Maryland's military installations." 
   The spending bill includes $2.5 million for Washington County-based Volvo Powertrain to develop a Heavy Duty Hybrid Electric vehicle for the U.S. Air Force to reduce logistics requirements and mitigate environmental impact. This technology has great potential for reducing dangerous emissions and greatly improving fuel economy. The project supports 1,500 jobs in Washington County. 
   Senator Mikulski kicked off her military innovation tour of Maryland at an event at Volvo's factory in Hagerstown, Md. in October 2005. Senator Mikulski has visited a number of military facilities on her multi-city tour, as she addresses the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for Maryland and innovative technology that will protect our troops, protect our environment and help America become energy independent. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on Defense. Senator Sarbanes is the senior Democrat on the Banking Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 