SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES $3.9 MILLION FOR MARYLAND EDUCATION PRIORITIES IN SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education 2008 spending bill includes $3.9 million for important education programs at Maryland's community colleges and higher education institutions. The legislation, which passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon, increases funding for education programs across the nation, including $16.36 billion in student financial aid, despite dramatic cuts in President Bush's budget request. 
   "We must do all we can to make sure no child is left out or left behind," said Senator Mikulski, who also serves on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. "I will continue to fight for funding in the federal checkbook to help Maryland schools get the resources, tools and training they need." 
   With college tuition on the rise nationwide, Senator Mikulski fought for $14.5 billion for Pell Grants, a more than $1 billion increase over President Bush's request. 
   "Higher education is part of the American dream - it shouldn't be a financial nightmare. College tuition is on the rise across America," said Senator Mikulski. "American families are stressed and stretched, and students are looking for help. We must make access to higher education a priority in the federal law book and the federal checkbook."
   THE SPENDING BILL INCLUDES $3.9 MILLION FOR THE FOLLOWING PROJECTS: 
   * $2.5 million for the Maryland Association of Community Colleges (MACC) to expand nursing programs at Maryland's community colleges. These funds will help respond to the statewide nursing crisis by supporting efforts to hire more nursing faculty, and to purchase and maintain cutting edge, modern equipment for nursing labs. 
   * $750,000 for Villa Julie College to expand their Nursing Distance Learning program, a key initiative to deliver nursing education in response to the critical nursing shortage throughout the nation and particularly in Maryland. This funding will support modifications to current technological systems and the application of the new technology with community colleges throughout Maryland, as well as provide support personnel at the receiving sites of this highly successful distance learning program. 
   * $400,000 for the Aberdeen Math/Science Academy for additional equipment, materials and training of staff. This unique science and math program partners the Department of Defense's Aberdeen Proving Ground with the Harford County Board of Education to establish a new level of excellence in secondary education. 
   * $250,000 for Johns Hopkins University's Center for Talented Youth (CTY) to examine short and long-term outcomes of CTY programs. The CTY is a not-for-profit, tuition-supported division of the university. Its mission is to identify talented students in grades 2-10 and provide them with challenging academic programs not available in their school settings. 
   As a founder of AmeriCorps, Senator Mikulski also fought for increased funding for national service programs nationwide. The bill includes $288 million for AmeriCorps, and additional funding for AmeriCorps programs - Learn and Serve ($39.1 million) and the National Civilian Community Corps ($31.8 million).
   "AmeriCorps volunteers tutor teens, start neighborhood crime watches, turn vacant lots into neighborhoods and help communities clean up and rebuild after natural disasters. These volunteers are needed now more than ever," said Senator Mikulski. "As its chief advocate in the Senate, I fought to create AmeriCorps, I fought to strengthen AmeriCorps, and I will fight for a continued federal investment in AmeriCorps." 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will go to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 