SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE CRITICAL FUNDING FOR MARYLAND MILITARY BASES
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Senate version of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 2007 spending bill includes $138 million for important projects at Maryland's military bases, including more than $37.8 million for facilities in Anne Arundel County. The legislation, which has passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee, contains provisions providing military installations nationwide with federal funding totaling nearly $94 billion to support new construction costs.  
   "A stronger America begins at home. We need to do everything we can to support our troops - not just with words but with deeds. Every year, I fight to make sure our military has the tools they need to keep us safe," said Senator Mikulski. "Now, more than ever, we need to take their needs to heart. I will keep fighting to make sure there is funding in the federal checkbook for our military bases." 
   "We've worked hard to ensure that Maryland's military installations continue to fare well in the annual appropriations process, both enhancing these state-of-the-art facilities and in making quality of life improvements at these bases," said Senator Sarbanes. "These facilities are not only important to our overall national defense, but also our State's economy, resulting in significant spillover opportunities in our hi-tech defense related sectors." 
   The spending bill includes: 
   * $26.7 million for the Wesley Brown Field House at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis. 
   * $11.1 million for a Classified Material Conversion facility at the NSA at Fort Meade.
   The Committee also included language directing the Army to move the construction of Fort Meade's Advanced Individual Training Barracks from FY 2010 to FY 2008 in the Five Year Defense Program. This project is required as soon as possible to provide housing that meets current Army adequacy standards. 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee. Senator Sarbanes is the senior Democrat on the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 