SEN. MIKULSKI'S BILL TO HELP PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS PASSES SENATE COMMITTEE
  The "High-Risk Non-Profit Security and Safety Enhancement Act of 2004," introduced in March 2004 by Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), passed the Government Affairs Committee today. The legislation will help protect high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks. 
   "I applaud my colleagues for working quickly to pass this bill out of Committee," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to work with all of my colleagues to get this bill before the full Senate. We must help protect our hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches from terrorist violence. This legislation will help provide important added security to help protect organizations at risk of terrorist attacks."
   The "High-Risk Non-Profit Security and Safety Enhancement Act of 2004" would authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to contract for security improvements to non-profit organizations demonstrating a high risk of terrorist attack based upon very specific standards.
   Organizations wishing to receive improvements under this Act must demonstrate that: they have experienced specific threats by international terrorist organizations; there were prior attacks against similarly situated organizations; there is vulnerability of the specific site; the symbolic value of the site as a highly recognized American Institution; or that they have a specific role in responding to terrorist attacks.
   The bill also includes $50 million in available grant funds for local police departments to help these vital first responders with the costs associated with providing additional security to high-risk non-profits.
   There is broad national support for Senator Mikulski's legislation, including United Jewish Communities, the American Red Cross, United Way, the American Hospital Association, the American Association of Museums, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), American Jewish Congress, the Theatre Communications Group, and the YMCA of the USA.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 