SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES $5 MILLION FOR MARYLAND MEDICAL FACILITIES IN SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education 2008 spending bill includes federal funding for priority nurse training facilities, women's health initiatives and national seniors programs. The legislation, which passed the Appropriations Committee this afternoon, also provides critical funding increases for the National Institutes of Health, the National Institute on Aging and the National Cancer Institute. 
   STRENGTHENING NURSING PROGRAMS  
   "America is facing a nursing shortage, and it is only getting worse. The shortage affects every state, every city, every town - and it affects our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq who rely on the care of our military nurses," said Senator Mikulski. "Increasing our nursing workforce is essential for our hospitals and for our patients. I will continue to fight to make nursing a priority in the federal law book and the federal checkbook." 
   The bill provides $169 million for nursing programs, a $20 million increase despite the President's budget request of only $105.3 million. Senator Mikulski, a long-time champion of nursing, also fought for an additional $1.45 million for Maryland medical institutions dedicated to addressing the nationwide nursing and nurse faculty shortage: 
   * $1 million for University of Maryland at Baltimore's Nursing Institute to establish an institute for nurse educators to prepare nurses and health professionals for teaching roles. 
   * $450,000 for the Maryland Hospital Association's Nursing Lattice Program to establish a program that will work with health care employers and community colleges to prepare certified nursing assistants to become Licensed Practical Nurses (LPN) and LPNs to become Registered Nurses (RN), as well as to train less skilled workers for health care careers. 
   STANDING UP FOR WOMEN'S HEALTH 
   "I will not stop my fight to ensure that research and standards are developed to further discoveries for women's health. I will continue to stand sentry to make sure women are taken care of across the country," said Senator Mikulski. "We must make sure women have information they need, that doctors have the best tools and the best training, that low-income, uninsured women have access to health care, and that we remain steadfast on research." 
   The bill provides $30.3 million for the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Women's Health, a $3 million increase from last year. Senator Mikulski also secured federal funding to help Baltimore-area medical facilities purchase necessary mammography equipment for the early detection and reduction of breast cancer: St. Agnes Hospital ($850,000), Mercy Medical Center ($850,000) and Northwest Hospital ($350,000). 
   OLDER AMERICANS ACT (OAA)
   "Seniors today are living longer, healthier lives. We must do what we can to help them be as independent and active as possible, and provide the resources necessary to meet new challenges," said Senator Mikulski, who is also the Chairman of the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. "By passing the Older Americans Act (OAA), we honored one of our responsibilities to our seniors. I will continue to make sure we provide a federal investment in these programs." 
   The OAA, which was reauthorized by Congress and signed into law last year, is essential for the delivery of social and nutritional services for America's seniors, including information and referral services that are the backbone of OAA programs, senior nutrition programs, and elder abuse programs. Senator Mikulski worked for an increase for all OAA programs, and the bill provides a total $1.4 billion, a $58.5 million increase over fiscal year 2007 and $106.4 million above the President's budget request. 
   THIS YEAR'S SPENDING BILL ALSO INCLUDES: 
   * $850,000 for the International Center for Spinal Cord Injury at the Kennedy-Krieger Institute in Baltimore to purchase a MRI machine to improve patient diagnosis and care. 
   * $350,000 for Johns Hopkins University's Critical Event Preparedness and Response (CEPAR) program in Baltimore to develop and organize a regional medical response for potential bioterror or natural disasters that could be replicated at other academic medical centers across the country. 
   * $350,000 for Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring to upgrade its neuroscience capabilities with the purchase of bi-plane angiography equipment to significantly improve precision and reduce treatment time. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will go to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 