SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON PROMISE TO SECURE FUNDS FOR FIGHTING CRIME, DRUG USE IN LANGLEY PARK
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced today that the Senate version of the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill for 2006 includes $500,000 for the Mother Teresa Center in Langley Park. The Center, to be administered by the Archdiocese of Washington, is slated for development in September of this year and will feature a health and social services center, a Latin American Youth Center and a church. These facilities will provide health care, counseling, and youth outreach in the diverse Langley Park neighborhood, which has recently seen a sharp increase in gang violence.  
   "When the Archdiocese came to me and told me how hard it is for the people of Langley Park to get the health care they need and deserve, I made a promise to go to work in the Senate," said Senator Mikulski. "I am proud to deliver on that commitment with a $500,000 federal investment in the people of Langley Park. The community can count on me to keep standing up for them in the Senate." 
   The $500,000 is only a portion of the funding Senator Mikulski has already secured in her ongoing fight to revitalize Langley Park, a neighborhood that has suffered several economic setbacks in recent years. Just this May, Senator Mikulski announced $397,000 for the Spanish Catholic Center, which will provide medical services to Langley Park's residents, 26% of whom have no health insurance. 
   "Langley Park is what being American is all about," said Senator Mikulski. "People come here from all over the world, to build a better life. They celebrate their common patriotism and love of family as well as their unique cultural differences. But Langley Park needs a federal investment to be strong and to thrive, to prevent lost youth, lost opportunity. We can't afford to lose anyone to gang violence, youth crime or drug use." 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Both Houses of Congress will vote on the conference bill. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 