COMMUNITY CELEBRATES DEDICATION OF MIKULSKI WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT CENTER
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today joined community leaders, family and friends to celebrate the dedication of the Mikulski Workforce Development Center. The 3,000 square foot center is dedicated to Sen. Mikulski in recognition of her life of public service, and her support of Living Classrooms Foundation.  
   The new center will offer workforce development and job skill training to at-risk youth and young adults from the East Baltimore Empowerment Zone and surrounding communities. Located on pilings at the front of Living Classrooms' East Harbor Campus, the center has a green roof made up of plants that will reduce run-off and become a part of the Living Classrooms' environmental curriculum. 
   "I am so proud to be associated with this dynamic center," said Senator Mikulski. "The Mikulski Workforce Development Center will help those who practice self help with hands-on education and job training for students from diverse backgrounds. I will keep fighting in the U.S. Senate for organizations like Living Classrooms that offer a hand-up, not a handout." 
   Living Classrooms Foundation was established in Baltimore in 1985 as a non-profit organization. The Foundation provides at-risk youths with learning opportunities aboard ships, in inner city neighborhoods, in rural areas, in suburban community centers, and in its own Baltimore East Harbor facility. Students learn math, science, language arts, history, economics, and ecology with an emphasis on career development, cooperative learning, elevating self-esteem, and fostering multicultural exchange. 
   Senator Mikulski secured $300,000 in federal funding for the new Workforce Development Center project in 2001 through the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Program in the Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) spending bill. Senator Mikulski served as Chairman of the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee when the bill was written, and now serves as Ranking Democratic Member. 
   Mikulski was joined today by colleagues Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD), Congressmen Cummings, Cardin, and Ruppersberger, Mayor O'Malley and Living Classrooms Foundation President James Bond.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 