SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON PROMISES FOR BRAC-IMPACTED COMMUNITIES IN SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education 2008 spending bill includes increased funding for federal Impact Aid and Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) programs. In meetings with Maryland's local leaders this year to discuss the impact of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2005 recommendations, Sen. Mikulski pledged to fight for increases to these programs, which could dramatically ease pressure on local and state government budgets and allow more funds to support BRAC-implementation efforts. 
   "My promises made to BRAC-impacted communities are promises kept. BRAC brings opportunities, but it also brings great challenges. We must now work together to help Maryland address the increased demands on our communities," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to focus on how federal dollars can help our counties, and fight for an increased federal investment in these priorities."  
   The spending bill includes nearly $1.25 billion for the federal Impact Aid program, a $20 million increase over the President's request, which has been a top priority for Senator Mikulski. The program provides federal funding to school districts that have increased enrollment due to "federally connected children." These are students with a parent who is either a member of the Armed Forces living and/or working on a military base, or who is a civilian contractor working on a military base or other federally owned land. This also includes children residing on Indian lands or federally owned low-rent housing facilities. Impact Aid funds can be used for school construction, hiring new teachers, and updating technology. 
   The Department of Defense estimates that Maryland will receive at least an additional 4,000 federally connected students between 2007 and 2011, with Harford and Anne Arundel County school districts being among the most heavily impacted. 
   The spending bill also provides increased funding for IDEA, which Senator Mikulski consistently fought for. Despite the President's budget request of only $10.49 billion, the bill provides $12.3 billion for the program. 
   The IDEA program entitles children with disabilities to a public education and provides federal funds to help schools with the cost. In theory, the federal government pays 40 percent of a state's special education costs, with the rest subsidized by the state and local governments. However, the federal government has not made good on its commitment, despite Senator Mikulski's efforts every year to increase funding and accountability. At its height, the federal government has never paid more than 18 percent to Maryland. This means local districts must make up the difference by skimping on special education, cutting from other education programs, or raising taxes. 
   "I don't want to force states and local school districts to forage for funds, cut back on teacher training, or delay school repairs because the federal government has failed to live up to its commitment to special education," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight for funding of IDEA, because I don't want special education to be a hollow promise." 
   The bill passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon. In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will go to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 