SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS PENTAGON MOVE IS RIGHT DECISION FOR CHESAPEAKE BAY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded the announcement that the Department of Defense (DOD) will invest $22 million to upgrade wastewater treatment plants throughout Maryland. This effort, which Sen. Mikulski has been fighting for since 2005, will make federal funds available immediately to reduce pollution flowing into the Chesapeake Bay.  
   "I was very concerned to hear about the untreated sewage and chemicals from our military bases ending up in the Chesapeake Bay watershed. Maryland cities and towns need to do the right thing for the environment by upgrading their water and sewer infrastructure - but they can't do it on their own," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I have worked so hard to bring our partners at the Pentagon into this process." 
   Under this new agreement, DOD will use the funds to upgrade sewage treatment plants at five of its largest installations over the next four years: Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County; Aberdeen Proving Ground in Harford County; Fort Detrick in Frederick County; and the naval support facilities in Annapolis and Indian Head. When the upgrades are completed, the plants will be able to treat 12 million gallons of sewage a day. 
   "The Chesapeake Bay is part of who we are as Marylanders - our heritage and our culture," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to do everything I can to guarantee a federal investment in its preservation and maintenance." 
   According to a recent article in the Baltimore Sun, DOD is a regular polluter of the bay. In the past decade, the Aberdeen plant has flushed 5.4 million gallons of partly treated sewage into the Bush River. The Indian Head Naval Surface Warfare Center in Charles County has received two federal violation notices, one for washing coal ash into the Potomac River and another for spilling 14 million gallons of sewage. In addition, Fort Meade has spilled more than 200,000 gallons of raw sewage into the Little Patuxent River and nearby waterways.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 