SEN. MIKULSKI REMOVES MAJOR HURDLES FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES IN SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education 2008 spending bill includes two key provisions she has fought for in her efforts to level the playing field for federal employees. In a major victory for employees at the Department of Labor (DoL), the agency will be prohibited from using federal funds to support the competitive outsourcing of federal contracts. In addition, Sen. Mikulski helped to secure a $426.4 million increase to help ease significant backlogs at the Social Security Administration (SSA). 
   "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. I will fight to make sure these hardworking men and women are treated fairly," said Senator Mikulski. "Federal employees are America's true patriots and I will continue to stand up for the issues that matter to them."
   Senator Mikulski has been a long-time critic of the contracting out process, a practice that often wastes taxpayer dollars and is dangerously slanted against federal employees. The Senator has fought for years to improve the process - adding provisions in spending bills to help government workers compete with contractors and provide improved guidelines for a more fair competition process before jobs are contracted out. 
   Senator Mikulski worked to include language in the spending bill that would prevent the DoL from using taxpayer dollars to contract out the work performed by federal employees pending a study by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) of the agency's aggressive outsourcing. 
   "The mission of the Department of Labor is to make the American workplace safer, healthier and more equitable. Efforts to privatize that workforce violate their own stated mission," said Senator Mikulski. "These federal employees should not be forced to compete for their own jobs." 
   The bill also includes $9.7 billion, an increase of $426.4 million, to help eliminate long delays for applicants waiting to receive their Social Security benefits. Senator Mikulski requested the funds after learning about the overwhelming backlog of claims at the SSA. By the end of fiscal year 2007, the backlog of initial claims is projected to reach 577,000, and the number of cases pending for appeals hearings are expected to be 752,000. 
   "We need to provide the Social Security Administration with the resources it needs to get rid of their backlogs and fulfill America's promise to our seniors and disabled citizens," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding will help keep those promises." 
   The bill passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon. In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will go to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 