SEN. MIKULSKI INTRODUCES AL GORE AT GLOBAL WARMING HEARING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today welcomed her longtime friend and colleague Vice President Al Gore back to Capitol Hill today, introducing him before the full Senate Environment and Public Works Committee as he testified on global warming. The two were elected to the House of Representatives in the same class in 1976, and sat next to each other on the House Energy and Commerce Committee for eight years. They then went on to become colleagues in the U.S. Senate.  
   "What Al Gore is known for is pursuing sound science - ungagged and unfettered, with intellectual rigor," said Senator Mikulski. "Al Gore helped create a global awareness of the consequences of global warming. So for him, it has been a lifelong advocacy and a lifelong passion. We need to listen to him as never before. What he has to tell us might be inconvenient, but it will always be the truth." 
   Senator Mikulski's statement is below: 
   "Thank you for the honor of letting me come here, because I came into the Congress of the United States with Al Gore in 1976. It was a Star-Spangled Banner year and a Star-Spangled Banner class, and Al was there leading the way and waving the flag for environmental change, even back then. "Sitting next to him for eight years on the Energy and Commerce Committee, I watched Al Gore lead the charge on some of the most important environmental legislation of our time -amendments on the Clear Air Act, a Superfund bill that really cleaned up the mess, and efforts to save our drinking water. 
   "Al then went on to the United States Senate, where he chaired the Subcommittee on Science, Technology and Space on the Commerce Committee. He was the first Senator to sponsor the World Environment Policy Act. Why was that important? It authorized policies to mitigate global warming and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. It also picked up on a new idea - promoted by Sally Ride - that we ought to study our own planet as if it were a distant star. And out of Al Gore's work, then-Senator Gore, came the whole idea at NASA for Mission to Planet Earth. He was the authorizer; I was the appropriator. We worked together to do that. But, as Vice President, he then went on to be an advocate for issues related to climate crisis, but always based on science. 
   "What Al Gore is known for is pursuing sound science - ungagged and unfettered, with intellectual rigor. Al Gore helped create a global awareness of the consequences of global warming. So for him, it has been a lifelong advocacy and a lifelong passion. We need to listen to him as never before. What he has to tell us might be inconvenient, but it will always be the truth."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 