SEN. MIKULSKI VISITS FIRE HOUSE TO ANNOUNCE NEW FUNDING FOR SAFER EASTERN SHORE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she has succeeded in fighting for $18.6 million in new federal funding for improvements to Route 404, one of the most dangerous roads in the state. This funding will bring construction efforts closer to widening the road, making it safer for not only the community but also for the thousands of visitors and commuters who utilize the popular highway.  
   "Safety along Route 404 is not just a local issue, it's a regional issue and a statewide issue. I'm so proud to have worked for the past five years to ensure that money was put in the federal checkbook to address this critical danger," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding will save lives. This is a big win for the people of the Eastern Shore and important to the safety of everyone who travels on this stretch of roadway." 
   Since 2000, Senator Mikulski and Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) have worked with community activists to address this important safety issue. An average of 72 accidents have occurred on Route 404 per year between 1995 and 1999. In addition, more than 100 people have been injured and five people have died in Route 404 accidents in the last five years. 
   The $18.6 million in federal funding is part of the multi-year transportation reauthorization bill passed this fall by Congress and the 2006 spending bill. Under the reauthorization, Maryland will receive $583 million per year in federal highway formula funds, a $140 million per year increase. 
   Senator Mikulski's briefing by the Denton Volunteer Fire Company this morning also addressed needed resources for first-responders. The Senator is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. Senator Mikulski fights each year to increase funding for this program. So far this funding cycle, Eastern Shore fire departments have received $1,638,453 in AFGP award funds. Since 2001, Eastern Shore fire departments have received a total of $6,419,795. 
   "Our first responders are true heroes - they save lives, save homes, save communities. I am so proud of the work that they do. We need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources," said Senator Mikulski. "I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Eastern Shore communities."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 