SENS. MIKULSKI, BOND ONCE AGAIN INCLUDE SUBSTANTIAL INCREASE FOR VETERANS HEALTHCARE IN SENATE SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD), and Sen. Kit Bond (R-MO), Chairman of the Subcommittee, worked together to once again include an additional $1.2 billion above the President's request for VA medical care in this year's FY05 spending bill. The legislation passed the Senate Appropriations Committee today and now moves to the full Senate for consideration. The full Senate vote has not yet been scheduled.  
   The additional funding will ensure the VA does not charge Priority 7 and Priority 8 veterans an annual $250 enrollment fee. The additional funding will also keep Priority 7 and 8 veterans' prescription drug co-payments to $7, instead of the $15 proposed by the Administration. The Senators also rejected limiting VA nursing homes to Priority 1 veterans. 
   "Every year, the Administration tries to charge our nation's veterans toll charges and membership fees for healthcare, and every year I fight to put money in the federal checkbook to make sure that doesn't happen," said Senator Mikulski. "I've met with veterans across Maryland, and they all tell me how much VA healthcare means to them. I've heard moving stories about how the dedicated VA doctors and nurses save lives. I promised them I would do all I could to make sure the VA healthcare system was there to care for them. Today, I am keeping that promise. I will keep fighting in the Senate and in the Conference Committee with the House to keep this funding for VA healthcare." VETERANS HEALTH CARE 
   In addition to the increase in funding to reject the Administration's proposal to institute fees and increase veterans' co-pays, Senator Mikulski also included $20 million in the VA budget for a new "Prosthetics and Integrative Health Care Initiative" to care for soldiers returning from Afghanistan and Iraq who have lost limbs and bear the severe and lasting wounds of war. HOUSING 
   This bill provides a total of $36.4 billion for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, a $700 million increase over last year. Senators Mikulski and Bond added funds to HUD's budget to restore four programs that were eliminated in the Administration's budget: HOPE VI (funded at $150 million), Brownfields (funded at $25 million), Section 108 loans (funded at $7 million), and Rural Housing (funded at $25 million). 
   The Senators also added $2.2 billion to the Section 8 voucher program, for a total of $20.7 billion. This funding will enable HUD to renew all expiring vouchers at current rents. 
   Additionally, the Senators included $175 million for lead-based paint hazard reduction and abatement activities. This includes $50 million to fund the third year of a new lead hazard reduction demonstration program focused on major urban areas where children are disproportionately at risk for lead poisoning. Approximately one million children under the age of 6 in the U.S. suffer from lead poisoning, most often children from low-income and minority families. 
   ENVIRONMENT 
   The Senators secured funding for three important Chesapeake Bay initiatives in this legislation. The Chesapeake Bay Program is slated to receive $20 million for Bay restoration efforts. In addition, Senator Mikulski added $2 million for small watershed grants. These grants, which fund grassroots Bay restoration projects, were not funded in the Administration's budget. Also included in this year's bill is $10 million for targeted watershed grants that will fund "innovative, cost effective projects" to help reduce non-point source pollution runoff into the Bay. 
   Senators Mikulski and Bond also secured $2.2 billion for water infrastructure improvements. This amount includes $1.35 billion for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (SRF), $500 million above the Administration's request. The bill also includes $850 million for the Drinking Water SRF. These funds are critical to protecting public health and the environment. 
   CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE 
   The Senators provide $590 million for National Service, including $291 for AmeriCorps grants that will fund up to 75,000 new volunteers. It also includes $160 million for volunteers' education awards. 
   NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION 
   The legislation provides a total of $15.6 billion for NASA, $200 million above last year's level. This funding includes $4.3 billion for the Space Shuttle. This will cover the costs associated with return to flight, estimated to take place in 2005. The bill also makes a down payment on the proposed Moon-Mars Initiative by providing $268 million for the proposed Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV), the replacement for the Space Shuttle. 
   In addition, Senators Mikulski and Bond secured $20 million for the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO) mission. This mission, which will be run out of NASA Goddard, will send a probe to the moon and to map it. This will be the first time this has been done since the Apollo era.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 