SEN. MIKULSKI WARNS AGAINST PRESIDENTIAL VETO OF NATIONAL CHILDREN'S HEALTH INITIATIVE
  With a looming expiration deadline, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today said a presidential veto of a bill to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) would have a devastating impact on children nationwide. This legislation, which is working its way through a bipartisan coalition of House and Senate leaders, will protect the health care coverage of nearly 6.6 million children nationwide, including more than 100,000 children in Maryland. Without this reauthorization bill, CHIP would expire on September 30, 2007, with no alternative in place.  
   "The federal government must fulfill its responsibilities to America's families and America's children - we need a national children's health initiative," said Senator Mikulski. "This program fills the gap for children who might otherwise have to go without any health care at all. The funding is critical to ensure our children have access to the health care they need and deserve." 
   CHIP is a joint federal and state program that provides low-cost health insurance to children in low-income families. In recent years, annual increases in health care costs, combined with a nationwide growth in CHIP enrollment, has caused the costs of the CHIP program to outpace the federal funding available. 
   The legislation protects Maryland, which was among a number of states at risk of running out of funding this fiscal year. A new funding formula has been created, and Maryland will now continue its proud history of funding all children in the program without exception or delay. 
   This has been a top priority for Governor Martin O'Malley, who pledged to work with the federal delegation to address the shortfall. Senator Mikulski has also joined Team Maryland and a coalition of her Senate colleagues to insist that congressional leaders include a guaranteed dental benefit provision. 
   "This bill provides health insurance to the children of many of America's working families. I helped create CHIP in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own." 
   Earlier this month, Senator Mikulski joined Governor O'Malley in a call for President Bush to reject a Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services' (CMS) proposal to cut funding to states - including Maryland - that offer coverage through CHIP to children whose families earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but cannot afford private coverage. The cuts will cause tens of thousands of children to lose coverage - including 4,000 in Maryland - and stands in the way of states' current efforts to expand coverage to more kids.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 