SENS. MIKULSKI, HUTCHISON WORKING TO FUND REPAIRS FOR NASA'S SPACE SHUTTLE FLEET, HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) today offered an amendment to the FY05 Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) Appropriations bill to provide an additional $800 million to NASA as an emergency to repair the Space Shuttle fleet and service the Hubble Space Telescope. The amendment passed the Committee unanimously.  
   "The report of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board was rigorous, thorough, and independent, but NASA can't implement these recommendations without funding," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I am fighting for a federal investment to implement all the necessary changes to the Space Shuttle fleet so we can return to flight safely. We must do all we can to ensure the safety of our astronauts. This amendment also provides funding for a servicing mission to the Hubble Space Telescope. This telescope is one of NASA's most successful programs since Apollo and one of the greatest scientific instruments ever created." 
   "This additional funding will advance Return to Flight activities without jeopardizing important missions like servicing the Hubble Space Telescope," Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) said. "These resources will help alleviate the strain that non-shuttle programs are facing and keep the Space Shuttle program on track to resume flights." 
   More specifically, the amendment adds $500 million to the VA-HUD appropriations bill for the Space Shuttle program to comply with the recommendations of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board (CAIB) and return the Space Shuttle to flight in 2005. NASA recently revised cost estimates and needs the additional funding in order to fully comply with the CAIB recommendations. 
   The amendment also adds $300 million for a servicing mission to the Hubble Space Telescope. NASA and the National Academy of Sciences are currently evaluating two options for a servicing mission - a robotic mission or a Shuttle mission. It will cost over $1 billion to service and upgrade the Hubble Telescope, which needs to be done by 2008. After 2008, the risk of catastrophic failure for the telescope goes up significantly. NASA estimates they will need an additional $300 million in FY05 to ensure a servicing mission by 2008.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 