KEY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN WESTERN MARYLAND SLATED TO RECEIVE FUNDING IN VETERANS/HOUSING SPENDING BILL
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) announced that three community development projects are one step closer to receiving federal funding with today's Appropriations Committee passage of the FY05 Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies Appropriations bill. Sen. Mikulski is the Senior Democrat on the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee.  
   This year's VA-HUD Appropriations bill also includes an additional $1.2 billion above the President's request for VA medical care in this year's FY05 spending bill. The additional funding will ensure the VA does not charge Priority 7 and Priority 8 veterans an annual $250 enrollment fee. The additional funding will also keep Priority 7 and 8 veterans' prescription drug co-payments to $7, instead of the $15 proposed by the Administration. The Senators also rejected limiting VA nursing homes to Priority 1 veterans. 
   "As Ranking Member on the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, I put money in the federal checkbook for some of Maryland's most important projects. I am so proud that this means $1,500,000 for Western Maryland this year to reduce the amount of nutrients entering our waterways," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. "Maryland cities and towns need to upgrade their water and sewer infrastructure but they can't do it on their own, and rate payers shouldn't have to bear the full burden. These grants are a double value for the taxpayer dollar, creating jobs and protecting the environment." 
   "Having my colleague, Senator Mikulski, at the helm of this Appropriations Subcommittee is critically important as we work to improve the lives and the day-to-day needs of people all across the State of Maryland," said Sarbanes. "As a result of her diligent efforts, we will see enhanced care for our veterans; water infrastructure upgrades to help clean-up the Chesapeake Bay; and economic development projects throughout the State to improve our local communities and help create jobs." 
   STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS (STAG) 
   The VA-HUD bill includes federal funding for the "State and Tribal Assistance Grants" (STAG) for special needs water and wastewater infrastructure projects. 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes secured federal funding through STAG grants for the following programs in Western Maryland: 
   * $750,000 for Cumberland for wastewater infrastructure improvements to install nitrogen and phosphorous removal technology to reduce the amount of nutrients entering the Potomac River and Chesapeake Bay. 
   * $500,000 for Frostburg for wastewater infrastructure improvements to prevent sewer overflow and its associated public health and environmental impacts. 
   * $250,000 for Brunswick for wastewater infrastructure improvements to upgrade the city's wastewater treatment plant and prevent sewer overflow
  In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the floor of the Senate for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in conference committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. The conference report will then be sent back to the floor of both Chambers of Congress for a vote. Once passed by the House and Senate, the VA-HUD Appropriations bill will be sent to the President for his signature. 
  Senator Mikulski serves on the Appropriations Committee and serves as Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies. Senator Sarbanes serves as Ranking Member on the Banking, Housing and Urban Development Committee and serves on the Budget Committee.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 