KEY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS IN DC METRO AREA SLATED TO RECEIVE FUNDING IN VETERANS/HOUSING SPENDING BILL
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) announced that four DC metro community development projects are one step closer to receiving federal funding with today's Appropriations Committee passage of the FY05 Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies Appropriations bill. Sen. Mikulski is the Senior Democrat on the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee.  
   This year's VA-HUD Appropriations bill also includes an additional $1.2 billion above the President's request for VA medical care in this year's FY05 spending bill. The additional funding will ensure the VA does not charge Priority 7 and Priority 8 veterans an annual $250 enrollment fee. The additional funding will also keep Priority 7 and 8 veterans' prescription drug co-payments to $7, instead of the $15 proposed by the Administration. The Senators also rejected limiting VA nursing homes to Priority 1 veterans. 
   "As Ranking Member on the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, I put money in the federal checkbook to create jobs and build communities," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski. "I am so proud that this means $1.1 million for the DC metro area this year will be used for new and enhanced community centers, and to improve public space. I will keep standing up in the U.S. Senate for the day-to-day needs of my constituents and the long-range needs of the nation." 
   "Having my colleague, Senator Mikulski, at the helm of this Appropriations Subcommittee is critically important as we work to improve the lives and the day-to-day needs of people all across the State of Maryland," said Sarbanes. "As a result of her diligent efforts, we will see enhanced care for our veterans; water infrastructure upgrades to help clean-up the Chesapeake Bay; and economic development projects throughout the State to improve our local communities and help create jobs." 
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE (EDI) PROGRAM 
   EDIs, funded in the VA-HUD legislation, are granted on a competitive basis and must meet criteria set by Senator Mikulski and the Subcommittee Chairman, Senator Kit Bond (R-MO). Each project must create jobs or meet a compelling human need, benefit low- or moderate-income neighborhoods, eliminate physical or economic distress, and have a funding match from a non-federal source. 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes secured federal funding for the following DC metro area projects through the EDI program: 
   * $200,000 for Montgomery County for pedestrian enhancements and safety improvements in Long Branch. This money will provide new, well-lit safe pedestrian linkages between public facilities, private residential areas and commercial centers; install safe crosswalk signs, lights, handicap ramps and road striping; construct and replace sections of sidewalk; and streetscape some high traffic areas. 
   * $200,000 for Montgomery County to be used for Fenton Street Village pedestrian linkages. This project will provide new, well-lit, safe pedestrian linkages from existing public parking lots to other parts of the central business district, the metro station, the Discovery Communications Headquarters, and the AFI Silver Theater. 
   * $200,000 for Easter Seals in Silver Spring to construct an Inter-Generational Center. This center will provide seniors with physical therapy, medical monitoring, cognitively stimulating activities, socialization and meals. The Center will also serve adults and children with disabilities. The Center will also assist people who are working in newly created jobs in redeveloped downtown Silver Spring by caring for their relatives while the employees are at work. 
   * $500,000 for Prince George's County to renovate the Employment and Training Center and the Multicultural Academy. The Employment and Training Center will provide temporary, seasonal and permanent jobs to low-income immigrants while also offering English classes and information about work-place related rights and responsibilities. The Multicultural Academy is a central location where community members can receive a wide variety of services and opportunities including leadership training, continuing education and employment training. 
   The VA-HUD bill also includes federal funding for the "State and Tribal Assistance Grants" (STAG) for special needs water and wastewater infrastructure projects. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the floor of the Senate for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in conference committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. The conference report will then be sent back to the floor of both Chambers of Congress for a vote. Once passed by the House and Senate, the VA-HUD Appropriations bill will be sent to the President for his signature. 
   Senator Mikulski serves on the Appropriations Committee and serves as Ranking Member on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies. Senator Sarbanes serves as Ranking Member on the Banking, Housing and Urban Development Committee and serves on the Budget Committee.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 