SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF BILL THAT STRENGTHENS DRUG SAFETY, SAVES 2,000 FDA JOBS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today said the House-Senate passed compromise legislation to reauthorize the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will save 2,000 FDA jobs at risk. The bill, which Senator Mikulski calls 'the most important drug safety bill of the decade,' will fundamentally improve drug safety standards at the FDA. Senator Mikulski, a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, was instrumental in shaping this legislation, adding language in the bill based on Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommendations to improve the scientific environment at the FDA and increase transparency. The bill now goes to the President for his signature.  
   "The FDA has always been the gold standard in maintaining drug safety and drug efficacy. I have fought for years for the right facilities and the right resources for the FDA. Now, I responded to the call from our top scientists at the IOM by acting on their suggestions to protect our drug supply," said Senator Mikulski. "Congress had a unique opportunity to change the way we monitor the safety of drugs for America with this bill - and we acted on it. We owed it to consumers, physicians and patients all over the world who rely on the FDA for drug safety." 
   Senator Mikulski noted that this is not a perfect bill and compromises were made to assure its passage. She was particularly disappointed that two important measures in the pediatric program were not included. Despite these exclusions, Senator Mikulski praised Congress for crafting a strong bipartisan bill and moving swiftly to ensure no jobs were lost at the FDA. Last month, FDA Commissioner Andrew von Eschenbach threatened to start the RIF (Reduction in Force) notice process which would have affected up to 2,000 FDA employees if the bill was not passed this week. 
   Specifically, Senator Mikulski fought to add language to the bill based on the IOM report, "The Future of Drug Safety." These recommendations improve the scientific environment and transparency at the FDA. Senator Mikulski added important measures to promote transparency, such as requiring the FDA to publicly post summaries of drug approval processes (including scientific disagreements) on the internet, so now scientists, researchers and consumers can review the approval process for all new drugs. 
   The Senator also included language that strengthened science by establishing an Office of the Chief Scientist - a single scientist to oversee all the offices at the FDA to be sure the agency has strong scientific guidance from the very top. This bill will mandate that scientists from the important offices for drug safety are integrated into all phases of the drug review process and clarify that scientists at the FDA should be able publish their scholarly papers.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 