SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF REP. GOSS TO BE CIA DIRECTOR
  "I voted today in favor of Congressman Porter Goss to be Director of Central Intelligence because these are very dangerous times and the CIA needs leadership. The next DCI will be charged with ensuring that policymakers have timely and reliable intelligence as well as pushing for long overdue reform.  
   "The criteria I use to evaluate nominees are: competency, integrity, commitment to the mission of the agency and independence. 
   "I have no doubt about Congressman Goss's competence, his integrity or his commitment to the mission of the CIA and our intelligence agencies. My concern about Congressman Goss is his independence - his ability to speak truth to power, his commitment to reform, and his ability to be nonpartisan. 
   "While I have known him over the years to be moderate, straightforward and willing to work with Democrats, recently he has been highly partisan and intemperate in his words and actions. Would he be able to be an independent voice in the Administration? A strong advocate for real reform? Would he tell the President what he should hear, not what he wants to hear? That's what speaking truth to power means. That's what America needs in a DCI. 
   "I asked tough questions at the nomination hearings, and Mr. Goss said many of the right things in response. He said, yes, he would speak truth to power. He insisted he would be non-partisan. He said he understood that the role of Director of Central Intelligence is very different than being a Congressman - that it is not a political job. He told the Intelligence Committee that he would be the old Porter Goss - nonpartisan, moderate, committed to truth and a strong leader for independence." 
   "I will vote for Mr. Goss, but I do so with warning lights. I will pursue a philosophy borrowed from President Reagan - trust, but verify. The job of Congress is not only to consider and vote for a nominee, but also to provide vigorous oversight. Through that oversight, Congress will verify that Mr. Goss is serving as an independent, non-partisan DCI."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 