SEN. MIKULSKI WORKS WITH SEAFOOD INDUSTRY TO DETERMINE NEXT STEPS IN FIGHT TO SOLVE H2B VISA SHORTAGE
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) today met with key members of the seafood processing industry and watermen to thank them for their advocacy and outline the next steps in the fight to solve the H2B visa shortage.  
   Many Maryland businesses have been facing a crisis, unable to obtain temporary, documented, seasonal, foreign workers through the H2B visa program. This year, the cap of 66,000 was reached just a few months into the fiscal year. Because companies are not allowed to apply for workers more than 120 days before they are needed, many Maryland businesses - who need about 7,700 workers - weren't able to apply for visas this year because the cap had been reached. 
   Senator Mikulski's introduced legislation, the "Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act," that exempts returning seasonal workers from the national cap of 66,000 people, creates new anti-fraud provisions in the visa program, creates fair allocation of visas and creates new reporting requirements so Congress can track how many people return each year through the H2B visa program. This legislation passed the Senate this week with overwhelming bipartisan support and a vote of 94-6. The amendment is now part of the Emergency Supplemental that heads to conference to resolve the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Today, Senator Mikulski discussed plans to ensure that this amendment is part of the final bill that is sent to the President for his signature. 
   "Businesses all over the country, including many right here in Maryland, are facing a crisis," said Senator Mikulski. "American companies desperately need seasonal workers so their businesses can survive the summer. But the national cap of H2B visas was reached so early this year that many Maryland businesses were not even allowed to apply. Without these temporary workers, many businesses could forced to limit services, lay off permanent U.S. workers or, worse yet, close their doors. We can't let this happen. That's why I have fought so hard for the Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act - a quick fix to the H2B problem and help ensure that our companies get the workers they need to stay in business. I'm so proud to be joined by 93 of my colleagues today to stand up for America's businesses." 
   Senator Mikulski continued, "I salute Maryland's seafood industry and the Waterman's Association for being advocates and activists to get this amendment passed. But our work is not yet done. Maryland can count on me to keep fighting until the President signs this important legislation into law."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 