SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CHARLES COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that two Charles County fire departments have been awarded a total of $118,546 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Senator Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and the DC region. Congratulations to the Bryans Road VFD and Rescue Squad and Potomac Heights VFD and Rescue Squad on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Bryans Road VFD and Rescue Squad was awarded of $62,091 to purchase new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units. 
   For more information on the Bryans Road VFD and Rescue Squad, contact Gary Crampton at (301)-375-7055. 
   The Potomac Heights VFD and Rescue Squad, located in Indian Head, was awarded $56,455 in federal funding to purchase 19 hand held 800 MHZ portable radios for communications inter-operability. 
   For more information on the Potomac Heights VFD and Rescue Squad, contact Scott Creelman at 301-743-7700. 
   These two awards bring to five the total number of Charles County Fire Departments awarded funding so far this funding cycle under the AFGP, totaling $427,552. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   These awards bring the total number of awards for Maryland to 73 so far this funding cycle, totaling $9,078,065 in federal assistance through the AFGP. This is a record both in terms of number of awards and total award amounts. 
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 