SEN. MIKULSKI RENEWS CALL FOR LABELING OF CLONED FOOD
  As the Senate reconvenes today, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) renewed her efforts to pass the Cloned Food Labeling Act (S. 414). This comes one week after the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) endorsement of the use of meat, milk and other food from cloned animals. The legislation, originally introduced in January 2007, will require the FDA and the Department of Agriculture to mandate that all food that comes from cloned animals be labeled as such. The label will read: THIS PRODUCT IS FROM A CLONED ANIMAL OR ITS PROGENY. A companion bill has been introduced in the U.S. House by Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.).  
   "The public deserves to know if their food comes from a cloned animal. My legislation will help the American public make an informed decision," said Senator Mikulski. "If cloned food is safe, let it onto the market, but give consumers the information they need to avoid these products if they choose to. We need to let Americans - many of whom find this repugnant - speak with their dollars and choose the food that they feel confident is safe." 
   This legislation would require labeling for all meat and dairy products sold in all retail supermarkets and restaurants. It includes not only cloned animal products, but also any of its "progeny," because cloned animals may be used to breed other animals. Distributors will incur civil penalties if this is violated. A similar provision was introduced as an amendment to the Senate version of the Farm Bill (H.R. 2419), but did not receive a vote. 
   The FDA's decision was made despite congressional directives, objections from the American public, and the recent comments by the FDA's own Science Advisory Board that said the agency lacks expertise in risk benefit assessments, cannot adequately monitor the development of food products, and has been unable to keep up with scientific advances. 
   "The FDA has acted recklessly and I am profoundly disappointed in their rush to approve cloned foods. Just because something was created in a lab, doesn't mean we should have to eat it," said Senator Mikulski. "The long-term effects of these products are still unknown and could be harmful to consumers." 
   Among the groups who support this bill are: Center for Food Safety, Food Policy Institute, Union of Concerned Scientists, National Farmer's Union, Consumer Federation of America, and Food and Water Watch. 
   For more information on Senator Mikulski's condemnation of the FDA's endorsement last week and her legislative efforts to halt approval pending further scientific research, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=290368.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 