SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR NATIONAL DAY TO HONOR OUR FIRST RESPONDERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today lent her support to the effort led by Senator Wayne Allard (R-Colo.) to pass a resolution (S.Res.215) establishing September 25, 2007, as National First Responder Appreciation Day.  
   "Firefighters and first responders are our true American heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. They risk their lives to keep us safe," said Senator Mikulski. "We are so grateful for the sacrifices they make every day." 
   As a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski fights every year to increase federal funding for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP), which funds firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. So far this year, Maryland departments have received nearly $11.2 million in AFGP funding, making it among the top five states nationwide. And since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received approximately $47 million through the AFGP. 
   However, President Bush's budget cut federal support for the AFGP nearly in half, requesting only $287 million, and eliminated funding for Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grants, which fall under the AFGP, for the second year in a row. Despite this, Senator Mikulski announced earlier this month that the 2008 Homeland Security spending bill includes $560 million, an increase of $20 million, in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. It also includes $140 million, an increase of $25 million from last year, for SAFER grants. 
   "I know these are tight times, but we must do better for our first responders. Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your life on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so proud to announce the increase in a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and I will continue to fight to keep our protectors a priority in the federal checkbook - for them, for their families and for the safety of our communities." 
   There are more than 1.1 million firefighters, 890,000 Emergency Medical Services (EMS) professionals and 670,000 police officers fighting to protect our communities nationwide.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 