SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO HAVE CONVICTED MURDERER REMOVED FROM ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETARY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today commended the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee's passage of her effort, with Committee Chairman Sen. Larry Craig (R-Idaho), to have the remains of convicted murderer Russell Wayne Wagner removed from Arlington National Cemetery. Wagner killed Daniel and Wilda Davis, two elderly residents of Hagerstown, Md., but was buried in Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors because he served in the military. The proposal was included in the "Veterans' Choice of Representation and Benefits Enhancement Act of 2006."  
   "I promised the Davis family that I would fight to remove the remains of this brutal killer from the hallowed grounds of Arlington National Ceremony. I will continue to work with my colleagues to move this proposal forward," said Senator Mikulski. "We must preserve our national cemeteries as places of honor for our veterans. Arlington is for heroes, not convicted murderers." 
   In addition to this legislation, Senators Mikulski and Craig led the fight to have a bill signed into law by President Bush in January 2006, which ensures that this error will never happen again. The Craig-Mikulski provision takes away burial eligibility for any veteran convicted of a capital crime, whether in federal or state court, regardless of whether parole is a possibility. It also denies funeral honors to veterans being buried in private cemeteries if they have lost eligibility due to a capital conviction. 
   "This law honors our military heroes, and I am so proud to have fought for its passage. This continues what has been a daily fight for more than 18 years to safeguard vital veterans' services and benefits," said Senator Mikulski. "Promises made to our veterans must be promises kept, because they represent America's payment of a debt we owe our brave veterans for their service - a debt that can never be fully repaid."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 