SEN. MIKULSKI: FTC REPORT SHOWS WE MUST STAND SENTRY OVER GAS GOUGERS
  In response to congressional mandates from the 2006 Commerce, Justice, Science spending bill and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) today released its findings on possible gas price gouging in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations subcommittee, sponsored an amendment to the spending bill with Sen. Mark Pryor (D-Ark.). The bill was signed into law by President Bush on November 22, 2005.  
   The amendment directed the FTC to investigate any evidence of price gouging throughout the supply chain and distribution markets, the effects of price gouging on economic activity in the United States, and the impact of price spikes on people's purchasing power. 
   "I took immediate action to make sure that big oil couldn't get away with gouging Americans. Oil companies need to know that we are watching, and that gougers will be caught," said Senator Mikulski. "It shouldn't take an act of Congress to start an investigation into gas prices. I will continue to stand sentry to make sure that oil companies are not making excuses and inflating prices at the pump." 
   The FTC report found 15 instances of gas price gouging in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. FTC investigators attributed those cases to "local or regional market trends." Because there is no federal law that defines gouging, Congress defined it as higher gas prices in the month following Hurricane Katrina that were not attributable to increased costs of national or international trends. 
   "The FTC report fails to explain why or how big oil companies have seen record profits and can afford to give their executives big bonuses and golden parachutes," said Senator Mikulski. "The American consumer is paying for that at the pump." 
   Last week, Senator Mikulski joined Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Senator Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) and several of her Democratic colleagues to introduce the Clean Energy Development for a Growing Economy (EDGE) Act of 2006. The Clean EDGE Act calls for a major investment in the research, development and production of the alternative energy vehicles, fuels and technologies that will break our nation's addiction to foreign oil. 
   "The American public needs relief - real solutions to what we are going to do to become energy independent. We know people are nervous about rising energy costs and we know what it means to their families," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to keep America rolling."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 