SEN. MIKULSKI PUSHES FOR SPECIAL EDUCATION FUNDING INCREASE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, today joined Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-R.I.) in introducing an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 budget resolution that would increase funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) by $44.2 billion over five years, starting with a $10.3 billion increase in 2008. This funding would be paid for by eliminating President Bush's tax cuts for the very wealthy - those with a taxable income above $1 million. The President's budget request proposed a $291 million cut to the IDEA program. A vote on the amendment is expected this week.  
   "Special education has made such a huge difference in the lives of students with disabilities. It gives disabled children a chance to succeed in school and in life. I want to do what's best for families and schools. Parents and students need to be able to count on a quality education," said Senator Mikulski. "Parents of disabled children face such a tough burden already. School should not be one of the many things they worry about, particularly when the laws are already on the books to guarantee their child a public school education. I will continue to fight for funding of IDEA, because I don't want special education to be a hollow promise." 
   Fully funding IDEA has been a long-time priority for Senator Mikulski. The IDEA program entitles children with disabilities to a public education and provides federal funds to help schools with the cost. In theory, the federal government pays 40 percent of a state's special education costs, with the rest subsidized by the state and local governments. However, the federal government has not made good on its commitment, despite Senator Mikulski's efforts every year to increase funding and accountability. At its height, the federal government has never paid more than 18 percent to Maryland. This means local districts must make up the difference by skimping on special education, cutting from other education programs, or raising taxes. 
   "I don't want to force states and local school districts to forage for funds, cut back on teacher training, or delay school repairs because the federal government has failed to live up to its commitment to special education," said Senator Mikulski. 
   Senator Mikulski believes an increased federal commitment to IDEA will allow more state and county funds to support other efforts, including implementation of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2005 recommendations. The Senator has met with several of Maryland's incoming and returning local leaders since January, and has promised to fight for an increase to IDEA, which could dramatically ease pressure on local and state government budgets as they begin planning for BRAC-impact projects.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 