SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES VICTORY IN FIGHT TO END FLIPPING PRACTICES IN BALTIMORE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced today that flipping has dropped 77 percent in Baltimore since 1999 as part of the final report of the Baltimore City Flipping and Predatory Lending Task Force. This tremendous victory for Baltimore was celebrated at a press conference, which included Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.), Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein and community activists who first uncovered the growing crisis of flipping in Baltimore neighborhoods.  
   "Our success in the fight against flipping proves how one person can make a difference, but together we can make change. I am so proud to be a part of this amazing success," said Senator Mikulski. "We will continue to rebuild the neighborhoods that were damaged by flipping. We are going to stay vigilant and protect the people of Baltimore from predators who are constantly looking for new ways to make a quick buck on the back of the poor." 
   In January 2000, community activists brought the issue of flipping to Senator Mikulski. The Senator responded by helping to create the task force, which brought together advocates, law enforcement and city officials with housing lenders, brokers, appraisers and HUD officials. 
   Flipping is a practice in which real estate predators buy houses at market prices in low-income neighborhoods, make cosmetic repairs and then resell to unsuspecting homebuyers at inflated prices. A typical scam involved a flipper buying a Baltimore home for $10,000 and, working with a crooked appraiser, title company and settlement officer, fraudulently reselling the home for $50,000. Buyers were losing their homes, unable to keep up with mortgage payments and unexpected repairs. From 1996-2000, over 3,000 houses were flipped in Baltimore with the number of foreclosures quadrupling to 6,000 a year. 
   Until last year, Senator Mikulski was the senior Democrat on the Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversaw HUD. Her leadership on the committee allowed her to highlight the issue of flipping, including holding two field hearings in the state and providing the necessary federal funding to support reform efforts. 
   The task force focused on five fronts in the war on flipping: law enforcement (including pursuing criminal charges against people involved in flipping schemes); implementing regulatory reforms at HUD to ensure that flipping cannot occur again; victims' assistance (including providing restitution and legal services to victims of flipping); education and prevention efforts; and rebuilding neighborhoods hurt by flipping by establishing an "Asset Control Area," in which foreclosed houses are bought from HUD at a discount, rehabbed and sold to owner occupants.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 