SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF CRITICAL FUNDING FOR CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE PROGRAM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced the Senate version of the emergency supplemental spending bill, that passed the committee today addresses the funding shortfall for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) by fully funding it for the entire fiscal year 2007. This funding will protect the health care coverage of nearly 6.1 million children nationwide, and over 100,000 children in Maryland. This could mean as much as $65 million for Maryland in federal SCHIP dollars. The bill will be debated on the Senate floor next week.  
   "The SCHIP program provides health insurance to the children of many of America's working families. I fought to create the SCHIP program in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own. I will keep standing up for a federal government that fulfills its responsibilities to America's families and America's children." 
   Maryland was one of 17 states at risk of running out of funding this year. As a long-standing advocate for the SCHIP program, Senator Mikulski has been fighting since last year to extend funding for this program, including working to pass a similar provision in the final days of the 109th Congress which extended funding until April 2007. A shortfall would have forced the state to cut other programs, reduce eligibility for SCHIP, or freeze enrollment to account for the funding gap. If Maryland had been forced to cut enrollment, many of the children now participating in the Maryland SCHIP program could have lost their health coverage and become uninsured. 
   "Health care is just too expensive for too many working families. This program fills the gap for the children who might otherwise have to go without any health care at all," said Senator Mikulski. "This money is critical to ensure our children have access to the health care they need and deserve." 
   SCHIP is a joint federal and state program that provides low-cost health insurance to children in low-income families. In recent years, annual increases in health care costs, combined with a nationwide growth in SCHIP enrollment, has caused the costs of the SCHIP program to outpace the federal funding available. In fiscal year 2007, the estimated funding shortfall would have been more than $745 million.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 