SEN. MIKULSKI'S GUEST WORKER VISA FIX INCLUDED IN COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION
  As the U.S. Senate takes up comprehensive immigration legislation this week, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced today it includes a permanent fix to the federal non-skilled seasonal worker visa program (formerly H2B, now called Y2B). Her provision, which will protect small and seasonal businesses from a devastating cut to their workforce, makes permanent a returning worker exemption and increases the national cap from 66,000 to 100,000 visas, with the option for the cap to be raised up to 200,000 if the Homeland Security Secretary finds a demonstrated need.  
   "My promises made are promises kept. I told small businesses they could count on me to keep fighting for a fix to the seasonal worker visa problem so that our companies can get the workers they need to stay in business," said Senator Mikulski. "Without these seasonal workers, many businesses would not survive - forced to limit services, lay off permanent U.S. workers or, worse yet, close their doors. It is time to permanently protect workers and small businesses, so that we do not have to fight year after year for temporary fixes!" 
   Over the past several years, the seasonal worker visa program has come under increasing stress and the statutory cap on these visas has expired earlier and earlier each year. This means that many small businesses have been unable to get the workers they need to keep their businesses going and to employ their year-round American workers. 
   Senator Mikulski introduced the Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act in 2004 to address this problem and it was signed into law by President Bush in May 2005, making significant changes to the federal H2B visa program. Among the changes, it exempted returning seasonal workers from counting against the national cap of 66,000 people, created new anti-fraud provisions, and ensured a fair allocation of H2B visas among spring and summer employees. 
   The cap exemption has been providing significant relief to Maryland's seafood and cannery industry that often hires the same dependable workers every year. For the past two years, Senator Mikulski has successfully fought for Congress to extend this exemption, including a last-minute, one-year extension added in the 2007 Department of Defense authorization bill in the 109th Congress that expires on September 30, 2007. A permanent solution is needed to address this annual problem or else seasonal businesses - like the seafood industry in Maryland - will surely suffer.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 