SEN. MIKULSKI MEETS WITH WASHINGTON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, OPENS NEW WESTERN MARYLAND OFFICE, VISITS FORT DETRICK
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) today visited Hagerstown and Frederick in a series of events to share information and launch new initiatives.  
   * County Commissioner Meeting 
   This morning, Senator Mikulski met with Washington County Commissioners to focus on ways the federal government can continue to work with the county to meet the day to day needs of the citizens and the long-range needs of the region. The Commissioners gave the Senator an update on issues important to the County, and Senator Mikulski advised on her activities in the Senate. 
   "I know Western Maryland, I fight for Western Maryland, and I deliver for Western Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "I'm here to give the County Commissioners a Washington update, but I'm also here to listen. As I stand up for the day-to-day needs of Marylanders, I need to hear directly from the people. That's where I get my best ideas." 
   * New Western Maryland Office 
   After meeting with the County Commissioners, Senator Mikulski cut the ribbon to her new Western Maryland office, housed on the campus of the University System of Maryland at Hagerstown. In a building that was once a landmark hotel, the Senator's new office will be open and accessible to the public. 
   "I wanted to be a part of what's happening in downtown Hagerstown," said Senator Mikulski. "This new office reflects my values and principles of community and recycling old assets into new and creative 21st century resources." 
   * Fort Detrick 
   Senator Mikulski also visited Fort Detrick, to participate in the ribbon cutting of the new Business Office, an economic development program designed to increase cooperation between the base's research laboratories and private sector companies and entrepreneurs. Senator Mikulski secured $1 million in federal funding to get this project off the ground. 
   "Fort Detrick is the anchor tenant of Frederick's 21st century economy. The Fort Detrick Business Development Office will build partnerships with the private sector leading to innovation and new products that will make our troops and our communities safer, our economy stronger, make America smarter," said Mikulski. 
   The Business Development Office will host showcases where business can preview new technologies and research being developed at Fort Detrick, and award grants to entrepreneurs, acting as an incubator to get new companies off the ground. It will be managed by TEDCO, an arm of Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development that promotes business development in the state through the commercialization, development and deployment of technology. TEDCO operates similar programs across the state bringing the business sector together with Maryland's other federal labs, military bases, and research institutions.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 