SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES, REPS. HOYER, VAN HOLLEN STAND UP FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES IN CONGRESSIONAL SPENDING BILL
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes and Reps. Steny Hoyer and Chris Van Hollen scored a major victory for federal employees in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus and vow to keep fighting for fair contracting out procedures. The legislation provides pay parity for all federal workers, and includes substantial funding for the consolidation of the Food and Drug Administration at Maryland's White Oak. The Omnibus has passed the House of Representatives and the Senate. It has been sent to the president for his signature. 
   The four Maryland legislators fought to the bitter end to save a provision that would have overturned the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) 2003 revision of the privatization process (OMB Circular A-76) that stacked the deck against federal employees. This provision was included in an amendment offered by Senator Mikulski in the Senate and Representative VanHollen in the House. The White House demanded that the language be stripped out of the final bill.  
   Contracting Out Federal Jobs 
   For the second year in a row, the White House bullied Congressional Republicans into removing language that would have helped to level the playing field for federal employees who are competing for their own jobs. Even though both versions of the bill included the Mikulski/Van Hollen amendment to overturn the 2003 revision of OMB Circular A-76, the final version does not include this language. 
   "I fought hard to save my amendment, which would have leveled the playing field for federal employees," said Senator Mikulski. "There was bipartisan support for fixing the privatization process to make it fairer. But the White House ignored the will of Congress and, behind closed doors, stripped out the A-76 provisions. This is unfair to federal employees and unfair to the democratic process. I will keep fighting to fix the competition process that is shamefully slanted in favor of private contractors." 
   "Too often federal jobs are contracted out without proper public-private competition and without continued monitoring of whether cost savings result from the competition," said Senator Sarbanes. "The Administration's continued opposition to changes that would make the competition process more fair demonstrates a callous lack of concern for federal employees and for the American taxpayer." 
   "By eliminating those provisions that ensure the fair treatment of federal employees, the Bush Administration has once again shown its disdain and disrespect for the people who deliver valuable public services every day," said Congressman Van Hollen. "It is unfair to rig the process to outsource more federal jobs. I will keep fighting for a competitive sourcing process that is fair to the American taxpayer, federal workers, and private contractors." 
   "I am deeply disturbed that despite strong bipartisan support in the House and Senate to ensure an even playing field when the federal government holds competitions to contract out federal jobs and services to private contractors, this bill dropped all A-76-related protections for Federal employees," said Congressman Hoyer. "The Van Hollen amendment would have allowed OMB to use the previous version of A-76 until the process could be more satisfactorily revised, giving the administration a second chance to rewrite the privatization process in a way that truly promotes the interests of taxpayers and customers and more equitably balances the interests of federal employees and contractors. The increasingly autocratic character of this administration, not just with respect to federal employee rights but all public policy, should be of concern to every American." 
   The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is requiring federal agencies to put as many as 416,000 jobs up for bid. In May 2003, the Administration issued new guidelines for these public/private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These new procedures favored contractors and stacked the deck against federal employees. 
   Earlier this year, Senator Mikulski successfully offered an amendment in the Appropriations subcommittee to overturn the revised guidelines. Congressman Van Hollen offered the companion amendment in the House of Representatives, which passed by a vote of 220-198. 
   The new rules for the privatization process are unfair for four reasons: They don't guarantee employees the right to submit their own best bids; they don't require contractors to show significant savings; the privatization process is destabilizing; and gives an unfair advantage to contractors who provide inferior benefits. 
   "America needs an independent civil service," added Senator Mikulski. "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. These hardworking men and women deserve to be treated fairly and, at the very least, deserve to have the same rights that contractors do." 
   "Civilian federal employees are making remarkable contributions to our country," said Senator Sarbanes. "We should not be privatizing government work without giving federal employees a fair chance to defend their jobs, nor should we show a preference to contract employees over our dedicated public workforce." 
   Pay Parity 
   This bill includes a 3.5% cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) for all federal employees, including wage grade employees and civilian employees and the Department of Defense and all employees at the Department of Homeland Security. 
   "Military personnel and federal civilian employees - both white collar and blue collar - work for the same employers, often side-by-side in the defense of our nation's homeland security," said Senator Mikulski. "They all earn and deserve the same COLA." 
   "The inclusion of the pay parity provision in this appropriations bill recognizes that both members of the uniformed services and civilian Federal employees are fighting the war on terrorism and making remarkable contributions to the safety of this country and its citizens," added Senator Sarbanes, who has spearheaded efforts in the Senate Budget Committee to include pay parity provisions since the Bush Administration has failed to acknowledge the significant contributions of Federal civilian employees in our workplace. 
   "I am pleased to have worked with a bipartisan group of lawmakers to successfully include a 3.5 percent pay adjustment for civilian federal and military employees in this bill," said Congressman Hoyer. "With security threats at home and abroad, it is important that federal employees, nearly 700,000 of whom work at the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security, and more than 55,000 of whom reside in the 5th Congressional District, receive a fair pay adjustment." 
   FDA Consolidation at White Oak 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes along with Congressman Hoyer successfully secured $88.7 million in this bill to consolidate the Food and Drug Administration at White Oak, the 130-acre site of the former White Oak Naval Surface Warfare Center in Montgomery County. The FDA has been trying to consolidate offices for nearly 20 years. Since the 1995 Base Closure and realignment Act closed White Oak, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes and Congressman Hoyer have worked vigorously with their colleagues in the House and Senate and the community to consolidate the FDA facilities. 
   "This money will help transform a closed naval base into a world-class federal research facility," said Senator Mikulski. "Now more than ever, the American people are relying on the FDA to ensure the safety of our food supply and continued access to the most up-to-date prescription drugs and treatments. This project has been a top priority for the community and a top priority for me because it means economic development for Montgomery and prince George's counties and jobs for the people of Maryland." 
   "I am pleased that we continue to move forward with the needed funding to complete the consolidation of the antiquated Food and Drug Administration's labs and facilities at the White Oak campus," said Sarbanes. "This consolidation, when completed, will create a unique research campus which will have a major spillover effect with private bioscience, bio-tech, and hi-tech companies, as well as the educational institutions in our region." 
   "For the Maryland delegation this project has long been a top priority," said Congressman Hoyer. "As a senior member of the committee that funds federal building construction, I am proud to have secured more than $300 million during the past six fiscal years that has brought this consolidation closer to completion. Not only will this building allow the FDA to conduct important and innovative research, but the facility will also provide job security for thousands of Maryland families and stability for our regional economy."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 