SEN. MIKULSKI INNOVATION TOUR CELEBRATES NEW FUNDING TO CONNECT EASTERN SHORE, SOUTHERN MARYLAND MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that she has succeeded in her fight to secure $2 million in federal funding to build broadband network capability for the Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland. The project will link two major federal military installations, the Wallops Island Flight Facility and the Patuxent Naval Air Station.  
   "A stronger and safer America begins at home. Our economy and national security depend on our ability to develop new technologies, new materials and a new workforce," said Senator Mikulski. "This innovation tour has been about seeing firsthand the smart new technologies and smart new weapons being developed in Maryland. I am so proud to have fought for this federal funding, which will create huge opportunities for not only the Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland, but for our state and our nation." 
   The building of this network will be a major source of future economic development by linking the two major federal employment centers with local universities to spur job creation and innovation on the Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland. The state of Maryland and the private sector will also contribute funds to build this network in phases with the first phase connecting the Wallops Island Flight Facility to the rest of the Eastern Shore. 
   Senator Mikulski fought for the funding as part of the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies 2006 spending bill, which has been sent to President Bush for his signature. Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee. 
   Also including in the spending bill is $4 million to upgrade the infrastructure of the Wallops Island Flight Facility to allow Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to operate out of Wallops. This funding will be used to upgrade hangars, ground support facilities and laboratories to develop civilian uses for UAVs such as weather prediction, atmospheric research and earth science research. 
   Senator Mikulski will visit several military facilities on her multi-city innovation tour of Maryland where she is addressing the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for the state and innovative technology that will protect our troops.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 