SEN. MIKULSKI MEETS WITH MAYOR MATHIAS, AREA BUSINESS LEADERS TO ANNOUNCE KEY FUNDING FOR SAFER OCEAN CITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) met this morning with Ocean City Mayor Jim Mathias and local business leaders to discuss new opportunities for safety and innovation in the region. Sen. Mikulski announced she has continued her commitment to the area by securing necessary federal funds for continued beach replenishment and improvements to U.S. Route 113, a vital artery connecting residents and consumers to the Shore.  
   "Beach replenishment is about saving lives, saving businesses and saving communities. This is a long-term investment that must be made every year. That's why I have worked for almost 20 years to provide critical beach replenishment funds, bringing more than $32 million to Ocean City," said Senator Mikulski. "There are many lessons to be learned from the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina. One of them is the importance of being prepared, to protect our citizens from harm from all hazards - be it a hurricane, nor'easter, or flood." 
   Senator Mikulski announced she and Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) have succeeded in their fight to secure $4.9 million for the Ocean City beach replenishment project, despite no funding in the President's budget. Senator Mikulski, a member of the Appropriations Committee, fought for the funding as part of the Energy and Water Development 2006 spending bill, which has been sent to the President for his signature. 
   These funds will provide hurricane protection for the citizens of the Eastern Shore and billions of dollars in public and private infrastructure. Since its completion, the project has repeatedly demonstrated its value by preventing an estimated $230 million in damages over the past 10 years. Without this project, the federal government would have faced the financial burden of helping to rebuild Ocean City after debilitating storms. 
   Senator Mikulski also announced she has secured $17.2 million in funding to address needed improvements to Route 113. Since 1998, the Senator has brought more than $35 million to the area to address safety concerns with the highway, a major north-south corridor with an accident rate twice the statewide average. The funding will be used to upgrade U.S. Route 113 from a two-lane highway to a four-lane divided highway running from south of Snow Hill to south of Berlin. The funds are part of the multi-year transportation reauthorization bill approved by Congress in July and the 2006 spending bill. 
   "A safer America begins at home, that means investing in our infrastructure. Upgrades to U.S. 113 are about saving lives on the Eastern Shore," said Senator Mikulski. "Making improvements to these roadways will remain one of my top priorities in the Senate."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 