SEN. MIKULSKI WORKS WITH JEWISH COMMUNITY GROUPS TO OBTAIN FUNDING FOR NEIGHBORHOOD NEEDS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that several key projects in the Baltimore region are slated to receive funding in the FY05 Omnibus Appropriations bill. This legislation has passed the House of Representatives and the Senate. It is now sent to the President for his signature. The more than $388 billion omnibus spending bill completes the 9 remaining appropriations bills needed to fund the federal government through fiscal year 2005. To stay within the spending constraints demanded by the White House, all programs in the bill were cut by 0.80 percent.  
   "As a United States Senator, I work to put money in the federal checkbook that creates jobs and build communities. This final legislation is the culmination of a year's worth of working with Maryland communities to identify places where a federal investment would be best used," said Senator Mikulski. "These projects represent the best list of local, state and federal priorities. Maryland can count on me to keep standing up for the day-to-day needs of my constituents and the long-range needs of the nation." 
   Senators Mikulski secured funding for the following projects: 
   * $706,304 for Comprehensive Housing Assistance, Inc (CHAI.) These funds will be used to expand CHAI's services for seniors in the Park Heights neighborhood to additional Baltimore City neighborhoods. CHAI offers programs such as an intergenerational volunteer program, transportation, preventative healthcare and group activities. 
   * $992,000 for Jewish Federation of Greater Washington to expand services for seniors to additional Montgomery County neighborhoods. Programs will include casework, transportation, home and personal care, preventative healthcare and group activities for senior citizens. 
   In the 2005 Homeland Security spending bill, which passed the Senate on October 12, 2004 Senator Mikulski obtained $25 million high-risk non-profit institutions to help protect them from terrorist attacks. Senator Mikulski joined Senator Bill Frist (R-TN) in offering an amendment to the Homeland Security bill when it was being debated in the Senate in September that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. 
   The Senators were able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. These institutions provide vital health, social, cultural, and educational services to the American people and are often the targets of terrorism. Funding can be used to secure their buildings and add safety features like concrete barriers to protect them from terrorist attacks. 
   Senator Mikulski serves on the Appropriations Committee and is the Senior Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies. Senator Sarbanes serves on the Budget Committee.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 