SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING FOR UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND, BALTIMORE
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that the University of Maryland, Baltimore's Center for Health and Homeland Security and the Maryland Emergency Management Agency will receive a federal grant totaling $1.484 million from the Department of Homeland Security to help prepare and equip states throughout the Nation in developing Continuity of Operation (COOP) plans.  
   These COOPs will ensure that, to the fullest extent possible, essential government functions throughout those states will not be disabled during man-made or natural disasters, and that critical services and communications links will be maintained. 
   The Center for Health and Homeland Security at the University of Maryland, Baltimore will develop a program entitled, "Preparing the States: Implementing Continuity of Operations Planning," which will provide intensive training to teams of high-ranking officials who, in turn, will return to their home states to train top officials as well as officials from county and city governmental agencies. 
   "The recent natural disaster along the Gulf Coast highlighted many of the deficiencies in our response efforts and the ability of local officials to communicate with their citizenry following these horrific events," said Sarbanes. "This funding will enable the Center for Health and Homeland Security at the University of Maryland, Baltimore to develop a comprehensive training plan to assist States in their efforts to help those impacted by natural and man-made disasters in a sustained and coordinated manner." 
   "I am so proud that the University of Maryland has been awarded this funding to help protect and prepare the nation for everything from tornadoes to terrorists," said Senator Mikulski, who serves on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. "We need to make sure that emergency personnel have the equipment and resources they need to keep us safe. The failure of the federal government to respond to Hurricane Katrina was itself a disaster that must never happen again. We must work to make sure that never again will this happen to any state, to any community, or to any family faced by a disaster."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 