SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDS TO BATTLE CHILDHOOD LEAD POISONING IN MARYLAND
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) announced today that three Maryland organizations will receive $5,266,670 in federal funding to provide lead-based paint hazard control intervention services. The money will go to the Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning, the Baltimore City Health Department and the National Center for Healthy Housing. Sen. Mikulski is on the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee that provides funding for this grant program.  
   "Children are disproportionately at risk for lead poisoning in major urban areas. Children from poor families are at the greatest risk - they are eight times more likely to get lead poisoning than other children," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I continue to fight in the Senate to increase funding to remove lead-based paint from homes in Maryland and across the country. This funding is an important step in protecting children from lead exposure and make a real difference for Baltimore's families." 
   "We must continue our efforts to reduce lead exposure to children, who are most susceptible to its dangers," said Senator Sarbanes. "These funds will help to ensure the health of our children, by providing the necessary resources to help properly determine the hazards that are associated with lead paint in our cities." 
   Baltimore City has been identified by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) as one of 11 communities across the country operating a highly successful lead hazard control program. These grants are part of more than $139 million nationwide that have been awarded to promote local efforts to eliminate dangerous lead from lower income homes; stimulate private sector investment in lead hazard control; educate the public about the dangers of lead-based paint; fund model programs that promote healthier and safer home environments; and support scientific research into innovative methods to identify and eliminate health hazards in housing. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee. Senator Sarbanes is the senior Democrat on the Banking Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 