SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS OBSERVATION OF 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF COMMUNIST-IMPOSED MARTIAL LAW IN POLAND
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded the unanimous passage of a resolution recognizing December 13, 2006, as a Day of Remembrance for the 25th anniversary of the imposition of martial law by the Communist government in Poland.  
   "Through the dark days of martial law, Polish Americans stood by our cousins abroad, working to support the Solidarity movement. We found ourselves troubled and fearful for our friends and relatives in Poland, but we never doubted that Poland would one day regain its freedom," said Senator Mikulski. "Polish people everywhere - whether we live here, as full American citizens, or in Poland - know that the heart and soul of Poland lie with democracy and lie with freedom." 
   In 1980, out of Soviet fear that Solidarity's growing popularity threatened their tight grip on the people of Eastern Europe and under pressure from Moscow, Poland's Communist government declared martial law. The government placed thousands of Solidarity leaders in prison, sealed the country's borders, closed its airports, and imposed curfews. 
   The Day of Remembrance honors the sacrifices of the Polish people who risked their lives in the struggle against Communist rule to restore liberty and democracy in Poland, and calls on the people of the United States to acknowledge the important role their struggle played in the fall of communism and the end of the Cold War. 
   "Poland's peaceful march to freedom offered a beacon of hope to all those in Europe suffering under communist rule," continued Senator Mikulski. "Today, the United States and Poland are close partners and good friends. As Polish troops fight side-by-side with American troops in Afghanistan and Iraq, I join the American people in remembering the grim day that martial law was placed upon Poland. I honor the people of Poland, whose heroic and peaceful resistance hastened the end of the Soviet Union and the emergence of one Europe - whole and free."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 