SEN. MIKULSKI MOURNS LOST TROOPS ON GOLD STAR MOM'S WEEKEND
  In observation of Gold Star Mothers' Weekend, Sept. 23-24, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today honored all of the mothers nationwide who have lost their child in the service of our country. To date, 3,025 troops have died fighting for our nation in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   American Gold Star Mothers, Inc. is an organization of mothers who have lost their sons or daughters in military service. The organization was formed in 1928, 10 years after Grace Seibold lost her son, George, in World War I. For more information, go to: http://goldstarmoms.com. 
   Senator Mikulski's statement on Gold Star Mothers' Weekend is below: 
   "The men and women in our Armed Forces are our true heroes. They have served America with honor and bravery. We owe a special debt of gratitude to those who have made the ultimate sacrifice. This weekend, we honor the beloved mothers they have left behind. Our Gold Star Moms have lost their children in the fight for the rest of America to live in freedom and in peace. Our hearts, prayers and deepest thanks go out to them. 
   "From World War I, to America's greatest generation who fought in World War II and Korea, to our Vietnam Veterans and those who served in Desert Storm, Gold Star Moms have come together to support each other and to offer support to our injured veterans and service members. This weekend, a new generation of Gold Star Moms is mourning the loss of their children in Iraq and Afghanistan. The nation mourns with them. 
   "Every military death is a tragedy. As we grieve the deaths of our Maryland sons and daughters, we must also celebrate their remarkable lives. Each service member leaves a legacy of service to the nation and the enduring promise of freedom. Their sacrifice for our nation will never be forgotten. 
   "We have a sacred trust with the families of troops who give the ultimate sacrifice so that we may live in freedom. Part of that sacred trust is making sure they know how thankful we are for what they do. We know their pain is deep and that we cannot begin to understand it. But we can let them know it does not go unrecognized. From the bottom of our hearts, America thanks your children, and America thanks you."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 