SEN. MIKULSKI WORKING TO INCLUDE POLAND UNDER VISA WAIVER PROGRAM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) is joining Sen. Rick Santorum (R-PA) in introducing legislation designating Poland as a program country under the visa waiver program established under the Immigration and Nationality Act. The Senators announced the introduction of their legislation at a meeting today with Lech Walesa, former President of Poland.  
   "I'm working to right the wrong on the visa entry program and to stand once again in solidarity with the founding father of solidarity, President Lech Walesa," said Senator Mikulski at today's press conference announcing the introduction of the legislation. "If Poland is ready to be part of the NATO alliance and part of the coalition of the willing, then they should be able to come to the United States of America through the same program as the other 27 countries on the visa waiver list. This is a modest step, but also a very important one for millions of Polish families." 
   The visa waiver program, which is administered by the Secretary of Homeland Security and Secretary of State, allows citizens from 27 countries, including France and Germany, to visit the United States as tourists without visas. The Senators' legislation would add Poland to that list of countries. This would allow the families of Polish Americans to travel to the United States to attend weddings, funerals and other special occasions with out the delay of waiting for a visa. 
   "Poland is a reliable ally, not just by treaty but in deeds," Mikulski continued. "Two Polish ships participated in Desert Shield and Desert Storm during the 1990-91 Gulf War. Warsaw hosted an international Conference on Combating Terrorism less than two months after the September 11 attacks. Poland sent troops as part of the international coalition in Afghanistan. And Polish troops fought alongside American, British and Australian troops from day one of the war in Iraq. They are still there, sharing the burden and the risk and the casualties. We know that our borders will be no less secure because of these Polish visitors to our country. But we know that the alliance will be more secure because of this Santorum-Mikulski legislation."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 