SEN. MIKULSKI VISITS TOWSON UNIVERSITY, ANNOUNCES EFFORTS TO MAKE COLLEGE TUITION MORE AFFORDABLE FOR FAMILIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) visited Towson University today to announce her efforts to help make college tuition more affordable for families. Sen. Mikulski will be introducing key legislation that will provide families who send a child to college or adults going back to school with a tax credit to help them afford school tuition.  
   Senator Mikulski's legislation would provide a tax credit of up to $4,000 per student per year. It would also be refundable, so that families that don't owe taxes at the end of the year can still get the full credit. The tax credit would help everyone from recent high school graduates to mid-career adults returning to college and can be used for undergraduate and graduate school. 
   Senator Mikulski fought for this tuition tax credit in 2004 when she offered the legislation as an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2005 budget. When the amendment failed, Senator Mikulski vowed to continue the fight and offer the legislation again in the new Congress. 
   "College is part of the American dream. It shouldn't be part of a financial nightmare for families," said Senator Mikulski. "College tuition is on the rise. Our students are graduating with so much debt it's like their first mortgage. Families are looking for help. That's why I'm offering a solution that would give every family sending a child to college a tuition tax credit of up to $4,000. I want to make sure every student has access to a college education." 
   Tuition at colleges across the country has been steadily increasing in recent years. Tuition at the University System of Maryland has gone up nearly 40% since 2002, making it one of the 10 most expensive public university systems in the country. And tuition at some of Maryland's community colleges is up about 10% since last year. 
   At today's event, Senator Mikulski also talked about her intention to work to double Pell Grants from $4,050 to $8,000. President Bush's budget only includes a $100 per year increase. Today, Pell Grants cover only 40% of average costs at a four-year public college, compared to 80% 20 years ago. The average undergraduate student debt from college loans is $17,000. 
   Senator Mikulski also talked about the need to close a loophole in the federal law books that guarantees banks a 9.5% interest rate on some student loans. Today's interest rate is 3.37%, which means the government is paying banks the difference - 6.13%. This cost the federal government $1 billion in overpayments in 2004. This money could have gone to doubling Pell Grants or paying for a tuition tax credit for families. Senator Mikulski has co-sponsored a bill in the Senate to close this loophole.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 