SEN. MIKULSKI INNOVATION TOUR'S FINAL STOP LOOKS AT NEW THREATS, ADVANCES IN BIOTERROR
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.)'s statewide military innovation tour made its eighth and final stop today at Fort Detrick. The Senator discussed her efforts to encourage research and development at the base, including today's announcement of $35 million in federal funding for installation projects.  
   "Fort Detrick is at the center of defense innovation. The military, federal and industry cooperation employed here demonstrates that together, America can do better to provide the new innovations and resources to keep us safe at home and abroad," said Senator Mikulski. "I am proud to support these programs that not only protect the troops and the homeland, but also the taxpayer." 
   Recently designated the Army's Center of Excellence for Medical Chem/Bio Defense, Fort Detrick is the largest employer in Frederick County. The installation brings $500 million a year into the local economy and supports 7,800 employees. Fort Detrick works with more than 1,000 businesses across the state, including 283 in Frederick County. 
   Senator Mikulski announced she has secured $35 million in federal funding for Fort Detrick projects through the 2006 Military Construction and Defense spending bills, which were signed into law by President Bush in winter 2005. The projects focus on improved coordination and mission effectiveness in getting medical material and intelligence to the field. The Senator is a member of both the Senate Appropriations Defense and Military Construction Subcommittees. 
   Thursday's visit marks the final stop of Senator Mikulski's multi-city military innovation tour of Maryland. The Senator's tour visited several military facilities to address the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for the state and innovative technology that will protect our troops. 
   "My innovation tour has been about identifying the work being done in Maryland to support a safer, stronger, smarter American military," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to make sure we are making the right investments to develop the new ideas that will protect us."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 