SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR LABELS ON CLONED FOOD
  Following the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) recent endorsement of cloned food for U.S. shelves, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) went to the Senate floor today to urge her colleagues to pass the Cloned Food Labeling Act (S. 414), which she originally introduced in January 2007. The bill will require the FDA and the Department of Agriculture to mandate that all food that comes from cloned animals be labeled: "THIS PRODUCT IS FROM A CLONED ANIMAL OR ITS PROGENY." A companion bill has been introduced in the U.S. House by Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.). 
   "Labeling does two things. It gives consumers the right to know, and allows scientists to monitor," said Senator Mikulski. "My bill allows the American public to make an informed decision. People should have a right to choose what they want to eat. I reject the notion that the FDA or anyone else should make Americans accept and eat anything that can be made in a lab."  
   On January 15, the FDA issued their endorsement of the use of meat, milk and other food from cloned animals despite congressional directives, objections from the American public, and the recent comments by the FDA's own Science Advisory Board that said the agency lacks expertise in risk benefit assessments, cannot adequately monitor the development of food products, and has been unable to keep up with scientific advances. Senator Mikulski had spent months urging the FDA to delay any major decision on cloned food without greater intellectual rigor and more time to review the impact of bringing cloned food into the nation's food supply. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=290888. 
   Video of Senator Mikulski's floor statement will be available on Pathfire's Digital Media Gateway later today. Instructions to access Pathfire's content can be found at: www.mikulski.senate.gov/pdfs/pathfire.pdf
   To hear and/or broadcast a radio actuality of Senator Mikulski's floor speech, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 1968 or go to http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski080123.mp3
  Senator Mikulski's statement is below: 
   "Mr. President - I have some disturbing news to share with you. 
   "Last week the FDA gave the green light for cloned foods to enter our food supply. The FDA announced food from cloned animals and their progeny are safe for human consumption. Despite pleas from thousands of Americans - and this Senator - the FDA went ahead anyway. 
   "I want to be clear - I am not opposed to cloning that follows strict scientific and ethical protocols. This Senator has always been on the side of science for the advancement of mankind. This Senator has always been on the side of a consumer's right to know, the right to be heard and the right to be represented. The FDA decided food from cloned animals is safe to eat and drink. This is unacceptable. Today I am renewing my call with a sense of urgency. This speech is a consumer alert and call to action. 
   "I vigorously ask my colleagues to support the Cloned Food Labeling Act. My bill requires the government to label any food that comes from a cloned animal or its progeny. It is needed now more than ever. 
   "My bill requires the FDA and the Department of Agriculture to put a label on all food from a cloned animal that says: 'THIS PRODUCT IS FROM A CLONED ANIMAL OR ITS PROGENY.' The FDA will require milk products to be labeled. The Department of Agriculture will require meat products to be labeled. These labels would be at the wholesale level, the retail level, the restaurant level, the school lunch level, and the Meals on Wheels level. 
   "My bill allows the American public to make an informed decision. People should have a right to choose what they want to eat. This is necessary because the FDA and Department of Agriculture refuse to put a label on cloned food. 
   "Americans find cloned food disturbing and repulsive. Seventy-nine percent of Americans have said that, despite FDA approval, they still don't want to buy cloned milk, and have a 'yuck' reaction to this technology. Eighty-nine percent of consumers think cloned food should be labeled. The public has a right to know where their food is coming from. They will have no way to tell if food comes from a cloned animal. I can't stop cloned foods from being approved by the FDA, but I want the public to be informed of what they are eating and drinking. I'm for consumer choice. If most Americans do not want cloned milk and meat, they should not be required to eat it. My bill requires labeling and ensures informed consent. 
   "The FDA made their decision despite two congressional directives in the omnibus and the Farm bill. On December 26, President Bush signed the omnibus bill into law, which strongly encouraged the FDA to hold off on a cloning decision before additional studies were completed. On December 14, the Senate overwhelming passed the Farm bill that required the National Academy to peer review FDA's decision before the FDA made any final decision. Now it goes to conference. 
   "The FDA has turned their back to Congress and the American people. If we discover a problem with cloned food after it is in our food supply and it's not labeled, the FDA cannot recall it like they did Vioxx, Avandia and Vytorin. The FDA has been very weak in post-marketing surveillance of drugs - why would they be strong on this? The FDA said good bye and now dumped this into the hands of the Dept. of Agriculture. Who will worry about the ethics? Where was the urgency? We are not facing a global shortage of beef. 
   "I know FDA's decision is 968 pages long, but I am always skeptical of really long reports. I have found the longer a report is, the more shallow the information. My grave concern is that I wanted more science through the legislative process. The FDA has responsibility to guarantee the safety of our food, though many aspects of food safety are beyond their control. This is not. 
   "We don't know the long-term effect of cloned animals in our food supply. We've trusted them before. Back in 2004, the FDA said it was just fine to use carbon monoxide gas to keep old cuts of meat looking red and fresh, allowing meat companies to disguise old, dangerous meat to allow it to look fresh well beyond when it was safe to eat. But we were supposed to believe the FDA, despite warning from the scientists who completed the safety tests and was it actually safe? NO - this technology is banned by the EU, Japan and Canada. 
   "Labeling does two things. It gives consumers the right to know, and allows scientists to monitor. If America doesn't keep track of this from the very beginning, with clear and dependable labeling, our entire food supply could be contaminated. 
   "I am not opposed to cloning; I'm on the side of science. So let's label it and monitor it. The National Academy of Sciences suggested we monitor this new technology. They caution the federal government and urge diligent post-market surveillance. Well, you can't do post-market surveillance if the food is not labeled. How do you know where the cloned food is? 
   "Last week, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) within the EU, decided cloned foods are safe, but based their findings based off the FDA's draft risk assessment. But a few days later, the European Group on Ethics and Science and New Technologies (EGE) within EU said there is no ethical justification to use clones in the food supply, called for more scientific study, and said if cloned foods are allowed in food supply, they should be labeled. There are already flashing yellow lights. Denmark and Norway have already banned cloned food from their food supply. I worry, then, if our food is not labeled, more of our exports will be banned. My state depends on the export of food, whether it is seafood or chicken or other products. We need to be able to export our food. If it is labeled, we will be able to do that. 
   "Now, I ask my colleagues to join with me, consumers, and those that believe in science, to move this important piece of legislation that gives consumers the right to know what they are eating, allows us to monitor this new technology and continue to export our food. Labels will give Americans the right to choose."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 