SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON FEDERAL COMMITMENT TO ANTI-GANG EFFORTS IN MONTGOMERY COUNTY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she has worked with the Maryland delegation to secure $750,000 in federal funds to support the gang intervention and prevention efforts of the Latin American Youth Center (LAYC). Sen. Mikulski was joined by Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) and Montgomery County Executive Doug Duncan at a press conference this afternoon.  
   "We need to continue our work to protect neighborhoods and families - that means safer streets and safer communities. This funding will support the successful and innovative programs of the Latin American Youth Center, which has had a positive impact on the lives of youth in our Maryland communities for more than 30 years," said Senator Mikulski. "I am proud to have fought for this federal investment and will continue to do all I can to make our communities safer." 
   The LAYC has replicated its proven youth development model in Maryland through the Maryland Multicultural Youth Centers, but the need for services in the community has exceeded their capacity. This federal funding will allow the LAYC to further expand and initiate programs in the Maryland suburbs. The funds will also support the LAYC's education, social services and job training programs including gang prevention, diversion and intervention, substance abuse prevention, family strengthening activities, after-school and summer programs, computer and G.E.D classes, and life skills training. 
   LAYC is a multicultural community-based organization that supports youth and their families in their determination to live, work and study with dignity, hope and joy. Founded in 1974, LAYC serves at-risk youth throughout Maryland and D.C. 
   As the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski fought for this funding as part of the Science, State, Justice, Commerce and Related Agencies 2006 spending bill, which was signed into law by President Bush on November 22, 2005.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 