SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON COMMITMENT TO FIGHT FOR FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN SUSQUEHANNA SYSTEM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced today that the Senate version of the Commerce, Justice, Science appropriations bill includes $2 million for the essential Susquehanna Flood Forecast and Warning System (Susquehanna System). Just last week, Sen. Mikulski met with Susquehanna River Basin Commission (SRBC) executives, Port Deposit officials and Cecil County Commissioners to discuss the need for a federal investment to maintain and upgrade the Susquehanna System. Sen. Mikulski committed to working in the Senate to include this funding in this year's federal spending bills.  
   "The Susquehanna System is about saving lives and saving communities," said Senator Mikulski. "When I met with executives from the SRBC and local community leaders, they showed me the essential work they do, but also the compelling needs of the System. I promised I would go to work in the Senate. I am proud to deliver on that commitment today with $2 million in the federal checkbook for the Susquehanna System." 
   The SRBC plans to use the $2 million to install operate and upgrade the warning system in the flood-prone Susquehanna River Basin. The system warns 1,700 communities in three states about devastating floods and protects them from its effects. Early warnings allow residents and businesses the time to secure their property and lives before flood waters strike. Warnings help emergency management officials implement flood control plans to minimize damages. Estimates hold that for every federal dollar invested in the Susquehanna System, it saves $20 in reduced damages and flood recovery payouts.. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Both Houses of Congress will vote on the conference bill. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature. Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/224-4654.
 
 