SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTING TO MAKE SURE EVERY VETERAN HAS ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) is fighting in the Senate to make sure there is enough federal funding each year to guarantee that every veteran enrolled in the VA system has access to health care. Sen. Mikulski, the senior Democrat on the Subcommittee that funds the Department of Veterans Affairs, is joining Democratic Majority Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD) in offering an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization Bill, currently being debated on the Senate floor. The amendment makes federal funding for veterans health care mandatory and guaranteed.
   "This legislation would make sure there is enough funding in the Federal checkbook each year to provide health care to every single veteran enrolled in the VA system," said Senator Mikulski. "As the senior Democrat on the Subcommittee that funds the VA, my guiding principle is that promises made to our veterans must be promises kept. Each year, I work with my colleagues to make veterans health care funding a top priority. But each year, we have to forage for funds." 
   "The VA has already treated 10,000 of our newest veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan," continued Senator Mikulski. "Our newest veterans deserve to know that the VA will be there to care for them. That's why I'm fighting for this legislation, which will guarantee that every single veteran has access to the health care benefits they need and deserve."
   This amendment does four things to support our nation's veterans:
   * Mandates a minimum level of funding for VA health care each year, based on the number of veterans enrolled in the VA system. This ensures that the VA can provide care for every veteran, without rationing care or charging deductibles, fees, or increased co-payments.
   * Provides an annual adjustment for inflation, so that the VA can keep up with the rising costs of medical equipment, supplies, and prescription drugs.
   * Requires a General Accounting Office (GAO) report to Congress on whether funding was adequate to provide care for all of our veterans. The amendment also sets up a process to correct any flaws that GAO identifies.
   * Moves future increases to VA health care funding from the discretionary to the mandatory side of the Federal budget, to ensure that veterans won't have to compete for funding.
   This amendment has not yet been scheduled for a vote by the Senate. A copy of Senator Mikulski's full floor statement regarding this amendment is attached.
   STATEMENT BY SEN. BARBARA A. MIKULSKI GUARANTEED FUNDING FOR VA HEALTH CARE
  JUNE 22, 2004
   I rise in strong support of the Daschle amendment, and in strong support of our nation's veterans.
   Our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan have my steadfast support. So do those who served before them. Our veterans need to know that America is with them, and that we owe them a debt of gratitude. Congress must show that gratitude not just with words, but with deeds. That means making our troops and our veterans a priority in the Federal checkbook.
   That's why I'm such a strong supporter of the Daschle amendment. The goal of this amendment is simple and straightforward - to guarantee enough funding in the Federal checkbook each year to provide health care to every single veteran enrolled in the VA system.
   This amendment does four things to support our Nation's veterans:
   First, the amendment sets a minimum level of funding for VA health care each year. This amount is based on the number of veterans enrolled in the VA system. This is important to ensure that VA can provide care for every veteran, without rationing care or charging deductibles, fees, or increased co-payments.
   Second, the amendment provides an annual adjustment for inflation, so that VA can keep up with the rising costs of medical equipment, supplies, and prescription drugs.
   Third, the amendment says that after two years, the General Accounting Office (GAO) will provide Congress with a report of whether this funding was adequate to provide care for all of our veterans. The amendment also sets up a process to correct any flaws that GAO identifies.
   Fourth, the amendment moves future increases to VA health care funding from the discretionary to the mandatory side of the Federal budget. This is important so that the VA-HUD Subcommittee won't have to have to forage for funds each year, and veterans won't have to compete for funding.
   As the Ranking Member of the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee, my guiding principle for the VA budget is that promises made to our veterans must be promises kept. And each year, the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee makes veterans health care funding the top priority. We do this on a bipartisan basis, because when it comes to caring for our Nation's veterans, we're not members of the Democratic or Republican parties. We're members of the Red, White, and Blue party.
   But each year, we have to forage for funds. Over the last three years, we've worked on a bipartisan basis to reject new fees and increased co-payments on our Nation's veterans.
   In 2003, the Administration proposed that Priority 7 and 8 veterans pay a yearly $1,500 deductible just to access VA health care. On a bipartisan basis, Congress rejected this proposal. Instead, we put $1.1 billion more in VA's budget.
   In 2004, the Administration proposed that Priority 7 and 8 veterans pay a yearly $250 fee to access VA health care. The budget also proposed increases in veterans' co-payments - a 50 percent increase in the prescription drug co-payment and a 30 percent increase in co-payments for doctors visits. Again, on a bipartisan basis, Congress rejected these proposals. Instead, we put $1.3 billion more in the VA's budget.
   The Administration's 2005 budget again proposes a $250 annual fee and increased prescription drug co-payments for veterans. And again this year, Senator Bond and I will fight to find the funding to reject these proposals.
   But despite our efforts and these record increases, VA health care funding is just not keeping up with the needs of our Nation's veterans. This mismatch of funding and demand for VA health care has led the Administration to ration VA health care. In January 2002, the Administration closed enrollment to all new Priority 8 veterans. This is unacceptable. In addition, the VA has already treated 10,000 of our newest veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Our newest veterans deserve to know that the VA will be there to care for them.
   Finally, I want to point out that under this amendment, Congress would keep its oversight authority over how VA health care funding is spent. The Appropriations and Veterans Affairs Committees would still be able to hold VA accountable for how it spends its money, and how it provides health care to veterans. Congress will continue to stand up for our Nation's veterans.
   The Task Force To Improve Health Care Delivery For Our Nation's Veterans, a bipartisan task force of experts on health care convened at the request of the President, concluded that there is a definite mismatch between demand and funding for VA health care. The Task Force recommended fixing this mismatch. The Daschle amendment is a bold solution to this problem.
   I urge my colleagues to stand up for our Nation's veterans by supporting the Daschle amendment.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 