SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR FORT DETRICK TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER INITIATIVE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski and Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the $1 million in federal funding they secured for the Fort Detrick Technology Transfer Initiative in the Senate Defense Appropriations bill (which passed the full Senate June 24) is included in the final FY2005 Defense Appropriations bill. The bill is expected to pass both the House of Representatives and the Senate today. 
   The Fort Detrick Technology Transfer Initiative (FDTTI), an economic development program designed to increase cooperation between Fort Detrick's research laboratories and private sector companies and entrepreneurs.
   "Fort Detrick is an anchor tenant of Frederick County's economy," said Senator Mikulski. "The Fort Detrick Technology Transfer Initiative will build partnerships with the private sector leading to innovation and new products that will make our economy stronger, make America smarter, make our troops and our communities safer."
   "The Fort Detrick Technology Transfer Initiative is a win-win for the County and the many tenants at Fort Detrick," said Sarbanes. "This funding will allow area businesses to harness the technologies being developed at Fort Detrick and apply them to the commercial sector. It will also enable the establishment of partnerships between the Federal government and local businesses which will bring innovative commercial technologies into Fort Detrick's laboratories."
   The Fort Detrick Transfer Initiative will host biotech and biodefense showcases where business can preview new technologies and research being developed at Fort Detrick. Businesses can license technologies from Fort Detrick for commercial application and build cooperative relationships, developing products or providing technical assistance to Fort Detrick. The FDTTI will also award grants to entrepreneurs, acting as an incubator to get new companies off the ground.
   The FDTTI will be managed by Fort Detrick's Office of Research and Technology Applications (ORTA), the Frederick County Office of Economic Development (OED) and TEDCO, an arm of Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development. TEDCO promotes business development in the state by bringing the business sector together with Maryland's other federal labs, military bases, and research institutions.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 