SEN. MIKULSKI RENEWS CALL FOR NATIONAL PUBLIC SERVICE ACADEMY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has joined Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues to reintroduce the Public Service Academy Act (PSA), which would establish an undergraduate institution, modeled after military service academies, designed to cultivate a new generation of public leaders. The bill was introduced last September, but the Republican leadership failed to bring it up for a vote before the 109th Congress adjourned.  
   "In recent years, our nation has watched a number of disasters interrupt thousands of American lives. From the September 11 terrorist attacks, to the massive devastation Hurricane Katrina left in its wake, we've wondered how we will we ever recover," said Senator Mikulski. "But through the hard work and selfless efforts of countless public servants - firefighters and police officers, AmeriCorps members and health workers - our country has remained resilient. As a former social worker, I am proud to see a new generation emerging with an even stronger dedication to patriotic public service. A national Public Service Academy will help cultivate and strengthen this spirit of looking out for one another." 
   The PSA would be the country's first national civilian university, providing competitive, service-driven undergraduate education at no monetary cost to students. The institution would be aimed at strengthening and protecting America by creating a corps of well-trained, highly qualified civilian leaders who are willing to devote themselves to public service. Funding for PSA educations would come from public-private partnerships. 
   Following graduation, alumni would serve the country in a public service capacity for five years. Students will choose a field of concentration that they will serve in post-graduation, choosing between: economy, education, environment, foreign policy, health care, law enforcement, public infrastructure and technology.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 