SEN. MIKULSKI MEETS WITH ELECTED OFFICIALS, COMMUNITY LEADERS ABOUT FUTURE OF LANGLEY PARK
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) convened a meeting of elected officials and community leaders today to discuss the future of Langley Park, located in Prince George's County. Langley Park is one of the most ethnically diverse communities in the State of Maryland, with a wide range of non-profits and businesses in the area. However, the community is tackling economic development challenges as well as growing gang violence.  
   Senator Mikulski worked in the Senate last year to help address the challenges facing the Langley Park community by securing federal funding to build a new health care clinic as well as a new employment and training center. 
   "Langley Park has a rich history and a bright future," said Senator Mikulski. "People come here from all four corners of the world to start a new life while holding on to their own rich culture and history. I'm so proud to have made a down payment on our empowerment strategy for Langley Park. But we need to keep our momentum going. That's why I'm going to continue to fight in the U.S. Senate for a federal investment in Langley Park - to keep the community strong and to keep the residents thriving." 
   Spanish Catholic Center 
   To help address the need for health care services for Langley Park residents, Senator Mikulski secured $397,000 in last year's appropriations process for the Spanish Catholic Center to help build a new health clinic, which will be part of the Mother Teresa Center. This clinic is in close proximity to several thousand community members, many of which are Hispanic immigrants. Of these immigrants, it is estimated that 26% have no health insurance. The Spanish Catholic Center is the main provider of health care for immigrants. The Spanish Catholic Center is part of the Archdiocese of Washington's newly formed Catholic Community Services, Inc. 
   Employment and Training Center 
   In response to the need for a one-stop shop in the community for job training and immigration assistance, Senator Mikulski went to work in the Senate and secured $496,000 in last year's federal spending bill for Prince George's County to help build a new Employment and Training Center in Langley Park, coordinated by CASA de Maryland. This funding is being used to help renovate the long-vacant McCormick Mansion so the building can be used to offer vocational training, legal aid, and English lessons. 
   "I'm here today to talk about the next steps for Langley Park," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to prevent lost youth and lost opportunity. We can't afford to lose anyone to gang violence, youth crime or drug use." 
   At today's meeting, Senator Mikulski also looked ahead to what still needs to be done in the community and how the federal government can be a partner in the neighborhood revitalization effort. Senator Mikulski pledged to partner with the Archdiocese of Washington and fight for funding to the Mother Teresa Center, to be built by the Archdiocese beginning in September. This will include four buildings that will feature a health and social services center, a Latin American Youth Center and a church. 
   Senator Mikulski also pledged to work in the U.S. Senate for federal funding to expand the Latin American Youth Center from Washington D.C. to Prince George's County. This will bring to Langley Park one of the most dynamic, effective youth empowerment centers in the United States. Staff at the new center will work with youth on building career skills and opportunities, teaching healthy habits and relationships, positive problem-solving, and building a commitment to education and community. This center will play a crucial role in offering prevention and intervention on gangs, crime, domestic abuse, school failure and drop-out, drug use and teen pregnancy. 
   A third initiative Senator Mikulski will fight to fund is a new Bi-County Crossroads Center. Montgomery and Prince George's Counties are working together to create a new bi-county services center for families whose members are involved in or being recruited by gangs. The center will offer a broad range of services and referral for youth and their families including gang prevention, education and outreach, referral to mental health and health care, job assistance and recreation. This will be a one-stop center for families. 
   "I have always said that the best social program is a job. And the people of Langley Park need a safe place with opportunities for employment, vocational training and language classes. That's why I'm fighting so hard in the Senate for this federal investment in this community." 
   Participants in today's meeting include Senator Barbara Mikulski; Bishop Francisco Gonzalez, S.F., Auxiliary Bishop of Washington; Montgomery County Executive Doug Duncan; Glen Ivey, Prince George's County State's Attorney; Gustavo Torres, Executive Director of CASA de Maryland; Lori Kaplan, Executive Director of the Latin American Youth Center; and a representative from the office of Prince George's County Executive Jack Johnson.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 