SEN. MIKULSKI SECURES PROMISE OF FIGHT FOR FUNDING TO HELP SENIORS AGE IN PLACE
  As the Senate considers the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHHS) spending bill, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) received a promise from LHHS Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) that they would do their best to secure funding for the Community Innovations for Aging in Place program, which Senator Mikulski created last year. In a conversation for the Senate record, Senators Harkin and Specter said they will fight to secure funding for the program when the bill goes to a conference committee between the Senate and House of Representatives to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. 
   "As our nation anticipates the retirement of 78 million baby boomers, it is becoming more and more important to support programs that help keep seniors at home and independent," said Senator Mikulski. "Seniors should be able to stay in the communities they know for as long as possible."
   Senator Mikulski, Chairman of the Retirement and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, created the Community Innovations for Aging in Place program in the Older American Act Amendments of 2006 to promote the development and growth of community-based health and human services to assist older Americans in maintaining their independence and quality of life as they age. The funding for this new program will allow the Administration on Aging to support aging in place programs in communities across the country. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=264262.
   Senator Mikulski has been a long-time supporter of aging in place programs such as Naturally Occurring Retirement Communities (NORCs). The NORC model was used as a basis for creating the new Community Innovations for Aging in Place program. NORCs are neighborhoods where seniors can age in place with access to necessary support resources, including transportation, health programs and social work services. These programs allow seniors to remain in their neighborhoods and live independently while receiving essential services in their homes.
   "I have worked with the United Jewish Communities since 2001 to establish NORC models and programs for Maryland communities. I have visited the NORCs in Maryland and seen their tremendous impact," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to keep seniors across the country a priority in the federal checkbook so they may be able to age in place."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 