SEN. MIKULSKI CELEBRATES EXPANDED FACILITIES TO TRAIN MILITARY MEDICAL PERSONNEL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined Sen. Daniel K. Inouye (D-Hawaii), Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes and Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) to break ground for the first new building at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS) since 1978. USUHS is the only medical school in the country specifically focused on the unique medical challenges faced by military medical personnel, with training and research driven by the needs of the military.  
   "I am proud to support this important expansion of USUHS because a stronger America begins at home with cutting-edge medical research, unique training programs for military doctors and nurses, and programs to bring together military and civilian first-responders," said Senator Mikulski. "We must protect our troops on the battlefield and save lives here at home. Together, we are developing the tools to protect America and Maryland. I will continue to fight to make sure we are making the right investments to develop the new ideas that will protect us." 
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski fought for $10.4 million in federal funding as part of the 2006 Military Quality of Life spending bill to expand USUHS' facilities. The new building (Building E) will house the Graduate School of Nursing, new classrooms, lab space and offices. The spending bill was signed into law by President Bush on November 30, 2005. 
   "I've been proud to support USUHS for nearly 25 years," continued Senator Mikulski. "Things have changed a lot since its founding in 1972. We were in a Cold War, prepared for battles in Europe. Today, battles and our battlefields have changed, weapons have changed. But the values of USUHS have not changed - patriotism, duty and service to our Soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines." 
   Senator Mikulski last visited USUHS in January 2005 as part of her multi-city innovation tour of Maryland. Senator Mikulski visited several military facilities where she addressed the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for the state and innovative technology that will protect our troops.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 