SEN. MIKULSKI JOINS COLLEAGUES, CALLS FOR INCREASED ARTS FUNDING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has joined a bipartisan coalition of her Senate colleagues to advocate for increased funding for the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) as part of the 2007 Interior spending bill currently pending in the Senate. The Interior bill is among several spending bills awaiting consideration by Congress.  
   "Our federal arts programs help to ensure that the arts remain among our most enduring institutions. The NEA and NEH help bring the arts and humanities to all Americans, regardless of their zip code or the size of their pocketbook," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight for funding for these programs that not only help enrich our lives and preserve our heritage, but often provide our young people with positive alternatives to drugs and violence." 
   Senator Mikulski has appealed to Interior Subcommittee Chairman Conrad R. Burns (R-Mont.) and Ranking Member Byron L. Dorgan (D-S.D.) to increase funding to both the NEA and NEH in the range of $5 to $10 million each. Modest increases would allow the two agencies to maintain current levels of service rather than lose ground to inflation and increased administrative costs. 
   With more funding, the NEA will continue serving the country through innovative initiatives and core funding programs that have worked effectively for forty years. The core programs help bring the best of the nation's arts to wider audiences, support programs in under-served areas, and foster innovative standards-based curricula. 
   The NEH will use additional funding to strengthen its ability to support high-quality humanities projects throughout the agency's core programs. NEH grants help maintain a strong system of academic research, education and public programs in the humanities. Over the last four decades, NEH has promoted wisdom and vision by advancing the study and understanding of history, literature, art, language, archaeology, philosophy and other humanities subjects throughout the United States.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 