SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WICOMICO COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced that the West Side Volunteer Fire Department on the Eastern Shore has been awarded $110,390 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Eastern Shore communities. Congratulations to West Side Volunteer Fire Department on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The West Side Volunteer Fire Department (Wicomico County) will use its $110,390 to purchase 25 SCBA units and an air compressor. For more information on the West Side Volunteer Fire Department, call Donald Messick at 410-873-2140. 
   West Side Volunteer Fire Department is the second fire department in Wicomico County to receive AFGP award funds this year. Wicomico County fire departments have been awarded $207,167 in AFGP award funds so far in 2005 and a total of $374,225 since 2001. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 