SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BALTIMORE COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced that the Lutherville Volunteer Fire Company in Baltimore County has been awarded $92,250 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Baltimore County communities. Congratulations to Lutherville Volunteer Fire Company on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Lutherville Volunteer Fire Company will use its $92,250 to purchase 45 sets of turn out gear and to acquire high pressure air bags, which are used in building collapses and in freeing trapped victims. The department will also purchase a power saw. For more information on the Lutherville Volunteer Fire Company, call Timothy Mullin at 410-385-3641. 
   So far this year, Baltimore County Fire Departments have been awarded $353,500 under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Since 2001, Baltimore County Fire Departments have been awarded $3,140,042 in AFGP award funds. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 