SEN. MIKULSKI RECEIVES COPPER RIDGE INSTITUTE'S WILLIAM PROXMIRE AWARD
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) was today awarded the William Proxmire Award for her outstanding leadership in the fight against Alzheimer's disease. Mrs. Ellen Proxmire presented Senator Mikulski with the award at the Capitol Hill reception.  
   "Thank you to Copper Ridge for this tremendous award. It is a true honor to receive an award named after my dear colleague, Senator William Proxmire," said Senator Mikulski. "Copper Ridge is leading the way in Alzheimer's research, developing a model of care for those with the disease and improving quality of life for patients and caregivers. I will continue working in the Senate to help families that are coping with Alzheimer's and for institutions that care for them, like Copper Ridge. And I will keep funding important research so we can find breakthroughs and speed up the day when no family has to go through the long goodbye. Each of us can make a difference, but when we work together we can make change." 
   Senator Mikulski has been a tireless advocate for increasing funds for Alzheimer's research to help scientists make important breakthroughs in the discovery of methods to detect, prevent and treat the disease. In June 2004, Senator Mikulski and Senator Kit Bond (R-MO) together introduced "The Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2004." This legislation would double the funding for Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health and provide critical support for caregivers. It would also launch a public education campaign to get the word out on the latest advances in research and prevention. 
   Last year, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) secured $99,410 for the Copper Ridge Institute to continue work on a model of care for Alzheimer's patient treatment and care. Senator Mikulski toured the facility and met with doctors and caregivers to discuss the Institute's work in caring for patients with Alzheimer's disease and other memory-impairing illnesses. 
   "Copper Ridge is on the cutting edge of Alzheimer's research and care," said Senator Mikulski. "The partnership with Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine is a model for bringing the best and brightest together. This is the kind of partnership we need to fight this horrific disease. I believe that honor they mother and father is not only a good commandment to live by, it is also a good policy to govern by. That's why I fought for these funds - to put values into action and get behind our nation's families." 
   Senator Mikulski, as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, secured the funding in the Fiscal Year 2004 Labor, Health and Human Services spending bill. The federal funding is being used to teach doctors and nurses in Maryland and throughout the country, how to implement the Institute's model of care in private homes, clinics, and other care facilities. The money is also going toward equipment that will allow other providers to learn about the model.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 