SENATE COMMITTEE PASSES BIPARTISAN SEN. MIKULSKI'S BILL TO PREVENT FALLS AMONG OLDER ADULTS
  This week the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee passed legislation introduced by Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) and Mike Enzi (R-WY) to prevent falls among seniors. The Keeping Seniors Safe from Falls Act (S. 1217) would help prevent falls among older adults through public education, research, and demonstration projects.  
   "Falls don't discriminate," said Senator Mikulski, ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on Aging. "Everyone has a friend or family member who has fallen. This is a serious public health problem that directly affects our seniors and their family members. This legislation provides a framework to reduce and prevent elder falls through public education campaigns and important research." 
   The bill focuses on prevention of falls among older adults in four areas: 
   1. Public Education Campaigns
   Federal grant money would be used to establish public education campaigns for older adults, family members, and health care providers to reduce falls and prevent repeat falls. 
   2. Research Initiative
   Conduct and support research in areas including identifying older adults who have a high risk of falling; designing, implementing and evaluating the most effective ways to prevent falls; improving the diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of older adults who have fallen; and examining barriers to adopting proven fall prevention strategies. 
   3. Demonstration Projects
   The legislation authorizes federal grants for demonstration projects in areas including assessing the utility of targeted fall risk screening and referral; programs that use multiple approaches to prevent falls such as physical activity, medication assessment, and home modification; targeting newly discharged fall victims at high risk for second falls; and developing technology to prevent falls. 
   4. Study on Effects of Falls on Health Care Costs
   Bill would require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to evaluate the effect of falls on health care costs, the potential for reducing falls, and the most effective strategies for reducing health care costs associated with falls. 
   Falls are the leading cause of injury deaths among persons over age 65. In 2000, falls among elderly persons accounted for 10,200 deaths and 1.6 million emergency room visits. The total cost of all fall injuries for people age 65 and older was calculated to be $27.3 billion. 
  The bill now moves to the full Senate for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 