SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR SOUTHERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced that the Mechanicsville Volunteer Fire Department and the Indian Head Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue Squad in Southern Maryland have been awarded at total of $190,370 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Southern Maryland communities. Congratulations to the Mechanicsville Volunteer Fire Department and Indian Head Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue Squad on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Mechanicsville Volunteer Fire Department (St. Mary's County) will use its $110,950 to purchase 47 sets of new turn out gear. The department will also purchase a gear washer and dryer, which will allow quicker turn around of gear from cleaning. 
   For more information on the Mechanicsville Volunteer Fire Department, call Joseph Guyther at 301-342-1174. 
   So far this year, two St. Mary's County fire departments have been awarded funds under the AFGP, totaling $145,490. Since 2001, St. Mary's County Fire Departments have been awarded $718,766. 
   The Indian Head Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue Squad (Charles County) has been awarded $79,420 to purchase new communications equipment and portable radios. The department will also replace their bio-hazard suits. 
   For more information on the Indian Head Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue Squad, call Abron Deer at 301-743-3900. 
   This is the third award for a Charles County fire department this year, totaling $167,971. Since 2001, Charles County fire departments have been awarded $992,280 in award funds under the AFGP. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 