SENS. MIKULSKI, OBAMA FIGHT TO LEVEL THE FIELD FOR DISADVANTAGED STUDENTS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) today introduced their Summer Term Education Programs for Upward Progress (STEP UP) Act as an amendment to the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act. The amendment addresses the achievement gaps among elementary schoolchildren. The legislation, originally introduced in the 109th Congress, establishes a grant program to support summer learning opportunities through local schools or community organizations.  
   "We must do all we can to make sure no child is left out or left behind," said Senator Mikulski. "Education is the opportunity ladder of this nation. This is a federal investment in making sure every child has an opportunity to succeed." 
   Studies indicate that differences in learning opportunities during the summer contribute to the achievement gaps that separate struggling poor and minority students from their middle-class peers. Test scores also show a significant drop for disadvantaged students throughout the summer months. Disparities grow and become more significant each summer during the elementary school years, with disadvantaged students falling further and further behind as they progress through school. 
   Summer learning programs are proven to remedy, reinforce and accelerate learning, and can serve to close the achievement gap in education. The grant program created by the STEP UP Act will allow disadvantaged students to enroll in elementary schools or youth development organizations during the summer. Students will have access to summer learning opportunities in mathematics, technology and problem-solving. It will also promote collaboration between teachers and youth development professionals, including the development and use of new techniques and skills. 
   "As a United States Senator, it is my job to speak up for those who might not otherwise have a voice. One of the most important groups I can speak up for is our children," said Senator Mikulski. "Throughout my career I have fought to ensure children have the resources they need to succeed, and I will continue to make our children a priority in the 110th Congress." 
   The America COMPETES Act is currently being considered on the Senate floor. Senator Mikulski is an original sponsor of the bill, which was introduced in March 2007. The bill focuses on improving innovation in the United States by increasing the federal investment in research and education, and developing a national innovation infrastructure.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 