SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES CELEBRATE THOUSANDS OF NEW JOBS FOR ABERDEEN PROVING GROUND
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) celebrated this morning's decision by the Department of Defense's Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission to bring thousands of new employees to Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG).  
   "The Army chose Aberdeen because they know what we know - Aberdeen is a world-class, one-stop shop for military technology. If it helps our war-fighters be safer, smarter or more effective, APG's doing it," said Senator Mikulski. "We are more than ready to welcome additional employees and their families to Aberdeen. APG has transformed itself over the years to meet the new challenges that have arisen from new threats, but our values have never changed: hard work, patriotism, community, faith and family." 
   "The Commission's vote is a positive development for Maryland and Aberdeen Proving Ground. We look forward to working with the Army during this transition process. This decision reflects what we've been saying all along - that Aberdeen, in terms of workforce and capabilities, is second to none," said Senator Sarbanes. "We've made significant strides already in the recently passed transportation bill to make improvements to prepare Aberdeen and the surrounding communities for this move." 
   For almost 100 years, APG's mission has been to serve the Army. In peace time, Aberdeen was advancing science and the state of military technology. During times of war, APG accelerated testing and training to protect American lives. 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes have spent nearly a decade working with Maryland elected officials and Aberdeen community leaders to reinforce the mission and merit of APG, which has served the nation since World War I. 
   Final BRAC recommendations will now go to President Bush for approval. 
   To hear and/or broadcast Senator Mikulski's response to the final BRAC decisions, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 4324, or click at: http://democrats.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski050824.mp3
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 