SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR FAIR PAY FOR WOMEN, MINORITIES AT SENATE HEARING
  At today's Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee hearing, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) stressed the importance of passing the Fair Pay Restoration Act (S. 1843) to ensure equal pay for women and minorities in the workforce. The bill would overturn Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., where a divided Supreme Court held that workers must sue for pay discrimination within 180 days after the original pay-setting decision, no matter how long the unfair pay continues. 
   "Women make this country run - we are business leaders, entrepreneurs, politicians, mothers and more. But we earn just 76 cents for every dollar our male counterpart makes. Women and men of color get paid even less," said Senator Mikulski, Dean of the Senate Women. "I believe people should be judged solely by their individual skills, competence, unique talents and nothing else. I also believe in equal pay for equal work. We must correct this decision, and we must pass this bill."  
   The Fair Pay Restoration Act, which Senator Mikulski co-sponsors, would also clarify that laws against pay discrimination apply to every paycheck or other compensation a worker receives, and extend to pay discrimination based on race, national origin, gender, religious, age or disability. For more information on the bill, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=279446. 
   Testifying at today's hearing were: Ledbetter v. Goodyear plaintiff Lilly Ledbetter, CEO of the U.S. Women's Chamber of Commerce Margot Dorfman, Washington University School of Law Professor Samuel R. Bagenstos and Eric Dreiband, Former General Counsel of the EEOC and partner at Akin, Gump, Strauss Hauer, Feld, LLP. 
   Senator Mikulski's testimony, as prepared, is below: 
   "Thank you Chairmen Kennedy for holding this hearing today. Thank you to all of the witnesses who have come here to testify about this important issue. I especially want to thank Ms. Ledbetter for coming here to share her personal story and for showing such courage, not only on this panel today, but for the many years you were fighting this battle against wage discrimination, trying to get the pay you deserve and the respect you are entitled to. You have been fighting in your workplace, you have been fighting in courtrooms, now it is our time not just to thank you, but to help you. 
   "Last May, the Supreme Court sent a dangerous message about the value of pay equity in this country. Their decision hit women right in the pocket book. They said that someone cannot sue their employer over unequal pay if that person doesn't file suit within 180 days after pay was established. This decision is a step backward for women and for any person alleging pay discrimination. It sends the wrong message about the value of equal pay for equal work and ignores the realities of pay discrimination. How many people know the salary of their co-workers, especially in the first six months you're on the job? What if you're hired at an equal rate with your male counterpart but he gets a raise every few months and you don't? Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who took the unusual step of reading her dissent from the bench, said, 'In our view the court does not comprehend or is indifferent to the insidious way in which women can be victims of pay discrimination.' 
   "Lilly Ledbetter was at Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company for 19 years - a longstanding, loyal employee. She doesn't know exactly when the disparity developed - if it was on the first day she was hired or over the many years she was there, but a jury found that Goodyear had discriminated against her and they awarded her almost $400,000 in back pay. Now the Supreme Court says that she was too late and she waited too long, even though she was discriminated against, even though she was a loyal, hardworking employee for 19 years. They say she waited too long to file her suit. That simply isn't fair. 
   "Unfortunately, wage discrimination still exists. Women make this country run - we are business leaders, entrepreneurs, politicians, mothers and more. But we earn just 76 cents for every dollar our male counterpart makes. Women and men of color get paid even less - an African-American woman gets paid just 68 cents for every dollar a white man makes; a Hispanic man earns only 63 cents for every dollar a white man makes. The Supreme Court's decision will make it even harder for women workers and employees of color to close this wage gap and to get the remedies they deserve when they are discriminated against. 
   "In her opinion, Justice Ginsburg called on Congress to correct the mistake she believes the Supreme Court has made. That's why I joined my colleagues, led by Senator Kennedy, to right this wrong. And we introduced the Fair Pay Restoration Act. The only way to fix this mistake is to change the law. 
   "This bill will amend Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 so that the statute of limitations for an employee to file a wage discrimination suit runs from the date of the actual payment of a discriminatory wage, not just from the time of hiring. This means that employees can sue employers based on each discriminating paycheck and it does not limit the time a worker can get the remedy they deserve. 
   "I believe people should be judged solely by their individual skills, competence, unique talents and nothing else. I also believe in equal pay for equal work. Lily Ledbetter was an honest, hardworking employee for 19 years. She is entitled to every cent she worked for, because when Lily Ledbetter stood up and said this wasn't fair, she was standing up for herself and standing up for so many others. 
   "We must correct this decision, and we must pass this bill."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 