SEN. MIKULSKI: MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE IS ESPECIALLY CRUCIAL FOR WOMEN
  On the floor of the U.S. Senate today, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) highlighted the importance of raising the minimum wage for women in the workforce and called on the Senate to pass the Fair Minimum Wage Act (S.2). Sen. Mikulski, one of the original bill sponsors, said the increase is crucial for all minimum wage employees, but is especially critical for female workers.  
   "For too long, Americans have been working longer and harder, only to see their paychecks get smaller and smaller. Our working families are stressed and stretched," said Senator Mikulski. "Families in my state of Maryland are worried - many are holding down more than one job just to make ends meet. A full-time job should not be full-time poverty." 
   Minimum wage employees working 40 hours a week, 52 weeks a year, earn $10,700 a year, which is $6,000 below the poverty line for a family of three. Over two-thirds of minimum wage earners are adults, and nearly 60 percent are mothers - many with young children to support. 
   "Two-thirds of all minimum wage workers are women - that's 7 million women nationwide and more than 100,000 in Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "Women already go into the workplace earning less, working in industries that are often without unions and other workplace protections. Many women are single mothers trying to support their children. We must pass this legislation to give these women and their families a chance." 
   The last time Congress voted to raise the minimum wage was in 1996 to its current $5.15 an hour. This bill would raise the minimum wage in three steps: to $5.85 60 days after enactment, then to $6.55 one year later, and to $7.25 one year after that. This would benefit 13 million Americans working and living in poverty, and over 115,000 Marylanders. 
   "Since I first came to Congress, my economic mission has been simple - to help those who are in the middle class stay there or do better, and to give those who are not in the middle class the chance to get there," continued Senator Mikulski. "I know that to some people, this increase may not seem like much. But even a small increase like this one will mean a significant difference in the lives of many hardworking Americans."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 