SEN. MIKULSKI: BUSH ADMINISTRATION MUST SUPPORT RETURNING GUARD MEMBERS, RESERVISTS
  Following a recent Baltimore Sun article on the Department of Defense's (DoD) refusal to support reintegration initiatives for National Guard members and Reservists returning from combat, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today sent a letter to DoD Secretary Robert Gates, urging him to fund the national reintegration program authorized in an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 4986) that passed the Senate yesterday.
   "We know that the stress of combat and long deployments away from home can wreak havoc on our troops' well-being and family life in the months after their return. The brave men and women in our National Guard and Reserve have been fighting side-by-side with our active duty troops in Iraq and Afghanistan so that we may live in freedom - they deserve the same support from the government when they return to their civilian lives," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never abandon our troops - on the battlefield, or when they come home." 
   While President Bush continues to ask for billions of federal dollars every week for the war, his administration has not established a national reintegration program for National Guard and Reserve personnel to assist their transition from combat to civilian life. The DoD amendment, which Senator Mikulski co-sponsored, creates the national Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, which establishes paid reintegration events at 30, 60 and 90-day intervals upon return, providing counseling and services for members and their families. This includes help in receiving health care benefits and applying for education assistance, an introduction to the Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system, and counseling on employment, marriage, reconnecting with children, chemical abuse prevention and anger management.
   Active duty units returning from combat have reintegration and counseling services, but returning Guard members and Reservists do not have anything comparable, even though Guard members can face a higher reintegration burden than active duty troops. Active duty troops remain with their unit, on-duty and in a military environment, while Guard members and Reservists are thrust back into their civilian lives where support and understanding for their combat experiences varies greatly.
   With no national reintegration program, some states, including Maryland, have established their own programs, but the DoD has refused to fund these state-supported programs. With approximately 1,500 members of the Maryland National Guard returning from overseas deployments in the next six months, Maryland faces a $2.2 million funding shortfall for the state program, despite Governor Martin O'Malley's support in the state budget.
   The text of Senator Mikulski's letter to Secretary Gates is below:
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   I am writing to urge you to fund reintegration programs for our returning National Guard and Reserve service members. Since the September 11th terrorist attacks, our National Guard and Reserve Forces have bravely answered the call to defend our nation, both at home and abroad. While we finally have transition programs in place for our active duty combat veterans, the Department of Defense has failed to establish a comprehensive reintegration program for our returning National Guard and Reserve personnel.
   To fill this gap, several states, including my own state of Maryland, have implemented reintegration programs using state funds. A January 14 article in the Baltimore Sun reported the Department of Defense has refused to support these state initiatives and is reluctant to fund a national reintegration program for our Guard and Reservists deployed in support of combat operations. This is unacceptable.
   We know that the stress of combat and long deployments away from home can wreak havoc on our troops' well-being and family life in the months after their return. We have also learned that providing counseling, education and access to resources can greatly ease this transition period. The FY 2008 Defense Authorization Bill mandates that the Department of Defense establish the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program, which creates a national program of comprehensive support for Guard and Reserve forces returning to civilian life. This program would ensure that our citizen soldiers and their families have the resources and help they need to make a successful transition back to civilian life after answering our nation's call.
   I urge you to support full implementation and funding of the reintegration programs for our National Guard and Reserve service members. I look forward to working with you to ensure that our citizen soldiers and their families get the support they have earned through their tireless service to our nation.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 