SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES TO FIGHT FOR HIV/AIDS PATIENTS IN RYAN WHITE CARE ACT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, has joined a group of her colleagues in calling on Appropriations Committee Chairman Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.) and Ranking Member Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) to address the potential funding shortfall for the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act for fiscal year 2007. 
   "Maryland has one of the highest rates of HIV/AIDS cases in the country. HIV/AIDS affects not just patients, but their families and communities," said Senator Mikulski. "Federal Ryan White CARE Act dollars are critical to ensuring high-quality services, medicine and treatments continue to be available to Marylanders."  
   In the final days of the 109th Congress, Senator Mikulski fought to make sure the CARE Act passed the Senate. The bill included language that will allow Maryland to transition from its current HIV/AIDS data reporting system (as required by law) without losing substantial federal funding to provide treatment and care for individuals suffering from HIV/AIDS who are in the greatest need of assistance. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Chairman Byrd and Ranking Member Cochran: 
   As you work to finalize the year long Continuing Resolution for fiscal year (FY) 2007, we are writing to reiterate our concern regarding funding levels in the recently reauthorized Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act, and to urge the inclusion of the authorized amount in the Title II base grant to ensure its successful implementation. 
   Because the Ryan White CARE Act reauthorization passed during a precarious budgetary time, we are very concerned about the impact of the reauthorization's new formulas being implemented at FY 2006 levels. The bill that passed was formulated by the Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee based upon the President's proposed $70 million increase to Title II base funding. We were pleased that these funding levels were included in the Committee passed House and Senate Labor, Health, and Human Services Appropriations bills for FY 2007. While we understand that much has changed in the last six months, we ask that you consider the impact of the new formulas as you determine how to address Ryan White program funding in the Continuing Resolution. 
   The Ryan White CARE Act makes federal funds available to metropolitan areas and states to provide a number of health care services for HIV/AIDS patients including medical care, prescription drug treatments, dental care, home health care, and outpatient mental health and substance abuse treatment. States across the country have counted on this funding to address the unique needs of individuals with HIV/AIDS. Unless additional funding is designated for this program, networks of care will be dismantled in states with a long history of HIV/AIDS, and there will not be sufficient funding to establish appropriate networks of care for states with emerging communities of individuals with HIV. 
   We share your commitment to the programs that assist children and families across the country. We feel strongly that healthcare and education programs need our full support to get back to the peak funding level of FY 2005. We hope that increases to Ryan White can be considered as part of any agreement to reach that level. 
   Again, we appreciate your long-standing support of these programs. We respectfully request that you consider increasing funding for the Ryan White programs to address the newly enacted formula changes. Thank you for your attention to this matter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 