SEN. MIKULSKI INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP MAKE NIH, SURROUNDING COMMUNITY SAFER
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today introduced legislation to improve security on the campus of the National Institutes of Health and the surrounding community. The "NIH Security Act" calls for the official establishment of the National Institutes of Health's police force. The NIH police force has recently been operating with one-third of the optimal number of officers because of budget constraints and the NIH's inability to compete with the higher salaries police officers can receive elsewhere.  
   "We count on the dedicated NIH Police to protect over 3,000 research laboratories on the main Bethesda campus and its satellite facilities," said Senator Mikulski. "Yet NIH Police officers are overworked and underpaid. Security at NIH may be at risk because they are having trouble recruiting and retaining qualified police officers, and because the Police Department isn't authorized to protect all of NIH's facilities." 
   "I'm introducing this bill to improve security at NIH by giving the NIH Police the authority they need to do their job and the pay and benefits they deserve for a job well done," continued Senator Mikulski. "This legislation establishes a permanent police force at NIH, expands their jurisdiction to cover all of NIH's campuses, and gives NIH Police officers the same pay and retirement benefits that other federal law enforcement officers have." 
   The NIH police force is authorized to have 108 officers but currently has a staff of only 71. In order to keep NIH police salaries competitive with those of other local police forces, the NIH Security Act would require NIH police officers' salaries to be linked to the U.S. Park Police's more robust pay tables. 
   Congressman Chris VanHollen introduced identical legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives last year. It is currently pending in the House Subcommittee on Civil Service and Agency Organization.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 