SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES FIGHT FOR WASHINGTON COUNTY DEFENSE PROJECT IN FEDERAL SPENDING BILL
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) announced the Senate version of the 2007 Department of Defense spending bill includes $3 million for a defense project in Washington County. The legislation, which has passed the Senate Appropriations Committee, funds the Department of Defense and will go toward critical research, development, test and evaluation programs, as well as weapons and equipment required for the U.S. Armed Forces.  
   "We need to do everything we can to support our troops - not just with words, but with deeds. Together, we can do better. These much needed funds will help our troops fulfill their mission both at home and abroad," said Senator Mikulski. "I will keep fighting to put money in the federal checkbook for U.S. troops and their families." 
   "We continue to work hard to ensure that Maryland's military installations and their personnel have the resources and capabilities necessary to carry out their critical missions and this funding helps in these endeavors," said Senator Sarbanes. "This bill also provides needed funding to enable our troops to have the most up to date equipment and research resources for them to successfully carry our their missions." 
   The spending bill includes $3 million to complete the development of a hybrid electric power train for heavy trucks, and the construction of a prototype vehicle, which will allow the Air Force to reduce logistic requirements and mitigate environmental impact. This technology has great potential for reducing dangerous emissions and greatly improving fuel economy. The project supports 1,500 jobs at the Volvo plant in Washington County. 
   Senator Mikulski's visit to Volvo's factory in Hagerstown, Md., in October 2005 kicked off her multi-city military innovation tour of the state. The Senator used her tour of various military facilities to assess the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for Maryland and innovative technology that will protect our troops, protect our environment and help America become energy independent. 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 