SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES MUST NOT BE LEFT BEHIND
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, has joined a group of her colleagues led by Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) to fight for the Protecting Children's Health in Schools Act of 2006. The bill will ensure that students with disabilities receive the specialized services they need to be successful in school by using Medicaid funding to support key programs.  
   "Families are looking for help and President Bush isn't offering them much hope. This legislation is critical in keeping our children healthy while they are at school," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to ensure that our families can send their children with special needs to school and know they are getting the health care they need." 
   School districts play a critical role as a site for health care delivery for students during the day. Receiving these medical services through school may be the only way to ensure students get the services they need. 
   In its budget for the 2007 fiscal year, the Bush Administration sought to stop reimbursing school districts for an estimated $3.6 billion in Medicaid spending over the next five years. That spending covers the cost of medical and health-related services that many of the nation's 7 million school children with disabilities need in order to attend school. The bill would require the Bush Administration to reimburse school districts for these costs. 
   The threatened funding serves a variety of purposes, such as providing medical equipment for buses to meet specific children's needs, providing transportation for children from school to their medical appointments, and covering the administrative costs of identifying children who need special medical and learning services. 
   In addition to ensuring that children with disabilities continue to receive the services they need to stay in school, the bill also improves accountability to ensure that funds are distributed and used properly. For example, the bill calls for the creation of uniform rules for schools to follow when they submit a Medicaid claim, and it establishes guidelines for ensuring that schools are held accountable for filing accurate claims. 
   The administration's move to stop reimbursing school districts for the Medicaid services follows numerous instances in which it has already arbitrarily denied reimbursement to school for the costs of these services and in which it has failed to give clear guidance to schools about how to apply for the funds.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 