SEN. MIKULSKI PROTECTS FIRE PROTECTION GROUP FROM OUTSOURCING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) announced today that the Department of Commerce has dropped its plans to study privatizing the Fire Protection Group at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST.) This Gaithersburg-based group of 13 firefighters provides specialized fire protection to NIST as well as support to the Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Service. The FPG was recently added to the list of "commercial" jobs at NIST required to compete with the private sector. The Office of Management and Budget requires federal agencies to study whether to privatize jobs deemed to be "commercial."  
   In February, Senator Mikulski, together with Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-MD) and Representative Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), wrote asked Secretary of Commerce Donald L. Evans to remove FPG from the Department of Commerce study. 
   "Emergency services shouldn't be auctioned off to the lowest bidder. The men and women of the Fire Protection Group are trained to prevent and respond to not only fires, but all emergencies, including HAZMAT incidents. They are vital to the protection of NIST employees and sensitive labs at the Institute," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to stand against privatizing and outsourcing the jobs of our federal employees." 
   The Department of Commerce reclassified the FPG at NIST from "Commercial, Available for Competition" to "Commercial, Not Available for Competition." This removes them from competition and ensures that their jobs cannot be privatized. 
   To read the letter Senator Mikulski, Senator Sarbanes and Representative Van Hollen sent to Department of Commerce Secretary Donald Evans click here (see: http://www.mikulski.senate.gov/Newsroom/fpgprivatization.pdf)
   To read Department of Commerce Secretary Donald Evans' reply click here (see: http://www.mikulski.senate.gov/Newsroom/fpgprivatization2.pdf)
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 