SEN. MIKULSKI HOSTS FORUM WITH WOMEN SENATORS ON ALARMING DECLINE OF MAMMOGRAM RATES
  Responding to a startling report by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on the dramatic decline of women getting mammograms to screen for breast cancer, Dean of the Senate Women Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) hosted a forum with the Women Senators today to question the authors of the study and experts in the field.  
   Video from today's event will be available on Pathfire's Digital Media Gateway later today. Instructions to access Pathfire's content can be found at: www.mikulski.senate.gov/pdfs/pathfire.pdf. 
   "The women of the Senate take women's health very seriously. The study released last week by NCI and CDC is a wake-up call," said Senator Mikulski. "The women of the Senate are committed and will continue to fight to make sure women have information they need, that doctors have the best tools and the best training, that low-income, uninsured women have access to health care, and that we remain steadfast on research." 
   Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among women in the United States. Mammograms play an important role in early detection and reduction of breast cancer. According to the report, the overall rate at which women are undergoing regular mammograms fell 4 percent between 2000 and 2005, marking the first significant decline since use of mammograms started expanding rapidly in 1987. The new research is the first to document the trend nationally. 
   "Women's health is on the agenda, and breast cancer is on the agenda in the United States Senate. For all that we've done, there's still a lot to do," said Senator Mikulski. "The women of the Senate are committed to addressing this important women's health issue." 
   Experts at today's forum included: Nancy Breen, Ph.D., Study Author, NCI, Dr. John Niederhuber, Director of the NCI, Dr. Eddie Reed, Director of the Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, CDC, Robert Smith, Ph.D., Director of Cancer Screening, Cancer Control Science, American Cancer Society (ACS), and Hala Moddelmog, President and CEO of Susan G. Komen for the Cure.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 