SEN. MIKULSKI RELEASES CBO LETTER, CONFIRMS EFFORTS DO NOT WEAKEN PENSION REFORM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) publicly released a letter from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) today which confirms that the changes proposed in her amendment with Sen. Mike Dewine (R-Ohio) to current pending pension reform legislation, would not weaken the bill. The letter puts to rest claims that the DeWine-Mikulski amendment would undermine reform efforts.  
   "Throughout this process, I have insisted that we must do no harm. This letter from CBO reaffirms that my amendment does not weaken pension reform," said Senator Mikulski. "We must make sure that workers do not lose their hard-earned pensions. We owe it to American workers and American companies to get this right." 
   Senator Mikulski, the senior Democrat on the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, recently joined Senator DeWine in proposing an amendment that further protects America's pension system. Senator Mikulski is concerned about language in the current bill that uses credit ratings, instead of plan funding, to determine if a business is "at risk" and would be required to make additional and significant contributions to the plan. The DeWine-Mikulski amendment would reinsert language previously passed by the Senate HELP Committee that would improve predictability and use a more direct measure of a pension plan's financial health - the plan's funding percentage. 
   "Throughout my career, I have worked to protect the little guy, and there is no better example of that than protecting a worker's pension," said Senator Mikulski. "That is why I have made reforming our nation's pension system one of my top priorities." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   October 19, 2005 
   Honorable Barbara A. Mikulski United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Senator: 
   As you requested, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has estimated the effect on the 10-year net costs of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) of enacting S. 1783 with the DeWine-Mikulski amendment. 
   This estimate would differ significantly from an estimate of the budgetary effects of the bill on a cash basis. The largest source of difference is that our estimate of net costs includes two items that are not included in the budget estimate: the cost of market risk and the present value of benefit payments outside the budget window for plans terminated in the next 10 years. As explained more fully in our recent report, The Risk Exposure of the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation, net costs are the estimated market price of insurance for net claims expected to occur over this period. 
   While the proposed amendment would marginally increase PBGC's 10-year net costs, the change is small relative to the overall uncertainty of such estimates. CBO estimates that S. 1783 with the DeWine-Mikulski amendment would increase 10-year net costs by $9 billion, or by about the same amount as S. 1783 without the amendment. Behavioral effects from policy changes are not included in the estimates of net cost. 
   If you wish further information about this legislation, we would be pleased to provide it. 
   Sincerely, 
   Douglas Holtz-Eakin 
   cc: Honorable Mike Enzi, Chairman Honorable Edward M. Kennedy, Ranking Member Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
   Honorable Judd Gregg, Chairman Honorable Kent Conrad, Ranking Member Committee on the Budget
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 