SEN. MIKULSKI EASES BURDEN ON FEDERAL EMPLOYEES IN SPENDING BILL
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Senate has approved the fiscal year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education spending bill, which includes a key provision she has fought for in her efforts to level the playing field for federal employees. In a major victory for employees at the Department of Labor (DoL), the agency will be prohibited from using federal funds to support the outsourcing of federal contracts.  
   "The federal checkbook should not be used to unfairly target federal employees, who are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. I will fight to make sure these hardworking men and women are treated with parity and respect," said Senator Mikulski. "Federal employees are America's true patriots and I will continue to stand up for the issues that matter to them." 
   Senator Mikulski has been a long-time critic of the contracting out process, a practice that often wastes taxpayer dollars and is dangerously slanted against federal employees. The Senator has fought for years to improve the process - adding provisions in spending bills to help government workers compete with contractors and provide improved guidelines for a more fair competition process before jobs are contracted out. She most recently scored a major victory for federal employees with a Mikulski-Kennedy amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=284488, which is included in the Senate-passed legislation. 
   Senator Mikulski worked to include language in today's spending bill that would prevent the DoL from using taxpayer dollars to contract out the work performed by federal employees pending a study by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) of the agency's aggressive outsourcing. 
   "The mission of the Department of Labor is to make the American workplace safer, healthier and more equitable. Efforts to privatize that workforce violate their own stated mission," said Senator Mikulski. "These federal employees should not be forced to compete for their own jobs." 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the spending bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 