SEN. MIKULSKI KICKS OFF MILITARY INNOVATION TOUR WITH ANNOUNCEMENT OF $3.5 MILLION TO DEVELOP HYBRID VEHICLE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) kicked off her military innovation tour of Maryland at a press conference held at the Volvo Powertrain factory in Hagerstown, Md., today. Sen. Mikulski will visit more than a dozen military facilities on her multi-city tour, where she will address the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for Maryland and innovative technology that will protect our troops, protect our environment and help America become energy independent.  
   "A stronger America begins at home. Maryland's Innovation Economy is fueled by technology and brain power, not foreign oil," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I'm kicking off my military innovation tour here. The technology developed will drive our economy, creating the products and the jobs that will make America safer, stronger and smarter." 
   At today's event, Senator Mikulski joined Volvo Powertrain Senior Vice President Sten-Ake Aronsson to announce that the company will receive $3.5 million in federal funding to develop a Heavy Duty Hybrid Electric vehicle for the U.S. Air Force. The Hybrid Electric Drive system combines a diesel engine with an electric motor that will enhance vehicle performance, increase fuel economy and reduce emissions. 
   The hybrid will reduce America's dependence on foreign fuel - the first generation hybrid has fuel savings of 11 percent and the second generation will save 44 percent. It also protects the environment by bringing fuel emissions below EPA requirements and reducing the consumption of fossil fuel and greenhouse gas production. 
   "This project is important to Maryland, helping to sustain close to 2,000 jobs in manufacturing and engineering. Its completion will make Volvo the industry leader in hybrid powertrains. Within 10 years, every heavy truck in North America could have an engine built in Hagerstown," added Senator Mikulski. "But this is not just an opportunity for Maryland. It is also important to America. It helps our military get the job done." 
   The funding comes as part of the $440 billion 2006 Defense spending bill, which was passed by the U.S. Senate and includes an additional $125 million for Maryland defense projects. As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on Defense, Senator Mikulski has fought for over $10 million in funding for this project. This year's allocation will fund the completion of the second generation hybrid and the building of up to four prototypes.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 