SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that four Western Maryland Fire Departments are being awarded a total of $487,906 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program. 
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Western Maryland. Congratulations to these departments on being awarded this well-deserved money."  
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Williamsport Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., located in Washington County, will use its federal award of $135,990 to purchase 23 new sets of self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units with air bottles. The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   The department will also use its federal funding to install a diesel exhaust capture and recovery system and replace aging nozzles on their hoses, providing greater water flow. The new exhaust system will remove potentially carcinogenic exhaust emissions from the rescue vehicle bays and the rooms adjacent to the storage area for the fire trucks and rescue vehicles. 
   For more information on the Williamsport Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., contact Chief William Ball at 301-223-9500. 
   This is the second award for Williamsport Volunteer Fire Company through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program, totaling $230,850 in federal awards over the last two years. This is the fifth award this year for a Washington County Fire Department, totaling $707,046 in federal funding. 
   The Friendsville Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department, Inc. in Garrett County will use its $96,300 in federal funding to purchase six self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units. The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   The department will also use its federal award to purchase several Rapid Intervention Team (RIT) kits. RIT kits include fire axes, rope, bolt cutters, hacksaw harnesses and radios, enabling firefighters to rescue trapped victims or fallen firefighters. The department will also purchase a Halligan Bar, a multi-purpose crow bar, enabling firefighters to break through windows and walls. 
   This is the first Assistance Firefighter Grant Program award for the Friendsville Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department, Inc. and the first award this year for a Garrett County Fire Department. 
   For more information on the Friendsville Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department, Inc., contact Chief Terry Spear at 301-746-5677. 
   The Midland Fire Company, located in Allegany, will use its $165,320 in federal funding to purchase new stationary and mobile air compressors. These new air compressors will replace an outdated air-fill system that does not meet National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) standards. With this new equipment, the department will be self-reliant, in addition to being able to re-fill air bottles for neighboring departments. 
   The department will also use its federal funding to purchase a new diesel exhaust system. The new exhaust system will remove potentially carcinogenic exhaust emissions from the rescue vehicle bays and the rooms adjacent to the storage area for the fire trucks and rescue vehicles. 
   The department will use its federal award to purchase new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) equipment. The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   For more information on the Midland Fire Company, contact Barbara Knippenburg at 301-463-6114. 
   The Bowman's Addition Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. in Allegany County will use its federal award of $90,296 to purchase 11 SCBA units with spare air bottles. The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   The department will use its federal funding to purchase 20 new sets of turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats) and 20 Minitor pagers. These new Minitor pagers are voice activated and will give firefighters the ability to communicate with each other and other first responders while responding to an emergency. The department has 20 active members. 
   For more information on Bowman's Addition Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., contact Susan Blacker at 301-876-3183. 
   So far this year, Allegany County Fire Departments have received four awards through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program, totaling $378,589 in federal funding. So far this year, 33 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $3,565,037 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.5 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. This will fund less than one-third of the requests received this year. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   Last week, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $200 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old. 
   Increasing the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, it could have meant protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.
 
 