SENS. MIKULSKI, CARDIN ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR ALLEGANY COLLEGE COMPUTER LABS
  Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (both D-Md.) today announced the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded $50,000 to the Allegany College of Maryland for the Workforce Training Computer Replacement project to upgrade computer labs. It's estimated that the project will create or retain 100 jobs every two years.  
   "America is in an amazing race - a race for breakthroughs and new ideas, a race for discovery and new knowledge, a race to remain competitive in the new century. This funding will help give students at Allegany College the technology and the tools they need to win that race and succeed in the 21st century," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to keep education and Western Maryland communities a priority in the federal checkbook." 
   "The global economy is based on technological and computer jobs. It is critical that our nation remain competitive and that means our workers need the training and skills to get the jobs of the future," said Senator Cardin. "This $50,000 ARC grant to Allegany College will allow it to upgrade two computer labs, providing students with the training they need for jobs in the computer and high technology industries." 
   Allegany College will use these funds to upgrade two computer laboratories used in science and humanities courses, including 68 new desktop computers, three printers and three projection systems. The computer labs will serve a minimum of 1,000 credit and non-credit students. 
   Research shows that not only do students need to become familiar with the most current computer technology, but computers engage them more in the learning process, leading to greater persistence from students, higher levels of achievement, and a better-prepared workforce. 
   In addition to ARC funds, Allegany College will provide $50,000, bringing the total project funding to $100,000. 
   The ARC is a federal-state partnership that works with the people of Appalachia to create opportunities for self-sustaining economic development and improved quality of life.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 