SEN. MIKULSKI JOINS COLLEAGUES IN PROVIDING TAX RELIEF FOR MILLIONS OF MIDDLE CLASS AMERICANS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today joined her colleagues in passing the "Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004," legislation that extends three major middle-class tax cuts for five years: $1,000-per-child tax credit; tax breaks for married couples - eliminating the so-called marriage penalty; and a 10 percent income-tax bracket that was expanded last year. Without this legislation, these tax breaks would expire at the end of this year.  
   "America's middle class families are stressed and stretched," said Senator Mikulski. "They're worried about their jobs. They're terrified of losing their healthcare and costs keep ballooning. Many are holding down more than one job just to make ends meet. These families want to know what their government is doing to help them." 
   "That's why I'm supporting a family-friendly tax code - one that helps families send their children to college, care for loved ones, and helps small businesses provide health care for their employees. This bill provides much needed tax relief to working families caught in the middle class squeeze." 
   Senator Mikulski has three criteria when evaluating tax cuts. They must be targeted, temporary, and they cannot add to the deficit. 
   "This bill meets some of my criteria," added Mikulski. "It is targeted to the middle class, and that's why I voted for it. It is temporary, providing immediate help to taxpayers through 2010. However, these tax cuts are not paid for. I hope that next time we consider these tax provisions, we get it right and find a way to pay for them." 
   The "Working Families Tax Relief Act of 2004" does three major things: 
   1. Extends Child Tax Credit
   If the child tax credit was not extended, the tax credit would have dropped from $1,000 (its current level) to $700 and would not have reached $1,000 again until 2010. 
   2. Extends Tax Credit for Married Couple
   If the married couple tax credit was not extended, the standard deduction for a couple would drop from $9,500 to $8,265 in 2005. And the 15% tax bracket levels would have dropped from an annual salary of $58,100 back to $50,500. This would have increased taxes on married couples by as much as $1,165 in 2005. 
   3. Expands the 10% Tax Bracket
   If the middle class tax cuts were not extended, the 10% tax bracket would have dropped back to lower levels in 2005 - to $6,000 for individuals and $12,000 for couples. This would have increased taxes by $50 per year for singles or $100 per year for couples. Instead, the legislation extends the 10 percent tax bracket for the first $7,000 of income for single taxpayers and $14,000 for married couples, providing tax relief to over 80 million taxpayers. 
   While there are three major provisions in this legislation that provide relief for middle class Americans, it has glaring problems. This bill fails our military families by raising taxes in 2006 on active duty military, reservists, and National Guardsmen who have been deployed in combat. 
   This bill only provides two years of tax relief for our lowest paid combat military personnel, instead of the five-year extension provided for most other provisions. The way the tax code is set up now, soldiers do not pay taxes on their combat pay. But because this income is not excluded for taxes, many of the lowest paid soldiers do not "earn" enough to qualify for the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and will end up paying more in taxes than military personnel serving state-side. 
   Senator Mikulski is currently working on legislation that would make permanent these tax cuts for military personnel serving in combat. 
   Senator Mikulski is also opposed to the fact that this legislation is not paid for and would add nearly $150 billion to the deficit. 
   "We can have strong economic growth, low inflation, and low unemployment, but we must do so in a fiscally responsible way," said Senator Mikulski. "The job of Congress is not only to provide tax relief for working families, but also to make sure that we pay for those tax cuts. Through fiscal responsibility, Congress can take care of working families today and in the future when they retire."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, http://mikulski.senate.gov, 202/224-4654.
 
 