SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES HELP SECURE FEDERAL FUNDS TO REDUCE CHILDHOOD LEAD POISONING IN BALTIMORE
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that Baltimore City has been awarded $4,000,000 in federal funding to provide lead-based paint hazard control intervention services in 150 additional low-income privately-owned housing units in the City. The Baltimore City Health Department will take the lead in management of this grant.  
   Senator Mikulski is the Senior Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee that funds HUD and its Office of Lead Hazard Control. Working with Senator Kit Bond (R-MO), Chairman of the Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski created the lead demonstration program and worked to increase funding for the Office of Lead Hazard Control - and its Health Homes and Lead Hazard Control Program - up from $109.7 million in Fiscal Year 2002 to $175 million in Fiscal Year 2005. 
   "Children are disproportionately at risk for lead poisoning in major urban areas," said Senator Mikulski. "Children from poor families are at the greatest risk - they are eight times more likely to get lead poisoning than other children. That's why I fought to create the lead paint demonstration program and stand up each year to increase funding to remove lead-based paint from homes in Maryland and across the country. This funding is an important step in protecting children from lead exposure and make a real difference for Baltimore's families." 
   "We must continue our efforts to reduce lead exposure to children, who are most susceptible to its dangers," said Sarbanes. "These funds will help to ensure the health of our children, by providing the necessary resources to help properly determine the hazards that are associated with lead paint in our cities." 
   Lead poisoning in children can reduce IQ, cause learning disabilities, and impair hearing. Elevated and high exposures to lead can damage children's kidneys and central nervous system, and can cause anemia, confusion, and even death. Senator Mikulski serves as the Ranking Member on the Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and its Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control Program. Senator Sarbanes is the Senior Democrat on the Banking, Housing and Urban Development Committee.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 