SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES $2 MILLION INVESTMENT IN EAST BALTIMORE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that the East Baltimore Development Project has received a $2 million grant from the Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration (EDA). Senator Mikulski is the Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the EDA.  
   "As a United States Senator, I work to put money in the federal checkbook that builds and protects communities. The East Baltimore Development Project is an excellent example where a federal investment is leveraged with other private and public funding to support a comprehensive revitalization project that will benefit residents, businesses and the community," said Senator Mikulski. "Marylanders can count on me to continue standing up for the day-to-day needs of my constituents." 
   The East Baltimore Development Project is a redevelopment plan that encompasses one of the most distressed areas in Baltimore City. Founded in 2002, East Baltimore Development, Inc. (EBDI) is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization leading the nation's most ambitious community revitalization effort, transforming 80 acres of blighted land around Johns Hopkins Hospital into a mixed-use, mixed-income community. The EBDI works closely with residents, community groups, businesses, government and the community to ensure that economic, housing and human service opportunities in East Baltimore are available and accessible as it works to restore it to a thriving community. 
   Senator Mikulski has a long history of supporting the EBDI's ongoing revitalization activities and has fought for more than $3.6 million in federal funding to leverage with local, state and private investments. Most recently, she secured $200,000 in the Senate Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations 2008 spending bill for the EBDI to continue providing for workforce development, clean and safe programs, and infrastructure improvements. The bill has passed both Houses of Congress, and differences between the two versions of the bill are being worked out by a Conference Committee before being sent to the President for his signature. 
   In the fiscal year 2008 CJS spending bill, Senator Mikulski provided $283 million for the EDA, $80 million above the President's budget request. This provides $250 million for economic development assistance grants for communities, with an average project size of $1 million. The bill has passed the Senate Appropriations Committee, and awaits a vote by the full Senate which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 