SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR SOCIAL WORKERS, MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR SENIORS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she is fighting to guarantee clinical social workers are reimbursed by Medicare for the mental health services they provide in skilled nursing facilities by introducing the Clinical Social Work Medicare Equity Act of 2007.  
   "As a former social worker, I understand the important role they play in caring for patients and seniors. This bill is about more than paperwork and payment procedures. This bill is about equal access to Medicare payments for equal and critical work done by social workers," said Senator Mikulski. "It is about making sure our nation's most vulnerable citizens have access to quality, affordable mental health care." 
   Clinical social workers are the primary mental health providers for nursing home residents and seniors in rural areas - treating and diagnosing mental illnesses. Under the current system, however, social workers are not paid for the mental health services they provide. Unlike other mental health providers who provide similar counseling, social workers cannot bill Medicare directly for their services. 
   The legislation corrects this inequity and makes sure clinical social workers get the payments they deserve. It also protects patients across the country and ensures that seniors in underserved urban and rural areas, where clinical social workers are often the only available option for mental health care, continue to receive the treatment they need. 
   Millions of seniors do not have access to, or are not receiving, the mental health services that they urgently need. Nearly 6 million seniors are affected by depression, but only 10 percent ever receive treatment. According to the American Psychiatric Association, up to 25 percent of older Americans suffer from significant symptoms of mental illness and in nursing homes the prevalence is as high as 80 percent. These mental disorders, which include severe depression and debilitating anxiety, interfere with the person's ability to carry out their daily activities and lower their quality of life.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 