SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CAROLINE COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that two Caroline County fire departments have been awarded a total of $264,599 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "I believe the federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support they need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve." 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received more than $43.7 million through the AFGP. 
   The Greensboro Volunteer Fire Company will use its $250,919 to purchase 40 new sets of turn out gear, 30 new Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) units with individualized face masks, as well as a new cascade air compressor, which will allow the department to refill their air tanks instead of driving to Queen Anne's County to refill their air tanks. For more information, call Chief Ed Stoner at 410-482-8420. 
   The Ridgely Volunteer Fire Department will use its $13,680 to purchase new hoses for their two engines. For more information, call Tim Gunderson at 410-634-2424. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your lives on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never give up my fight to give first responders the tools they need."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 