SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $500,000 FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that two Western Maryland fire departments have been awarded a total of $518,100 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "I believe the federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support they need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve." 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received more than $43.7 million through the AFGP. 
   The District 16 Volunteer Fire Department of Cumberland, Md., in Allegany County, will use its $285,000 to purchase a new hydrant pumper tanker. The truck will replace an engine that is more then 17 years old and has an open cab that poses a safety risk to members riding in the cab because they are exposed to the elements and risk falling off the engine. For more information, call Greg Boyd at 301-722-4444. 
   The Volunteer Fire Company of Halfway, Md., Inc. in Washington County will use its $233,100 to purchase a new combination rescue/hydrant engine with a 1,500 GPM pump. For more information, call Jeff Ringer at 301-582-2223. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your lives on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never give up my fight to give first responders the tools they need."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 