CONGRESS TO PRESIDENT BUSH: H2B EMPLOYERS NEED YOUR HELP
  Noting that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has already received enough applications to exceed the cap for H2B visas for the second half of fiscal year 2008, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and Congressman Bart Stupak (D-Mich.) today led a broad bi-cameral, bi-partisan effort to urge President Bush to work with the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Labor and Congress to ensure that small businesses throughout the country can keep their doors open this year. Failure to extend a critical provision of Senator Mikulski's Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, which expired on September 30 and protects small and seasonal businesses, is forcing small businesses around the country to deal with devastating cuts to their workforce.  
   "This is not a new issue, not a new policy, not a new loophole, and not a new cap. We're not breaking new ground here. We are simply trying to extend the guest worker provision that has expired. Small and seasonal businesses are counting on us, and we are letting them down," said Senator Mikulski. "We cannot let the businesses who rely on us be forced to limit services, lay off permanent U.S. workers, or worse yet, close their doors." 
   The Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, signed into law by President Bush in May 2005, made significant changes to the federal H2B (non-skilled seasonal worker) visa program. Among the changes, it exempted returning seasonal workers from counting against the national cap of 66,000 people. This provision, however, was not made permanent in the 2005 bill, and has to be extended each year until Senator Mikulski's proposal to make it permanent is passed into law. A last-minute, one-year extension was included as part of the 2007 Department of Defense authorization bill, but it expired on September 30, 2007. 
   Senator Mikulski joined Senator John Warner (R-Va.) in March 2007 to introduce a stand alone bill to extend the provision, and also included it as an amendment to the comprehensive immigration packages considered by the Senate this spring. Unfortunately, no bill was brought up for a final vote before the provision's expiration. Senator Mikulski also attempted to include an extension, as Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, into the fiscal year 2008 CJS spending bill. This provision, which unanimously passed the Senate, was removed in Conference with the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear President Bush: 
   The H-2B visa program offers assistance to small businesses who cannot hire enough American workers during peak seasons. We ask that you, the Department of Homeland Security, and Department of Labor to work with Congress to ensure that small businesses throughout the country can keep their doors open this year. 
   The H-2B visa was designed to provide access to non-immigrant, temporary workers for seasonal and peak load needs when no American workers can be found. These foreign workers offer short-term help and return to their home country at the end of their season. H-2B visas are capped at 66,000 visas per year. Even with 66,000 visas a year, it still does not meet the labor needs of seasonal businesses. 
   To help fill the additional needs, Congress established the H-2B returning worker program in 2005. Under this program, a worker who has received an H-2B visa in one of the three previous fiscal years is not counted against the 66,000 visa cap. Unfortunately, after three successful years the returning worker program expired on September 30, 2007. 
   By January 2, 2008, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) had already received enough applications to exceed the cap for H-2B visas for the second half of FY 2008. As a result, thousands of small businesses with peak seasons in late spring and summer will be locked out of the visa process. Many landscaping businesses, resorts, restaurants, carnivals, tourism industries, and other summer businesses will not have enough workers to meet their needs. And some businesses may even have to close their doors. 
   H-2B workers and returning workers in particular have provided relief to the tourism industry, seafood processors, landscapers, resorts, pool companies, carnivals and other small and seasonal businesses across the nation. Reaching the second H-2B cap for fiscal year 2008 in January highlights the immediate need to extend the returning worker program to help these businesses fill their seasonal labor needs and keep full-time Americans working. 
   Without an immediate extension of the returning worker program, businesses will face labor shortages and increased economic hardship this year. While Congress is working on legislative options, we respectfully request that you direct the Department of Homeland Security and Labor to work with Congress to address this H-2B worker shortage and provide much needed relief to small businesses across the country.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 