SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS CONGRESS HAS LEFT FBI BEHIND, HIGHLIGHTS ROLE IN INTEL COMMUNITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the FBI, today criticized Congress' lack of support for the agency, including its failure to pass the 2007 CJS spending bill, despite bipartisan support. Sen. Mikulski's comments came at today's Intelligence Committee hearing on domestic intelligence reform, featuring John Pistole, Deputy Director of the FBI, and Charles Allen, Assistant Secretary and Chief Intelligence Officer of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). 
   "For some time, I've been troubled by the lack of attention to domestic intelligence. While the FBI has been remaking itself, what has Congress been doing? While we are asking the FBI to change, we in Congress have not," said Senator Mikulski. "It is a disgrace. If I had to give a grade to the 109th Congress on this, I'd give an F. We have to start doing our job."  
   Excerpts from Senator Mikulski's statement are below: 
   "For some time, I've been troubled by the lack of attention on domestic intelligence. I thank Chairman Rockefeller and Senator Bond for the opportunity to highlight the FBI's role in the intelligence community, and congratulate you on this important first step. 
   "The FBI is still seen as a law enforcement agency only, and is often overlooked as an intelligence agency. But in my capacity as Chairman of the CJS Subcommittee, I know that the FBI is a frontline intelligence agency. I am honored to represent the FBI. Its job is to protect 300 million Americans from terrorism. 
   "What the FBI has done since 9/11 has not been fully grasped. The FBI has been asked to do multiple things. In addition to continuing its law enforcement mission focused on criminal investigations, the FBI has been tasked with creating a National Security branch, a 'service within a service' made up of four directorates. This was a conscious decision to not create a separate domestic intelligence agency like Britain's MI5. FBI staff focus on counterterrorism, counterintelligence, intelligence and WMD. The FBI is often either underestimated, underappreciated, or suddenly included in a 'must-do list' when we have to do funding. 
   "The FBI needs resources and help. The agency has a $6 billion budget for all of its missions. According to press reports, only $1 billion goes to intelligence functions. The intelligence community budget is just over $40 billion - the FBI gets 1/40th of that budget! 
   "Write this down: we passed the Defense and Homeland Security Appropriations bills; I'm for that. DHS [Department of Homeland Security] has been funded, CIA [Central Intelligence Agency] has been funded, NSA [National Security Agency] has been funded, NGA [National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency] has been funded, but the FBI has not been funded. It is a disgrace. 
   "I am working to ensure that we fix this in the CR [continuing resolution] which is being negotiated now. Senator Shelby, my ranking member on CJS and former Intelligence Committee Chairman, and I are fighting for this in our subcommittee. I never want to see this happen again. Looking forward, CJS Appropriations will make sure intelligence elements in our portfolio are funded - and the FBI will be a major focus. 
   "I want everyone to know what the FBI is doing, and I will hold a classified tutorial on the FBI in my subcommittee with specific examples. I will invite members of Intelligence Committee. I have discussed this with Director Mueller and he is enthusiastic about it, and ready to answer questions. 
   "While the FBI has been remaking itself, what has Congress been doing? I don't think we are working well on this. Is Congress supporting the FBI with its new roles? How are we helping the FBI do their jobs? While we are asking the FBI to change, we in Congress have not. We have been sluggish. If I had to give a grade to the 109th Congress on this, I'd give an F. We have to start doing our job."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 