SEN. MIKULSKI'S BILL ON ALZHEIMER'S EPIDEMIC PASSES KEY SENATE COMMITTEE
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Chairwoman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's Subcommittee on Retirement and Aging, announced today that the full HELP Committee has approved The Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2007 (S. 898). This comprehensive legislation, co-sponsored by Senator Kit Bond (R-Mo.), has been a top legislative priority for Senator Mikulski, and takes a significant step in providing real relief for patients and families suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
   "We are approaching an epidemic. A tsunami is on the horizon. We may know a lot about Alzheimer's disease, but it has been 100 years since it was first diagnosed," said Senator Mikulski. "Only 10 years after the first diagnosis of HIV/AIDS, researchers discovered a 'cocktail' that is now enabling people with AIDS to live productive lives. We need this same sense of urgency for Alzheimer's!" 
   The Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2007 doubles funding for Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) from $640 million to $1.3 billion. It will create a national summit on Alzheimer's to look at the most promising breakthroughs. The bill also creates a system for caregiver support that provides updated news, resources and tools for caregivers, families and physicians.
   "Not only is this disease awful for the person living with it and devastating for the family caring for their loved one, but it is horrifying to think of the financial impact it will have for our country," said Senator Mikulski. "Last year, we spent $120 billion to support people living with Alzheimer's. If we don't do something - it could cost us $1 trillion a year by 2050."
   Senator Mikulski has held three comprehensive hearings on the Alzheimer's epidemic since its introduction in March 2007. The first hearing examined the progress that has been made, and the need for a continued investment of federal resources in Alzheimer's research and programs. Witnesses included Harry Johns, President and CEO of the Alzheimer's Association, Dr. Marilyn Albert, Director of the Division of Cognitive Neuroscience in the Department of Neurology at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and Co-Director of the Johns Hopkins Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and Dr. Samuel Gandy, Professor and Director of the Farber Institute for Neurosciences, Thomas Jefferson University and Chair of the Medical and Scientific Advisory Council of the Alzheimer's Association. Witness testimonies are available at: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=270936.
   The second hearing in the series highlighted ongoing breakthroughs in Alzheimer's research in the public and private sectors, and the need for a greater federal investment. Witnesses at today's hearing were: Dr. Paul Aisen, MD, Professor of Neurology and Medicine and Director of the Georgetown Memory Disorders Program at Georgetown University, Dr. Arthur Kramer, Ph.D., Professor at University of Illinois Departments of Psychology and Neuroscience and Beckman Institute, Robert Essner, Chairman and CEO of Wyeth and J. Donald deBethizy, Ph.D, President and CEO of Targacept Inc. Witness testimonies are available at: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=274258.
   The third hearing featured an unprecedented roundtable with Dr. Elias Zerhouni, Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Dr. Julie Gerberding, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach, Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Dr. Richard Hodes, Director of the National Institute on Aging (NIA). The hearing focused on current federal Alzheimer's disease initiatives and programs, how to better coordinate federal efforts, and the facilitation of private and public sector partnerships. Witness testimonies are available at: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=279149.
   The bill now goes to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 