SEN. MIKULSKI URGES SENATE TO STAND UP FOR WORKERS' RIGHT TO UNIONIZE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, today urged her colleagues to move forward with a vote on the Employee Free Choice Act. Opponents have vowed to block consideration of this important bill, which would protect the ability of workers to join unions, in a procedural move tomorrow morning.  
   "Unions play a vital role in ensuring safe and fair working conditions. That's why I support the right to form and join unions," said Senator Mikulski. "It's time to get behind the working people's agenda. That's why I'm proud to stand with the labor movement. I wear the union label on my clothes, on my heart, and on the floor of the United States Senate. Workers can count on me to continue to fight to make sure they are treated with the respect they deserve." 
   Largely due to companies' anti-union campaigns, the right to organize has been severely compromised in recent years. The Employee Free Choice Act takes several steps to make it easier to unionize without employer coercion, including allowing workers to unionize as soon as a majority signs cards expressing support to join a union. This would make the organizing process faster and fairer. 
   The bill also allows workers to reach first contracts through mediation and arbitration. One third of unions formed through an election still have no contract after a year, normally because of employers' refusal to bargain. Under the Employee Free Choice Act, if the parties don't reach a contract within 90 days, either one can seek mediation from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). If there is no agreement after 30 days of mediation, the dispute goes to arbitration unless both parties agree to extend negotiations. The result of the arbitration would then be binding for two years. 
   In addition, the bill strengthens remedies for employer coercion when employees are trying to organize or get a first contract, by: creating injunctions requiring the National Labor Relations Board to get a court order stopping an employer that is firing or discriminating against workers based on their union activity, mandating employers who discriminate against workers to pay three times back pay, and fining employers who willfully or repeatedly violate workers' rights up to $20,000 per violation. Employers fire pro-union workers in 25 percent of organizing drives. Remedies for this coercion are inadequate, and employees must often spend years proving their cases - and then they are only eligible to receive back pay, minus any wages they earned from the job they got while their case was tied up in litigation, and reinstatement to their jobs.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 