SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES LAUNCH OF ABERDEEN TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER INITIATIVE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced the launch of the Aberdeen Technology Transfer Initiative (ATTI), a new economic development program designed to increase cooperation between Aberdeen Proving Ground's research laboratories and private sector companies and entrepreneurs. Senator Mikulski secured $1 million in federal funding to get this project off the ground.  
   "Aberdeen Proving Ground is the anchor tenant of Harford County's 21st century economy. The Aberdeen Technology Transfer Initiative will build partnerships with the private sector leading to innovation and new products that will make our economy stronger, make America smarter, make our troops and our communities safer," said Mikulski. 
   The Aberdeen Technology Transfer Initiative will host showcases where business can preview new technologies and research being developed at Aberdeen Proving Ground. As a result of these showcases, businesses may license technologies from APG for commercial application and build cooperative relationships that enhance their ability to develop products or provide technical assistance to APG. The first showcase will be held June 3rd and feature APG's automotive and robotics research. The ATTI will also award grants to entrepreneurs, acting as an incubator to get new companies off the ground. 
   The ATTI will be managed by APG's Office of Business Development and TEDCO, an arm of Maryland Department of Business and Economic Development that promotes business development in the state through the commercialization, development and deployment of technology. TEDCO operates similar programs across the state bringing the business sector together with Maryland's other federal labs, military bases, and research institutions. 
   Also attending the launch event were Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D); Tom Sadowski, Director of the Harford County Office of Economic Development; and representatives from APG and the APG Army Alliance.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 