SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS IMMIGRATION BILL IS RIGHT STEP FORWARD
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded the Senate's passage of comprehensive immigration legislation (S. 2611). The bill includes three top priorities for Sen. Mikulski - an extension of her H2B temporary worker fix, reforms that will make it easier for military service members to become U.S. citizens, and an expansion of the U.S. Visa Waiver Program that includes Polish citizens.  
   "Everything in Washington does not need to be a political hot potato. This bill shows that together, we can do better. We have worked on a bipartisan basis to deliver comprehensive immigration reform," said Senator Mikulski. "I support this bill because it not only protects our borders with strong security and enforcement provisions, but it also protects American workers. It rewards those who play by the rules, while making sure immigrants are treated with dignity." 
   Included in the legislation is a three-year extension of a crucial provision from Senator Mikulski's "Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act," which made significant changes to the federal H2B (non-skilled seasonal worker) visa program that saved thousands of small businesses around the country. Among the changes, it exempted returning seasonal workers from counting against the national cap of 66,000 people, providing significant relief to industries across the country. The provision was signed into law by President Bush in May 2005, and is set to expire on September 30, 2006. 
   "I promised small businesses they could count on me to keep fighting until we had a solution and they had the seasonal workers they needed to stay in business. My promises made are promises kept," said Senator Mikulski. "Without these seasonal workers, many businesses would be forced to limit services, lay off permanent U.S. workers or, worse yet, close their doors." 
   Senator Mikulski's "Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act" was also included in the Senate bill. Originally introduced in December 2005 to honor fallen Maryland soldier U.S. Army Spc. Kendell Frederick, the proposal demands better coordination among U.S. immigration and military officials. Spc. Frederick, 21, of Randallstown, was killed in October 2005 by a roadside bomb as he traveled in a convoy to get fingerprinted in order to process his citizenship application. Spc. Frederick tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen, but his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. 
   "There are over 40,000 non-U.S. citizens serving in the military today. Many are on the front lines in Iraq, Afghanistan and throughout the world, fighting terrorists," said Senator Mikulski. "They are focused on fighting the enemy. They shouldn't also have to fight the bureaucracy just to become a citizen of the country they are fighting for. If you are willing to fight and die for America, you should be able to become an American." 
   Both proposals will be negotiated as the bill moves to a Conference Committee of congressional leaders.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 