SEN. MIKULSKI CELEBRATES OPENING OF NEW COMPUTER LEARNING CENTER AT EDGEWOOD BOYS & GIRLS CLUB
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) took part in a ribbon-cutting ceremony today to celebrate the opening of the new computer learning center at the Edgewood Boys & Girls Club. Sen. Mikulski secured $218,475 in federal funds for the new computer center, which will serve at least 800 students in the Edgewood community.  
   "The Harford County Boys and Girls Clubs are teaching our kids the skills they need for successful lives," said Senator Mikulski. "They teach through leadership programs and character building. They give young people a real sense of community. They provide a safe place where kids can learn and grow." 
   Senator Mikulski continued, "When County Executive Harkins told me about the new technology center at the Edgewood Boys & Girls Club, I knew this would really make a difference for families. Access to technology is so important to give our children to tools they need to succeed in the 21st century. That's why I fought so hard to put this money in the federal checkbook." 
   There will be 38 new computers in the center, as well as educational software to teach children about photography, robotics, and how to use the Internet. The federal funding will also enable the Boys & Girls Club to hire two full-time instructors. 
   Senator Mikulski funded this project in the Veterans, Housing, and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) spending bill, which passed the Senate on January 23, 2003. 
   In addition, Senator Mikulski joined Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and others in sponsoring legislation that would allow the Boys & Girls Club of America to expand their clubs. There are currently 3,500 Boys & Girls Clubs across America and around the world, serving over 3.6 million children, ages 6-18. The bill authorizes the Club to receive funds through the year 2010 and increases the number of clubs in existence. By 2010, there will be 5,000 Clubs nationwide serving over five million young people. This legislation is currently pending in the Senate Judiciary Committee.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 