SEN. MIKULSKI: FBI NEEDS MORE RESOURCES TO MEET GROWING RESPONSIBILITIES SINCE 9/11
  At today's Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, Chairman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) said the President's proposed budget provides insufficient funds for the FBI to meet its evolving responsibilities as both a law enforcement and counterterrorism agency in the post-9/11 world. FBI Director Robert Mueller testified at today's hearing on the agency's fiscal year 2008 budget priorities. 
   "The number one job of government is to keep our communities safe from violence. But the rise in violent crime and the critical ongoing fight against terrorism have placed new pressure on the FBI," said Senator Mikulski. "Given all of these important roles and responsibilities, we must ensure that the FBI has the resources it needs. The lives of 300 million Americans depend on it." 
   Counterterrorism now accounts for 40 percent of the FBI's budget and almost 2,000 FBI agents have been shifted from violent crime into counterterrorism since 9/11. With violent crime increasing nationwide, the FBI needs adequate support to fulfill its increased role in keeping America safe.  
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "This is the second in our series of hearings focusing on security. Unfortunately, this comes in the aftermath of two tragedies - the tragic events at Virginia Tech last week and the death of FBI Special Agent Barry Lee Bush, a 20-year veteran of the FBI, who was killed in the line of duty in New Jersey three weeks ago. In both cases, we were reminded that violent crime is a growing problem in this country and the FBI's own statistics show it is on the rise. 
   "The number one job of government is to keep our communities safe from violence. But the rise in violent crime and the critical ongoing fight against terrorism have placed new pressure on the FBI. Just look at the FBI's top priorities: combating terrorism, preventing the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction, stopping violent crime on our streets, stopping foreign intelligence operations, stopping the exploitation of children, and fixing their information technology infrastructure. 
   "The FBI is both an intelligence and a law enforcement agency. It is no longer just a domestic law enforcement agency. It is now a global intelligence and law enforcement agency operating in over 50 foreign countries. Unfortunately, compared to other intelligence agencies, the FBI share of the overall intelligence budget is small. 
   "Yet, the FBI is charged with protecting 300 million Americans from a terrorist attack. In January, the President increased the FBI's role in counterterrorism by transferring the Render Safe mission from the Defense Department to the FBI. This means the FBI is now responsible for dismantling a nuclear device in the United States. 
   "This has increased the FBI's responsibility and placed added pressure on its budget. I am very concerned about the rising rate of violent crime. Just look at the most recent statistics from the FBI: robbery is up by 9.7 percent, aggravated assault is up by 1.2 percent, murder has increased by 1.4 percent, and for cities with populations of 500,000 to 1 million - the murder rate has increased by 8.4 percent. 
   "However, since 9/11, the FBI has shifted almost 2,000 agents from violent crime into counterterrorism. This forced state and local law enforcement to take up the slack, because of rising crime rates, state and local law enforcement are stretched to the limit. 
   "I believe we need more resources dedicated to violent crime. State and local law enforcement needs the FBI to help them fight street gangs like MS-13 and other types of organized crime plaguing our communities. Joint federal-state task forces are the most effective means to combat violent gangs, drug dealers and others who have a predatory intent. We should expand federal-state task forces to help locals fight crime on the streets. 
   "Unfortunately, the President's budget cuts $1.5 billion from state and local law enforcement. You cannot cut the COPS program when violent crime is on the rise. Our communities need federal resources to keep them safe. 
   "In addition, I am concerned about the recent disclosure of abuses in issuing National Security letters. The Justice Department Inspector General [IG] found the FBI had no tracking or compliance procedures. This is unacceptable. 
   "That's why we added $500,000 to the IG's budget in the Supplemental Appropriations bill to continue oversight of the FBI on this subject. In addition, we directed that $10 million of the FBI's budget be dedicated to implementing the IG recommendations to make sure the FBI fixes the problem. 
   "The FBI must not only protect us from terrorists, they have to protect our privacy and our civil rights. I commend Director Mueller for his swift response to this problem and I look forward to hearing his long-term plan to correct these abuses. 
   "This subcommittee will also maintain it's vigilance on Sentinel, the FBI's long-delayed IT program. After the collapse of Trilogy, the FBI must stay on track, and see that this program does not fail. 
   "At the Congress' request, both the GAO and the Justice Department IG are monitoring and overseeing this program. We will maintain our vigilant oversight to ensure that this program stays on track and that no taxpayer dollars are wasted. 
   "The President's proposed budget for the FBI for 2008 is $6.4 billion, a 5 percent increase over fiscal year 2007. The proposed budget for fiscal year 2008 provides funding for 11,868 special agents and 17,500 professional support personnel. 
   "I want to point out to my colleagues that since 2001, the FBI's budget has increased by over 100 percent. Few other agencies have had a 100 percent increase to their budget in just six years. But given the critical mission of the FBI, even a 100 percent increase may not be enough to fulfill its mission of protecting the American public. 
   "In counterterrorism, the budget proposes $2.5 billion, a $160 million increase over last year. This increase will pay for 176 additional special agents and 111 additional intelligence analysts in the counterterrorism division. Counterterrorism now accounts for 40 percent of the FBI's budget. 
   "In the area of violent crime, the fiscal year 2008 budget proposes to spend $2.1 billion, which is a $50 million increase over 2007. This is just a 2.5 percent increase over 2007. 
   "I have two concerns with this budget. First, the FBI's most recent statistics show a rise in violent crime across the country. When you add the $1.5 billion cut to state and local law enforcement in the President's budget, it becomes a double cut. Second, a 2.5 percent increase is not enough, given the needs of our communities all across this country. State and local law enforcement want to expand their cooperation with the FBI. 
   "The budget proposes to spend $22 million to fight crimes against children, a 5 percent increase over last year. We must do more to fight sexual predators. Our neighborhoods and communities need to be protected from these horrible predators. Since many of these predators use the internet and come from other states, only the FBI can mount a national fight against these predators, in cooperation with state and local law enforcement. 
   "Given all of these important roles and responsibilities, we must ensure that the FBI has the resources it needs. The lives of 300 million Americans depend on it."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 