SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF BILL TO STRENGTHEN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY IN AMERICA
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today praised the Senate's passage of the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act (S. 761). Sen. Mikulski joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues, including Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), in introducing the bill as part of her ongoing efforts to strengthen and maintain America's leading edge in science and technology.  
   "America must remain an innovation economy. This legislation creates the building blocks that we need for a smarter America," said Senator Mikulski. "Our nation is in an amazing race - the race for discovery and new knowledge, the race to remain competitive and to foster an innovation society, to create new ideas that lead to new breakthroughs, new products and new jobs. These innovations have the power to save lives, create prosperity and protect the homeland." 
   The COMPETES Act focuses on improving innovation in the United States by increasing the federal investment in research and education, and developing a national innovation infrastructure. The bill is a bipartisan legislative response to recommendations contained in the 2005 National Academies' of Science (NAS) "Rising Above the Gathering Storm" report and the Council on Competitiveness' 2004 "Innovate America" report. 
   Senator Mikulski has a history of fighting to strengthen America's innovation economy. Immediately after the 2005 release of the NAS report, Senator Mikulski joined Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Pete Domenici (R-N.M.) to launch plans for a legislative initiative to foster an innovation economy in the United States. In 2006, they introduced the Protecting America's Competitive Edge (PACE) Act, which was a package of three bills that would have implemented recommendations from the NAS report. The PACE Act never became law, but provisions from it have been incorporated into the COMPETES Act. 
   "A country that doesn't innovate, stagnates. The whole foundation of American culture and economy is based on the concept of discovery and innovation. That's part of our culture," said Senator Mikulski. "When you look at what has made America a superpower, it's our innovation and our technology. We have to look at where the new ideas are going to come from that are going to generate the new products and workforce for the 21st century."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 