ON HEELS OF NATIONAL GUARD DEPARTURE CEREMONY, SEN. MIKULSKI IMPLORES PRESIDENT NOT TO CUT TROOP FUNDING
  As she returned this morning from a departure ceremony in Pikesville, Md., for the Maryland Army National Guard's 58th Infantry Brigade Combat Team, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) urged President Bush not to cut critical funding to support troops on the battlefield in Iraq.  
   "I promised our departing Soldiers that I would do everything I could to support them on the battlefield and when they return. The 58th Brigade Combat Team is answering our nation's call, leaving their jobs and families to help Iraq build a more peaceful, stable future. I may not support this war, but I do support our troops," said Senator Mikulski. "The President must not veto Congress' supplemental bill - it is too important to the troops and their families." 
   President Bush has threatened to veto the emergency supplemental spending bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives last night and is expected to pass the Senate in a vote later today. The bill includes a provision that would start bringing troops home within 120 days of its enactment, with the goal of bringing most home by April 1, 2008. 
   "This supplemental supports our troops, follows the will of the American people, and follows the advice of the Iraq Study Group. It is time to change our direction in Iraq and bring our forces home swiftly and safely," said Senator Mikulski, one of 23 Senators to vote against the war's authorization in 2002. "This bill states clearly that Congress and the American people will continue to support and protect our troops. Our troops must understand that Congress will never abandon them: not while they are fighting on the battlefield and not when they come home. The best way to support our troops is to bring them home." 
   The bill provides an increased federal investment in troop care on the battlefield and after our wounded service members return from war. The bill also provides $20 million in additional funding for operations at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, D.C. 
   The spending bill restores $3.1 billion in critical funding for military construction projects required to implement the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission decisions. This funding will ensure that necessary infrastructure is in place to prevent a disruption in the military missions of incoming organizations, including those providing direct support to troops on the battlefield. This includes nearly $446.3 million in funding for Maryland military facilities. For details, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=271540.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 