SEN. MIKULSKI CONGRATULATES MARYLAND TEACHER NAMED NATIONAL TEACHER OF THE YEAR
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today congratulated Montgomery County kindergarten teacher Kimberly Oliver, winner of the National Teacher of the Year award. Oliver teaches at Broad Acres Elementary School in Silver Spring and was also named Maryland's Teacher of the Year.  
   "As a social worker and legislator, my goal has always been to make sure everyone in America has access to a first-rate education, so that no child or community is left out or left behind. Teachers like Kimberly Oliver represent the best we have to offer," said Senator Mikulski. "Congratulations to Kimberly and all the teachers across Maryland who make a difference in children's lives every day." 
   Oliver began teaching kindergarten at Broad Acres Elementary School in Silver Spring in 2000. Winner of the Montgomery County Teacher of the Year 2005 award, Oliver was also selected as Maryland's Teacher of the Year 2005. She was then selected to be one of four finalists for the National Teacher of the Year. She is the first National Teacher of the Year to hail from Maryland and the second teacher from the Washington, D.C., area to receive this award. A graduate of Hampton University, she received her master's degree in education from Wilmington College in Delaware. 
   "I am so proud of Kimberly. This dedicated young woman is using her life to bring knowledge to Maryland's youngest minds," said Senator Mikulski. "Kimberly Oliver is an inspiration to us all!" 
   Initiated in 1952, the National Teacher of the Year competition is the oldest national honors program recognizing excellence in the teaching profession and is a project of the Council of Chief State School Officers. The final four candidates for Teacher of the Year are selected by a panel of educators representing 14 different educational organizations. As the recipient of this award, Oliver will spend the next year traveling the nation as "America's Teacher."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 