SEN. MIKULSKI PAYS TRIBUTE TO FORMER REP. JORDAN
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has joined a group of her Senate colleagues, led by Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.), to honor former Rep. Barbara Jordan (D-Texas) with a U.S. postage stamp. In a request letter to Citizens Stamp Advisory Committee (CSAC) Chair Ronald A. Robinson, the Senators pointed to Rep. Jordan's devotion to civil rights and equality as reason for the tribute. CSAC is the organization that makes recommendations regarding commemorative stamp subject matter to the Postmaster General. The Committee is scheduled to meet in January 2007. The text of the letter is below:  
   Dear Mr. Robinson: 
   We are writing in support of a United States postage stamp to honor former U.S. Representative Barbara Jordan (D-TX, 18th). Representative Jordan was a pioneer whose devotion to civil rights for all Americans resonates to this day. 
   Barbara Charline Jordan was born in Houston on February 21, 1936. She was educated in Houston's public schools and she received a B.A. in political science and history from Texas Southern University in 1956. Then, she attended Boston University School of Law, graduating in 1959. She was admitted to the Massachusetts and Texas bars. 
   In a time when the odds were against her, Barbara Jordan was able to break down barriers and open doors for minorities and women. In 1966, she became the first African-American since 1883 to serve in the Texas Senate, where she served with distinction until 1972. That year, she won election to represent Texas' 18th District in the U.S. House of Representatives and became the State's first black Representative. In July 1976, she became the first African-American and the first woman to deliver a keynote address to the Democratic National Convention. In August 1994, President Bill Clinton awarded Barbara Jordan the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor. 
   We are respectfully asking that the Advisory Committee consider recommending a postage stamp to honor the life and work of Barbara Jordan. According to the Committee's criteria for selection, "Only events, persons, and themes of widespread national appeal and significance will be considered for commemoration." Former Representative Barbara Jordan's extraordinary contributions and legacy warrant such recognition.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 