SEN. MIKULSKI AMENDMENT TO STOP ELIMINATION OF FOSTER CARE CASE MANAGERS PASSES SENATE
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced the Senate has approved her provision to halt the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare (CMS) from implementing a new rule that would cut off funding for Medicaid case management by March 3, 2008, for children in foster care, and people with disabilities, mental illness and complex medical problems. Senator Mikulski introduced the measure as an amendment to the Indian Health Care Bill (S. 1200), which passed the Senate today, with Senators Norm Coleman (R-Minn.) and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), to delay the implementation of this rule until April 2009. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) is a co-sponsor of the amendment.  
   "This bipartisan amendment stands up for thousands and thousands of people all over the United States who are about to lose their social workers or their nurses because of a new, harsh punitive rule put out by the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare. I fought for this amendment, not just as the Senator from Maryland who is standing up for my constituents, but also as a professionally trained social worker. As a social worker, I have provided these very services and realize what will happen if my constituents cannot get them," said Senator Mikulski, a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. "This amendment would stop the CMS from implementing this new rule by delaying it until April 2009, when we have a new President and a new attitude. We object to the rule and we want to delay the rule until sensible heads prevail." 
   "The Senate vote today will block the Administration's proposed rule change severely limiting vital health services. I am proud that we were able to take positive action to protect Maryland's ability to provide needed case management services to people moving from institutional care into the community. It also will allow the state flexibility to manage its Medicaid program efficiently," Senator Cardin said. "For the health and welfare of our most vulnerable citizens, I urge the House to pass this full bill as soon as possible." 
   Under the new rule, 200,000 Marylanders may not receive case management services. These services help adults and children with complicated problems, people with disabilities, complex medical problems, mental illness and children in foster care.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 