SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO IMPROVE VETERANS' EDUCATION BENEFITS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) is continuing her fight to protect the rights of America's veterans by co-sponsoring two bills - the Total Force G.I. Bill (S. 644) and the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007 (S.22) - to improve education benefits for our troops returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.  
   "Our military men and women serve overseas in difficult and dangerous circumstances to keep America safe. They honor our country by volunteering to serve," said Senator Mikulski. "We must honor them by providing access to education when they come home that reflects the sacrifices they have made." 
   The Total Force G.I. Bill, introduced by Senator Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), would make educational benefits for the National Guard and Reserve adequate and equitable to benefits for the rest of our Armed Forces. More than 500,000 members of the Guard and Reserve have been making essential contributions to our missions in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere around the world since Sept. 11, 2001, but they are denied educational benefits that are commensurate with their service. The value of their standard Montgomery G.I. Bill (MGIB) benefits has fallen over the last 20 years from 47 percent to 29 percent of Active Duty benefits. 
   The Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007, introduced by Senator Jim Webb (D-Va.), expands the educational benefits our nation offers to the men and women who have served since Sept. 11, 2001. Since these attacks, there has been a sharp increase in the demands placed on the military. This bill will give returning troops educational and training benefits that mirror the benefits provided to veterans after World War II - including the costs of college tuition, room and board, and a monthly stipend. Existing law provides only a maximum of $9,000 per year, and requires service members to pay $1,200 during their first year of service in order to even qualify for educational benefits. 
   "We owe our veterans a debt of gratitude - not just with words, but with deeds. President Bush is calling for a surge of troops to Baghdad, but he is not even looking out for the service members who are already there or the veterans who are coming home," said Senator Mikulski. "Our active and retired service members need to know that America is with them."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 