SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT FOR CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) this week took two steps toward ensuring low-income children have access to the health care they need. She joined a group of her colleagues in introducing the Keep Children Covered Act of 2007, and in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), to fix a funding shortfall for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for fiscal year 2007.  
   "The SCHIP program provides health insurance to the children of many of America's working families. I fought to create the SCHIP program in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own. I will keep standing up for a federal government that fulfills its responsibilities to America's families and America's children." 
   The Keep Children Covered Act of 2007 would eliminate the funding shortfall for the SCHIP program that 14 states are facing in fiscal year 2007. The states in need are: Alaska, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, Rhode Island and Wisconsin. 
   Senator Mikulski also joined a group of her colleagues in sending a letter to Majority Leader Reid and Minority Leader McConnell today, urging them to address SCHIP's financial shortfall in forthcoming legislation. 
   SCHIP is a federal-state matching program providing health insurance to targeted low-income children, and some adults, in families with income above Medicaid eligibility levels. During the final days of the 109th Congress, Senator Mikulski fought to pass a provision to allow unspent federal dollars from SCHIP to be redistributed to the 14 states - including Maryland - facing a shortage of funds in 2007. This will help the states in the early months of 2007, but, as early as May of this year, the states will once again begin facing a financial shortfall.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 