SEN. MIKULSKI, TEAM MARYLAND URGE USDA TO HELP STATE FARMERS WEATHER CURRENT DROUGHT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), chair of the Maryland congressional delegation, was joined today by a bipartisan coalition of her Maryland colleagues in sending a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Mike Johanns, urging him to honor Governor Martin O'Malley's request to receive a Secretarial Disaster Designation. This designation will release federal assistance for many Maryland farmers, who will then become eligible for additional disaster relief funds.  
   According to the USDA, nearly 85 percent of the state is in "moderate" to "severe" drought, up from 37 percent a week ago. This is the third drought in Maryland since 2002, with Charles, St. Mary's and Calvert Counties among the most severely impacted. 
   Co-signing the letter with Senator Mikulski were colleagues Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D), House Majority Leader Steny H. Hoyer (D), Representatives Wayne T. Gilchrest (R), Albert Wynn (D), Roscoe Bartlett (R), Elijah Cummings (D), Dutch Ruppersburger (D), Chris Van Hollen (D) and John Sarbanes (D). 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Secretary Johanns: 
   We strongly support Governor Martin O'Malley's request for the State of Maryland to receive a Secretarial Disaster Designation. Maryland's farmers are experiencing the most significant agricultural drought since 2002 and this will cause major economic hardship for our farmers throughout the state. 
   According to the Maryland Department of Agriculture (MDA), this drought could result in more than $150 million in losses for our state's farmers. The Farm Service Agency estimates losses ranging from 30 percent to 60 percent for corn, soybeans, hay and vegetables. Precipitation in some parts of the state is more than 8 inches below average and the National Agricultural Statistics Service has given Maryland topsoil moisture a rating of 55 percent ("very short") and 36 percent ("short"). Subsoil moisture also is decreasing, with 40 percent rated as "very short," 48 percent "short" and only 12 percent "adequate." 
   Agriculture is one of the most important industries in our state and we urge you to respond quickly to Governor O'Malley's request and make all appropriate relief available to eligible farmers. Thank you for support of Maryland agriculture and our farmers.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 