SEN. MIKULSKI PAYS TRIBUTE TO 'IRON MAN' RIPKEN ON SENATE FLOOR
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today delivered a tribute on the floor of the U.S. Senate to Maryland's own Baltimore Oriole, Cal Ripken Jr., who will be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame on July 29, 2007. At a ceremony during Baltimore County's tribute to him last weekend, Senator Mikulski presented Cal Ripken Jr. with a Senate resolution she introduced with Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.). For photos from the event, go to: http://www.mikulski.senate.gov/calripkenjr.html. 
   "For we Orioles fans, it was never if Cal would go into the Hall of Fame, it was simply when he would go into it. Throughout his 21-year career, he has been the epitome of an 'Iron Man,' both on and off the field," said Senator Mikulski. "There's no question that Cal has earned his way into the Hall of Fame." 
   Senator Mikulski's floor speech, as delivered, is below:  
   "I rise with a great deal of joy and enthusiasm this morning as the senior Senator from Maryland and to be part of what all of Maryland is doing today. Today, Marylanders are on the road to Cooperstown. We're either literally in our cars or arranging transportation to go to Cooperstown, or we're going to Cooperstown in our hearts. Because, on Sunday, our beloved all-around Maryland, all-around American hero, Cal Ripken Jr., will be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. 
   "We are so excited about this because we want the world to know Cal Ripken Jr. as we know Cal Ripken Jr. What a great guy! The world knows him as a fantastic baseball player - and he certainly is. But he's also a fantastic human being. A devoted father, a faithful husband, a man of the community - giving his time and energy to philanthropic work. 
   "When we call him the 'Iron Man,' he absolutely is. Throughout his 21-year career, he has been the epitome of an 'Iron Man,' both on and off the field. I watched Cal go from being unknown to being the best known baseball player from Baltimore since Babe Ruth. I was there on that last day at Memorial Stadium when we closed that stadium down, and I was there at the first day of the opening of Camden Yards, and Cal was there. And I will watch him as he's inducted into the Hall of Fame. 
   "For we Orioles fans, it was never if Cal would go into the Hall of Fame, it was simply when he would go into it. Now, we baseball fans know about something called 'the streak.' We remember the victory lap Cal took around Camden Yards on that very special night. 
   "And the countdown - where the numbers were displayed not just at Camden Yards, but also at my office in Hart Senate Office building where I had a great big banner for our own countdown. 2,632 consecutive games, 431 home runs, 19 All-Star game starts, two American League Golden Glove awards, eight Silver Slugger Awards, two American League MVPs. The statistics go on. 
   "But statistics don't tell the real Ripken story. We remember not the numbers, but we remember the man - the strong, dependable presence of Cal Ripken Jr. Night after night, day after day, sometimes through injuries, through the wide range of emotions and pressures experienced as a major leaguer. Every game, there he was - at third base, at shortstop, smiling and doing his job. And doing it well. 
   "I remember that fateful night when Cal broke Lou Gehrig's long-standing record. To see that banner drop from 2,130 to 2,131, and to hear the admiration and jubilation of the crowd in Baltimore, was something I will always remember. The sustained cheers were never ending as Cal, urged by Rafael Palmeiro, took a lap around the field. It was a proud night for the Ripken family, for the Orioles, and for Maryland. 
   "It was a magical night. Families had come from all over for that game. Now, when I walked into Camden Yards, I thought maybe it would be a raucous night, maybe it would be a spirit of New Year's Eve that we have in the Inner Harbor. But when you walked into Camden Yards, it was a quiet night. It was a respectful night. It had an air of great dignity. People were bringing their children. They had come from all over. They knew that something very special was going to happen because of a very special man. That evening had as much dignity as the player himself. 
   "Cal's accomplishments transcend well beyond the baseball field. His character and demeanor were reflected in the successes he experienced every day on the field and off the field. He showed up and gave his maximum effort in every aspect. He puts his family above all. He's a community philanthropist and is committed to living something called the 'Ripken Way.' The 'Ripken Way' was something taught to him by his father, that very well-known baseball manager, Cal Ripken Sr. 
   "Now, this 'Ripken Way' is really something special. Is it complex? Did the Ripkens' hire handlers to tell them about it? No - it came from their hearts and their commitment to values. 
   "The 'Ripken Way' is about value-driven leadership. Its wisdom is enough to build great players and bind generations together. And here's what it is: 'Keep it Simple, Explain the Why, Celebrate the Individual, and Make it Fun.' And sweat those details and learn the little things so that the big things can be done the right way. It emphasizes clarity, simplicity and, most of all, personal integrity. 
   "I think the 'Ripken Way' is being used all over Maryland. It's used in our businesses and our homes. It's in our hospitals, where Cal and his wife Kelly have contributed so much to children. And it's in our hearts today as we salute Cal Ripken Jr. What a wonderful honor he's receiving! 
   "He applies the 'Ripken Way' on the ball field and off the ball field. He's established a foundation in his father's name, the Cal Ripken Sr. Foundation. It is not just about only baseball, but the values of sportsmanship and the values of integrity, honor, fidelity - the things that really do build iron in your character. This is the legacy that shaped Cal's life and so he wants to pass it on. Cal may be our local boy, but he's now going to be an international hero. 
   "There's no question that Cal has earned his way into the Hall of Fame. We congratulate him on his very stellar career. We so admire his work ethic and his commitment to community and to country and for the well-deserved honor of being inducted into the Hall of Fame. And while he's already achieved so much, I can't help thinking about him - the best is yet to come. 
   "So, on behalf of Senator [Ben] Cardin and myself, I'd like to officially introduce, and refer to the appropriate committee, a resolution commemorating Cal on his outstanding career in baseball and on his induction into the Hall of Fame. 
   "These are tough times in the Senate. So on a day where we can talk about something that really does deal with honor, fidelity, a commitment to community, a commitment to country, showing up every day and getting the job done - I think the way Cal would want us to tip our hats to him is to step up to the plate and do our job and to do it the 'Ripken Way.' That's what I'd like to do."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 