SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS ON SENATE MAJORITY LEADER FRIST TO GET PENSIONS CONFERENCE, LEGISLATION MOVING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today called on Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (D-Tenn.) to use his leadership to take urgent action on pension reform legislation and move along stalled conference committee negotiations upon the Senate's return in early June.  
   The text of the letter is below: 
   The Honorable Bill Frist 
  Majority Leader 
  United States Senate 
  509 Hart Senate Office Building 
  Washington, D.C. 20510 
   Dear Senator Frist: 
   The pension conference has stalled, and there is no resolution in sight. You must assert your leadership as Majority Leader to push this process along. It is critical for Congress to pass a pension bill as soon as possible to provide certainty to businesses, workers and retirees. Each day that passes without a bill puts Americans' retirement -- and our economy -- at risk. You must take swift action to prevent this from happening. 
   This is a very serious matter. The pension system is in crisis. Companies aren't fulfilling their obligations and are moving away from traditional defined benefit plans. Each day another company is ending its pension plan and replacing it with a less secure 401(k). American workers feel less secure. Many of them are losing their benefits. We have to protect workers' pensions earned through years of hard work. 
   The lack of progress in this conference is unacceptable. Since the conference formally convened, there have been only a few initial meetings of all conferees. We must immediately have substantive negotiations among all conferees. 
   It is critical that you, as the Senate Majority Leader, take personal action to bring about these meetings and to move the pension bill upon our return in early June. 
   Pension reform is of vital importance to the American people. I urge you to take every step necessary to protect Americans' pensions.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 