SEN. MIKULSKI HELPS BRING NEW POLICE AND COMMUNITY CENTER TO LA PLATA, MARYLAND
  Today Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski visited La Plata to announce almost $150,000 in federal funding for a new police and community center. This project was funded through the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Program in the Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) spending bill, which passed the Senate in January 2004. Senator Mikulski serves as Ranking Member of the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee.  
   Mikulski secured $149,115 for La Plata to renovate and construct a police and community center that will serve as headquarters for the town's police department, house its Emergency Operations Center, and house meeting space for community groups. 
   "The citizens of La Plata have been working to rebuild since their town was struck by a tornado in April, 2002. I'm so proud of the work they are doing to revitalize and reenergize their downtown," said Senator Mikulski. "I promised I would fight for a federal investment in this project. I'm proud to stand here today and deliver on that promise. This is a great example of 'partnership politics,' where community groups, local leaders, and the federal government are all working together to effect positive change." 
   Senator Mikulski continued, "I am fighting in the U.S. Senate to meet the day-to-day needs of Marylanders. This federal investment in La Plata will help create a more secure and friendly environment in their central business district." 
   Economic Development Initiative (EDI) grants are awarded on a competitive basis and must meet the following criteria: Does the project create jobs or meet a compelling human need? Does the project benefit low- or moderate-income neighborhoods? Does the project eliminate physical or economic distress? Is this a one-year request that will complete a project? Does this request have a funding match from a non-federal source? 
   The legislation passed Congress on January 22 and was signed into law by the President on January 23, 2004.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 