SEN. MIKULSKI, MAYOR DIXON ANNOUNCE RUSSELL STREET BRIDGE UPGRADES FINAL, INCLUDED $9 MILLION FEDERAL INVESTMENT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Baltimore City Mayor Sheila Dixon today in announcing the official completion of the Russell Street Bridge replacement project. As a member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski secured $9 million in funding for the safety and efficiency upgrades.  
   "Every day, Marylanders depend on our roadways to get them back and forth to jobs, schools and home. As a member of the subcommittee that funds transportation projects in the Senate, it is one of my top priorities to make sure federal funding is used to make sure Maryland's roads are safe, efficient and reliable. These upgrades to Baltimore's southern gateway do just that," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to keep Maryland commuters and visitors on the go - safely and smoothly." 
   Senator Mikulski secured $5 million for the bridge in the fiscal year 2003 THUD spending bill, and $4 million in the fiscal year 2004 THUD spending bill. The total cost of the project was $30 million. Beginning and ending at the Baltimore-Washington Parkway, also known as Interstate 295, the new bridge carries traffic into downtown Baltimore, replacing not only the Russell Street Bridge, which was originally built in 1964, but two adjacent bridges as well. It has been under construction since April 2005. 
   The upgrades improved the safety of the bridge, which was more than 40 years old and had never been rehabilitated. According to the Federal Highway Administration guidelines, the bridge qualified for replacement. The bridge will help handle increased traffic as a result of growing tourism, including Thurgood Marshall/Baltimore Washington International (BWI) Airport's expansions and the city's increasing convention capacity. The project also coincides with the commercial revitalization along Russell Street, including the $250 million Gateway South project south of Camden Yards and M&T Bank Stadium that will include office, retail, residential and restaurant space. 
   The new bridge features a state-of-the-art roadway weather information system with sensors and cameras built into the bridge to transmit weather conditions, road temperatures and live pictures for assistance in responding to weather emergencies. 
   The Russell Street Bridge carries about 60,000 motorists per day. It is the entry point for thousands of daily guests and workers traveling from the southern suburbs, Washington, D.C., and Thurgood Marshall/BWI Airport.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 