SEN. MIKULSKI OUTLINES REASONS FOR VOTING AGAINST BUSH'S NOMINEE TO U.N.
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) expressed her concerns with President Bush's nomination of John Bolton to be the United States Representative to the United Nations. Sen. Mikulski will vote "no" in today's confirmation vote. Her remarks, submitted for the Congressional Record, are below: 
   "I rise today to speak on the nomination of John Bolton to be the United States Representative to the United Nations. I have three criteria I use to evaluate all Executive branch nominees: competence, integrity, and commitment to the core mission of the department. Mr. Bolton has had wide-ranging experience and is competent. I do not agree with many of Mr. Bolton's past statements about the UN. However, his statements during the confirmation process indicate he is now committed to the mission of the UN. I will give him the benefit of the doubt on this one. But, I cannot be so flexible when it comes to the very serious questions about Mr. Bolton's integrity.  
   "I rise today as the Senator from Maryland and as a long-time member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. I have been working on reforming our intelligence community since I first became a member of the Intelligence Community before the tragedy of September 11. I served on the 2002 joint inquiry about what happened on that terrible day. I served on the Intelligence Committee's 2003 review of Iraq intelligence. 
   "I worked on the 2004 reform legislation that built on the work of the 9-11 Commission and that we passed last year. We looked for ways to prevent what happened on September 11 from ever happening again. We looked for ways to make sure that what happened with Iraq, where we thought there were weapons that weren't there, will never happen again. We looked for ways to get the right information to policy makers. 
   "Throughout all that work over the years, I have kept the many talented, hard working, dedicated, and patriotic Americans working throughout the world for our intelligence agencies foremost in my mind. One of my central concerns has been to try to ensure that they have the right and ability to do their jobs: to get the facts and speak truth to power. 
   "Speaking truth to power means telling the boss what he or she should hear rather than what he of she wants to hear. This is absolutely critical to the security of our Nation. That is why I am opposing John Bolton's nomination to be America's Representative to the United Nations. It is clear to me that he does not respect the truth or the hard working experts that labor day-in and day-out to provide policy makers with the best information and their best judgments. 
   "I have carefully reviewed the report prepared by the Foreign Relations Committee. It is evident to me, from reading the Minority Views of the committee's report, that Mr. Bolton is a bully, but not just any bully. He is a bully with a purpose: to browbeat intelligence professionals to disregard the facts, and to send a message to all the other intelligence professionals that they speak the truth at their peril. His purpose seems clear: to intimidate. His actions seem clear: to retaliate. "Mr. Bolton retaliated against those who disagreed with him. He claims not to have sought to have anyone fired. He said he merely "lost confidence" in them. But, that's just a polite way to say a person is unqualified and should be fired. It's a distinction without a difference. When a senior policy maker has lost confidence in you, I think we can all agree that your career is effectively over. 
   "Playing with words cannot obscure the fact that Mr. Bolton went after intelligence professionals for doing their jobs, for telling the truth, for speaking truth to power. He was the power, the boss, the senior official and he had no use for truth. "According to the investigation by the Foreign Relations Committee, Mr. Bolton tried to fire an analyst with the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research. The intelligence professional disagreed about language regarding biological weapons that Mr. Bolton wanted to include in a speech. Mr. Bolton also asked that the National Intelligence Officer for Latin America be reassigned, because he told Mr. Bolton that the language on biological weapons did not reflect the intelligence community's assessment. 
   "Mr. Bolton also appears to have abused his access to intelligence. The Senate Intelligence Committee recently investigated charges that Mr. Bolton shared classified information that he received from the NSA. The Minority View of that investigation concluded that Mr. Bolton did share classified information, after being specifically instructed by NSA not to do so. Even more troubling, it appears that the reason Mr. Bolton gave the NSA to justify his "need to know" was not the real reason he sought out the information. 
   "This is yet another example of John Bolton using and misusing intelligence to suit his own purposes. It is also clear that Mr. Bolton bullied a number of others who dared to disagree with him, including others in the intelligence community. My colleagues Senator Biden, Senator Voinovich and others have detailed these charges well. 
   "Mr. Bolton's intolerant attitude and conduct must not be rewarded. It inevitably results in chilling truth and facts. It is an attitude hostile to the very concept of speaking truth to power. "We need the world to understand that the US getting Iraq wrong was an aberration, a one-time, never-to-be-repeated mistake. The world must believe, and it must be true, that facts and truth are what inform our policies and actions at home and abroad. They must also believe our leaders and policy makers when they speak. When we speak about intelligence, people cannot be wondering, Is that American lying to me, misleading me, telling me half the truth? 
   "The stakes are too high: War and peace. Life and death. Weapons of mass destruction. Iran. North Korea. Terrorism. These are the stakes we are talking about. 
   "America cannot afford to send someone to the UN that many people already believe does not respect the truth. We already have a huge credibility gap at the UN and in the world. The UN was where our respected Secretary of State laid out our case for going to war with Iraq. We disclosed extensive intelligence information to demonstrate that Iraq had WMD, that it was a threat to the region, our country and the world. We now know, through no fault of our Secretary of State, that much of that information was wrong. 
   "Many of us have worked tirelessly to make sure that something like that never happens again. Building on the work of the 9-11 Commission, we worked for much of last year to pass dramatic and broad-based reform of our intelligence community. We fought hard to make sure that a single person would be in charge of the entire intelligence community, to mandate alternative or red team analysis to always make sure that we policymakers have the best information available. We are now working to make that reform a reality. Just last month, I voted with 97 of my colleagues to confirm the country's first Director of National Intelligence and his Deputy. We have done much, but there is much to do. 
   "We are building a new foundation for our entire intelligence community. It is a work in progress. Every step is important. But one of the most important steps is ensuring that our intelligence professionals understand and believe that their work is valued. That truth and facts are important. That they can and must speak truth to power. That we are on their side. That the Senate of the United States takes these matters seriously. 
   "That's why at the confirmation hearing of our nation's first nominee for Director of National Intelligence, I asked Mr. Negroponte if he agreed that the professionals in the intelligence community must be free to "speak truth to power." He said, "Truth to power is crucial. And we've got to assure the objectivity and integrity of our intelligence analysts." I also asked him if he will create a tone where there will be no retaliation for people who attempt to speak the truth. Mr. Negroponte said, "Yes. I think the short answer to you is a categorical yes." 
   "I asked those questions of the nominee, who was under oath and at an open hearing, for two very important reasons. First, I wanted the world to hear what he had to say. Second, I wanted all of our intelligence professionals throughout the world to hear what he had to say. I wanted our intelligence professionals to know that they were authorized, indeed, obligated to seek the truth and speak the truth. And, I wanted them to know that our most senior intelligence professional, the Director of National Intelligence, would not tolerate retaliation for speaking truth to power. Mr. Negroponte's statements stand on their own. 
   "I believe it would be wrong to confirm Mr. Bolton as the United States' representative to the United Nations. He has disregarded the truth. He has sought to punish intelligence professionals for speaking the truth. He has tried to intimidate intelligence professionals into agreeing with him regardless of the facts. 
   "To confirm Mr. Bolton would send a terrible message to our intelligence professionals. It would be a terrible signal for our intelligence reform efforts. It would undermine our efforts to restore our credibility in the world and to do the hard work of reforming the United Nations."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 