SEN. MIKULSKI JOINS BALTIMORE COUNTY OFFICIALS TO ANNOUNCE LARGEST FIREFIGHTER GRANT IN STATE HISTORY
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Baltimore County Executive Jim Smith, state and local officials today to announce that the Baltimore County Fire Department has been awarded nearly $1.75 million in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). This is the largest grant ever awarded to a Maryland fire department since the beginning of the AFGP in 2001. Senator Mikulski addressed firefighters from throughout Baltimore County at the Halethorpe Career Fire Station in Baltimore County this afternoon, and vowed to continue her fight for America's firefighters and first responders.  
   Senator Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and worked with colleague Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) to increase funding despite President Bush's drastic cuts. In his 2008 budget request, President Bush requested $287 million for the AFGP, down from $547 million last year. The Homeland Security Subcommittee increased funding to $560 million in the final spending bill, which is awaiting a Conference between House and Senate leaders to work out differences between their two versions of the bill. 
   "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it's a safety issue. If you are willing to put your life on the line every day for the benefit of others, you should never feel short-changed by your government. That's why I will continue to fight for the federal support first responders need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve," said Senator Mikulski. "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day." 
   "Firefighter grants represent a major effort by the Federal government to ensure that our nation's first responders have the equipment and training they need to do the job," said Senator Cardin. "Our firefighters are on the frontlines every day, and it is critical that they have the resources to deal with any emergency or life-threatening situation they may have to confront." 
   The Baltimore County Fire Department will use its $1.75 million to provide new interoperable communications to every career and volunteer fire station throughout the county. This represents 33 volunteer stations and 25 career stations. 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received approximately $52.4 million through the AFGP. This includes 35 grant awards for Baltimore County totaling $5.74 million.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202-228-1122.
 
 