SEN. MIKULSKI, COLLEAGUES CALL FOR NATIONAL VETERANS AWARENESS WEEK
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has joined a group of her colleagues led by Senator Joseph Biden (D-Del.) to introduce a Senate resolution to designate the week of November 11, 2007, as the eighth annual National Veterans Awareness Week to recognize and emphasize the sacrifices our veterans make for their country. The resolution encourages Americans to observe the week by educating elementary and secondary school students on the contributions made by our veterans. The resolution was unanimously passed by the Senate last night.  
   "Our veterans are our true American heroes. America's veterans have served their country with honor and bravery - risking their lives so that we may live in freedom," said Senator Mikulski. "National Veterans Awareness Week is a time for our country to reflect on all that they do for us, and to stand united to salute and thank our nation's veterans." 
   Since the Armed Forces have become all-volunteer, there has been a sharp decline in the number of people who have any personal connection with the military and our veterans. This resolution is designed to increase awareness among young people of the importance of the accomplishments of those who served in the Armed Forces. In the past century, tens of millions of Americans have served in the military and hundreds of thousands have died in the line of duty. Their sacrifices are critical to allowing all Americans to maintain their way of life here at home. 
   As the Chair/Ranking member of the Veterans Affairs-Housing and Urban Development (VA-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee from 1991-2004, Senator Mikulski has a long history of standing up for our veterans. She has consistently fought for increased funding for veteran health care, services and benefits, while insisting on competent and compassionate treatment. This year, Senator Mikulski co-sponsored the Dignified Treatment of Wounded Warriors amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to improve health care for veterans and returning injured service members. 
   "Our military men and women make great sacrifices and honor their country by volunteering to serve. We must recognize and honor their service, not just with words, but with deeds," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to make sure we do not abandon our veterans or our troops - on the battlefield or after they come home needing care." 
   The Senate has passed a resolution to recognize National Veterans Awareness Week every year since 2000.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 