SEN. MIKULSKI QUESTIONS SECRETARY GATES ON PROGRESS IN CARE FOR WOUNDED WARRIORS
  At today's Senate Appropriations hearing, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) questioned Department of Defense Secretary Robert Gates on the progress that has been made on implementing recommendations in recent reports on the status of military medicine and ongoing care for veterans across the country.  
   "Secretary Gates, your response to the accounts at Walter Reed were indeed vigorous. I want to thank you for giving us such a strong and human response," said Senator Mikulski. "But I need to know where we are. Is implementation moving forward? We need to know what you need. Because we might be in a long war now, but are going to be in for an even longer period of recovery, rehab and sustainability for these very injured men and women." 
   Following a Washington Post series revealing deplorable living conditions facing returning Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans at the Army's flagship military hospital, Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C., Secretary Gates created an Independent Review Group (IRG) that made almost 70 recommendations on outpatient care. He also established a new oversight committee chaired by Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England to implement the IRG's recommendations. This coincided with the Dole/Shalala Commission, which made six major recommendations on caring for America's Wounded Warriors. 
   After reading The Post's series, Senator Mikulski and Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) called on Secretary Gates to launch an immediate investigation of both Walter Reed and Bethesda Naval Hospital. 
   "If conditions at Walter Reed, the crown jewel of military health care facilities, have degraded to the point where mouse traps are handed out to patients, how can we feel confident that our troops and veterans truly have the care and transition assistance they have been promised at any facility across the country?" the Senators asked in a letter to Secretary Gates. 
   Also testifying at today's hearing were Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Marine General Peter Pace, who will retire on September 30, 2007, after 40 years in the Marine Corps. 
   "I want to express my appreciation for your service General Pace," added Senator Mikulski. "You've seen us at our darkest days, and you've seen us at our best days. For those 40 years, I thank you for what you've done."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 