SEN. MIKULSKI TO OPPOSE JUDGE ROBERTS CONFIRMATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) took to the floor of the U.S. Senate today to announce her decision to oppose the confirmation of Judge John G. Roberts Jr. to be the next U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice. 
   "In the end, I have too many doubts about what Judge Roberts will mean for civil rights and constitutional liberties caused by what he said - and what he didn't say. The American people are entitled to know if Judge Roberts will be a protector of their most basic and fundamental rights. They are entitled to know his commitment to a broad definition of non-discrimination and the right to privacy in both personal and public decisions," said Senator Mikulski. "It is not acceptable now, nor has it been in the past, for a nominee to hedge, be silent or evasive about important issues. What he believes is what he is, and it will shape the Supreme Court for the next 20 years."  
   In July 2005, as Dean of the Women Senators, Senator Mikulski joined six of her Democratic women colleagues to launch an interactive website that engaged Americans in the Supreme Court confirmation process of Judge Roberts. The website, democrats.senate.gov/askroberts, offered the public an opportunity to submit the questions they wanted Judge Roberts to answer at his hearings. More than 40,000 questions were submitted and delivered to the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
   To hear and/or broadcast Senator Mikulski's statement from today, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 4580. 
   Senator Mikulski's full floor statement, as prepared for the congressional record, is provided below: 
   "I rise to address one of the most significant and far reaching decisions a Senator makes - the vote on a confirmation of a Supreme Court justice. This vote will have an immense impact on future generations. We are voting on the person who will lead the Court for the next 20 years. 
   "A Senator is called upon to make two decisions that are irrevocable and irretrievable - one is the decision to go to war, the other is the confirmation of members of the Supreme Court. The people of Maryland have entrusted in me the right to make this decision and I take this very seriously. 
   "When I thought about this nomination, two of my main questions were: What will it mean for the fundamental Constitutional liberties that have meant so much to so many? What will a Chief Justice Roberts mean for their future? 
   "After a thorough and careful review of his record and his testimony, I will oppose the confirmation of Judge Roberts to be Chief Justice. 
   "I do so because I have too many doubts about the direction a Roberts' Court will take us - persistent, nagging doubts about his position on non-discrimination in personal decisions and public policy. Is it thorough? Is it broad? In particular, my concerns are: Will he protect civil rights like the Voting Rights Act? Will he ensure that disabled Americans have full access to our society? Will he protect Title IX, the landmark law that prevents gender discrimination in education? Will he protect the right of privacy? 
   "When I decide how I will vote on any nominee for the federal bench, I have three criteria. First, is the nominee competent? There is no doubt that he is competent and I noted carefully his endorsement by the American Bar Association. Second, does he possess the highest personal and professional integrity? I believe he is a man of integrity. Third, will the nominee protect core constitutional values and guarantees that are central to our system of government? I do not know the answer to this question. Yet, based on his writings and testimony, I am left with persistent doubts about whether he will safeguard civil rights, the implicit right to privacy and equal protection under the law. 
   "I have approached this nomination with an open mind and an open door. I met with Judge Roberts. He is intelligent; he is affable. Though appealing, his personal demeanor is not synonymous with personal philosophy, nor judicial philosophy. It is not his demeanor that we are voting on. I then looked to the hearings; I paid close attention to his testimony, his writings and the testimony of others. I was disappointed that we didn't have access to documents from the 16 cases, even though similar documents were provided when Justice Rehnquist was nominated. 
   "I tried to get insight into his legal reasoning and judicial philosophy. Is he smart - yes. Is he experienced - yes. But at the end of the day, I was left with persistent, nagging doubts about what he thinks and whether he will safeguard the rights that Marylanders and all Americans rely each day like the right to vote, the right of privacy, and the right to equal opportunities. 
   "In the hearings, he had the opportunity to let us know whether he would secure these precious rights. Yet, he did not clear up uncertainties. He did not back away from his record and his writings. He would not tell us if he shared the views of his clients. He left too many doubts. 
   "For example, let's take the issue of civil rights. One of the most important civil rights is the right to vote. Yet, Judge Roberts left me with serious doubts. One of the most compelling testimonies during the hearing was that of Congressman John Lewis, a hero of the Civil Rights movement. He raised questions about whether Judge Roberts would support the basic guarantees of the Voting Rights Act. This law ensures that every citizen may vote. It is the very foundation of our democracy. It eliminated discriminatory practices like poll taxes and literacy tests. Yet as a lawyer in the Reagan administration, Roberts held a very restrictive view, seeking to limit the reach of Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act. He argued that only intentional discrimination violated the law, but not practices that had the effect of discriminating and excluding minority voters. If his argument prevailed, it would have made it virtually impossible to challenge discriminatory voting rights practices that stood in the way of African Americans voting and holding elective office. The hearings offered Judge Roberts an opportunity to clarify or back away from these views. Yet, he said nothing to distance himself from the positions he took. 
   "Let's go to the issue of disability rights. He also left doubts about whether he would provide disabled Americans with equal opportunities. As a lawyer in the Reagan Administration, he wrote a memo attacking a federal court decision that would have provided a deaf child with learning tools. He thought it was too burdensome. He thought states should not be required to provide equal opportunities to handicapped children and called the lower court that did so 'activist.' What would this mean for disabled children who can lead rich lives if they receive an education? What would this mean for his interpretation of the Americans with Disabilities Act? This raises doubts for me about whether he would ensure that disabled Americans have full access to our society. 
   "I also have doubts about Judge Roberts' commitment to gender equality. Title IX prevents gender discrimination in education. It says schools that receive federal funds can't treat men and women differently. That means schools have to give boys and girls the same opportunities in scholarships, access to classes and in sports. During his tenure in the Reagan and Bush Administrations, Judge Roberts argued against equal educational opportunities for boys and girls. He tried to prevent a broad application of Title IX. He argued that only the part of the school receiving direct federal dollars, but not that the whole school, should have to abide by Title IX's protections. That would have meant schools could discriminate in their athletics or scholarships programs even when they got federal dollars. In his testimony, he did nothing to back away from this view. What would a Roberts' Court mean for the millions of girls who now have access to science and engineering scholarships, can play on girls' sports teams, and participate fully in every aspect of education? 
   "Finally, in the area of the constitutionally protected right to privacy - I appreciate Judge Roberts' candor on the right to privacy. He certainly said more on it than some other nominees have. Yet what he said does not tell us if he thinks the right to privacy extends beyond the holding of Griswold, which upheld the right of married people to buy contraception (Connecticut had banned the sale of contraceptives). Many of his answers sounded eerily like those of Justice Clarence Thomas. Thomas said there is a constitutional right to privacy, yet refused to say how that would apply to the most personal and private decisions made by adults. Roberts followed the same script. He refused to clarify his previous dismissal of Roe vs. Wade nor would he elaborate on what the right of privacy includes. What would that mean for the future of reproductive rights? What would that mean for the future of privacy rights in general? This is one of the most important and evolving protections of our Constitution. Just think how profoundly society has changed with the Internet and information technology. Twenty years ago, we would not have thought about privacy rights in this context. But today, we also need to consider how Judge Roberts would apply the right of privacy in a world where all our most personal health and financial records can easily be stored and shared. 
   "In the end, I have too many doubts about what Judge Roberts will mean for civil rights and constitutional liberties caused by what he said - and what he didn't say. The American people are entitled to know if Judge Roberts will be a protector of their most basic and fundamental rights. They are entitled to know his commitment to a broad definition of non-discrimination and the right to privacy in both personal and public decisions. It is not acceptable now, nor has it been in the past, for a nominee to hedge, be silent or evasive about important issues. What he believes is what he is, and it will shape the Supreme Court for the next 20 years. After a careful review of the record before us, I simply have too many doubts. Doubts about his commitment to civil rights like the Voting Rights Act, rights for the disabled, prevention of gender discrimination in education and the right of privacy. His views remain too much of a mystery to be sure that he will safeguard fundamental rights. 
   "When my name is called in the U.S. Senate for his nomination, I will vote 'no.'"
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 