SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS KEYNOTE AT GOUCHER GROUNDBREAKING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) delivered the keynote address at today's groundbreaking of Goucher College's new Athenaeum building, which will become a vital connection point between the academic, cultural and social pursuits for community members both on- and off-campus. Sen. Mikulski fought for nearly $1 million in federal funding to not only build the Athenaeum, but to also support a new community service center that will be an important element of the Athenaeum project. This federal investment will be paired with significant private matching funds.  
   "Goucher was founded on a belief in higher education and intellectual rigor - the principle that all people, even if they were left out of the Constitution, had a right to be educated. No matter how much Goucher changes, it remains the same," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so proud to have secured the funding for this new building. The Athenaeum is more than the sum of its parts - it is reflective of what Goucher is all about. This is a building about ideas - a place where students will turn values into action, and those actions will change lives." 
   The 100,000 square-foot building will be open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and will feature a new, technologically superior library, a spacious open forum for performances, public discussions and other events, a café, an art gallery, a center for community service and multicultural affairs programming, and spaces for exercise, conversation and quiet reflection and relaxation. Construction on the Athenaeum will begin this May, with an anticipated delivery date of fall 2009. 
   Goucher's community service program was established in the early part of the 20th century. In 1994, they began their service learning program to integrate volunteer service and academics. Goucher is a founding member of the Shriver Center for Higher Education, a consortium of 12 Baltimore-area colleges and universities committed to responding to the needs of those who live and work in the city. 
   "I truly believe in the value of community service and neighbor helping neighbor. With every opportunity, there is an obligation and there is a greater good than personal gain," said Senator Mikulski. "Volunteers are advocates for their communities. Everyday, Goucher students are fighting for your communities. That's why I'm fighting for you."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 