SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE SENATE YOUTH PROGRAM DELEGATES
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) have announced the appointments of Kevin McGinnis and Tarangi Sutaria as the Maryland delegates to the 44th Annual United States Senate Youth Program in Washington, D.C.  
   "I am so proud of Kevin McGinnis and Tarangi Sutaria, who have demonstrated their leadership and commitment to public service as they continue their studies," said Senator Mikulski. "These young people are America's future leaders. The United States Senate Youth Program will help prepare them to take up the challenge of making the world a safer, stronger and smarter place to live." 
   Kevin McGinnis, a resident of Salisbury, is the Alternate Student Representative to the Wicomico County Board of Education at Parkside High School. His leadership experience includes service as an Ambassador for Maryland State to HOBY, Parkside High representative for the Youth Foundation Fund, Vice President of National Honor Society, Vice President of Spanish National Honor Society, Varsity Math Team member and Mock Trial team member. He plans to attend the University of Maryland and major in Public Policy/Environment. 
   Tarangi Sutaria, a resident of Montgomery Village, is President of the Student Council at Gaithersburg High School. Among her many school leadership activities are: Student Government Community Service Committee Chair, Class of 2006 President and Staff Leadership Team Student Representative. Tarangi serves as the Student Representative to the National Network of Partnership Schools and is a member of the National Honor Society. She participates in the Asian American Club as Historian, Youth Chorus, Maryland Junior All-State Choir and the Key Club. 
   Chosen as Alternates to the 2006 program were Gail Gutowski, a resident of Lusby who attends Patuxent High School and Jeffrey Lasser, a resident of Clarksville who attends Altholton High School. 
   The student leaders will be in Washington, D.C., from March 4-11, 2006, for a week of intensive study of the federal government and, in particular, the United States Senate. Each of the 140 student delegates will also receive a $5,000 college scholarship. The scholarship, in addition to the program week in Washington, D.C., is made possible by a grant from the William Randolph Hearst Foundation.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 