SEN. MIKULSKI BRINGS FIGHT FOR ACCESS TO HIGHER EDUCATION TO CARROLL COUNTY
  In a visit to McDaniel College today, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined college president Joan Develin Coley in addressing the need for a greater federal investment in higher education. Sen. Mikulski highlighted the need to make college more affordable for Maryland families and to keep America competitive.  
   "Higher education is part of the American dream - it shouldn't be a financial nightmare. I know how hard it is to pay for college," said Senator Mikulski. "Middle class families feel stressed and strained - working and saving to pay for tuition. Students are struggling to make ends meet and their student debt is like a first mortgage." 
   At this afternoon's press conference, Senator Mikulski was joined by students who are struggling to pay for their education and discussed her proposed tuition tax credit bill. This legislation would offer families or students a credit of up to $4,000 a year per student to help curb the cost of higher education. The credit would apply to full-time, part-time and non degree-seeking students. 
   Senator Mikulski also spoke about the role of higher education in creating an innovation agenda to keep America competitive. Senator Mikulski recently joined a bipartisan group of colleagues to introduce the PACE Act, which includes provisions to increase math, science and engineering scholarships and graduate fellowships, offers tax credits for employers who support continuing education for practicing scientists and engineers, and continues to improve visa processing for international students and scholars. 
   "The benefit of education is to the student and to the society as a whole. Our nation today is in an amazing race for discovery and new knowledge to foster an innovation society," Senator Mikulski said. "Students need the tools and resources to help keep America competitive. The United States needs to provide an opportunity ladder and one rung should be access to higher education to educate a 21st century workforce." 
   Senator Mikulski is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 