SEN. MIKULSKI: COAST GUARD REPORT SHOULD HALT LNG FACILITY APPLICATION
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today cited a U.S. Coast Guard's waterway suitability report as further evidence to reject the application to create a proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) site at Sparrow's Point in Baltimore. An application by AES Sparrows Point LNG, LLC is currently under consideration by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). In its report released today, the Coast Guard stated that the Port of Baltimore is not suitable for LNG activities because AES' risk calculations and proposed risk reduction measures are insufficient. Senator Mikulski, who has been an outspoken critic of the proposed site, pledged to follow up with a congressional delegation letter to FERC Chairman Joseph Kelliher this week.  
   "I am absolutely opposed to a new LNG facility in Sparrows Point. Today's report confirms what we have known all along - our state and local law enforcement are already stretched too thin and don't have the resources to adequately protect potential LNG tankers and a new facility. As the state's senior Senator, I must do all I can to protect the Port of Baltimore and the people of the Baltimore metropolitan area," said Senator Mikulski. "It is my responsibility to make sure the right people are asking the right questions to protect the American people." 
   At an April 2007 field hearing of the House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee's Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, chaired by Team Maryland colleague Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), Senator Mikulski testified in opposition to the proposed facility at Sparrows Point. Also testifying at the hearing was FERC spokesman Richard R. Hoffman, who clearly stated that he thought any proposed facility that did not receive a favorable waterway suitability report would not go forward. Senator Mikulski's prepared testimony can be found at: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=274078. 
   If the application is approved, LNG tankers would have to travel through the narrowest portions of the Chesapeake Bay, under the Bay Bridge, through heavily used commercial fishing and recreational boating areas, to the mouth of the Port of Baltimore. This is a densely populated area that is less than two miles away from residential communities that are home to over 65,000 residents. 
   For details on the Coast Guard's report, please contact Steve Carlton at 757-398-6239.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 