SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE $1.27 MILLION FOR PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Prince George's County Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department has been awarded more than $1.27 million in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Prince George's County communities. Congratulations to Prince George's County Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Prince George's County Fire and Emergency Medical Services Department will use its $1.27 million to install diesel exhaust systems in 37 career and volunteer professional fire stations around the county. This is the second largest award for a Maryland fire department this award cycle. For more information, call Mark Brady at 301-883-5220. 
   So far this funding cycle, Maryland fire departments have received 62 awards totaling $8,866,978. This includes seven awards to Prince George's County fire departments totaling $2,040,359. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 