SEN. MIKULSKI WANTS ANSWERS FROM BUSH'S STATE OF UNION
  In a taped address, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) called on President Bush to make full use of his upcoming State of the Union address by answering the American people's pressing questions over the war in Iraq, healthcare and incompetence within his administration.  
   Senator Mikulski outlined a list of concerns the President must honestly address, including the human and financial cost of the war, the burden of healthcare and prescription drugs, and the continuous failures under his leadership. 
   To hear and/or broadcast Senator Mikulski's full statement of her expectations for the address, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 5279. Or click here to download a high-quality mp3. 
   A transcript of Senator Mikulski's statement, as delivered, is provided below: 
   "President Bush will deliver his fifth State of the Union address on Tuesday night. I hope he will use this opportunity to answer some important questions for the American people. 
   "I want to hear three things from him: Number one - I want to know how is he going to bring the troops home - and how are we going to pay for the war? 
   "I also want the President to be a straight-talker with the American people and tell us how we can work together to create jobs that stay in the United States and have healthcare for people at every age and afford higher education. 
   "I also want to hear the President talk about how he is going to get rid of the incompetence in his administration so we can have a government we can count on. 
   "In terms of Iraq, I want to hear the President give us real answers. U.S. troops have earned our gratitude - not just in words, but with deeds. I'm really hot about this. Protecting our troops is not a problem of money. It's a problem of leadership. Our men and women are on the battlefield. They need the right equipment to keep them safe. 
   "We hear about shortages and flaws in design. Every day there is one more report, and one more fatality. This war is costing us $2 billion a week. We've got to make sure that we're getting our money's worth and protect our troops who are protecting us. 
   "What I want to know from the President is how are we really going to pay for this war? The President told us that he was going to pay for it using Iraqi oil revenues. 
   "Have we seen any of it? 
   "Are your gas prices down? 
   "Your home heating oil cheaper? 
   "Is your tax bill lower? Oh, no. 
   "So I think the President's got to outline when we're going to start seeing some of that oil revenue. 
   The President has to give us a specific plan about how to bring our troops home and how we're going to pay for this war as long as we're there. 
   "I also want the President to talk about healthcare. All Americans need to have healthcare at any age. 
   "Let's start with this prescription drug mess that they created: Medicare Part D. Boy, was it a mistake and he needs to admit it. It's one more give away for the drug companies and subsides to the insurance companies. We've got to make healthcare affordable. That means providing tax breaks to small businesses to provide healthcare to their employees - helping good guy big businesses pay for healthcare, especially for their retirees. 
   "Let's use our tax code to help provide healthcare. We need to know - what is his plan? And I also want to hear how he intends to, in terms of the prescription drug benefit, number one, simplify it. Number two, negotiate better prices and cheaper prices with the drug companies. Number three, make the premiums more affordable. 
   "I want to also make sure we're coming up with the right cures. This is why I'm a strong supporter of stem cell research. I need President Bush to say that he's on the side of stem cell research - that he's not going to politicize science, he's going to support science. Stem cell research offers such a cornucopia of opportunity. Let's work together to save lives instead of playing politics. 
   "Then I want the President to talk about how he's going to get rid of the incompetence in his administration. There is a persistent pattern of bringing in the wrong people to do the job. Look at the terrible tragedy of Katrina. The people of the Gulf Coast were doubly victimized -- first by Katrina and then by their own government. How about, 'Hey, you're doing a great job, Brownie?' We need to make sure that we have someone in charge ready to handle a national disaster, or any other disaster. 
   "There's also a failure of leadership at the Food and Drug Administration. President Bush appointed a veterinarian to stand sentry over the very safety of our drugs. Wonderful professional, but I'm not sure that was the right person. Now we have a temp from NIH standing sentry over our food and our drugs. We need to have a full-time, competent person who's doing this. 
   "And then how about mine safety? Boy, weren't we all feeling so bad as we watched what unfolded in West Virginia? This administration has turned their back on workers, diluting rules and diluting enforcement. We again need better leadership. 
   "Together, we can do better - but we need to do better."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 