SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR STUDY INTO FIREFIGHTER CANCER RATES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today requested that Health and Human Services Secretary Michael O. Leavitt commence a study on the risk of cancer among firefighters. The Senator's efforts come after a Johns Hopkins University study yielded inconclusive results. This issue was highlighted in a letter received this week from Anne Arundel County Fire Chief Ronald D. Blackwell.  
   "Firefighters and their families already understand the hazards of being on the job, whether it is rushing into a burning building or responding to a chemical spill," Senator Mikulski wrote. "I believe that they have the right to know the potential health hazards of simply reporting for duty." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   January 27, 2006 
   The Honorable Michael O. Leavitt, Secretary U.S. 
  Department of Health and Human Services 200 
  Independence Avenue, S.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20201 
   Dear Secretary Leavitt: 
   I am writing to urge you to conduct a study on the risk of cancer faced by firefighters. 
   In 2004, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health conducted a study to determine if identified cancer clusters among firefighters in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, could have been caused by carcinogenic compounds they were exposed to during training exercises. 
   The study concluded that compared to the general public, firefighters with greater exposure to fires have higher risks of cancer. However, they were unable to identify the specific risk firefighters may have for cancer and other diseases. Additional research, including a formal epidemiological study, was recommended. This may not be limited to Maryland firefighters. Additional research into this important issue could potentially save lives. 
   There are over one million firefighters in the United States, of which 750,000 are volunteers. These brave men and women are our true heroes. Every day they make personal sacrifices to save lives, save homes, and save communities. Over the years I have worked tirelessly to get our firefighters the equipment they need to do their job safer and smarter. But supporting our first responders is about more than turn-out gear and fire trucks. That is why this research is so important. Firefighters and their families already understand the hazards of being on the job, whether it is rushing into a burning building or responding to a chemical spill. I believe they have the right to know the potential health hazards of simply reporting for duty. 
   I look forward to working with you to ensure that our firefighters are protected. We need to do all we can to protect our first responders, so they can protect us. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 