SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES CALL FOR RELEASE OF IMPRISONED IRANIAN-AMERICAN SCHOLAR
  As human rights advocates hold a vigil across the street from the United Nations Plaza in New York City today, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) continued her call for the immediate release of Montgomery County resident and American scholar Dr. Haleh Esfandiari from an Iranian prison. Dr. Esfandiari, the Director of Middle East programs at the Woodrow Wilson International Center, has been jailed by the Iranian government since May 8 after more than four months of virtual house arrest following a visit to her ailing 93-year-old mother. For more information, go to: www.wilsoncenter.org/halehnews.  
   Senator Mikulski's statement, included below, was read at today's vigil: 
   "I wish I could be with you today during today's important vigil at the United Nations Plaza. I want to thank Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Vital Voices and others for bringing us together - know that I stand with you as you fight for the freedom of the four Iranian-Americans being detained by the Iranian Government. 
   "Our hearts go out to Haleh Esfandiari, Kian Tajbakhsh, Parnaz Azima, and Ali Shakeri - and our prayers are with them and their families at this difficult time. All four have been unjustly targeted by Iran's government. I am personally very concerned about Maryland's own Dr. Haleh Esfandiari, who has been unlawfully imprisoned for more than a month. She has been denied legal representation and family visitation. Her family and I are very concerned about her health and well-being. That's why all of the women Senators sent a letter to U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon, urging him to ask Iran for Dr. Esfandiari's release. It's also why I joined my colleague from Maryland, Senator Ben Cardin, in passing a unanimous Senate resolution condemning her arrest. 
   "Your efforts today are so important. We know the government of Iran is watching what we do, and we want them to know we will not relent. We want all four Iranian-Americans released immediately and allowed to travel outside of Iran. In the mean time, these prisoners must be allowed to consult with lawyers, to be visited by international humanitarian organizations, and to see their families. I stand in solidarity with Dr. Esfandiari's family, and will do everything in my power to secure her immediate release and safe return home."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 