SENATE APPROVES SEN. MIKULSKI INITIATIVE TO PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced the Senate has approved the 2008 spending bill, which includes a $20 million increase in federal funding to help protect high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks. This has been a top priority for Senator Mikulski for several years, despite a lack of support from the Bush administration.  
   "This funding is an important victory for the hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches that need protection from terrorist violence. This is a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk," said Senator Mikulski. "I promised to continue my fight for these funds and I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   The federal funding goes to the Department of Homeland Security's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute to high-risk non-profit organizations. The non-profits have used past federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers. 
   Senator Mikulski worked to secure funding for high-risk non-profits in the 2005, 2006 and 2007 spending bills. Last year, Senator Mikulski and colleague Senator Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) were unable to add additional funding to the 2007 spending bill. However, they successfully fought for language in the bill to release the $25 million in funding that was signed into law by the President in the 2006 bill, but had been held up by the Bush administration. 
   "President Bush talks about protecting Americans at home, but his budget priorities fail to acknowledge the risk that many of our nation's non-profits face," said Senator Mikulski. "These organizations are on the frontlines, working hard to develop and nuture communities, but the President has done nothing to protect them." 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the spending bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 