REP. MIKULSKI JOINS MARYLAND DELEGATION, ABERDEEN OFFICIALS TO CELEBRATE, DEFEND ABERDEEN PROVING GROUND
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) joined federal and local officials this morning at Aberdeen Science and Math Academy at Aberdeen High School to celebrate decades of accomplishment at Aberdeen Proving Ground (APG). APG stands to gain thousands of new employees in the Department of Defense's Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission recommendations, released in late May.  
   "The Army chose Aberdeen because they know what we know - Aberdeen is a world-class, one-stop shop for military technology," said Senator Mikulski. "If it helps our war-fighters be safer, smarter or more effective, APG's doing it." 
   "For almost 100 years, APG's mission has been to serve the Army and as the world changed, so did Aberdeen," added Senator Mikulski. "During peace time, APG was advancing science and the state of military technology. During times of war, staff accelerated testing and training to protect American lives." 
   Senator Mikulski also addressed critics of the recommendations, who have challenged APG and the greater Aberdeen community's capacity for new employees. 
   "We are more than ready to welcome as many as 5,000 additional employees and their families to Aberdeen," said Senator Mikulski. "Aberdeen has transformed itself over the years to meet the new challenges that have arisen from new threats, but our values have never changed: hard work, patriotism, community, faith and family. We see it at Aberdeen in our United States military, we see it in our civilian employees on post, we see it in the communities that support them. We are ready for the challenges ahead." 
   Senator Mikulski has spent nearly a decade working with Maryland elected officials and Aberdeen community leaders to reinforce the mission and merit of APG, which has served the nation since World War I. Speakers at today's event also discussed APG's state of the art facilities, highly skilled and educated workforce, and the unique ties between APG and the business community.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/224-4654. 
 
 