SEN. MIKULSKI HELPS BRING NEW LIBRARY TO SMITHSBURG
  Today Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski visited Smithsburg to announce almost $300,000 in federal funding for a new library. This project was funded through the Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Program in the Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) spending bill, which passed the Senate in January 2004. Senator Mikulski serves as Ranking Member of the VA-HUD Appropriations Subcommittee.  
   Mikulski secured $298,230 for Washington County to construct a new library in Smithsburg. The current library is housed in a small refurbished federalist era jail. The new library will be almost ten times the size, house 22,000 books, seven computers, provide literacy training, and have study and reading rooms. 
   "Smithsburg is one of Maryland's burgeoning communities," said Senator Mikulski. "When Washington County Commissioner William Wivell and others asked for my support, I promised I would fight for a federal investment in this library. I'm so proud to stand here today and deliver on that promise. This is a great example of 'partnership politics,' where community groups, local leaders, and the federal government are all working together to effect positive change." 
   Senator Mikulski continued, "I am fighting in the U.S. Senate for an empowerment agenda; literacy and reading are some of the best ways for Marylanders to empower themselves. I am so proud that the citizens of Smithsburg will soon be able to enjoy a new library." 
   Economic Development Initiative (EDI) grants are awarded on a competitive basis and must meet the following criteria: Does the project create jobs or meet a compelling human need? Does the project benefit low- or moderate-income neighborhoods? Does the project eliminate physical or economic distress? Is this a one-year request that will complete a project? Does this request have a funding match from a non-federal source? 
   The legislation passed Congress on January 22 and was signed into law by the President on January 23, 2004.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 