SEN. MIKULSKI CELEBRATES GRAND OPENING OF CUMBERLAND VA OUTPATIENT CLINIC
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) took part in the grand opening celebration of the new Cumberland VA Outpatient Clinic today. The new Cumberland VA Clinic is almost 50% larger and can accommodate over 12,000 visits each year, with more room for staff and additional services.  
   "We promised our veterans that they would always have access to quality healthcare, and this new center helps us keep that promise," said Senator Mikulski. "The new clinic will also make sure that our newest veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan get the care they need. I'm so proud to be here today to celebrate the opening of this new healthcare clinic." 
   As the senior Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Department of Veterans Affairs, Senator Mikulski fights to improve healthcare and benefits for our nation's veterans. Senator Mikulski worked in the Senate to establish community-based VA outpatient care clinics so Maryland's veterans have access to health care services where they live. Since 1988, Senator Mikulski has helped to establish 12 of these community-based clinics in Maryland. 
   "I have fought to make sure the VA brings care to our veterans, where they live. The new Cumberland Clinic is a federal investment in the health and wellbeing of our nation's heroes," said Senator Mikulski. 
   In addition, Senator Mikulski introduced legislation earlier this year to increase burial benefits and plot allowances for veterans. These benefits have not kept pace with rising costs, putting a new financial strain on veteran's families. The Veterans Burial Benefits Improvement Act (S.1124) would increase benefits so they would cover the same percentage of burial costs as they did in 1973, when the benefits were first instituted. The legislation would also allow burial benefits to be adjusted annually for inflation. 
   Specifically, the Veterans Burial Benefit Improvement Act increases three kinds of benefits: 
   1. Increases burial benefits for veterans who die of service-connected disabilities from $2,000 to $3,713 
   2. Increases burial benefits for eligible veterans who die of non-service connected disabilities from $300 to $1,135 
   3. Increases the burial plot allowance from $300 to $670 Senator Mikulski introduced similar legislation during the 107th Congress. In December 2001, she successfully secured modest increases in the service-connected benefit - from $1,500 to $2,000 - and the plot allowance from $150 to $300. Senator Mikulski said that while these increases are a step in the right direction, they are not a substitute for the amounts included in her bill.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 