SEN. MIKULSKI: SILVER SPRING TRANSIT CENTER IS CRITICAL TO ECONOMIC GROWTH IN REGION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, applauded today's celebration of the next phase in development of the new Silver Spring Transit Center. Since 1998, Sen. Mikulski has secured more than $50 million in federal funding to support the project, which will be completed in 2009.  
   "Keeping Marylanders on the move has always been one of my top priorities. A strong, modern transportation and mass transit systems strengthens our neighborhoods and communities, gets Marylanders to their jobs, delivers goods to the marketplace and reduces traffic on our roads and highways," said Senator Mikulski. "This project is critical to the economic growth of Silver Spring. That's why I've been fighting for years to improve public transportation in Silver Spring and throughout Montgomery County." 
   The Silver Spring Transit Center will be a one-stop-shop for mass transit users traveling in Montgomery County. The new transit center will house Washington area transportation entities, including MARC, Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) metrorail and metrobus stops. 
   Silver Spring is one of the fastest growing communities in the state of Maryland. Silver Spring is the busiest metro station in Maryland, and the second busiest in the WMATA system. The Silver Spring Transit Center currently serves about 57,000 commuters and that number is expected to increase to more than 97,000 by 2020. 
   The event marks one of Montgomery County Executive Doug Duncan's final public events before he steps down. 
   "Doug's work has always been about empowering people and revitalizing neighborhoods - never about programs and process. I will always admire Doug for his leadership, and his desire to do what's best for Montgomery County," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so proud to have worked with Doug on several projects - he believed in Silver Spring and I believed with him."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 