SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR FEDERAL INVESTMENT TO PREPARE FOR AVIAN FLU
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and several Senate colleagues to support an amendment to the 2006 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies spending bill that would provide an unprecedented federal investment to prepare for a potential outbreak of the avian flu. The amendment directs federal resources to stockpile vaccines and antiviral drugs, invest in our vaccine infrastructure, improve our global surveillance, and strengthen state and local public health departments - our first line of defense against an avian flu outbreak.  
   "As we continue to clean up after the federal government's failure to effectively prepare and respond to the devastation throughout the Gulf Coast, we must make sure we do not see a repeat event with the upcoming threat of avian flu to Americans throughout the nation," said Senator Mikulski. "We must be ready to react and respond in the event of an emergency. America can do better." 
   The Harkin Avian Flu Preparedness Amendment provides necessary funding to expand and strengthen efforts at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as at the state and local level related to pandemic flu and public health preparedness. It also provides additional funding to expand CDC's global disease surveillance capabilities, providing additional support for state and local public health facilities, increasing hospital surge capacity and scaling up vaccine manufacturing to make sure the American people are protected against pandemic threats. 
   Avian flu, also known as the bird flu, is a virus that to date has only been passed from birds to humans. However, experts publicly predict that it is only a matter of time before the virus mutates and can be easily spread between humans creating a widespread public health crisis. In a matter of weeks, an outbreak in China, Vietnam or Cambodia could spread rapidly and trigger a worldwide outbreak facilitated by international travel and globalization. 
   The amendment was introduced as part of the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 2006 Appropriations bill, currently pending on the Senate floor.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 