SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR WOMEN'S HEALTH CARE WITH FEDERAL FUNDING FOR RESEARCH, TREATMENT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) today in introducing the Pulmonary Hypertension Research Act of 2005. The legislation would increase funding for research at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute at the National Institutes of Health, dedicated to finding treatments and a possible cure for Pulmonary Hypertension (PH), a heart disease that affects more than 100,000 Americans.  
   "Since my first days in Congress, I have been fighting to make sure women don't get left out or left behind when it comes to their health. Pulmonary Hypertension has a devastating impact on women and families across America. That's why I am working to put money in the federal checkbook to expand research in this important area," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding will bring us closer to unraveling the mysteries surrounding this disease. We need to increase awareness, develop new treatments and hopefully one day find a cure for this terrible illness." 
   Predominately striking young women in their childbearing years, PH is known as the "other high blood pressure." The walls of the arteries that take blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs thicken and constrict in PH patients. Consequently, the right side of the heart has to pump harder to move blood into the lungs, causing it to enlarge and ultimately fail. The disease can occur without a known cause or be secondary to other conditions such as scleroderma, sickle cell anemia, lupus and liver disease. Patients can develop many symptoms, including fatigue, shortness of breath, dizziness and chest pain. Unfortunately, these symptoms are frequently misdiagnosed, leaving patients with the impression that they have a minor pulmonary or cardiovascular condition. By the time many patients receive an accurate diagnosis, the disease has progressed to a late stage, making it impossible to receive a necessary heart or lung transplant. 
   The Pulmonary Hypertension Research Act would authorize the establishment of three Pulmonary Hypertension Centers of Excellence through the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute at the National Institutes of Health. These centers would focus on research into the cause, diagnosis and treatment of the disease. The legislation would also establish a data system and clearinghouse that would disseminate information on PH to health care practitioners and the general public.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 