SEN. MIKULSKI TO PRESIDENT BUSH: STAND UP FOR PAKISTAN
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) sent the following letter to President George W. Bush this morning, urging him to take decisive action to support stability in Pakistan in the wake of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's assassination including a thorough investigation of her murder, a return to democratic elections in Pakistan, and a review of U.S. assistance and humanitarian relief to the country.  
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Mr. President, 
   I was shocked and saddened by the news that former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has been assassinated. As the first woman to lead an Islamic country, Mrs. Bhutto spent almost 20 years fighting for democracy and equality for all Pakistanis. As we mourn the loss of this extraordinary woman and leader, I urge you to take decisive action to support stability and democracy in Pakistan. 
   First, those responsible for this act of terrorism must be brought to justice. I urge you to call for an international investigation of Prime Minister Bhutto's murder. An internationally respected organization, such as InterPol or Scotland Yard, should lead the investigation to ensure it is conducted with the utmost competence and integrity. 
   Second, we must not allow terrorists and extremists to derail democratic reform in Pakistan. I urge you to stand firm in calling for parliamentary elections at a date that is timely and appropriate. To ensure that the elections are free and fair, you must insist on the release and reinstatement of Pakistan's lawyers and judges, many of whom remain under house arrest. Pakistan should also permit international observers to monitor the elections, to guard against fraud and intimidation and assure the world that President Musharraf's commitment to democratic reform in Pakistan is more than just lip service. 
   Finally, I urge you to reexamine U.S. assistance to Pakistan, to ensure that the Pakistani people are receiving the humanitarian relief they need. Health, education, clean drinking water, sanitation and energy were a priority for Mrs. Bhutto in her leadership of Pakistan. U.S. foreign aid should carry on her legacy of care for the Pakistani people. 
   I knew Prime Minister Bhutto and worked with her during both of her terms as Prime Minister. We should honor her life by working to strengthen both democracy in Pakistan and the historic bonds between our two nations.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 