SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS PRESIDENT'S BUDGET FAILS TO PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today expressed her strong concern over the elimination of federal funding to help protect high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks in President Bush's FY 2007 budget. Her comments came as Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff testified at this morning's subcommittee hearing.  
   "We must help protect our hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches from terrorist violence. The President's elimination of this essential program sets the wrong priorities as we work to protect our homeland," said Senator Mikulski. "This is a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk of terrorist attacks. I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   High-risk funds help support protection efforts for organizations that provide vital health, social, cultural and educational services to the nation and are often the soft targets of terrorism. Non-profits use the federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers. The funding has traditionally gone to the Homeland Security Department's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute. 
   Senator Mikulski has worked for the past two years to secure funding for high-risk non-profits. She fought to have $25 million included in the 2006 Department of Homeland Security spending bill, which was signed into law by President Bush on October 18, 2005. In 2004, the Senator offered an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security bill that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. She was able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   Senator Mikulski's efforts received broad national support from groups including: United Jewish Communities, Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, American Red Cross, United Way, American Hospital Association, American Association of Museums, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, American Jewish Congress, Theatre Communications Group, and YMCA of the USA.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 