SEN. MIKULSKI CRITICIZES HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY CHERTOFF'S INACTION ON KEY ELEMENTS TO PROTECT NATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today criticized Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Michael Chertoff's lack of action on a number of key issues related to protecting the nation. Her comments came as Chertoff testified at this morning's subcommittee hearing.  
   Senator Mikulski questioned the Secretary's lack of participation in the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States' (CFIUS) approval of the UAE port deal, and the role he will play in the recently announced 45-day review of the deal. The Senator also questioned whether Chertoff was aware of the Coast Guard's concerns over the deal. 
   "No one in the Administration seemed to know about the deal - not the President, not the Secretaries of Treasury or Defense, not you. The law was not followed. Due diligence was not done. This is absolutely unacceptable," said Senator Mikulski. "Our ports are essential to national security and border security. The American people deserve a robust, rigorous review of the impact of this deal on national security - not a rushed, secret deal done behind closed doors." 
   Also of priority to Senator Mikulski were her inquiries regarding the lack of comprehensive reform for U.S. servicemen trying to gain American citizenship. Maryland resident U.S. Army Spc. Kendell Frederick, 21, was a citizen of Trinidad who was derailed by a number of bureaucratic errors in becoming a citizen. Spc. Frederick was killed in October 2005 by a roadside bomb as he traveled in a convoy to get fingerprinted. Spc. Frederick tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen and his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. Senator Mikulski has introduced legislation to attempt to fix this broken system, and has asked DHS to implement a number of reforms to assist service members who are dealing with the same bureaucratic backlogs. For more information, click here. 
   "Spc. Frederick got the run around - and still nothing has happened. I want to ensure that the men and women who have put themselves on the line, fighting for this country, are treated with the respect and professionalism they deserve when trying to become U.S. citizens," said Senator Mikulski. "There are over 40,000 non-U.S. citizens serving in the U.S. military today. Many want to become U.S. citizens, but are caught up in red tape and paperwork. Today, there are 3,000 applications pending at DHS for service members applying for citizenship. DHS should be clearing this backlog now."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 