SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR RIGOROUS REVIEW OF PROPOSED LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS SITE AT SPARROW'S POINT
  Following an outpouring of constituent concerns, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) sent a letter today to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman James Hoecker demanding a thorough review of a proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) site at Sparrow's Point in Baltimore and the effect it would have on the safety of the state.  
   The text of the letter is below: 
   February 28, 2006 
   Mr. James Hoecker, Chairman 
  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
  888 1st Street NE 
  Washington, DC 20426 
   Dear Mr. Hoecker, 
   I am writing to you concerning the proposed LNG site at Sparrows Point in Baltimore. I understand that application has not yet been made to FERC. Therefore, the official process to begin consideration of the plan has not begun. However, there is such a ground swell of opposition from surrounding communities that I am requesting your commission give vigorous review when the application process begins. 
   I am requesting that you give special consideration to the safety of the surrounding communities. FERC must carefully consider the fact that the Sparrows Point site is less than two miles away from residential communities. In addition, any pipeline alignment must pass through heavily populated portions of Maryland into Pennsylvania. 
   Second, I need to know that all Maryland will be secure. Sparrows Point is located at the mouth of our beloved Baltimore harbor, one of the nation's major seaports. I have voiced my concerns in the past about the U.S. Coast Guard. The U.S. Coast Guard is stretched in its role as protector of our coastlines in this new age of terrorism. They currently secure the Cove Point facility in the lower Bay where a proposed expansion of that facility would add additional shipments which the Coast Guard would need to oversee. 
   I always want to hear what the community is saying as I form my position on an issue, and in this case the community is speaking early and loudly in opposition to the Sparrows Point proposal. 
   I am counting on you to give this proposal rigorous review, working with the Coast Guard and Homeland Security to fully consider the risks of such a facility located at Sparrows Point. 
   I look forward to hearing from you on this important issue.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 