SEN. MIKULSKI, H2B COALITION URGE SENATE ACTION TO SAVE AMERICA'S SMALL BUSINESSES
  As the Senate resumes work for the session, Senators Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), John Warner (R-Va.) and Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) today led a bipartisan coalition of their colleagues to call on Senate leaders to take immediate steps to provide relief to small, seasonal businesses who are unable to hire the workers they rely on as a result of Congress' failure to extend a critical provision of Senator Mikulski's Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, which expired on September 30, 2007. In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (Ky.), Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), the coalition noted that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has already received enough applications to exceed the cap for H2B visas for the second half of fiscal year 2008.  
   "The extension has expired - what does that mean? It means companies in Maryland and around the country will not be able to get the H2B visas, and workers, that they need and depend on," said Senator Mikulski. "Small and seasonal businesses are counting on us, and we are letting them down." 
   The Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, signed into law by President Bush in May 2005, made significant changes to the federal H2B (non-skilled seasonal worker) visa program. Among the changes, it exempted returning seasonal workers from counting against the national cap of 66,000 people. This provision, however, was not made permanent in the 2005 bill, and has to be extended each year until Senator Mikulski's proposal to make it permanent is passed into law. A last-minute, one-year extension was included as part of the 2007 Department of Defense authorization bill, but it expired on September 30, 2007. 
   Senators Mikulski and Warner introduced a stand alone bill in March 2007 that would extend the provision, and also included it as an amendment to the comprehensive immigration packages considered by the Senate this spring. Unfortunately, no bill was brought up for a final vote before the provision's expiration. Senator Mikulski also attempted to include an extension, as Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, into the fiscal year 2008 CJS spending bill. This provision, which unanimously passed the Senate, was removed in Conference with the U.S. House of Representatives. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   We are writing this letter to bring to your attention a serious problem that small and seasonal businesses across the country are facing - in particular, a substantial reduction in available H-2B visas. The severity of this visa shortfall's impact on our economy and everyday Americans warrants timely action by Congress, and we respectfully ask for your help in advancing legislation that would, at a minimum, temporarily restore preexisting visa levels. 
   During floor debate on the Fiscal Year (FY) 2005 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill, the Senate overwhelmingly approved an amendment that made modest changes to the H-2B visa program. Among other things, this bipartisan amendment exempted temporary seasonal workers who participated in the program during the previous three years, abided by all its rules, and returned to their home country from counting towards the 66,000 cap. Congress renewed this "returning worker" exemption through September 30, 2007 as part of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2007, and it expired last October when Congress failed to pass an extension. As a result, available H-2B visa levels have effectively dropped by nearly fifty percent, the H-2B visa cap for Fiscal Year 2008 already has been exhausted, and many businesses in our states have been left out in the cold. 
   During these difficult economic times and with immigration being such an important issue, Congress's failure to renew the "returning worker" exemption is very troubling. This exemption not only frees up additional visas for small and seasonal businesses so they can augment their American workforce and maintain operations, but it also rewards employers and workers who play by the rules and respect our immigration laws. 
   The "returning worker" exemption therefore has many positive benefits - it promotes economic activity, keeps businesses up and running and protects the jobs of their U.S. workers, and provides a legal alternative to employers facing labor shortages and aliens who want to obey the law (including the H-2B visa program's numerous protections for U.S. workers). 
   Last year, we worked hard to extend the "returning worker" exemption beyond FY 2007, including our efforts to advance a stand-alone bill, the Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act of 2007 (S. 988). To date, this measure, which would extend the exemption through FY 2012, is still pending before the Senate Judiciary Committee. A more modest proposal - namely, a one-year extension that was part of the Senate's version of the FY 2008 Departments of Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill - was not included in the FY 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act. 
   We are concerned about this lack of action by Congress on the H-2B visa crisis. With the recent announcement by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services that no more H-2B visas will be available for FY 2008, Congress must now redouble its efforts to advance legislation that would finally address the issue. We therefore ask for your assistance and remain hopeful that we can work together on a bipartisan basis to help businesses and their employees who deserve at least a short-term renewal of the "returning worker" exemption.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 