SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES $4 MILLION IN CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR INFORMATION SUPERHIGHWAY ON EASTERN SHORE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced she has secured an additional $4 million in her ongoing fight for a federal commitment to bring broadband network capability to the Eastern Shore. The funding is part of the 2008 CJS spending bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon. This comes the same week that Sen. Mikulski and Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) announced a $3.2 million grant for the Maryland Broadband Cooperative administered through a U.S. Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration (EDA), also funded in CJS.  
   "America is in an amazing race - a race for breakthroughs and new ideas, a race for discovery and new knowledge, a race to remain competitive in the new century. I want Maryland to win this race," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I have worked so hard to provide a federal investment to help build a broadband superhighway. I will keep fighting for the resources to keep the Shore competitive." 
   As the then-senior Democrat on the CJS Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski secured a $2 million down payment for the broadband construction as part of the 2006 spending bill. Despite efforts to include an additional $4 million in the 2007 spending bill to build the next phase of the information superhighway, the bill was not brought up for a final vote by the 109th Congress. 
   "Bringing broadband to the Eastern Shore means economic development, job growth and innovation whether you are a small business, a school, a major employer or a NASA Center," said Senator Mikulski. "Forty years ago, interstate highways were crucial for economic growth in our rural areas, now it's the information superhighway. The Eastern Shore is changing - our space, high tech, health care and higher education facilities need broadband - so do our poultry producers, construction companies and our small businesses. Today, we can finally see a future where all Eastern Shore residents will have access to affordable high speed internet service." 
   This network will be a major source of future economic development, spurring job creation and innovation on the Shore. It will connect NASA's Wallops Island Flight Facility, schools, universities, medical centers, businesses and consumers along the entire Shore. When completed, the broadband network will cover the entire Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland. 
   Senator Mikulski will discuss her fight to bring broadband to the Eastern Shore during her "Jobs Today, Jobs Tomorrow" tour over the July 4 congressional recess. The Senator will meet with Wicomico County Executive Richard Pollitt and the Wicomico County Council on July 5. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. For more information on the CJS spending bill, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/Newsroom/releases.cfm.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 