SEN. MIKULSKI PUTS SPOTLIGHT ON COMPETITIVENESS IN SPENDING BILL
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she has put a specific focus in the 2008 spending bill on keeping America competitive in the global economy. This year's bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon, provides $54.6 billion, $3.18 billion above the President's budget request, for agencies including the Department of Commerce, the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). 
   "If America is going to be more competitive, we must focus on funding and policies to develop new technologies that lead to new products and industries that create new jobs," said Senator Mikulski. "We need federal science agencies that foster innovation and make America more competitive. A country that doesn't innovate, stagnates."  
   Chairwoman Mikulski has a history of fighting to strengthen America's innovation economy. The Senator joined several colleagues to launch plans for a legislative initiative to foster innovation in the United States immediately after the release of the 2005 National Academy of Sciences (NAS) report, "Rising Above the Gathering Storm." In 2006, they introduced the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act, which passed the Senate in April 2007. The COMPETES Act authorized several of the initiatives funded in this year's spending bill. 
   INVESTING IN RESEARCH AND EDUCATION 
   In this year's spending bill, Senator Mikulski has delivered on her pledge to provide critical investments in scientific research and education to improve America's competitiveness based on the "Rising Above the Gathering Storm" recommendations. 
   "This spending bill creates the building blocks that we need for a smarter America. Our nation is in an amazing race - the race for discovery and new knowledge, the race to remain competitive," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to work for a federal investment to support the innovation that has the power to save lives, create prosperity and protect the homeland." 
   * $6.6 billion for NSF, which includes $850 million for education and training programs, a $100 million increase above the President's budget request to improve science and mathematics education. 
   * $863 million for NIST, which is $222 million above the President's budget request, and will support highly leveraged, basic research that will contribute to the development of new innovative products and processes. The bill provides $100 million for the Advanced Technology Program (ATP), which the President's budget eliminated, as well as $110 million for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) Program, which is $64 million above the President's request. 
   PROMOTING INNOVATION-FRIENDLY GOVERNMENT 
   As Congress works to promote innovation and discovery, Senator Mikulski has provided critical funding to ensure that the government has the resources it needs to protect inventions and intellectual property, and enforce trade agreements. This includes an additional $13 million above the President's budget request for the FBI to enforce intellectual property laws. 
   "We must protect the intellectual property of our inventors, who are entitled to timely access to patent protections and strong enforcement of those protections," said Senator Mikulski. "I want a roadmap and timetable for improvement." 
   * $1.9 billion for the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) to protect the intellectual property of our inventors. The funding will also be complimented by mandated management reforms to reduce a systematic backlog of patent applications, including additional training for patent examiners. 
   * $417 million for the International Trade Administration (ITA), which includes a $5 million increase above the President's budget request to hire additional analysts and enforcement officers to safeguard U.S. industries and jobs against injurious, unfair foreign trade practices. 
   * $48 million for the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to ensure greater intellectual property protections in negotiating our trade agreements. 
   Persistent concerns about significant backlogs of patent applications at the PTO are part of what motivated Senator Mikulski to emphasize congressional oversight, accountability and fiscal stewardship in this year's spending bill. Insisting on discipline and vigorous oversight, the bill requires agencies to notify the Committee immediately after learning of program cost overruns greater than 10 percent. The Committee will work with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to begin biannual reports of programs and projects greater than $100 million as an early warning system to identify cost overruns and mismanagement. The bill also requires that Inspectors General conduct audits of grant funding. 
   Chairwoman Mikulski instituted criteria for all congressionally designated projects in this year's spending bill, requiring that they be specifically focused on the mission and mandate of the organization. The CJS bill substantially reduces earmarks, and all projects in the bill comply with the requirements of the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act (S. 1), as passed by the Senate. 
   For more information on the CJS spending bill, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/Newsroom/releases.cfm.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 