SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT FOR FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN OCEANS, MARYLAND CONSERVATION PROGRAMS
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today continued her fight to make oceans and global climate change a priority in the fiscal year 2008 spending bill. The bill, which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee this afternoon, includes $6.6 billion for the National Science Foundation (NSF) and $4.2 billion for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The bill will now move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. For more information on the spending bill, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/Newsroom/releases.cfm. 
   The spending bill emphasizes congressional oversight, accountability and fiscal stewardship. Insisting on discipline and vigorous oversight, the bill requires agencies to notify the Committee immediately after learning of program cost overruns greater than 10 percent. The Committee will work with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to begin biannual reports of programs and projects greater than $100 million as an early warning system to identify cost overruns and mismanagement. The bill also requires that Inspectors General conduct audits of grant funding. This will help address overruns concerns like those raised within NOAA's satellite programs and mismanagement of grant awards.  
   INVESTING IN OUR OCEANS 
   In June 2006, Senator Mikulski received the Joint Ocean Commission Initiative's (JOCI) report, "From Sea to Shining Sea: Priorities for Ocean Policy Reform," which recommended robust funding for ocean research, education, observation and exploration. Senator Mikulski requested the report after organizing a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues as part of a national initiative to increase visibility and conservation for oceans. Since its release, Senator Mikulski has fought for a federal investment to implement the recommendations, with a $700 million down payment in the 2007 CJS spending bill, which was never brought up for a vote. 
   This year's spending bill includes significant funding to implement the JOCI recommendations. Senator Mikulski secured $795 million in NOAA's budget, as well as $422 million for ocean-related research at NSF. This includes $349 million for NSF's ocean research program, which is $18 million above the President's budget request. Senator Mikulski also made a $73 million investment in two major NSF ocean research tools - the Alaska Region Research Vessel and the Ocean Observatories Initiative. 
   "Oceans contribute $120 billion to our economy and support over 2 million jobs. Investments to protect and understand our oceans provide enormous value to our taxpayers," said Senator Mikulski. "The JOCI report gave us a framework for future action - things we can accomplish today and tomorrow. I will continue to fight for a federal investment in these policy recommendations." 
   ADDRESSING GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE 
   Chairwoman Mikulski, who has criticized a lack of commitment from President Bush in the effort to reduce the effects of global warming, has included a more than $3 billion federal investment in research and technology development that is critical to our understanding and prediction of changes in the Earth's climate and oceans in this year's spending bill. 
   Following the recommendations in the recently released National Research Council's Decadal Survey, "Earth Science and Applications from Space: Urgent Needs and Opportunities to Serve the Nations," Senator Mikulski provided $25 million for the restoration of critical climate sensors on NOAA's weather satellites, ensuring continuity of measures for the climate research community. 
   "The world is facing a climate crisis and we have a responsibility to provide the tools and the resources our scientists need to address this issue. The Senate is ready to take action to halt global warming," said Senator Mikulski. "This is about the future of our country and our planet. Our future depends on the progress we make." 
   To coordinate these federal investments, Senator Mikulski has also included funding to support the creation of an Associate Director of Earth Science and Applications at the White House's Office of Science and Technology Policy. This position will coordinate all federal assets directed at understanding the Earth's oceans and climate. 
   Senator Mikulski also secured almost $9.7 million for conservation and education programs in Maryland in this year's spending bill: 
   * $6 million to continue the NOAA Air Resources Laboratory's Urbanet Partnership, which is expanding the number of metropolitan areas covered by the Urbanet system to improve weather forecasting and provide better warnings during severe storms. 
   * $2 million for the Oyster Recovery Partnership to replenish native oysters in the Maryland waters of the Chesapeake Bay. Funds will be limited to on-the-ground and in-the-water restoration projects. 
   * $1 million for the National Aquarium in Baltimore for conservation, education and outreach programs. 
   * $500,000 for the John Smith Chesapeake National Historic Water Trail to deploy a marker system along the trail to help educate visitors about Smith's voyages of exploration in the Chesapeake Bay. 
   * $150,000 for the Anacostia Watershed Society to support a classroom education and teacher training program that will teach about restoration and conservation as part of the Chesapeake 2000 Agreement.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 