SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES $390 MILLION FOR VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PROGRAMS IN SPENDING BILL
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced the fiscal year 2008 spending bill includes $390 million for the Department of Justice's (DOJ) Violence Against Women Office. This funding restores a $20 million cut by President Bush, and funds programs authorized through the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The spending bill provides a total $24.3 billion for the DOJ, a $2 billion increase above the President's budget request.  
   "I have absolutely no tolerance for domestic violence. That's why I strongly support legislation and grant programs that help protect women and their families from continued violence and abuse," said Senator Mikulski, an original champion of VAWA. "I will continue my fight to put funds in the federal checkbook to fund these important programs." Domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking are crimes of epidemic proportions, exacting terrible costs on individual lives and our communities. Nearly 25 percent of U.S. women report that they have been physically assaulted by an intimate partner during their lifetimes, 1 in 6 have been the victims of attempted or completed rape, and the cost of intimate partner violence exceeds $5.8 billion each year. 
   The CJS spending bill funds multiple competitive grant programs that support: training for police officers and prosecutors, state domestic violence and sexual assault coalition grants, rape prevention programs, national domestic violence hotlines, grants for battered women's shelters, victims of child abuse grants, and funding for counselors of rape victims during trials. 
   President Bush's budget request not only decreased funding by $20 million, but also proposed eliminating the congressionally authorized grant programs, leaving all discretion instead to the U.S. Attorney General. Senator Mikulski did not implement this change in the spending bill. 
   "Congress clearly intended for the DOJ to allocate specific monies for specific grant programs for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. The President's proposal flies in the face of the recent VAWA reauthorization that clarified this process," said Senator Mikulski. "President Bush talks about creating a better life for Americans, but his budget fails to deliver on his words yet again." 
   The spending bill passed the full Appropriations Committee this afternoon. In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled. For more information on the CJS spending bill, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/Newsroom/releases.cfm.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 