SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR CUTTING-EDGE TACTICAL FACILITY AT FORT MEADE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today urged U.S. Army Vice Chief of Staff General Richard A. Cody to keep the Asymmetrical Warfare Group (AWG) headquarters at Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County, Md. The request comes as advocates increase lobbying efforts to shift AWG's headquarters to Fort A. P. Hill in Virginia.  
   "The Asymmetrical Warfare Group is developing cutting-edge operational tactics for our forces on the battlefield," said Senator Mikulski. "They need the best facilities available, which Fort Meade and Maryland can provide." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear General Cody: 
   I am writing to urge you to keep the Asymmetrical Warfare Group (AWG) headquarters at Fort Meade, MD. I know that the Army is considering moving this headquarters from Fort Meade in order to collocate it with AWG training ranges and facilities in Fort A. P. Hill in Virginia. I believe that keeping the AWG headquarters at Fort Meade is better for the Army and the nation. 
   Fort Meade has the support services needed to accommodate the 700 Soldiers and civilians at AWG headquarters, including a complete ambulatory care clinic, full-size commissary and exchange facilities, bachelor and family housing and good schools located on post. The current facilities at Fort A. P. Hill are geared toward its combat training mission for visiting operational units. There is a small primary care clinic to support training units and a small exchange facility. There is no commissary and no family housing. 
   To move AWG headquarters to Fort A. P. Hill would require a significant investment by the Army, which has already made considerable investments at Fort Meade for AWG, including $10 million dollars to refit existing facilities. In addition, the Army's current Future Years Defense Plan includes $35 million in FY10 Military Construction for a modern AWG headquarters facility and $5.9 million in FY11 Military Construction for an indoor firing range. 
   The Asymmetrical Warfare Group is developing cutting-edge operational tactics for our forces on the battlefield. They need the best facilities available, which Fort Meade and Maryland can provide. 
   Thank you for your attention in this matter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 