SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES WORKING TO STRENGTHEN SOUTHERN MARYLAND MILITARY BASES
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) were successful in securing $7 million in federal funding to help strengthen Southern Maryland's military installations. The funding was included in the Department of Defense Appropriations bill, which passed the Senate on June 24, 2004. Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee.  
   "Pax River and Indian Head both have strong track records of excellence in supporting our troops ," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding will help these bases provide additional training and equipment for our troops so they can fulfill their mission and come home safe, while creating jobs in Maryland." 
   "We continue to work hard to ensure these state-of-the-art facilities have the resources and capabilities necessary to carry out their critical missions," added Senator Sarbanes. "Both Pax River and Indian Head are not only important to our overall national defense, but also to our State's economy, resulting in significant spillover opportunities in our hi-tech and defense related sectors." 
   Fleet Training at Patuxent River Naval Air Station (NAS) 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes secured $3 million to expand Pax River's ability to provide fleet readiness training for U.S. Naval Forces in warfighting tactics, techniques, and partnerships. The funding will enable Pax River to create realistic training scenarios for soldiers and sailors deployed at sea, and increase the number of participants able to take part in these training exercises. The funding would also be used for enhanced training tools for more realistic simulation exercises. The training at Pax River will help ensure our men and women in uniform have the tools and information they need to improve safety and protect themselves. 
   Smart Weapons Research at Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC) - Indian Head Division 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes secured $4 million for cutting edge research on new explosives technologies at NSWC Indian Head, with the goal of creating safer and smarter bombs and missiles. Research will help make explosives smaller, so they are easier for our military to transport. NSWC Indian Head will also conduct research to make weapons more sensitive and accurate, making them safer for our troops to handle. 
   The House of Representatives passed their version of the 2005 Defense Appropriations bill on June 22, 2004. The differences in the two bills will be worked out in a Conference Committee before it is sent to the President to sign into law.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 