SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR INTERNATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, today announced the 2008 spending bill includes critical language she has been fighting for to support international family planning and women's programs.  
   "International family planning is about improving women's lives. Providing contraceptives and condoms to women in the poorest countries reduces the spread of HIV and other sexually-transmitted diseases, reduces the incidence of unsafe abortions, and saves the lives of women and infants by reducing high-risk pregnancies," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to make sure women around the world are not left behind when it comes to their health." 
   The bill includes language to allow the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to donate contraceptives to all international family programs and lifts a Bush administration restriction prohibiting the United States from contributing funds to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). U.S. funds would still be prohibited from supporting abortion-related activities. 
   Similar language was introduced in the House of Representatives Foreign Operations spending bill by Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-N.Y.) and was included when the companion bill passed the House earlier this month. 
   The Senate's spending bill also includes several other international priorities for Senator Mikulski, including $75 million for programs to support women and girls in Afghanistan and $12 million to train and equip women-led Afghan non-governmental organizations (NGOs). It also includes funding for: programs to help Afghan farmers develop alternative crops, American schools and hospitals abroad, U.N. peace-keeping efforts and the Millennium Challenge Account. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will go to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 