SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR SENIORS, QUESTIONS BUSH ADMINISTRATION CHANGES TO COMMUNITY SERVICE PROGRAM
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee (HELP), today questioned the Bush Administration's efforts to dramatically change the Senior Community Service Employment Program (SCSEP). SCSEP is supported as part of the Older Americans Act (OAA), which is currently being considered for reauthorization in the HELP Committee. The Department of Labor has proposed sweeping changes to the SCSEP, while at the same time President Bush's FY 2007 budget cuts program funding by $44 million.  
   "I am very concerned about the Department of Labor's proposed changes to this program, since I have not been made aware of any problems program administrators or recipients have with the current program. Sometimes if it's not broken - don't fix it," said Senator Mikulski. "We should be increasing, not decreasing, funding for this important program, which helps seniors help themselves. It is vital to continue and improve the core services of this act, including the SCSEP, which helps seniors to lead independent and active lives." 
   The SCSEP, also referred to as Title V, provides part-time community service jobs and training to 100,000 low-income seniors over the age of 55 every year. In Maryland, about half of the seniors participating in the program have jobs in the senior service sector including delivering meals to homebound seniors and working at senior centers. The second half work in general community service positions at libraries, museums and for local organizations like the Salvation Army and the Red Cross. 
   Senator Mikulski is an advocate for the reauthorization of the OAA, but is also looking at best practices and opportunities to improve services to better assist America's seniors. She has been critical of the President's FY 2007 budget, which cuts $72 million for OAA programs. 
   "Seniors today are living longer, healthier lives. We must do what we can to help them be as independent and active as possible. We must provide the resources necessary to meet new challenges and support our seniors," said Senator Mikulski. "Too many OAA programs have been flat-funded, cut or, in this year's budget, eliminated completely. We must commit ourselves, our dollars and our programs to meet the needs of our growing and changing senior population." 
   Senator Mikulski's comments came as the HELP Committee holds a second hearing on the reauthorization of the OAA this afternoon.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 