SEN. MIKULSKI COMMENDS HOUSE PASSAGE OF CANCER SCREENING ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-INCOME WOMEN
 Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) applauded the U.S. House of Representatives' unanimous passage last night of companion legislation to her National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. The legislation reauthorizes and increases funds for a program Sen. Mikulski created in 1991 that helps low-income women without health insurance gain access to essential medical tests that can detect breast and cervical cancer. The bill, which Sen. Mikulski introduced with Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), was approved by the Senate's Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee earlier this month, and awaits a scheduled vote in the Senate.  
   "This bill is an absolute priority for me - and for the thousands of women who have come to depend on its support. I came to Congress to change and save lives. The Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program does that," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why it's so important to pass it, and the House's vote brings us one step closer. I will now work to make sure we get the votes we need in the Senate to reauthorize it." 
   The National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program (NBCCEDP) reaches out to low-income, underserved women who are uninsured or underinsured, and helps them get access to life-saving mammograms and cervical cancer screenings. This legislation would reauthorize the program for five years. 
   The proposal also increases funding for the program from $202 million in fiscal year 2007 to $275 million in fiscal year 2012, and gives states greater flexibility in providing outreach to underserved women. Currently, the program is only able to serve one in five eligible women. An increase in funding would allow a greater number of women to have access to NBCCEDP services. 
   Since its establishment in 1991, the NBCCEDP has been implemented in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, four U.S. territories and 13 American Indian/Alaska Native organizations. To date, the program has provided nearly 5.8 million screening exams to almost 2.5 million underserved women. The program has diagnosed more than 22,800 breast cancers, 76,000 precancerous cervical lesions and 1,500 cervical cancers. 
   Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women, accounting for nearly one of every three cancers diagnosed in the United States. Cervical cancer is often a silent killer, disproportionately affecting minority and medically underserved women. Screening and early detection are critical for decreasing the mortality rates of breast and cervical cancer. A reduction in cancer mortality depends on the increased use of mammography and Pap test screenings for the early detection of the disease.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 