SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CECIL COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Volunteer Fire Company No. 1 of Chesapeake City Inc., in Cecil County, Md., has been awarded $166,174 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Cecil County communities. Congratulations to the Volunteer Fire Company No. 1 of Chesapeake City Inc. on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Volunteer Fire Company No. 1 of Chesapeake City Inc. will use its $166,174 to purchase 40 new SCBA units. For more information, call Alan Myers at (410) 889-5951. 
   This is the second award for a Cecil County fire department this funding cycle. Recently, Hacks Point Fire Company in Earleville was awarded $38,000 to purchase 20 new sets of turn out gear. So far this funding cycle, there have been 57 awards to Maryland fire departments totaling $7,204,199 in direct federal aid to ensure that Maryland's first responders have the best equipment to protect themselves and communities across the state. 
   In 2004, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the FY 2005 Homeland Security appropriations bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program to its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45, with 60 votes needed for passage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 