SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR ASSISTANCE TO AMERICANS STRUGGLING WITH HIGH ENERGY COSTS
  With winter approaching, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has joined a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues to urge Office of Management and Budget Director Rob Portman to support full-funding of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) as he participates in the development of the Bush Administration's fiscal year 2008 budget. LIHEAP helps low-income Americans afford elevated energy bills throughout the year. The President will submit his budget to Congress for consideration in early February. 
   "Families in Maryland and across the country continue to feel stretched and strained. They need to know they can count on us to provide relief from spikes in energy costs," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight with my colleagues to help families in need."
   The text of the letter is below:
   Dear Director Portman:
   As you prepare the President's fiscal year 2008 budget request, we urge you to support a funding level of $5.1 billion, the full amount authorized, for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP).
   Many Americans are struggling under the burden of this year's energy prices, which remain high by historical standards. High energy prices are especially difficult on low-income households, particularly those that include elderly residents, the disabled, and children. These groups are typically most vulnerable to rising energy costs and too often must choose between paying their energy bills or buying food and medicine.
   LIHEAP protects public health and safety by helping low-income families stay warm in the winter and cool in the summer. In addition, the program helps low-income homeowners weatherize their homes to save energy and lower their energy burden. Weatherization, on average, reduces heating bills by 31 percent and overall energy bills by $200 to $250 per year.
   In fiscal year 2006, LIHEAP appropriations totaled $3.161 billion, the largest amount ever appropriated for the program. Even at this level, however, many low-income households eligible for LIHEAP still did not receive assistance. Unfortunately, funding levels for the program have not kept pace with the growing number of households eligible for assistance. In fact, at current funding levels, LIHEAP now serves only 15 percent of the eligible population.
   With so many American households still in need of the assistance, and with an expected rise in home energy prices, we believe increased LIHEAP funding should be a top priority in your fiscal year 2008 budget. Your support for $5.1 billion in LIHEAP funding in the fiscal year 2008 budget process would help many more low-income households receive much needed LIHEAP assistance in the coming year.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 