TEAM MARYLAND CELEBRATES INCREASED FUNDING FOR COAST GUARD YARD AT CURTIS BAY
  Maryland delegation members Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes and Barbara A. Mikulski, and Reps. Steny H. Hoyer, Benjamin L. Cardin, Wayne T. Gilchrest, Elijah Cummings, C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger and Chris Van Hollen announced today that the Coast Guard Mission Effectiveness Project (MEP) at Curtis Bay will receive more than $45 million in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) 2007 spending bill. The Coast Guard MEP will increase mission performance for the Coast Guard's aging fleet of Medium Endurance Cutters, extend the service life and ensure the survivability of the Yard. 
   The addition, negotiated through the DHS Appropriations Conference Committee, restores $7.5 million in critical funding that had been cut in 2006. Senator Mikulski fought to restore these needed funds as a member of the Committee. In the next step of the legislative process, the Conference report will go to both Houses of Congress for a vote. Once passed by the House and Senate, the legislation will go to the President for his signature.  
   "The Maryland Congressional Delegation has worked hard over the past several years to bring a long-term survivability project to the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay," said Senator Sarbanes. "As the home to 700 skilled tradesmen, the Yard's familiarity and experience with the Coast Guard's cutter assets and engineering systems is unparalleled. This $45 million in federal funding will help to provide the necessary workload to maintain the work at the Curtis Bay facility, preserve jobs and add to Curtis Bay's prestige as a world class facility." 
   "For 107 years, the Yard at Curtis Bay has built, repaired and renovated ships that are critical to the Coast Guard's core missions. They've done it ontime, under budget and at a competitive rate. That's why I have continued to fight for the Coast Guard Yard," said Senator Mikulski. "I want to ensure that we have the world's best-equipped Coast Guard. I'm so proud to work with Curtis Bay to make sure they are an integral part of this mission." 
   "The Coast Guard is the first line of defense in our port security efforts. I am pleased that the conference report includes the resources necessary to improve and maintain the effectiveness of the Coast Guard's fleet and ensure the continued health of a critical national asset - the Yard at Curtis Bay," said Congressman Hoyer. 
   "The U.S. Coast Guard is critical to protecting our nation's seaports and the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay is an integral part of that mission," said Congressman Cardin. "I am extremely pleased that the conferees recognized that fact and restored funding that had been cut in 2006 and have provided $45 million in new funding to ensure that the Coast Guard is able to carry out its mission." 
   "This is great news for the Coast Guard yard and all the dedicated people who work hard every day to make the Coast Guard the best it can be," said Congressman Gilchrest. "We are grateful for the efforts of the Maryland delegation to continue to support the Coast Guard yard and its critical mission." 
   "As a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I know first-hand the crucial role the Coast Guard plays in ensuring security at our own Port of Baltimore and throughout our nation. I was pleased to join our delegation in fighting to support the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay," Congressman Cummings said. "I will continue to work with both the delegation and my colleagues on the Transportation Committee to ensure that the program to refurbish and modernize the Coast Guard's fleet is fully funded." 
   "I commend the daily expertise shown by those at the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay. Their work on the Mission Effectiveness Program (MEP) will provide a vital service to the fleet extending the service life of mission critical cutters. The Coast Guard Yard is a critical component of our Nation's homeland security and I applaud their long standing reputation for quality workmanship," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger. 
   "I am proud that the Maryland congressional delegation has worked together to secure this important funding to upgrade the Coast Guard's presence at Curtis Bay and protect the Port of Baltimore," said Congressman Van Hollen. "The Coast Guard has an outstanding record of service in times of emergency or peace and I am committed to ensuring that the Coast Guard Yard continues to serve as part of this mission."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 