SEN. MIKULSKI: PRESIDENT BUSH MUST NOT TURN HIS BACK ON AMERICA'S CHILDREN IN NEED
  Following the Senate's bipartisan passage of a bill to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) tonight, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) again condemned President Bush's veto threat as a rejection of calls from Congress, the American public, and children nationwide. This legislation, which now heads to the White House, will continue to protect the health care coverage of nearly 6.6 million children nationwide, and will provide coverage for an additional 4 million.  
   "President Bush must not turn his back on America's children in need. Congress has fulfilled our responsibilities to America's families, now the President must stand by his," said Senator Mikulski. "This program fills the gap for children who might otherwise have to go without any health care at all. The funding is critical to ensure our children have access to the health care they need and deserve." 
   CHIP is a joint federal and state program that provides low-cost health insurance to children in low-income families. In recent years, annual increases in health care costs, combined with a nationwide growth in CHIP enrollment, has caused the costs of the CHIP program to outpace the federal funding available. 
   The legislation protects Maryland, which was among a number of states at risk of running out of funding this fiscal year. The bill creates a new funding formula, which would allow Maryland to continue its proud history of funding all children in the program without exception or delay. This has been a top priority for Governor Martin O'Malley, who pledged to work with the federal delegation to address the shortfall. Senator Mikulski also joined Team Maryland and a coalition of her Senate colleagues to insist that congressional leaders include a guaranteed dental benefit provision. 
   Congressional leaders worked to include language that replaces the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services' (CMS) proposed regulation that would have taken away coverage from children currently covered by CHIP. This would have caused tens of thousands of children to lose coverage - including 4,000 in Maryland. Senator Mikulski and Governor O'Malley sent letters to the President asking him to reject this proposal. 
   "This bill provides health insurance to the children of many of America's working families. I helped create CHIP in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 