SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR A LEVEL PLAYING FIELD FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she is fighting to include an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1585) that will permanently level the playing field for federal employees. The amendment marks a major victory for federal employees in their fight against unfair contracting out procedures and discriminatory practices that favor private contractors. A final vote on the amendment's future is expected on Monday afternoon. 
   "The Bush Administration's plan for privatization costs money, costs morale and costs the integrity of the civil service by forcing them into unfair competitions. Federal employees are forced to spend time and money competing for their jobs, instead of doing their jobs," said Senator Mikulski. "The administration has stacked the deck against federal employees, but I'm here to level the playing field."  
   The amendment, co-sponsored by Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), contains provisions to finally put an end to unfair practices that have consistently put federal employees and contractors at a disadvantage. Senator Mikulski has been a consistent fighter for federal employees, and has worked to include language in spending bills over the past several years that helped federal employees compete with government contractors and provided improved guidelines for a more fair competition process before jobs are contracted out. 
   "This amendment does not prohibit contracting out and it won't put contractors out of business. Good contractors that provide good jobs to Americans should have no problem with this amendment," said Senator Mikulski. "Make no mistake, I'm not opposed to privatization. But the way this administration goes about it is blatantly unfair - it makes a mockery of our democracy, shows a lack of respect for federal employees, and wastes tax payer dollars. 
   In May 2003, the administration issued new guidelines for public-private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These procedures favored contractors and stacked the deck against federal employees. The Mikulski-Kennedy amendment includes provisions to help federal employees compete with government contractors and provides improved guidelines for a more fair competition process before jobs are contracted out. 
   Under the provisions included, federal employees are permitted to submit their own best bids, and contractors are required to demonstrate a savings of at least 10 percent or $10 million. These provisions, already used by the Department of Defense (DoD), will now be used government-wide. The amendment also allows federal employees to appeal agency decisions to the Government Accountability Office (GAO). 
   The amendment includes several provisions that will be exclusive to DoD employees, urging greater transparency and accountability in the agency's use of contractors. Senator Mikulski has fought for similar provisions, which would apply to all other federal employees, in the Financial Services 2008 spending bill, which awaits a Senate floor vote. Of particular priority for both Senators Mikulski and Kennedy, contractors will no longer gain an advantage in public-private competitions by offering inferior health care and retirement benefits. 
   "Right now, a private contractor can win a bid on federal work simply because they provide inferior or no health and retirement benefits," said Senator Mikulski. "This is bad for federal employees, bad for the contractors who are doing the work, and bad for our health care system."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 