SEN. MIKULSKI CELEBRATES ANNIVERSARY OF POLAND'S SOLIDARITY MOVEMENT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) joins the Polish community this week in celebrating the 25th anniversary of Poland's Solidarity movement. The Senate recently passed a Sense of the Senate resolution celebrating the anniversary, introduced by Sen. Mikulski and Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH).  
   Senator Mikulski's full floor statement, as it appears in the congressional record, is provided below: "I rise today to commemorate the birth of one of the greatest democracy movements in the 20th century: the Polish Solidarity movement. I am proud to join my friend Senator Voinovich in introducing a Sense of the Senate honoring the people of Poland on this special anniversary. 
   "On August 31st of this year, Poland will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the 1980 shipyard strikes in Gdansk and the creation of the Solidarity Trade Union, the first independent union established behind the Iron Curtain. 
   "For decades, the Polish people resisted the yoke of communist oppression that descended on Poland after World War II. Their fight for democracy, human rights and independence was invigorated in 1980, when an obscure electrician, Lech Walesa, working in the Gdansk shipyard jumped over a wall proclaiming the Solidarity movement. And when he jumped over that wall, he took the whole world with him, to continue the push to free Poland. 
   "At first, we had reason to hope. The fledgling Solidarity movement won a major victory in August 1980, forcing Poland's communist government to accept a list of demands from the striking workers. The government released political prisoners, promised to permit the broadcast of religious services, and agreed to permit the activities of independent trade unions. 
   "But just before Christmas 1980, our hopes were dashed that Poland would soon be free. The Soviets were worried that Solidarity's growing popularity threatened their tight grip on the people of eastern Europe. Under pressure from Moscow, Poland's communist government declared martial law. Thousands of Solidarity leaders were arrested and imprisoned, including Walesa. The borders were sealed, airports were closed and a curfew was imposed. 
   "Through the dark days of martial law, Polish Americans stood by our cousins abroad, working to support the Solidarity movement. We found ourselves troubled and fearful for our friends and relatives in Poland, but we never doubted that Poland would one day regain its freedom. Polish peoples everywhere, whether we live here, as fully American citizens, or in Poland, know that the heart and soul of Poland lie with democracy and lie with freedom. 
   "Even though the Solidarity movement was driven underground, it continued to grow. Under Lech Walesa's leadership, and with the support of Poland's native son, Pope John Paul II, Solidarity grew from a trade union into a national movement demanding freedom and independence for Poland. 
   "In 1989, Solidarity won the right for the Polish people to hold elections for the National Assembly. They elected a majority in the Assembly supported by Solidarity and Poland's first non-communist Prime Minister in the post-war era. 
   "Poland's peaceful march to freedom offered a beacon of hope to all those in Europe suffering under communist rule. And in December 1989, just weeks after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Lech Walesa was elected President of Poland. 
   "Today, the United States and Poland are close partners and good friends. As Polish troops fight side-by-side with American troops in Afghanistan and Iraq, I hope our colleagues will join us in celebrating the birth of the Solidarity movement and honoring the people of Poland, whose heroic and peaceful resistance hastened the end of the Soviet Union and the emergence of one Europe, whole and free."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 