SEN. MIKULSKI VOTED ONE OF BEST SENATORS FOR KIDS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) was cited as one of the "Best Senators for Children" by the Children's Defense Fund Action Council (CDFAC) this week. In its congressional report card, the CDFAC recognized Senator Mikulski as one of the Senators whose voting record was 100 percent in favor of improving the lives of America's children.  
   "When it comes to looking out for America's children, it isn't about politics. It's about partnership and performance," said Senator Mikulski. "I am honored to receive this recognition and will continue to fight to keep children a priority in the U.S. Senate." 
   Senator Mikulski has a long history of fighting for the well-being of America's youth - from supporting after school programs, to working for public schools families can count on, and protecting children from lead paint exposure. 
   Senator Mikulski consistently fights for programs like the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) - a federal-state matching program facing funding shortfalls that provides health insurance to targeted low-income children. Most recently, she urged her Senate colleagues to pass legislation reauthorizing the program after President Bush vetoed increased funding for CHIP twice. 
   "Health care is just too expensive for too many working families. I fought to create CHIP in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states. We cannot take a giant step backward and take health insurance away from thousands of children," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own. I will keep standing up for a federal government that fulfills its responsibilities to America's families and America's children." 
   The CDFAC educates the nation about children's needs and encourages preventative investment before they get sick or into trouble, drop out of school, or suffer family breakdown. The CDFAC began in 1969 and is a private, nonprofit organization that has never taken government funds. 
   "I applaud Senator Mikulski for her commitment to improving the lives of children in Maryland," said CDFAC President Marian Wright Edelman. "With 9.4 million uninsured children in America and nearly 13 million living in poverty, it is critical that we have Senators committed to making children a priority. Senator Mikulski is a dedicated advocate for children and has truly earned the distinction of being one of the best Senators for children."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 