SEN. MIKULSKI URGES LEADERSHIP TO PUT TRANSPORTATION FUNDS IN STIMULUS TO IMPROVE ECONOMY
  As both Houses of Congress prepare economic stimulus packages this week, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today called on congressional leadership to include a targeted investment in transportation infrastructure to help boost the economy. Every dollar spent on infrastructure generates about $5.70 in economic activity, and more than 47, 000 jobs are created for every $1 billion provided. 
   "The federal government cannot focus on bailing out the sharks - I want to focus on the minnows. The stimulus needs to focus on Main Street, not Wall Street. I'm here to help families," said Senator Mikulski. "The stimulus package must be timely and targeted to help struggling Americans meet their day-to-day needs."  
   Senator Mikulski joined a group of her colleagues lead by Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and House Minority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio), encouraging the transportation investment. 
   The Senators urged leadership to include $5 billion from the General Fund for transportation infrastructure spending for targeted state projects where the design and engineering work is done and the only thing missing is funding. Once these projects are funded, the Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials estimates it will be only three months before supplies are purchased and workers start receiving, and spending, their paychecks. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Senator Reid, Speaker Pelosi, Senator McConnell and Congressman Boehner: 
   We are writing to encourage you to make a targeted investment in transportation infrastructure as part of any stimulus package. 
   Infrastructure spending is one of the best investments the federal government can make in the economy: every dollar spent generates about $5.70 in economic activity, and more than 47, 000 jobs are created for every $1 billion provided. This important investment carries the additional benefits of reducing traffic congestion, improving the flow of freight, and saving lives through increased safety. 
   Infrastructure projects in each of our States are ready to go. The design and engineering work is done; the only thing missing is funding. Once these projects are funded, it will be only three months before supplies are purchased and workers start receiving, and spending, their paychecks. We have attached information compiled by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials on the 2,735 projects in 44 states have ready to start within 90 days. 
   We ask that the Stimulus package include $5 billion from the General Fund for transportation infrastructure spending, to be allocated to states in accordance with the FY 2008 SAFETEA-LU formula. States should be required to obligate the money within 120 days. To help states meet this requirement, the state match should be temporarily reduced or delayed. 
   To ensure that this funding is used where it is needed most, individual states would be responsible for allocating funding to those projects where construction can begin immediately. 
   During his testimony before the Senate Finance Committee, Peter Orszag, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said that targeted infrastructure spending as we suggest would be a rapid and effective boost to our national economy. 
   By targeting transportation infrastructure projects that are ready to go, Congress can provide both an immediate economic boost to the economy and a sustained economic benefit to the country. Because of this, we believe transportation spending should be a key part of any economic stimulus package.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 