SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO PREVENT SENIOR CITIZEN FALLS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) has joined Sen. Mike Enzi (R-WY) to introduce important legislation aimed at preventing falls among seniors. The Keeping Seniors Safe from Falls Act (S.1531) authorizes $25 million per year for three years to help prevent falls among older adults through public education, research and demonstration projects. The legislation is also co-sponsored by Sens. Thad Cochran (R-MS), Patty Murray (D-WA), Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Max Baucus (D-MT).  
   "Falls don't discriminate," said Senator Mikulski, senior Democrat on the Senate Subcommittee on Retirement Security and Aging. "This is a serious public health problem that directly affects our seniors and their family members. This legislation provides a framework to reduce and prevent elder falls through public education campaigns and important research." 
   "Anyone who has an elderly parent, relative or friend who lives alone knows about the concern that comes with an unanswered phone call," said Senator Enzi. "For many of our nation's elderly, a fall means serious injury. This act will help to prevent falls and ease our minds. Education, prevention and early intervention will reduce the occurrences and costs of unintentional falls." 
   Falls are the leading cause of injury deaths among persons over age 65. In 2002, falls among elderly persons accounted for 12,800 deaths and 1.64 million emergency room visits. Fall related injuries for people age 65 and older cost a total of $19.5 billion in 2000. 
   The bill focuses on prevention of falls among older adults in five areas: 
   1. Public Education Campaigns: 
   Establishes public education campaigns for older adults, family members and health care providers to reduce falls and prevent repeat falls. 
   2. Research Initiative Legislation: 
   Supports research in areas including identifying older adults who have a high risk of falling; designing, implementing and evaluating the most effective ways to prevent falls; improving the diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of older adults who have fallen; and examining barriers to adopting proven fall prevention strategies. 
   3. Demonstration Projects: 
   Authorizes federal grants for demonstration projects that will focus on the utility of targeted fall risk screening and referral; programs that use multiple approaches to prevent falls such as physical activity, medication assessment, and home modification; targeting newly discharged fall victims at high risk for second falls; and developing technology to prevent falls. 
   4. Study on Effects of Falls on Health Care Costs: 
   Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to evaluate the effect of falls on health care costs, the potential for reducing falls and the most effective strategies for reducing health care costs associated with falls. 
   5. Authorization of Appropriation:
   Authorizes $25 million annually for fiscal years 2007-2009.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 