SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI SECURE $300,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDING TO HELP PRESERVE LLOYD STREET SYNAGOGUE IN BALTIMORE
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $300,000, as part of the Save America's Treasures program, to help stabilize and preserve the historic Lloyd Street Synagogue in Baltimore. The funding was included in the FY 2007 Department of the Interior Appropriations bill.  
   Although no longer an active synagogue, Lloyd Street is one of the most important Jewish architectural landmarks in Maryland. It was the first synagogue erected in the state and is the third oldest synagogue structure in the country. It was restored as an historic landmark in the 1960s and is visited as a museum and historic site by tens of thousands of people each year, including many school students from across the State of Maryland. 
   The federal funding will be used for immediate repairs to the historic structure. Repairs will include the installation of new roofing, repainting windows and doors, improving drainage and flood prevention measures, protections to interior woodwork, furnishings, and ritual objects, and making the facility fully accessible for the disabled. 
   "I feel it is important to provide proper funding for the restoration of state and national landmarks that contribute to neighborhood redevelopment and serve as memorials for future generations of Maryland residents and heritage tourists," said Senator Sarbanes. "The Lloyd Street Synagogue is an integral part of the Jewish community and Jewish history - on a local, state, and national level and I am proud to be involved in its restoration efforts," said Sarbanes. "The Synagogue has become an anchor for neighborhood redevelopment in East Baltimore and has become a part of Baltimore's heritage and it is important to ensure that we preserve its history for future generations." 
   "As I drive around Baltimore, I am so honored to be from a city with such a rich history and culture. But in order to preserve our past for generations to come, we need a federal investment in places like the Lloyd Street Synagogue. I am proud to have gone to work in the Senate to restore, refresh and revitalize our local treasures, added Senator Mikulski." 
   The bill now goes to the full Senate for consideration and any differences must be reconciled with the House of Representatives before being sent to the President for signature. The FY 2007 fiscal year begins on October 1, 2006.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202-228-1122 
 
 