SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE APPROVES FUNDING TO BEGIN INFRASTRUCTURE REPAIRS TO PATUXENT WILDLIFE RESEARCH CENTER
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $1.9 million to begin efforts to repair, rehabilitate or replace the aging research facilities and buildings at the world renowned Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in Laurel. The funding was included in the FY 2007 Department of the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill.  
   Specifically, the money will be used for infrastructure repairs to the water and sewer systems, which are in dire need of repairs and upgrades to enable the research facility to continue its operations. The current water delivery system is in desperate need of repair and failure of the water delivery system would result in the closure of research and veterinary facilities on the campus and would also leave the refuge without adequate fire suppression operations for millions of dollars worth of laboratories and buildings. The monies would enable the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center to connect to the local public sewer system, allowing the research refuge to retire an antiquated and failing sewage treatment system and eliminate a potential source of water pollution within the Chesapeake Bay watershed. 
   "Our persistence is beginning to pay off," said a pleased Sarbanes. "We cannot allow this world-class research facility to deteriorate any longer and I am pleased we are taking the first steps to begin to bring this world class research facility up to code." 
   "The Patuxent Wildlife Research Center brings world class research and information to the nation. We need to make sure that the Center's staff has the resources and facilities they need to deliver this important service," said Senator Mikulski. "That is why I got to work in the Senate to put money in the federal checkbook to begin the vital repairs needed to sustain this facility." 
   The Patuxent Wildlife Research Center (PWRC) is the nation's oldest and largest institution dedicated to wildlife research. It was established in 1936 as the nation's first national wildlife experiment station with a mission to help protect and conserve the nation's wildlife and natural environment through research on critical environmental problems and issues. For 70 years the PWRC has compiled an impressive record of success for its research on endangered species, migratory birds and environmental contaminants, earning a world-wide reputation for excellence in the scientific community.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202-228-1122 
 
 