SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR PATIENTS, STRENGTHENS FDA
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced full Senate passage of the Medical Device User Fee Stabilization Act of 2005 (MDUFMA). The legislation will save nearly 150 FDA jobs in Montgomery County and creates a stable and sufficient funding base for device review programs.  
   "Over the years, I have fought for the right facilities, the right resources, and the right leadership at the FDA, which is based in my home state of Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "Today, I am proud to have protected FDA employees from lay-offs and to ensure that patients have timely access to lifesaving and life enhancing innovations." 
   Congress unanimously passed MDUFMA in 2002, giving the FDA additional resources and expertise to help provide timely patient access to new medical technologies. A combination of industry-paid user fees and increased five-year appropriations for the FDA helped develop a stable funding base for device review programs. 
   By passing the bill, the Senate has eliminated the "trigger" provision that would have caused the program to sunset at the end of fiscal year 2005 (October 1). It also locked in a user fee rate for medical device companies, and provided sufficient funds for the FDA to keep the program running. 
   "The nations of the world who cannot afford an FDA look to our FDA to be the gold standard," said Senator Mikulski in praise of Senate passage. "Physicians and other allied health people who are using technologies need to know that they have an FDA that they can count on. And we, the patients of the United States of America, need to know that we can count on the FDA." 
   The legislation also improves upon language included in the original bill, which created obstacles for the FDA in bringing new information to the public. The new language includes changed requirements on how companies label their devices to better facilitate giving providers and patients the information they need about the use and adverse effects of certain medical devices.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 