SEN. MIKULSKI CONGRATULATES FDA ON 100TH ANNIVERSARY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today congratulated the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) on its 100 year anniversary of standing sentry over the nation's public health. The FDA's official anniversary is Friday, June 30. Sen. Mikulski joined with a group of her colleagues in support of a resolution this week honoring the 1906 Pure Food and Drugs Act, which established the agency as a scientific regulatory organization a century ago. The resolution's unanimous passage is expected today.  
   "The FDA is the gold standard on food and drug safety and efficacy," said Senator Mikulski. "Many poor countries around the world rely on what is approved by the FDA because they can't afford to have an FDA of their own. Doctors in clinical practice rely on the FDA to tell them what drugs and medical devices are good and safe and effective." 
   "We know that the FDA has a history of dedication to science and innovation, but we also know it has faced a lot of change and controversy over the past several years," continued Senator Mikulski. "On its 100th anniversary, I hope that it stays true to its long-standing commitment to science and safety over politics - so that we, the patients and doctors of the world, can count on the FDA." 
   The FDA is the oldest consumer protection agency in the United States, and the primary one in the nation and worldwide. Its headquarters are located in Maryland and the agency supports nearly 8,000 jobs in the state. 
   "Not only does the FDA provide a great service to our nation's health care industry, but they also play an important role in the economy of my own home state of Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "It is responsible for bringing thousands of jobs to Montgomery and Prince George's Counties." 
   As a member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, and the Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski has been a long time supporter of the FDA in the Senate.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 