SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT FOR RECORD ON EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) released the following statement for the record today on the Senate version of the fiscal year 2007 emergency supplemental spending bill: 
   Senator Mikulski's statement for the record is below: 
   "During the last election, the American people spoke loud and clear: they want a new direction in Iraq. In my own state of Maryland, I have heard from a strong grassroots movement - they want Congress to act now to end this war. I will vote for this Emergency Supplemental bill because it: fully-funds the needs of our warfighters on the battlefield; adds $454 million to ensure Veterans get health care they need when they come home; and requires the President to immediately change our mission in Iraq; and sets the goal of bringing our troops home by March 31, 2008. 
   "This bill states clearly that Congress and the American people will continue to support and protect our troops. Our troops must understand that Congress will never abandon them: not while they are fighting on the battlefield and not when they come home. The best way to support our troops is to bring them home - swiftly and safely.  
   "I'm not new to this position. I never wanted to go to war in the first place. I was one of the 23 who voted against this war, four years ago, on October 11, 2002. I opposed giving the President unilateral authority to launch a preemptive attack. I said the United States had to exhaust our diplomatic options. I encouraged the Administration to stick with the United Nations (UN), to let the UN meet its responsibility to deal with the threat from Saddam. The day of the vote, I said, we don't know if we will be greeted with flowers or landmines. Well, now we know: when we got to Iraq, there were no weapons of mass destruction, but the destruction happened, and it happened fast. 
   "The United States went to war with Iraq, but today, we are at war within Iraq. Saddam is gone, but we're still there, mired in a civil war. No one could ask more of our troops. They are brave and courageous and have fought valiantly. And it is time to bring them home. 
   "We need a way forward in Iraq. The Iraq Study Group give us 79 recommendations as a way to go forward, but the President has completely ignored this report. Surely out of 79 recommendations, there are 50 we can agree on. The Iraq Study Group report calls for: new and enhanced diplomatic and political efforts in Iraq, and a change in the primary mission of U.S. forces in Iraq to enable the United States to begin to move our forces out of Iraq responsibly. It provides a direction for the U.S. and Iraqi governments to follow that could lead to withdrawal of American forces by first quarter of 2008. 
   "This is exactly the approach called for by this Supplemental bill, which will have most of our troops out of Iraq by March 31, 2008. What are we voting for? This bill contains a binding resolution that directs the President to promptly transition the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq and begin a phased redeployment within 120 days. It sets a goal of bringing U.S. combat forces home by March 31, 2008, except for a limited number of troops essential for force protection, training and equipping Iraqi troops, and targeted counter-terror operations. It also requires the President to develop a comprehensive diplomatic, political and economic strategy for Iraq, including greater U.S. engagement with Iraq's neighbors and the international community to work together to bring stability to Iraq. 
   "This resolution also says success in Iraq depends on the Iraqi government's ability to meet important benchmarks, including: the training and equipping of Iraqi security forces so they can control the capitol city of Baghdad; giving Iraqi military commanders the authority to conduct operations without political interference; disarming sectarian militias and ensuring that Iraqi security forces are loyal to Iraq's government; drafting and implementing legislation to ensure the equal division of Iraqi oil revenues; drafting and implementing legislation to reform the de-Ba'athification process; implementing a fair process for amending the Iraqi constitution to ensure minority rights are protected; and implementing new rules to protect minority rights in the Iraqi parliament. 
   "I support this Iraq resolution. It says what the Iraq Study Group has already told us: the problems in Iraq can not be solved by the U.S. military -they require a political solution by the Iraqis and diplomatic engagement with Iraq's neighbors. It says Congress and the American people will not only support the troops, but continue to protect them as well. 
   "I want to end this war, and the resolution in this bill will do just that. Yet in ending the war, it is my responsibility as a Senator to ensure that our troops are brought home not only swiftly, but safely. I will not vote to end funding for: the pay that supports military spouses and children; body armor and armored Humvees our troops need for survival; tourniquets and surgical hospitals on the battlefield; jet fuel for the airplanes that take injured troops from Baghdad to Germany and then home; or the medical care they need when they get here. "In the last few weeks, we have all been shocked and awed by the conditions facing our wounded warriors. We know that more than 22,000 Purple Hearts have been awarded in Iraq. Yet our troops are being twice wounded. We know that acute care for our injured troops has been astounding, with historic rates of survival from even the most brutal battlefield injuries. Yet while we've saved their lives, we are failing to give them their life back. Outpatient care, facilities, social work, case workers, disability benefits - the whole system is dysfunctional. "I thank Senator Inouye and Senator Byrd for their leadership in providing funding in this bill for military and veterans' health care. This Supplemental includes an additional $20 million to improve conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and an additional $100 million for research and treatment of Traumatic Brain Injury, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, and other physical and mental trauma. It also adds $454 million for Veterans' Health care, including $73 million for new Polytrauma facilities and services and $100 million for mental health treatment. "We know this is only a down-payment for our Troops and Veterans. We need to overhaul the disability benefits system that is out-dated and adversarial. We need a better system for transitioning our troops from active duty to the Veterans' Administration, to ensure they get the health care, job training, and educational benefits they deserve. We need to hear the recommendations of the Dole-Shalala Commission on how to fix the problems in our military and veterans' hospitals. And I look forward to working with Senator Murray, Senator Levin, and Senator Inouye on a comprehensive reform package that will ensure our troops have the medical care they will need for the rest of their lives. "This Supplemental supports our troops, follows the will of the American people, and follows the advice of the Iraq Study Group. It is time to change our direction in Iraq and bring our forces home. Let's send in the diplomats and bring our troops home safely and soon."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 