SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES $446.2 MILLION FOR MARYLAND'S MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
 Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Senate has approved nearly $446.3 million in federal funding for Maryland military facilities in the emergency supplemental spending bill. This funding was approved by the committee in the 2007 Military Construction/Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs spending bill, but the bill was not brought up for a Senate floor vote in the 109th Congress, and was not included in the Continuing Resolution (CR) signed into law last month.  
   "Promises made are promises kept. I told Maryland's military leaders I would fight for this funding, and I am proud these critical funds are back where they should be," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to do everything we can to support our troops - not just with words, but with deeds. That means making sure our military has the tools they need to keep us safe." 
   The bill specifically includes $3.1 billion in critical funding for military construction projects required to implement the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission decisions. This funding will ensure that necessary infrastructure is in place to prevent a disruption in the military missions of incoming organizations, including those providing direct support to troops on the battlefield. 
   The 2005 BRAC recommendations will bring significant military assets and thousands of new Department of Defense (DoD) employees into Maryland. In Maryland alone, this funding will allow the DoD to move forward on the construction of facilities to directly support our war fighters [note updated numbers]: 
   * $1.37 million for planning and design for the new Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda 
   * $389 million for Aberdeen Proving Ground, including funding for Fort Lee, Va., to construct the new Ordnance School 
   * $13.8 million for Fort Detrick's Armed Forces Reserve Center 
   The bill also includes $42 million for Fort Meade's Military Intelligence Center in non-BRAC related military construction funding. 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both bodies. Once passed by the House and Senate, the bill will go to the President for his signature. The President has continued his threat to veto the bill in its current form.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 