SEN. MIKULSKI: SUPPLEMENTAL BILL STANDS BY OUR TROOPS ON THE BATTLEFIELD AND WHEN THEY RETURN
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded the Senate's passage of the emergency supplemental spending bill, which includes a provision that would start bringing troops home within 120 days of its enactment, with the goal of bringing most home by March 31, 2008.  
   "This bill states clearly that Congress and the American people will continue to support and protect our troops. I agree with the strong grassroots movement in my home state of Maryland and throughout the nation that says we must act now to end this war," said Senator Mikulski. "This supplemental supports our troops, follows the will of the American people, and follows the advice of the Iraq Study Group. It is time to change our direction in Iraq and bring our forces home swiftly and safely." 
   The Senate bill provides an increased federal investment in troop care on the battlefield and after our wounded service members return from war. The bill also provides additional funding for operations at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, D.C. 
   "This bill is a down payment for our troops and veterans, but we still need to overhaul the disability benefits system that is out-dated and adversarial," said Senator Mikulski. "We need a better system for transitioning our troops from DoD [Department of Defense] to the VA [Department of Veterans Affairs] so they get the health care, job training and educational benefits they deserve." 
   The bill outlines significant aid and improvements to military and veterans' health care: 
   * $20 million for operations and maintenance at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. The bill requires that the DoD submit a report to Congress, within 30 days of enactment, on the timeline and plan for implementing the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission recommendation to close the facility without compromising patient care, staffing requirements or facility maintenance. 
   * Nearly $1.8 billion in funding to help the VA provide care for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, including new polytrauma centers, enhanced mental health services, upgraded facilities and equipment, medical and prosthetic research, and additional staff to process benefits claims. 
   * $2.46 billion for health care for our returning troops. This is $1.3 billion more than President Bush requested. It also rejects Bush administration proposals to increase TRICARE fees and copays, and cut corners in patient care by instead providing additional funding for health care coverage and medical services. In addition, it funds improvements to the diagnosis, care and treatment of Traumatic Brain Injuries (TBI), Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and other physical and mental trauma. 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both bodies. Once passed by the House and Senate, the bill will go to the President for his signature. The President has continued his threat to veto the bill in its current form.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 