SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS SENATE BILL PREVENTS STATE CHILDREN'S HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM EMERGENCY
 Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded the Senate's approval of more than $745 million to address the funding shortfall for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). This funding will protect the health care coverage of nearly 6.1 million children nationwide, and over 100,000 children in Maryland. This could mean as much as $65 million for Maryland in federal SCHIP dollars. The proposal was part of the emergency supplemental spending bill passed by the Senate in a 51-47 vote this morning.  
   "SCHIP provides health insurance to the children of many of America's working families. I fought to create SCHIP in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own. I will keep standing up for a federal government that fulfills its responsibilities to America's families and America's children." 
   Today's bill fully funds the program for the entire fiscal year 2007. Maryland was one of 17 states at risk of running out of funding this year. A shortfall would have forced the state to cut other programs, reduce eligibility for SCHIP, or freeze enrollment to account for the funding gap. If Maryland had been forced to cut enrollment, many of the children now participating in SCHIP could have lost their health coverage and become uninsured. 
   SCHIP is a joint federal and state program that provides low-cost health insurance to children in low-income families. In recent years, annual increases in health care costs, combined with a nationwide growth in SCHIP enrollment, has caused the costs of the SCHIP program to outpace the federal funding available. 
   "Health care is just too expensive for too many working families. This program fills the gap for the children who might otherwise have to go without any health care at all," said Senator Mikulski. "This money is critical to ensure our children have access to the health care they need and deserve." 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both bodies. Once passed by the House and Senate, the bill will go to the President for his signature. The President has continued his threat to veto the bill in its current form.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 