SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI, REPS. CARDIN, RUPPERSBERGER ANNOUNCE LOCATION OF NEW BROOKLANDVILLE POST OFFICE
  The Post Office Will Have a New Home in the Same Neighborhood Brooklandville, MD - Sen. Paul Sarbanes (D-Md.), Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Rep. Benjamin Cardin (D-Md.), and Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.) are pleased to announce that the Brooklandville Post Office will soon have a new home at 10807 Falls Road - just up the road from the current location. The United States Postal Service finalized the lease yesterday, March 28, 2006.  
   The United States Postal Service has access to the new facility and will soon begin to make the necessary modifications and improvements so it can house a post office. Postal officials anticipate that the work will be completed in time to provide a seamless transition from the old location to the new one this summer. The lease at the current location of the Brooklandville Post Office at 10751 Falls Road in Green Spring Station will expire on June 30, 2006. 
   "I am extremely pleased that through the joint efforts of our Congressional Delegation, Postal Service officials, and the residents of Brooklandville that a local postal service facility will remain in this community," said Senator Paul Sarbanes (D-Md.). "This announcement reassures the Brooklandville community that their postal operations will be handled close by and in a timely manner." 
   "Post offices are part of a neighborhood's identity. They are a piece of the fabric of our communities. I'm pleased that postal officials have signed a lease for the Brooklandville Post Office, which has always been an important community to Maryland. Residents can continue to count on me to listen to their concerns and fight for their needs," said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.). 
   "This is a victory for the residents of Brooklandville. The new Post Office is centrally located, with plenty of parking and easy access for customers. I am pleased to have been a part of the effort to keep the Post Office in the Brooklandville community," said Congressman Benjamin Cardin (D-Md.). 
   "The Brooklandville Post Office is an incredibly important part of the community. Residents depend on it to send and receive their mail and handle their other shipping needs. I am pleased that the new Brooklandville Post Office will be just down the street from the current facility in a convenient location with lots of parking," said Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.). 
   The Brooklandville Post Office is a high-volume facility that serves between 40,000 to 50,000 customers a year. It houses 700 rented post office boxes and generates approximately $960,000 in revenue each year. 
   The offices of all four elected officials have been inundated with constituent phone calls and emails asking that they urge the Postal Service to relocate the Brooklandville Post Office within the neighborhood. The Senators and Congressmen agreed, wrote several letters including a joint letter to the Postmaster General on February 24, 2006, and held several meetings with officials involved in the situation to encourage them to find a new location nearby.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 