SEN. MIKULSKI OUTRAGED OVER HEALTH HAZARDS FOR CAPITOL BUILDING WORKERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) sent a letter to the Architect of the Capitol, Alan M. Hantman, today expressing her disgust over ongoing unsafe work conditions in tunnels beneath the Capitol building, and demanded a plan by the end of the week to remedy the problem.  
   "I am writing to express my strongest concern, indeed outrage, regarding your failure to ameliorate hazardous conditions that exist in the tunnels beneath the Capitol. These conditions endanger the health of the tunnel workers and their families," said Senator Mikulski. "I agree with the workers that something needs to be done, and it needs to be done now." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   March 29, 2006 
   The Honorable Alan M. Hantman, FAIA 
  Architect of the Capitol 
   Dear Mr. Hantman, 
   I am writing to express my strongest concern, indeed outrage, regarding your failure to ameliorate hazardous conditions that exist in the tunnels beneath the Capitol. These conditions endanger the health of the tunnel workers and their families. Moreover, if it is true that U.S. Capitol Police are forbidden from patrolling the tunnels because of the hazardous conditions, then your failure to address these conditions also has created a potentially serious security loophole that could endanger all of us who work in the Capitol and surrounding buildings. 
   On Friday, March 24, 2006, my office received a letter signed by ten members of the tunnel shop detailing the dangerous conditions that exist in the tunnels, and providing information that indicates some, if not all, of these conditions have existed for at least 6 years. No doubt, many have worsened during that period from neglect and further deterioration. According to these workers, even the issuance in 2000 of citations from the Congressional Office of Compliance has not been sufficient to move your office to make the necessary repairs and take immediate, effective steps to protect these workers. 
   I agree with the workers that something needs to be done, and it needs to be done now. At a minimum, immediate steps need to be taken to: 
   * Protect the employees who work in the tunnels, ameliorate all of the conditions for which citations were issued in 2000, 
   * Obtain a comprehensive and credible safety assessment that specifically addresses all hazardous conditions, and particularly the issues raised by the tunnel employees,
   * Develop and implement a plan to remedy the hazardous conditions and maintain a safe working environment, and 
   * Address the security concerns these tunnels present. 
   Finally, it appears the employees who brought these concerns to my attention did so only after all other recourse failed them. The issues they raise are extremely important. It took courage for them to buck the system, but your failure to address these important workplace safety issues left them no choice but to do so. Needless to say, any retaliation or adverse action against them for coming forward will not be tolerated. 
   I expect by April 1 to be advised in writing as to the steps you are taking to protect these workers, how the security concerns will be addressed pending completion of repairs, and any other information you have regarding the concerns outlined in their letter. I am requesting that a complete report regarding these issues, and specifically your long terms plans for worker protection and structural remediation, be submitted to me by April 15.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 