SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR WORKERS' RIGHT TO UNIONIZE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, today joined a coalition of her Senate colleagues led by Committee Chairman Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) to introduce the Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA). With the percentage of unionized workers at its lowest point in more than 60 years, this bill will protect the ability of workers to join unions.  
   "Unions play a vital role in ensuring safe and fair working conditions. That's why I support the right to form and join unions," said Senator Mikulski. "Workers can count on me to continue to fight to make sure they are treated with the respect they deserve." 
   Largely due to companies' anti-union campaigns, the right to organize has been severely compromised in recent years. The EFCA takes several steps to make it easier to unionize without employer coercion, including allowing workers to unionize as soon as a majority signs cards expressing support to join a union. This would make the organizing process faster and fairer. 
   The bill also allows workers to reach first contracts through mediation and arbitration. Fifty percent of workers who choose to unionize still don't have a contract within two years after choosing a union. Under the EFCA, if the parties don't reach a contract within 90 days, either one can seek mediation from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). If there is no agreement after 30 days of mediation, the dispute will go to arbitration. The result of the arbitration would then be binding for two years. 
   In addition, the EFCA strengthens remedies for employer coercion when employees are trying to organize or get a first contract, by: creating injunctions requiring the National Labor Relations Board to get a court order stopping an employer that is firing or discriminating against workers based on their union activity, mandating employers who discriminate against workers to pay three times back pay, and fining employers who willfully or repeatedly violate workers' rights up to $20,000 per violation. Employers fire pro-union workers in 25 percent of organizing drives. Remedies for this coercion are inadequate, and employees must often spend years proving their cases - and then they are only eligible to receive back pay and reinstatement to their jobs.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 