SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON PROMISE, SECURES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR DUNDALK COMMUNITY CENTER
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that she has delivered on a promise she made to the Dundalk community in March 2004 and successfully secured $396,800 in federal funding to revitalize their community center. County Executive Jim Smith and members of the Dundalk community joined the Senator for today's announcement, which was made at the Dundalk Renaissance Corporation.  
   "Dundalk is a walking community, with easy access to Downtown and the water," said Senator Mikulski. "Dundalk has seen significant improvements with the revitalization of the historic district and Village Shopping Center. When residents said they needed a community center, I knew it would empower the residents and continue their important restoration efforts. I promised I would fight for a federal investment. I'm here today to deliver on that promise I made in March and present the residents of Dundalk with a check for $396,800." 
   The federal funding will be used to improve the Dundalk Community Center, including the spaces for youth activities and a skills development center. The Dundalk Community Center will provide daytime activities for seniors, after-school activities for school-age children, evening activities for adults and convenient access to computers and the internet for job search and skills training. 
   Senator Mikulski met with community activists at Scoops Caf? in Dundalk in March 2004 to talk about revitalization plans for the community. Members of the Dundalk Renaissance Corporation went with the Senator on a walking tour of the area and told her about their plans to develop a community center in the Dundalk Town Center. Senator Mikulski said she would go back to Washington and fight for federal funding to help fund this community revitalization project. 
   Senator Mikulski secured federal funding for the Dundalk Community Center project through an Economic Development Initiative (EDI) grant which was included in the $388 billion FY2005 Omnibus appropriations bill. This spending legislation passed the House and Senate on November 20, 2004 and has been sent to the President for his signature. 
   EDI grants are awarded on a competitive basis and must meet criteria set by Senator Mikulski and the Subcommittee Chairman, Senator Kit Bond (R-MO). Each project must create jobs or meet a compelling human need, benefit low- or moderate-income neighborhoods, eliminate physical or economic distress, and have a funding match from a non-federal source.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 