SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $300,000 IN FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced two Western Maryland fire departments have been awarded a total of $302,423 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Western Maryland communities. Congratulations to these fire departments on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Accident Volunteer Fire Department in Garrett County has been awarded $57,798 to install a new sprinkler system in the station. The department serves as an emergency response center and this award will help to ensure adequate fire suppression for the station. For more information, call Adam Bach at 301-746-8800. This is the second award for the Accident Volunteer Fire Department. In 2005, the department was awarded $83,934 to purchase a new emergency generator. 
   The Hancock Fire Company in Washington County has been awarded $244,625 to purchase 20 sets of turn out gear, 20 Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) units, 20 portable radios for interoperable communications, an emergency generator and a Thermal Imaging Camera. For more information, call Greg Yost at 301-678-7739. This is the third award for the Hancock Fire Company. In 2003, the department was awarded $25,684, and in 2004, the department was awarded $274,500 to purchase a new engine tanker. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 