SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON PROMISE, SECURES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NEW RANDALLSTOWN COMMUNITY CENTER
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that she has delivered on a promise she made to the Randallstown community in May 2004 and successfully secured $396,800 in federal funding to build a new community center. County Executive Jim Smith, Councilman Ken Oliver, and members of the Randallstown community joined the Senator for today's announcement, which was made at the Liberty Senior Center.  
   "When I met with Randallstown community leaders in May, I promised I would fight for a federal investment in a community center for Randallstown," said Senator Mikulski. "I knew a community center would be an empowerment center. I am here today to deliver on that promise with $396,800 in federal funding." 
   "Randallstown deserves a place where community members can come together and learn together," continued Senator Mikulski. I have been so impressed with the number of people and the amount of talent involved in this project and am proud to work with them to revitalize Randallstown." 
   This new community center will offer recreational activities and personal development opportunities to residents of the Randallstown area. The center will also include employee training programs from Baltimore County's Office of Employment and Training (OET) to enhance the employability of youths and young adults between the ages of 16 and 24. 
   Senator Mikulski met with community activists at the Urban Blend Caf? in Randallstown in May 2004 to talk about revitalization plans for the community. Members of the Urban Design Assistance Team told Senator Mikulski about their plans to develop a civic core with a new community center. Senator Mikulski said she would go back to Washington and fight for federal funding to help fund this community revitalization project. 
   Senator Mikulski secured federal funding for the Randallstown Community Center project through an Economic Development Initiative (EDI) grant which was included in the $388 billion FY2005 Omnibus appropriations bill. This spending legislation passed the House and Senate on November 20, 2004 and has been sent to the President for his signature. 
   EDI grants are awarded on a competitive basis and must meet criteria set by Senator Mikulski and the Subcommittee Chairman, Senator Kit Bond (R-MO). Each project must create jobs or meet a compelling human need, benefit low- or moderate-income neighborhoods, eliminate physical or economic distress, and have a funding match from a non-federal source.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 