MARYLAND LEGISLATORS URGE CSX TO SUSPEND TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS DURING GAMES
  Following an apparent stalemate in negotiations between the City of Baltimore and CSX Corporation, Senator Barbara Mikulski, Senator Benjamin Cardin, Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (Md.-07), Congressman C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger (Md.-02), and Congressman John Sarbanes (Md.-03) sent a letter to CSX today encouraging the company to take additional measures in ensuring safety with the transportation of hazardous materials (text of the letter is attached). 
   The letter comes in the wake of renewed safety concerns about the transportation of hazmats through Baltimore, particularly in such close proximity to M&T Bank Stadium. The stadium, expected to fill its capacity of 71,000 people for this weekend's Army-Navy game, is only 35 feet from the rail line and is located near the site of the CSX train derailment that occurred last Saturday. Following news that President Bush may be in attendance at the game, CSX agreed to several previously denied requests for safety measures.  
   While commending CSX for taking such efforts, Senators Mikulski and Cardin and Congressmen Cummings, Ruppersberger, and Sarbanes have requested that the company commit to suspending the shipment of hazardous materials during all major events at M&T Stadium as well as at Oriole Park at Camden Yard. Additionally, they have requested CSX to begin sharing real-time information directly with City officials regarding the transportation of hazmats. 
   "It is simply unconscionable that a company would take any safety precautions for a Presidential visit the day after refusing to take precautions for tens of thousands of Marylanders," Congressman Cummings said. "Having seventy thousand people gathered just thirty-five feet from toxic trains is like painting a giant bulls eye on our community. Maryland families should always be able to attend a football or baseball game without the fear of inhaling toxic chemicals - not just when the President is visiting. It is critical that CSX fulfill these simple, common sense requests that can easily be implemented without significantly affecting the flow of commerce." 
   The text of the letter: 
   November 29, 2007 
   Mr. Michael J. Ward Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer CSX Corporation, Inc. 500 Water Street, 15th Floor Jacksonville, FL 32202 
   Dear Mr. Ward: 
   We write today to urge CSX Corporation, Inc. (CSX) to take additional actions to improve the safety and security of its train operations through the City of Baltimore. We appreciate your willingness to implement some actions for the upcoming sporting events at the M&T Bank Stadium. However, we feel strongly that more needs to be done in both the short and long term to protect our constituents from the threat of future hazardous train accidents. 
   For this weekend's events, we urge CSX to suspend hazardous materials shipments through the City of Baltimore from 12:00 p.m., Friday, November 30, 2007, through 6:00 a.m., Saturday, December 1, 2007, during preparatory events that will lead up to the Army-Navy football game to be held at the M&T Bank Stadium. We further urge that all rail traffic be suspended from 6:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m. on Saturday, December 1, 2007 during the Army-Navy football game. We also urge that hazardous materials shipments again be suspended from 12:00 p.m. through 1:00 a.m. on Monday, December 3, 2007, during the Baltimore Ravens' home football game. 
   We also believe that CSX should commit to suspending the shipment of hazardous materials - and particularly materials that are known to be toxic when inhaled by humans - during all major events at M&T Bank Stadium and at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. 
   Finally, we also urge CSX to begin sharing information with officials of the City of Baltimore on hazardous materials shipped through the City - and particularly through the Howard Street Tunnel - on a real-time basis. 
   As you know, on November 24, 2007, twelve cars of a CSX train derailed near the M&T Bank Stadium - including several cars carrying hazardous materials. Fortunately, this derailment did not result in the leak of any hazardous materials or any injuries. However, this derailment comes just six years after a tank car carrying tripropylene derailed on July 18, 2001, in the Howard Street Tunnel. This tank car was subsequently punctured, leading to the ignition of this flammable liquid and creating a fire fed by materials from other derailed cars. The fire in turn led to a major water main break. The total cost of responding to and cleaning up after this accident was approximately $12 million. 
   These derailments demonstrate in stark terms the significant risks that the transportation of hazardous materials through Baltimore bring to all of the residents of the City and to those who may be attending events at facilities located near CSX rail operations. While the cause of the most recent derailment is still under investigation, this derailment also renews concern about the safety of CSX rail operations in and around the Howard Street Tunnel. 
   The M&T Bank Stadium seats more than 70,000 people. The Army-Navy game is expected to attract a capacity crowd - as have all of the Ravens' home football games during the 2007 football season. Given the risks associated with hazardous materials transportation and the obvious terror targets that the Army-Navy football game and the Baltimore Ravens' Monday night football game present, we believe that the most prudent course of action at this time is for CSX to suspend rail traffic during the Army-Navy game and, at a minimum, to suspend hazardous materials shipments during the preparatory events preceding the Army-Navy game and during the Ravens' game. 
   Additionally, we believe that CSX should, at a minimum, commit to suspending hazardous materials shipments during all Ravens' games played at M&T Bank Stadium and during all baseball games held at Oriole Park at Camden Yards - at least until a detailed plan to improve rail safety and security in Baltimore is concluded between CSX and City officials. We note that Oriole Park has capacity seating exceeding 48,000 and during the 2007 season, the Baltimore Orioles' 80 home games were regularly attended by between 20,000 and 30,000 individuals. 
   CSX should commit to providing real-time information on all hazardous materials shipments through the City of Baltimore and particularly through the Howard Street Tunnel. Such information would enable first responders in the City of Baltimore to put adequate preparations in place to respond effectively to any accident that may occur and specifically to any chemical spills. We are encouraged that CSX has announced that Baltimore is to be included in a pilot program through which such real-time data on hazardous materials shipments will be provided - but believe that initiation of the program should begin immediately and that information should flow directly to the City of Baltimore. 
   We are confident that the common sense measures outlined in this letter will not unduly impede the flow of commerce - including hazardous materials - through the City of Baltimore, but will ensure that hazardous materials are not available during events that present obvious terror targets and that the City of Baltimore is fully prepared to respond to any future derailments involving hazardous materials that may occur in our City. 
   Thank you for your immediate consideration of this matter. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski
  United States Senator 
   Benjamin L. Cardin
  United States Senator 
   Elijah E. Cummings
  Member of Congress 
   C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger
  Member of Congress 
   John Sarbanes
  Member of Congress
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 