SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR MONTGOMERY COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Services has been awarded more than $1.2 million in federal funding through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant Program under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with enough staff and the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Montgomery County communities. Congratulations to Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Services on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   Montgomery County Fire and Rescue Services will use its more than $1.2 million to hire 12 new positions and bring Montgomery County up to the industry standard for a department of its size. This is the first award this fiscal year for a Montgomery County fire department. For more information, call Chief Tom Carr at 240-777-2400. 
   The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
   "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 