SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR WASHINGTON COUNTY DEFENSE PROJECT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski today joined her colleague Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) in announcing that the Senate version of the $440.2 billion Defense spending bill includes an additional $125 million for defense projects in Maryland. The legislation, which has passed the Senate Appropriations Committee, funds the Department of Defense and will go toward critical research, development, test and evaluation programs, as well as weapons and equipment required for the U.S. Armed Forces.  
   "We need to do everything we can to support our troops - not just with words, but with deeds. Together, we can do better. These much needed funds will help our troops fulfill their mission both at home and abroad," said Senator Mikulski. "I will keep fighting to put money in the federal checkbook for U.S. troops and their families." 
   "We continue to work hard to ensure that Maryland's military installations and their personnel have the resources and capabilities necessary to carry out their critical missions and this funding helps in these endeavors," said Sarbanes. "The funding to develop this new vehicle is an example of the significant spillover opportunities in our hi-tech and defense related sectors associated with our close proximity to the Pentagon and the quality work being performed at Maryland's military installations." 
   The spending bill includes $3.5 million for a Washington County-based company to develop a Heavy Duty Hybrid Electric vehicle for the U.S. Air Force to reduce logistics requirements and mitigate environmental impact. This technology has great potential for reducing dangerous emissions and greatly improving fuel economy. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has been tentatively scheduled for next week. Following the Senate vote, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Both Houses of Congress will vote on the conference bill. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Defense Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on Defense. Senator Sarbanes is the senior Democrat on the Banking Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 