SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES CALL FOR INCREASED SPECIAL EDUCATION FUNDS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, today continued to make good on her commitment to fight for a federal investment in the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). When Congress re-authorized IDEA in 2004, it committed to funding this program at $19.23 billion for fiscal year 2008. However, the President's budget requests only $10.49 billion for IDEA. In a letter to Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (D-Pa.), Sen. Mikulski asked for the subcommittee to make good on Congress' promise by providing full funding in the fiscal year 2008 spending bill.  
   "Special education has made such a huge difference in the lives of students with disabilities. It gives disabled children a chance to succeed in school and in life," said Senator Mikulski. "Parents of disabled children face such a tough burden already. School should not be one of the many things they worry about, particularly when the laws are already on the books to guarantee their child a public school education. I will continue to fight for funding of IDEA, because I don't want special education to be a hollow promise." 
   Fully funding IDEA has been a long-time priority for Senator Mikulski. The IDEA program entitles children with disabilities to a public education and provides federal funds to help schools with the cost. In theory, the federal government pays 40 percent of a state's special education costs, with the rest subsidized by the state and local governments. However, the federal government has not made good on its commitment, despite Senator Mikulski's efforts every year to increase funding and accountability. At its height, the federal government has never paid more than 18 percent to Maryland. This means local districts must make up the difference by skimping on special education, cutting from other education programs, or raising taxes. 
   "I don't want to force states and local school districts to forage for funds, cut back on teacher training, or delay school repairs because the federal government has failed to live up to its commitment to special education," said Senator Mikulski. 
   Senator Mikulski believes an increased federal commitment to IDEA will allow more state and county funds to support other efforts, including implementation of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2005 recommendations. The Senator has promised Maryland's local leaders to fight for an increase in IDEA, which could dramatically ease pressure on local and state government budgets as they begin planning for BRAC-impact projects. 
   Last week, Senator Mikulski joined Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) in supporting an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 budget resolution that would have increased funding for the IDEA by $44.2 billion over five years, starting with a $10.3 billion increase in 2008. The amendment unfortunately failed by a 38-58 vote.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 