SEN. MIKULSKI: FIGHTING FOR MAIN STREET, NOT WALL STREET
  As the Senate negotiates legislation to ease the burden on families struggling under the mortgage crisis nationwide, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a co-sponsor of the Foreclosure Prevention Act, urged her colleagues to provide increased funding for legal aid to help families and community housing groups. The Senator introduced an amendment to the legislation currently being considered by the Senate, which would make more legal resources available to homeowners struggling against foreclosure. Senator Mikulski's amendment comes as a result of feedback from housing experts and homeowners at the mortgage crisis roundtables she held throughout Maryland in February.  
   "Families across Maryland are facing a code red emergency, struggling to keep their homes while the nation faces a subprime mortgage crisis. These families aren't Wall Street investors playing the housing market to make a quick buck; they're Main Street Americans trying to raise a family in a decent home and a safe community," said Senator Mikulski. "They need a government that's on their side. That's why I am fighting to do everything I can to keep them in their homes." 
   During the Senate's February recess, Senator Mikulski brought together housing experts and homeowners for two mortgage crisis roundtables in Prince George's and Baltimore Counties to brainstorm about what Congress could do to better help families. At these discussions, Senator Mikulski learned from housing experts at non-profit community groups - who are the first line of defense for homeowners in trouble - and are overwhelmed by the size of the problem. They don't have the staff to handle the amount of people seeking assistance, and need more trained attorneys to deal with the complicated legal issues homeowners face as they try to work out a plan to avoid foreclosure. Unfortunately, there are few attorneys trained in foreclosure law that can help housing counselors, and represent families at risk of losing their homes. 
   Senator Mikulski's amendment will provide $75 million in federal funding for housing legal services. The funding would be allocated to Legal Services Corporation (LSC) and NeighborWorks (also known as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation). Grant funding will be distributed to organizations that can put the money to work right away, with areas struggling with the biggest foreclosure problems given priority, such as Maryland. Recipients of LSC and NeighborWorks grants will use the funds to represent and negotiate for homeowners facing foreclosure, hold predatory lenders accountable for illegal loans, as well as train and encourage more lawyers to do pro bono work on foreclosures. 
   "Quality housing is critical not just for individuals, but for communities as a whole. It means kids do better in school, families are healthier, and communities are safer. More legal aid will help preserve people's homes," said Senator Mikulski. "We must look at where we can help families avoid foreclosure, and we know one of the most effective ways to do this is to provide access to legal advice when and where it's needed most."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 