SEN. MIKULSKI: STATE'S DECISION TO DENY LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS FACILITY AT SPARROWS POINT MUST BE UPHELD
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), joined by group of her Team Maryland colleagues, today urged Secretary of Commerce Carlos M. Gutierrez to uphold the state's decision to prevent the construction of a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant at Sparrow's Point, Md.  
   "We can't let federal agencies rubber stamp plans for an LNG facility when our state is adamantly opposed. I worry about a terrorist attack or an accident with ghoulish consequences," said Senator Mikulski. "As the state's senior Senator, I am absolutely opposed to a new LNG facility in Sparrows Point. We must do all we can to protect the Port of Baltimore, the people of the Baltimore metropolitan area, and the Chesapeake Bay watershed." 
   The letter urges Secretary Gutierrez to uphold the Maryland Department of the Environment's decision last month to deny an application from AES Sparows Point LNG, LLC to construct an LNG terminal. If the application were approved, LNG tankers would have to travel through the narrowest portions of the Chesapeake Bay, under the Bay Bridge, through heavily used commercial fishing and recreational boating areas, to the mouth of the Port of Baltimore. This is a densely populated area that is less than two miles away from residential communities that are home to over 65,000 residents. 
   Joining Senator Mikulski in sending today's letter were Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D), and Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (D), C.A. "Dutch" Ruppersberger (D), and John Sarbanes (D). 
   The text of letter is below: 
   Dear Secretary Gutierrez: 
   The State of Maryland recently denied an application to build a liquid natural gas terminal in Sparrows Point, Maryland. We request that you uphold the state's decision. 
   On January 9, 2007, AES Sparrows Point LNG, LLC (AES) filed its formal application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for approval of this new LNG terminal. AES had six months to get approval from the State of Maryland that this terminal was consistent with the state's Coastal Zone Management Program (CZMP). 
   On July 9, 2007, the Maryland Department of the Environment denied consistency because AES did not provide sufficient information. The burden is on the applicant to get the state more information. 
   We understand that AES can ask you to override the State of Maryland's decision. We request, in the interest of protecting the coastal ecosystems of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries, that you respect the state's decision and uphold it. Failing to do so would go against one of the central tenants of the national CZMP: to improve the capacity of state and local governments to make decisions that balance coastal growth and development with protection of ecosystems and quality of life. 
   Determining consistency is not a federal decision. It is a state and local decision. We count on you to respect the State of Maryland's decision. 
   Thank you for your prompt attention to our request. We look forward to hearing from you on this urgent matter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 