SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR NEW RESOURCES TO TRACK CHILD PREDATORS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, and Subcommittee Chair Senator Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), were joined by John Walsh, host of America's Most Wanted and co-founder of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), and Ernie Allen, NCMEC president and CEO, at a press conference today to announce the 2007 CJS spending bill includes $50.5 million in federal funding for the Missing Children Program.  
   The bill, which was passed by the full Senate Appropriations Committee last month, targets, dismantles and prosecutes child predators through the various means, including the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force, AMBER Alert, a new grant program for state and local governments, and the NCMEC. 
   "We have made some amazing progress over the years, starting out with billboards and milk cartons. But crimes have gotten more sophisticated, and we've had to become more sophisticated," said Senator Mikulski. "Our bill focuses the resources of the federal government on child predators like a laser. I will keep doing my part in this war against child predators to make sure our children are safe." 
   Last week, President Bush signed the Adam Walsh Act into law on the 25th anniversary of the abduction and murder of Adam Walsh, John and Reve Walsh's son. Senator Mikulski was a co-sponsor of the legislation, and worked with her CJS colleagues to provide the resources necessary for it in the federal checkbook through this year's spending bill. 
   "The internet is a virtual playground for kids and we have to be vigilant in keeping it safe. Our kids are so savvy with computers, but unfortunately so are their stalkers," continued Senator Mikulski. "New technology means new ways of preying on our children. We need law enforcement to have the resources and the know-how to keep up." 
   Today's announcement follows this week's tragic news that an 11-year-old boy from Baltimore, Md., was found dead near his home, and a twice-convicted child sex offender was arrested in the case. The suspect, most recently convicted in 2002 for a third-degree sex offense, had told police during questioning "that he was a pedophile who needed help," according to news reports. 
   In the next step of the appropriations process, the bill will move to the Senate floor for a vote, which has not yet been scheduled.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 