SEN. MIKULSKI: RECESS CAN WAIT, FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT REFORM SHOULD MOVE FORWARD
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, addressed the urgent need for the Senate to move forward on consideration of reforms to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) in a floor speech last night. 
   "This is not about politics. This is about protecting the people we were sworn to protect," said Senator Mikulski. "I believe that if we work hard and are inclusive, approach it with common sense and focus on the end game, we will have the right tools for the intelligence community to do the right things to protect us."  
   Senator Mikulski's floor statement, as delivered, in below: 
   "I rise to comment on the FISA situation in which we find ourselves. I want to be very clear that patriotism and adherence to the Constitution in defense of the nation against all enemies - foreign and domestic - is not a partisan issue. 
   "We on the Intelligence Committee know what the real deal is in the sense of a very dangerous time facing our country. We on this side of the aisle want to assure both our colleagues and the American people that we want to make the reforms in FISA before we go out [for congressional recess] as intently as do our colleagues on the other side. We want to make those reforms so that we too give the intelligence community the tools to go after and catch the terrorists and be able to collect the information they need to protect us. 
   "As a member of the Intelligence Committee, I feel that it is my first duty to make sure the community has the tools it needs to protect the nation. That means not only the financial resources to hire the best people and have the best technology, but also that they have a legal framework in which to operate. 
   "A legal framework is, indeed, what we need. We believe that, in functioning within a legal framework, we are able to bring to bear all of the very important resources that are needed, from the private sector as well as the public sector. 
   "I agree with my colleagues - as we come into this August we have a certain level of anxiety. And all of us know, as we look back on 2001, if in fact we could have done something to stop what happened on that terrible day on September 11, we would do it. We know that right now, this minute, we have another rendezvous with destiny and we will meet that rendezvous. And in meeting that rendezvous, we will arrive at a legal framework that's constitutionally compliant and that will enable the intelligence community to be able to do what it needs to without being shackled by more bureaucratic mandates. 
   "There are many proposals, and the details of why we would support them or raise questions is better in a more classified forum. But I want to say to my colleagues - should the approach be bipartisan? You bet. I've worked with the gentleman from Missouri [Intelligence Committee Vice Chairman Kit Bond (R-Mo.)]. I know how he brings a pragmatism, a common sense and very sound legal analysis to the discussion and mandate. 
   "This is not about politics. This is about the people and protecting the people we were sworn to protect. So we're in. I believe that we will be proceeding. And I am prepared, if necessary, to cancel my plans. I believe that if we work hard and are inclusive, approach it with common sense and focus on the end game, we will have the right tools for them to do the right things to protect us."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 