SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR NATIONAL CHILDREN'S HEALTH INITIATIVE
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today emphasized the need for a national children's health initiative as the Senate continues debate on the reauthorization of the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). This legislation, which has bipartisan and bicameral support, will protect the health care coverage of nearly 6.6 million children nationwide, including more than 100,000 children in Maryland. The provision is attached to the Business Tax Relief Act of 2007 (H.R. 976) and a final vote is expected tonight or tomorrow. 
   "I have fought for children's health care for a very long time, going back to my days as a social worker and as a young member of the U.S. House. This bill is what we have hoped and dreamed for," said Senator Mikulski. "This program fills the gap for children who might otherwise have to go without any health care at all. The funding is critical to ensure our children have access to the health care they need and deserve."
   CHIP is a joint federal and state program that provides low-cost health insurance to children in low-income families. In recent years, annual increases in health care costs, combined with a nationwide growth in CHIP enrollment, has caused the costs of the CHIP program to outpace the federal funding available.
   The new legislation specifically protects Maryland, which was among a number of states at risk of running out of funding this fiscal year. A new funding formula has been created, and Maryland will now continue its proud history of funding all children in the program without exception or delay. This has been a top priority for Governor Martin O'Malley, who pledged to work with the federal delegation to address the shortfall.
   "This bill provides health insurance to the children of many of America's working families. I helped create CHIP in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own. I will keep standing up for a federal government that fulfills its responsibilities to America's families and America's children."
   Without this reauthorization bill, CHIP would expire on September 30, 2007, with no alternative in place.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 