SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON BUSH'S PROPOSED INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REFORMS
  I welcome President Bush's statement calling for significant reform of our intelligence community. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, I have been a strong advocate for these kinds of reforms.  
   Protecting America requires action and urgency. There can be no delay when the safety and security of Americans is at stake. 
   That's why I have cosponsored legislation to create a National Intelligence Director with true authority over all 15 intelligence agencies and their budgets. This is a critical first step to create an integrated intelligence community free from turf battles, internal rivalries and tunnel vision. But it can't be the only step. 
   I agree that Congress must organize itself so the Intelligence Committee has sufficient authority and broad oversight over the intelligence community. Today, nearly 80% of the intelligence budgets rests outside the Intelligence Committee's oversight, and a number of intelligence agencies fall outside the committee's jurisdiction. 
   Report after report since the end of the Cold War has called for comprehensive intelligence reform - from the 9/11 Commission to Congress' Joint Inquiry to the Bremer Report, the Scowcroft Report and the Hart-Rudman Report. Using these reports as a roadmap to reform will allow us to take quick and meaningful action based on independent, thorough and rigorous study. 
   A number of Congressional hearings are scheduled this month, but hearings are not the same as taking action. Urgency means we must implement reforms immediately. The President must nominate a new National Intelligence Director now, not in weeks or months. Congress should be called back into session to examine and confirm this nominee as well as enact measures that reform our intelligence community and improve resources for homeland security. Protecting America from terrorism is too important to wait.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-654.
 
 