SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR MINORITY ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) has joined several of her Senate colleagues in supporting the Healthcare Equality and Accountability Act of 2005, which would improve the quality of care for racial and ethnic minorities. The bill includes several provisions targeted at increased funding for one of Sen. Mikulski's priorities - uterine fibroid research and prevention.  
   "Making sure all Americans have access to competent and compassionate healthcare is one of my top priorities," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I'm fighting for easier access to health insurance, recruiting more minority health care providers and increasing research into diseases that disproportionately affect minorities." 
   The bill will give states the option to expand eligibility and streamline enrollment in Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program, making these programs more inclusive. The legislation would also expand and create new programs to address the shortage of minority health care providers. The bill would increase research into health care delivery in minority communities, as well as offer grants to health centers that serve rural minority, border and Indian populations. 
   Uterine fibroids are non-cancerous tumors that form within a woman's uterine lining, and they are three to nine times more common in African-American women. Earlier this year, Senator Mikulski introduced legislation with Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-OH) that would double federal funding for uterine fibroid research. By adding provisions from the Uterine Fibroid Research and Education Act of 2005 into this new bill, Senator Mikulski is continuing to work toward her goal to make better health care available to minority women. 
   "While three quarters of all reproductive age women have uterine fibroids, little is known about them and few good treatment options are available," continued Senator Mikulski. "Since my first days in Congress, I have been fighting to make sure women don't get left out or left behind when it comes to their health. I am so pleased that this legislation has included funding for uterine fibroid research and prevention. Women deserve better." 
   Senator Mikulski has joined several of her colleagues in supporting the Healthcare Equality and Accountability Act of 2005, including Senators Harry Reid (D-NV) and Daniel Akaka (D-HI).
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 