SEN. MIKULSKI CRITICIZES LACK OF TRUST IN INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Intelligence Committee, today demanded the Bush Administration recognize the Committee's critical oversight role and provide information on the intelligence gathering activities of the Executive Branch. The Senator's remarks were submitted at this morning's briefing on worldwide threats. 
   "Again, we will have to launch an investigation to get the information we should have been getting all along. This will take time and energy that could be spent on intelligence reform," said Senator Mikulski. "We will get to the bottom of the President's warrantless domestic surveillance program."
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below:
   "We are here today to learn about threats to the safety of the American people. We need to know if anything threatens the survival of our country. We want to know which security threats are most serious and how you would compare one threat to another.
   "Unfortunately, we are going to have to divert our attention from what you want to tell us today because of something you have not been telling us during the years since the 9/11 attacks.
   "Again, we will have to launch an investigation to get the information we should have been getting all along. This will take time and energy that could be spent on intelligence reform.
   "We will get to the bottom of the President's warrantless domestic surveillance program. It is our duty as members of the Senate Intelligence Committee to oversee the intelligence activities of the Executive Branch and, when necessary, to suggest changes in our laws to improve our intelligence.
   "Now I'm a big fan of journalists and the public service they provide. Our democracy could not survive without them. But I'm getting tired of first learning about sensitive intelligence activities from the New York Times or Washington Post.
   "I believe we have demonstrated, most recently in our discussions of the PATRIOT Act re-authorization, that this committee can be trusted -- trusted to make necessary adjustments in the balance between security and liberty and trusted to protect the secrets that have been shared with us.
   "I am disappointed that the president has put you in a situation where you have felt it necessary to withhold information on critical intelligence activities from this committee.
   "In the days ahead, this committee will find out what you are doing. It will assess the value of this program and along with the Judiciary Committee, it will reach conclusions on the program's legality.
   "I hope today can mark the beginning of this process. It is a necessary step to restore trust in our relationship."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 