SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP AGAINST CONSOLIDATION OF CUMBERLAND MAIL PROCESSING CENTER
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) sent a letter to U.S. Postmaster General and CEO John E. Potter today, expressing her opposition to the consolidation of the Cumberland Area Mail Processing Center (AMP). The U.S. Postal Service is currently evaluating mail processing centers to consolidate operations, and AMP is one of 40 sites nationwide under review. Consolidation at the post office would move operations nearly 100 miles away to Frederick, Md., and compromise the safety and efficiency of the postal service across the rugged terrain of Western Maryland.  
   "Postal facilities are part of the fabric of our neighborhoods. Residents can count on me to continue to fight for Cumberland to keep its postal facility and its identity," said Senator Mikulski. "I will stand sentry to protect these services for Western Maryland residents." 
   Senator Mikulski has been addressing the consolidation since August 2005, but has received nothing but bureaucratic responses from U.S. Postal Service officials. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Postmaster General, 
   I am writing to express my strong opposition to further consolidation of the Cumberland Area Mail Processing Center (AMP). I have received more than 2,000 letters from my constituents protesting any further consolidation and I share their concerns. Such action can only have a negative effect on mail service and delivery for residents and businesses in far western Maryland. 
   The Cumberland AMP is one of the most efficient AMPs in the country. Transporting mail over the exceptionally rugged terrain of western Maryland to and from Frederick - a distance for some offices of nearly 300 miles - would compromise our shared goal of greater safety and efficiency. 
   I have received only bureaucratic responses from your office to my earlier letters. Now I am asking for your personal assurance that further consolidation of Western Maryland's mail operations is not planned. 
   Thank you for your attention.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 