SEN. MIKULSKI HOSTS ROUNDTABLE WITH 2006 NOBEL PRIZE WINNERS
  As they consider the priorities in the fiscal year 2008 spending bill, Senate Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and CJS Ranking Member Richard C. Shelby (R-Ala.) held a special roundtable discussion today with the five American 2006 Nobel Prize winners. 
   "If America is going to be more competitive, we must focus on funding and policies to develop new technologies that lead to new products and industries that create new jobs," said Senator Mikulski. "As Chair of the CJS Subcommittee, I will make sure that there is money in the federal checkbook to support these policies."  
   In attendance at today's hearing were: Nobel Physics Prize winners John Mather, from NASA Goddard Space Flight Center and University of Maryland, and George Smoot, from the University of California at Berkeley, Nobel Chemistry Prize winner Roger Kornberg from Stanford University, and Nobel Physiology/Medicine Prize winners Andrew Fire, from Stanford University School of Medicine and Craig Mello, from the University of Massachusetts Medical School. 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "I would like to welcome everyone to this roundtable discussion with the 2006 Nobel Prize winners. I am so excited about this afternoon's discussion to explore innovation and competitiveness. If America is going to be more competitive, we must focus on funding and policies to develop new technologies that lead to new products and industries that create new jobs. 
   "This CJS Subcommittee is the innovation subcommittee. It funds the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST), the National Science Foundation (NSF) and NASA - all of the federal government's civilian research and development with the exception of the Department of Energy (DOE) and National Institutes of Health (NIH). Our agencies provide the basic and applied research that result in new products and technologies. We will be guided by the National Academy of Sciences, 'Rising Above the Gathering Storm.' 
   "Last week, I was part of a bipartisan team that helped pass the America COMPETES [Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science] bill to address recommendations from 'Rising Above the Gathering Storm.' America COMPETES is the policy statement from Congress on innovation. It recommends doubling NSF and increasing funding for NIST and the DOE's Office of Science. It directs NASA to increase funding for basic research and strengthens educational opportunities. As Chair of the CJS subcommittee, I will make sure that there is money in the federal checkbook to support these policies. 
   "Today, we are joined by the 2006 Nobel Laureates to gather their wisdom and insights on science and innovation. Last year was the first time in more than 20 years that the United States swept the Nobel science awards. 
   "Dr. John Mather from NASA/University of Maryland, now the chief scientist at NASA, and Professor George Smoot from the University of California at Berkeley - their research, looking back into the infancy of the universe, has increased support for the Big Bang Theory and created the discipline of precision cosmology. 
   "Professor Roger Kornberg from Stanford University - his research on how genetic information is copied and transferred to the parts of cells that produce proteins is an important building block for the development of therapeutic applications of stem cells. 
   "Professor Andrew Fire from Stanford University and Professor Craig Mello from the University of Massachusetts - their discovery of RNA interference has unraveled a new principle for regulating the flow of genetic information, adding a new dimension to our understanding of life and providing new tools for medicine. 
   "I consider these gentlemen to be Scientific Hall-of-Famers - the Cal Ripkins of science. Their body of work will inspire future generations of young people, just as I was inspired by Madame Marie Curie. We must support American researchers at every opportunity, because we want to keep winning Nobels and the marketplace."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 