SEN. MIKULSKI SUCCEEDS IN FIGHT TO PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) applauded the U.S. House and Senate's passage tonight of language in the 2007 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) spending bill, which releases $25 million in federal funding that had been held up by the Bush administration. Sen. Mikulski and Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) pushed for the immediate release of the funding, which was approved in the 2006 spending bill but never made available. The funds protect institutions that provide vital health, social, cultural and educational services to the American people and are often the "soft targets" of terrorism.  
   "We must help protect our hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches from terrorist violence," said Senator Mikulski. "This is a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk of terrorist attacks. I have fought for these funds in the past, and I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   The federal funding goes to DHS's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute to high-risk non-profit organizations. The spending bill outlines specific criteria DHS must use in selecting grantees, ensuring that potential threats to institutions are taken as seriously as direct attacks. The non-profits will use the federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers. 
   Senator Mikulski's efforts have received broad national support from groups such as United Jewish Communities, Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, American Red Cross, United Way, American Hospital Association, American Association of Museums, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), American Jewish Congress, Theatre Communications Group and YMCA of the USA. 
   Senator Mikulski, a member of the Homeland Security Appropriation Subcommittee, has worked for the past two years to secure funding for high-risk non-profits. The bill will now go to the President for this signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 