SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE CRITICAL FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND HOMELAND SECURITY EFFORTS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Western Maryland Area Health Education Center (WMAHEC) is being awarded $347,225 in federal funds for their "Project Aware" program to help Western Maryland prepare for and respond to all types of emergencies and disasters. 
   This Special Volunteer Program Homeland Security grant was awarded by the Corporation for National and Community Service. The Corporation's AmeriCorps and Senior Corps programs have been working closely with the Federal Emergency Management Agency to respond to natural disasters and are now working to train volunteers in homeland security. As the Senior Democrat on the Senate Subcommittee that funds the Corporation for National and Community Service, Senator Mikulski fights each year to ensure they have the funding they need to serve our communities. In 2004, Senator Mikulski worked to provide the highest funding lever ever for AmeriCorps.
   "National Service volunteers tackle the toughest problems in our communities. They are unflagging, unflinching, and determined to make a difference. Project Aware will bring together these dedicated volunteers and community leaders to help keep Marylanders safe. I will continue to fight to make sure communities have the resources they need to prepare for emergencies."
   "This funding will help to shore up the disaster preparedness and response communications infrastructure throughout Western Maryland by creating a centralized, Web-based database of Homeland Security volunteers," added Sarbanes, who wrote to the Corporation for National and Community Service on behalf of WMAHEC. "And with its proximity to Washington, DC, Project Aware will not only help the Tri-State area in their disaster preparedness efforts, but could also aid those in the metropolitan region should a disaster occur."
   Project Aware was designed to enhance the capacity of public health, public safety, disaster preparedness and relief organizations in the 18 rural counties in the Appalachian region of Western Maryland and parts of nearby Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
   Project Aware Field Coordinators will recruit, train, and place 300 volunteers with selected community and faith-based organizations and public agencies to provide critical support to Homeland Security planning and response. Project Aware will also create a regional Homeland Security database to track training and match volunteers with assignments.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 