SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR SENIORS' ABILITY TO AGE IN PLACE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today fought for funding to help America's seniors stay independent for as long as possible and age in their own homes. After leading the effort for the program's authorization as part of the Older Americans Act, Sen. Mikulski and a bipartisan group of her colleagues today urged Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Penn.) to include $9 million for the Community Innovations for Aging in Place program in the fiscal year 2008 spending bill.  
   "As our nation anticipates the retirement of 78 million baby boomers, it is becoming more and more important to support programs that help keep seniors at home and independent," said Senator Mikulski. "Seniors should be able to stay in the communities they know for as long as possible. That's why this program is so important. I will continue to fight for seniors in Maryland and across the country to be able to age in place." 
   Congress established the Community Innovations for Aging in Place program in the Older American Act Amendments of 2006 to promote the development and growth of community-based health and human services to assist older Americans in maintaining their independence and quality of life as they age. The funding for this new program will allow the Administration on Aging to support aging in place programs in communities across the country. 
   Senator Mikulski, Chairman of the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, has been a long-time supporter of aging in place programs such as Naturally Occurring Retirement Communities (NORCs). The NORC model was used as a basis for creating the new Community Innovations for Aging in Place program. NORCs are neighborhoods where seniors can age in place with access to necessary support resources, including transportation, health programs and social work services. These programs allow seniors to remain in their neighborhoods and live independently while receiving essential services in their homes. 
   "I have worked with the United Jewish Communities since 2001 to establish NORC models and programs for Maryland communities. I have visited the NORCs in Maryland and seen their tremendous impact," said Senator Mikulski. "My best ideas come from the people - that's why we used lessons learned and best practices as a framework to expand these programs to other communities across the country."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 