SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR RELIEF TO NATION'S NURSING SHORTAGE
  With our nation in the midst of an ongoing nursing shortage, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), joined by a bipartisan group of her colleagues, today called for $200 million to recruit and retain registered nurses (RNs) in our health care system through Title VIII Nursing Workforce Development programs.  
   "America is facing a nursing shortage, and it is only getting worse. The shortage affects every state, every city, every town - and it affects our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq who rely on the care of our military nurses," said Senator Mikulski. "Increasing our nursing workforce is essential for our hospitals and for our patients. I will continue to fight to make nursing a priority in the federal law book and the federal checkbook." 
   In a letter to Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Penn.), Senator Mikulski urged her colleagues to include $200 million for Title VIII programs in this year's spending bill to relieve our already strained nursing workforce. President Bush has proposed a $44 million cut to these nursing programs. 
   Senator Mikulski has been a consistent advocate for nursing throughout her 30 years in Congress, and has worked to increase scholarships and access to programs to address the nation's growing shortage of nurses. 
   The shortage of RNs nationwide and in all health care settings was first noted in 1998. In response, Senator Mikulski introduced the Nurse Reinvestment Act of 2002, which expanded existing programs and created new ones in Title VIII that offer financial assistance for nursing education and training in order to encourage men and women to enter the nursing field. 
   In 2005, Title VIII programs provided loans, scholarships and programmatic support to nearly 53,000 student nurses and nurses. The current funding, however, does not meet the demand for these programs. In order to adequately combat the nursing shortage, nursing schools need to increase their number of graduates by almost half, according to the Health Resources and Services Administration. (HRSA). Due to insufficient funding, however, nursing schools were forced to turn away nearly 43,000 qualified applications in 2006 because they did not have enough nursing faculty to teach them. In addition, the American Hospital Association reports that U.S. hospitals need approximately 118,000 RNs to fill vacant positions nationwide.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 