SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT TO LEVEL PLAYING FIELD FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today asked that language be included in the Department of Defense (DoD) 2008 spending bill to exclude retirement costs from the cost comparison process in A-76 competitions. By including this language, contractors will no longer gain an unfair advantage by providing inferior or no benefits to their employees. A long-time critic of the contracting out process, Sen. Mikulski sent her request to DoD Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) and Ranking Member Ted Stevens (R-Alaska).  
   "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. These hardworking men and women deserve to be treated fairly," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue my fight to give federal employees a level playing field in the competition process." 
   Neutralizing the impact of retirement costs would ensure that civilian employees are not unfairly disadvantaged in the cost comparison process. Instead of rewarding contractors for providing inferior retirement benefits, the cost comparison process would focus on who can deliver services more efficiently. This will not require contractors to provide retirement benefits for their employees, or to improve whatever retirement benefits they provide. 
   Senator Mikulski has criticized the Bush Administration's continued policy of contracting out federal jobs, a practice that is dangerously slanted against federal employees. President Bush's proposed fiscal year 2008 budget encourages agencies to participate in competitive sourcing, and specifies that "the Administration continues to work with the Congress to remove legislative restrictions on competitive sourcing, such as those that require agencies to choose the cheapest providers" (Section: Managing for Results, page 28). 
   "I absolutely oppose the Bush Administration's efforts to privatize the federal workforce. This is part of a dangerous trend to replace our independent civil service with cronyism and political patronage," said Senator Mikulski. "It is very disturbing that the President continues to aggressively encourage a policy that works against federal employees." 
   In May 2003, the administration issued guidelines for these public-private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These new procedures favored contractors and stacked the deck against federal employees. The new rules for the privatization process did not guarantee employees the right to submit their own best bids, did not require contractors to show significant savings, and gave an unfair advantage to contractors who provide inferior benefits.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 