SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Sharpsburg Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., the Leitersburg Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., and the Libertytown Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., are being awarded a total of $245,616 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and fights each year to increase federal money for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. 
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Maryland. Congratulations to the Sharpsburg Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., the Leitersburg Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., and the Libertytown Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. on being awarded this well-deserved money."
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities."
   The Sharpsburg Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., in Washington County, will use its award of $112,500 to purchase a Quick Attack Mini-Pumper Truck. The new truck will have a water capacity of 250 gallons and a 500 gallon-per-minute pump. This is especially important for the Sharpsburg Volunteer Fire Company because they are located in a rural area without access to fire hydrants. The truck is also a brush truck, which will enable the Department to respond in areas of heavy brush.
   For more information on the Sharpsburg Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., contact Ronnie DeLauney at 301-432-6321.
   The Leitersburg Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., located in Washington County will use its federal funding of $71,556 to purchase 20 new sets of turnout gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats), upgrade their self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units and 12 additional spare air bottles. The new SCBA units will have integrated pass devices and allow for buddy breathing.
   The SCBA units will be equipped with individually-fitted face masks and integrated pass devices that operate as an alarm that sounds when a firefighter stops moving for a period of time. When a firefighter stops moving during a fire it is usually an indicator of trouble and the pass device alerts others that the firefighter is in distress.
   The new equipment also allows the firefighters to fight fires using the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA which allows for another firefighter to connect their SCBA to another firefighter should s/he run out of oxygen in their tanks while in a fire.
   For more information on the Leitersburg Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., please contact Chief Kirk Mongan at 301-733-9155.
   So far this year, four Washington County Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $571,056 in federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program.
   The Libertytown Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., located in Frederick County, will use its $61,560 to purchase 48 partial sets of turn-out gear (coats, pants and boots) to replace old gear. Currently, 90% of Libertytown Volunteer Fire Department, Inc.'s gear does not meet National Fire Protection Agency standards. This is the second award for Libertytown Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., totaling $111,905 in federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program.
   For more information on the Libertytown Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., contact Kenneth Poole at 301-694-1720.
   So far this year, 22 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $2,328,263 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year.
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005.
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year.
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 