SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Community Fire Company of Rising Sun, Inc., the Water Witch Fire Company, Inc. and the Harney Volunteer Fire Company are being awarded a total of $515,277 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and fights each year to increase federal money for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Maryland. Congratulations to these fire departments on being awarded this well-deserved money."
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities."
   The Community Fire Company of Rising Sun, Inc., located in Cecil County, will use its $231,030 award to purchase 27 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units and upgrade 31 existing SCBA units to comply with current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards. Each of the units will be equipped with individually-fitted face masks and integrated pass devices. The pass devices alert firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress.
   The new equipment also includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire.
   This is the second award for the Community Fire Company of Rising Sun through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program, totaling $566,730 in federal funding.
   For more information on the Community Fire Company of Rising Sun, Inc., contact John Smith at 410-685-5115.
   The Water Witch Fire Company, Inc., also located in Cecil County, will use its $250,614 in federal funding to purchase 52 sets of turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats), as well as 35 new SCBA units. Each of the SCBA units will be equipped with individually-fitted face masks and integrated pass devices. The pass devises alert firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress.
   The new equipment also includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire.
   They fire department will also upgrade their Cascade Air System which will allow the department to refill SCBA air bottles.
   At the request of the Water Witch Fire Company, Inc., Senator Mikulski sent a letter to FEMA=s U.S. Fire Administrator R. David Paulison to draw his attention to the merits of their application and urge him to give it every appropriate consideration.
   For more information on the Water Witch Fire Company, Inc., contact Ed Starnes at 410-278-2415.
   So far this year, two Cecil County Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $481,644 in federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program. Last year, four Cecil County Fire Departments were awarded a total of $697,500 in federal funding through the federal grant program.
   The Harney Volunteer Fire Company, located in Carroll County, will use its $33,633 in federal funding to replace their large and small diameter hoses, which are over 20 years old and are not up to National Fire Protection Association standards. The Department will also purchase two new Neoprene suits and a float kit that will enable them to rescue victims who have fallen through ice.
   In addition, the Department will purchase vehicle rescue equipment including an inflatable airbag and Hurst Jaws of Life. The airbag will be used to move large objects during emergencies. The Hurst Jaws of life will be smaller than the traditional models, allowing for one person operation.
   For more information on the Harney Volunteer Fire Company, contact Assistant Fire Chief Donald Yingling at 410-756-6464.
   This is the second time the Harney Volunteer Fire Company has been awarded a grant through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, totaling $103,833 in federal funding. This is the second award for a Carroll County Fire Department this year, totaling $183,528 in federal funding.
   So far this year, 22 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $2,328,263 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year.
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005.
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year.
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 