SEN. MIKULSKI PLEDGES TO WORK WITH IKE LEGGETT FOR MONTGOMERY COUNTY'S FAIR SHARE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) met yesterday with Montgomery County Executive Isiah "Ike" Leggett to discuss priorities for the county and how Maryland's federal delegation can help provide necessary resources to the region. The meeting is part of the Senator's effort to visit with several of Maryland's incoming and returning County Executives to explain how they can work together on area needs.  
   "As the leader of the Maryland congressional delegation, I am looking forward to working with County Executive Leggett to make sure Montgomery County gets its fair share," said Senator Mikulski. "We all need to work together as Team Maryland to focus on how federal dollars can help the county." 
   Dominating much of the closed meeting was the implementation of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2006 decision to move the Walter Reed Army Medical Center to Bethesda to create a joint medical center. The new facility, the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, will be located near the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This has led to concerns about traffic congestion on surrounding roads and on Bethesda's mass transit system. 
   "BRAC brings opportunities, but it also brings great challenges - we need to upgrade our physical infrastructure, roads and mass transit, and provide more and improved schools. We're going to focus on how federal dollars can help the state and our counties," said Senator Mikulski. "One of the reasons Maryland was so successful with BRAC is that we worked together - now Team Maryland will move forward to provide the resources our communities need to accommodate the thousands of jobs and families coming to our state." 
   In addition to strain on the county's infrastructure, Senator Mikulski also discussed the inequity Montgomery County's school system faces as it struggles to provide for students with disabilities. The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) entitles children with disabilities to a public education and provides federal funds to help schools with the cost. In theory, the federal government pays 40 percent of a state's special education costs, with the rest subsidized by the state and local governments. However, the federal government has not made good on its commitment, despite Senator Mikulski's efforts every year to increase funding and accountability. Senator Mikulski believes an increased federal commitment to IDEA will allow more county funds to support BRAC-implementation efforts.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 