SEN. MIKULSKI WORKS FOR SERVICE MEMBERS TO BE ABLE TO TRANSFER UNUSED G.I. BILL FUNDS TO FAMILY
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) introduced legislation today to allow members of the military to transfer unused educational funds they have received through the Montgomery GI Bill to their spouses or children. Senator Mikulski joined a group of her colleagues led by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson (R-Texas) in introducing the GI Bill Assistance Transferability Act of 2008, which removes language in the current GI Bill that prevents service members from transferring unused portions of the benefit.  
   "Our military men and women make great sacrifices and honor their country by volunteering to serve. Their families share the burden of this war. We must recognize and honor their service and sacrifice, not just with words, but with deeds," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I'm fighting for the spouses and children of our true American heroes to be able to use their loved ones' unused funds to pursue their own education." 
   The GI Bill generally covers 36 months of education at a value of about $37,000. Today, about 70 percent of service members use the GI Bill and very few use all of it. Under current law, however, funds can only be transferred if a service member has a critical skill. Critical skills are loosely defined and can change based upon the needs of the service. Service members with critical skills can only transfer 18 months of education benefits, even though soldiers can earn up to 36 months, which is equivalent to four years of college tuition. 
   The GI Bill Assistance Transferability Act will allow any military member who has served six years honorably and has signed up for an additional four years, to transfer their earned GI Bill funds to their spouses and children. This applies to active duty military and members of the National Guard and Reserve. 
   This bill is also co-sponsored by Senators Tim Johnson (D-S.D), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Pete Domenici (R-N.M), Norm Coleman (R-Minn.), John Sununu (R-N.H), Evan Bayh (D-Ind.), Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.) and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.).
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 