SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR C&O CANAL REWATERING PROJECT IN CUMBERLAND
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) have announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved the FY 2007 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill that includes an additional $500,000 for continuing efforts to restore and rewater the C&O Canal terminus in downtown Cumberland.  
   The National Park Service, joined by Senator Sarbanes and other federal, State and local officials in ceremonies marking efforts to rebuild and rewater the 1.1-mile section of the historic C&O Canal in this area. The Corps of Engineers determined in the late 1990's that it was feasible to re-water the canal successfully without compromising the flood protection for the City of Cumberland. Since 1999, Sarbanes and Mikulski have been working to move this project towards completion, obtaining more than $15 million in federal dollars for this project. 
   The bill also includes funding for the following efforts in Western Maryland: 
   * $1.992 million to operate and maintain the Jennings Randolph Lake dam and facilities at the dam site. The project is operated by the Army Corps of Engineers for flood control, water quality, water supply, and in-lake and downstream recreation; 
   * $500,000 for continued flood control and protection efforts along Wills Creek and the North Branch of the Potomac River in the Cumberland, Maryland/Ridgeley, West Virginia area. The project provides flood protection to the downtown businesses and residential areas and consists of levees, floodwalls, and channel improvements including a 1.6 mile-long portion of Wills Creek; and 
   * $180,000 for efforts to improve Jennings Randolph Lake relating to flood control, water supply, and recreation opportunities. 
   "The Canal Place project over the years has been one of my top priorities for Western Maryland and I was pleased to be able to participate in the ceremonies marking the completion of the next phase of this project" said Sarbanes. "I look forward to visiting the completed, rebuilt and rewatered C&O Canal terminus that I believe will serve as a catalyst for increased tourism and economic development opportunities throughout the area." 
   "The C&O Canal is a pathway into our history and a pathway to enjoying nature and recreation," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I have always been committed to the preservation of the C&O Canal, the terminus in Cumberland, and Canal Place economic development. For years, Senator Sarbanes and I fought for federal money so that the canal can be rewatered and its history could be preserved. I'm proud to join Senator Sarbanes in working for this federal investment." 
   The bill must now go the full Senate for approval and any differences between the Senate and the House passed bills must be reconciled before being sent to President Bush for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 