SNAKEHEAD MONITORING IN POTOMAC RIVER TO CONTINUE SAY SENS. MIKSULSKI, SARBANES
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today announced that the Senate has unanimously approved language in the FY 2006 Department of Interior Appropriations bill which would direct the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to continue sampling and monitoring activities in the Potomac River for the northern snakehead fish.  
   The northern snakehead is a predatory invasive species that was first found in a pond in Crofton, Maryland in 2002 and later in a pond in Wheaton. In May 2004, four additional snakeheads were captured by local fishermen in the Potomac River in the areas of Fort Belvoir, Marshall Hall, Occoquan Bay, and Mason Neck. This resulted in a great deal of alarm that the fish had entered a major waterway and could decimate the local fish populations and establish itself throughout the Potomac River watershed. 
   Even though there have been no additional captures of the snakehead since May 2004, the two Maryland Senators had the language included in the appropriations bill to continue the monitoring to hopefully ensure that the fish has not established itself in the waters of the Potomac River. 
   "This helps to guarantee that we are taking the necessary actions on the federal level to contain the northern snakehead," said Sarbanes. "Continued monitoring by the Fish and Wildlife Service, as well as our local fishermen is crucial in our efforts to combat this invasive species." 
   "I'm committed to protecting our rivers and our Chesapeake Bay. We all remember the discovery of the Northern Snakehead at Crofton Pond several years ago and more recent discoveries of the fish in tributaries of the Potomac River," said Senator Mikulski. "Invasive species like the Northern Snakehead can disrupt an entire ecosystem. That is why I am pleased that this bill directs the U.S. Fish and Wildlife to continue their important work on the Potomac River." 
   The bill now goes to a House and Senate Conference Committee to iron out the differences between the two bills before being sent to President Bush for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 