SEN. MIKULSKI KICKS OFF JOBS TOUR OF MARYLAND'S SHORE COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) kicked-off her "Jobs Today, Jobs Tomorrow" tour of Maryland's Shore communities with a visit to Cecil County today. The Senator will be meeting with County Commissioners, local leaders and businesses over the next few months to talk about how to continue to support job growth in our communities and the develop the tools to create and sustain jobs in the future.  
   "America is in an amazing race - a race for breakthroughs and new ideas, a race for discovery and new knowledge, a race to remain competitive in the new century. I want Maryland to win this race. Our communities want to attract an educated and contemporary workforce, but they must have the resources and tools they need to succeed," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I will keep fighting to provide federal investments to help the Shore remain competitive." 
   Senator Mikulski visited W.L. Gore, an Elkton-based company with more than 2,700 employees in the state, where she received a briefing on the groundbreaking medical devices they are creating, and the innovative fabric (GORE-TEX) they produce to protect Soldiers and Marines on the battlefield. Senator Mikulski fought for $9.5 million in the 2007 Department of Defense spending bill for the Extended Cold Weather Clothing System for the Army National Guard and Army Reserve that includes a set of GORE-TEX outerwear (parka, liner and trousers) to provide protection during cold and/or wet weather for troops deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   "We need to do everything we can to support our troops - not just with words, but with deeds," continued Senator Mikulski. "I will keep fighting to put money in the federal checkbook to give troops on the battlefield the resources they need to stay safe while fulfilling their mission." 
   Senator Mikulski also met with Cecil County Commissioners today to discuss priorities for the county and how Maryland's federal delegation can help provide necessary resources to the region. In particular, they discussed the impact of expected growth from the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission decisions, particularly a potential strain on the region's transportation and wastewater infrastructure. 
   "As the leader of the Maryland congressional delegation, I will continue to work with Cecil County Commissioners to make sure Cecil County gets its fair share," said Senator Mikulski. "Team Maryland needs to work together to focus on how federal dollars can help." 
   Senator Mikulski will continue her tour during the July 4 congressional recess with visits to the Eastern Shore to meet with the region's County Commissioners. The Senator is not only looking for a "must-do" list to take back to the Congress, but also to provide a "how-to" list to make sure counties know how to access the tools available to them. Senator Mikulski will highlight her ongoing fight for a federal commitment to bring broadband network capability to the Shore.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 