SEN. MIKULSKI HONORS CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER C?SAR CH?VEZ
  As his birthday approaches this Saturday, March 31, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today commemorated legendary civil rights leader and founder of the United Farm Workers, César Estrada Ch?vez.  
   "César Ch?vez was a trailblazer for the rights of farm workers and Latino communities, and an inspiration for all Americans," said Senator Mikulski. "I take great pride in representing Maryland's increasingly diverse population. The Hispanic community plays an active and important role in Maryland and enriches us with their work ethic and family values. I will continue to fight in the U.S. Senate for what America stands for and what César Ch?vez fought for - an agenda of empowerment, inclusion and opportunity." 
   César Ch?vez was a tireless crusader for nonviolent change and social justice. He spent his life defending the rights of and empowering those who labor for the food on our table. Ch?vez became an organizer and later the director for the Community Service Organization (CSO). He helped register more than a half million Chicanos to vote and brought citizenship and age-old pensions to roughly 50,000 Mexican Americans. 
   "There are those that say America is a melting pot, but I don't believe that. You don't have to melt to be an American. America is a mosaic," Senator Mikulski continued. "Every ethnic group brings with them thousands of years of history, culture and tradition that should be respected, honored and preserved. This weekend, I am proud to honor César Ch?vez's role in American history." 
   In 1962, Ch?vez founded the National Farm Workers Association, which later became the United Farm Workers (UFW). Migrant workers in the 1950s performed backbreaking labor for an average of 15 hours a day, for little more than five dollars pay. They lived in squalid conditions without legal or health protections. César Ch?vez used nonviolent tactics to pursue fair wages, decent living and labor conditions, humane and dignified treatment, and the ability of farm workers to organize a union. He staged the Delano grape strike, fasts and a 340-mile march from Delano to Sacramento in 1966.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 