AS WORLD AIDS DAY APPROACHES, SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR INCREASED ACTION AGAINST EPIDEMIC
  In observance of the 18th commemoration of World AIDS Day tomorrow, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) highlighted the growing number of women becoming infected with the disease and called for continued and improved action toward fighting the epidemic.  
   "My own home state of Maryland has one of the highest rates of AIDS cases in the country. AIDS affects not just patients, but their families and communities," said Senator Mikulski. "I have fought in the Senate to fund programs that reduce new incidences of HIV infection, and to increase funding for treatment and finding a cure. I will continue the battle and stand sentry to fight and prevent HIV/AIDS in Maryland and around the world." 
   There are more than 1 million people in the United States and 38 million worldwide living with AIDS. In 2004, Maryland had the third highest rate of AIDS in the nation, and the rate of infection among women continues to climb. Women are more likely to bear the economic brunt of the AIDS epidemic. They frequently serve as caregivers, and are more likely to lose their jobs because of negative stigmas associated with caring for someone with AIDS. Those women infected also face discrimination in the workplace, threatening their livelihoods. 
   "Since my first days in Congress, I have been fighting to make sure women don't get left behind when it comes to their health," said Senator Mikulski. "On World AIDS Day, we recommit ourselves to fighting this deadly disease and honor the men and women who work hard every day to make a difference in the battle against it. There are many great organizations throughout Maryland that have been on the front lines since the early 1980s and, because of their efforts, we have made giant leaps forward." 
   "But the battle against HIV/AIDS must not stop there. That's why I have supported the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resource Emergency (CARE) Act since its enactment in 1990 and look forward to improving this important legislation," continued Senator Mikulski. "We must continue to be ready to respond and support our families and communities from HIV/AIDS. Together, America can do better." 
   Congress will work toward reauthorizing the CARE Act next year.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 