SEN. MIKULSKI JOINS WASHINGTON COUNTY LEADERSHIP FOR RIBBON CUTTING AT HAGERSTOWN REGIONAL AIRPORT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Washington County Commissioners, local officials and community leaders today for a ribbon cutting ceremony for the newly completed terminal at Hagerstown Regional Airport's (HGR) Richard A. Henson Field. As a member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Senator Mikulski worked with her colleagues to provide $3.5 billion for the agency's Airport Improvement Program (AIP). Today's project received $50 million in funds through the program.  
   "I know Western Maryland leaders see the Hagerstown Regional Airport as a major priority - it's one of my top priorities too. I want to keep our runways safe and keep our Marylanders on the go," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so proud I could fight for the federal dollars to make today a reality for the businesses and communities that depend on this airport. Resources are one thing, but results are another. I worked to put the money in the federal checkbook, but without the right people using it the right way, it doesn't mean anything." 
   In October 1999, the FAA began evaluating the nation's runways for needed safety improvements and adjustments. HGR's new 7,000-foot runway not only provides full safety areas, but will allow for larger aircrafts that can carry more passengers and cargo, and travel farther. Since the program began in 2000, corporations have invested over $15 million in new and improved airport facilities. Hundreds of new jobs have been created and the runway construction itself contributed tens of millions of dollars to local communities for wages, equipment and materials. 
   Despite the runway's completion with federal funding, the U.S. Department of Transportation has refused to extend the airport's Essential Air Service (EAS) mileage waiver provision, which will allow HGR to continue receiving subsides for commercial airline service. Senator Mikulski and colleague Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) have urged U.S. Secretary of Transportation Mary E. Peters to extend the waiver. They have also worked with congressional colleagues on legislation that has passed the U.S. House, but is currently stalled in the Senate. 
   "Why would this administration fund a new runway, only to stand in the way of its service? Know that I am as frustrated about this as you are, and am working to bring commercial air service back to Hagerstown," said Senator Mikulski. "This airport is critical to Western Maryland's economy, and to the families and commuters who use it to connect throughout the country. I will keep fighting to do what I can to support your efforts to keep this airport strong."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 