MARYLAND, DELAWARE SENATORS MEET WITH JAPANESE AMBASSADOR, THANK HIM FOR LIFTING TRADE RESTRICTIONS ON DELMARVA POULTRY
  Maryland Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes, with Delaware Sens. Thomas Carper and Joseph Biden, today met with Japanese Ambassador Ryozo Kato to thank him for lifting Japan's trade restrictions on Delmarva poultry. The restrictions were imposed following an outbreak of avian influenza (AI) earlier this year. Japan is the United States' fifth-largest poultry export market, with annual sales of $130 million.  
   "This is good news for Maryland's poultry industry and the economy of the Eastern Shore," said Senator Mikulski. "I am pleased that the Japanese government listened to our arguments and lifted its embargo. They now understand that Maryland poultry is a safe, healthy product offered at a fair price. I will keep working with my colleagues in the Delmarva delegation to end all embargoes on our poultry being sold abroad." 
   "The impact of this decision by the Government of Japan is enormous for the entire poultry industry in Maryland - from those who raise chickens to the grain producers, farm equipment suppliers and other small businesses," added Sarbanes. "With the poultry industry being the cornerstone of our State's agricultural industry, we not only welcome this decision, but also will remain diligent in our efforts to ensure the continued vitality and health of the industry." 
   Japan is the latest country to lift trade restrictions on Delmarva poultry following last year's Avian Influenza outbreak. Mexico and Hong Kong have also lifted their bans. China is the only remaining country of the top five export markets that still bans Delmarva Poultry. 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes have a long history of fighting for Eastern Shore poultry farmers. After the Russian Government imposed an embargo on U.S. poultry products in March 2002, the Senators wrote to President Bush urging him to work with Russia's President Putin to immediately end their embargo. That embargo was lifted one month later, in April 2002. 
   In addition, when avian flu was discovered on the Delmarva Peninsula earlier this year, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes urged Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman to establish a regional task force to assist state and local entities, as well as the private sector, in containing and eradicating the virus. The Senators secured $13.7 million in federal funds in May 2004 to help protect poultry farms and operations on the Delmarva Peninsula from outbreaks of avian influenza.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 