MARYLANDERS JOIN SEN. MIKULSKI AT 5TH ANNUAL HISPANIC LEADERSHIP SUMMIT ON CAPITOL HILL
  Six Maryland community leaders joined Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today for a Hispanic Leadership Summit on Capitol Hill.  
 The Summit provides an important opportunity for Hispanic community leaders from across the country to discuss key issues with their Members of Congress. Topics discussed today included health care, jobs and the economy, education, immigration, civil rights and international relations. 
   "America's strength is its diversity," said Senator Mikulski. "Some people say that America is a melting pot - but it's a mosaic. You can maintain your own ethnic or religious identity, and you can celebrate your own culture and history. And that mosaic is held together by the values we share: honor and patriotism, hope and opportunity, family and community." 
   "I am so proud to work with Maryland's Hispanic leaders to improve our nation," continued Senator Mikulski. "Together we are standing up for what America stands for - an agenda of empowerment, inclusion and opportunity. I will continue to fight to bridge the digital divide, expand Head Start and improve education." 
   Today's Hispanic Leadership Summit included two panel discussions: "In Our Hands: Increasing Latino Civic Participation" and "Policy Discussions" moderated by Members of Congress. After attending the morning sessions, the Marylanders joined Senator Mikulski for a luncheon. 
   Marylanders attending today's Summit include: Y. Maria Welch, President & CEO, Respira Medical and Member, Baltimore Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; Irene Packer-Halsey, Board President, United Latinos of Frederick; Ricardo Flores, Esq. Public Justice Center and Maryland Latino Coalition for Justice; Dan Madrid, Chair, Anne Arundel Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; Noel A. Poyo, National Association for Latino Community Asset Builders; and Manny Hidalgo, Acting Director, Spanish Catholic Center.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 