SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS 40,000 QUESTIONS TO SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE FOR ROBERTS HEARING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD), as Dean of the Women Senators, joined six of her Democratic women colleagues today to deliver more than 40,000 questions to the Senate Judiciary Committee. The questions were submitted through their "Ask Roberts" website, which gave Americans an opportunity to submit questions they would like Judge John Roberts to be asked during his confirmation hearings.  
   "The American people have submitted their questions and told us what they want to ask Judge Roberts about. We trust that members of the Judiciary Committee will ask those questions during the upcoming hearings," said Senator Mikulski. "The American people know there is a lot at stake with this nomination. We wanted to give them a voice in the confirmation process. They deserve to know where the Supreme Court nominee stands on issues that are important to their lives." 
   The Senators created the site in July 2005 to engage Americans in the Supreme Court confirmation process of Judge Roberts. Through democrats.senate.gov/AskRoberts, Americans submitted a variety of questions. Inquiries ranged from privacy, reproductive choice, civil rights (including affirmative action, the rights of the disabled, women and gay and lesbian Americans) to the environment and religious liberties. Americans also wanted to know Judge Roberts' judicial philosophy, his background and qualifications for the job of Associate Justice. 
   Additional questions focused on a number of important topics that routinely come before the Supreme Court, including workers' rights, property rights, corporate power and the economy. They asked questions about the war in Iraq, war on terror and the ability of the United States government to detain individuals. They wanted to know about the health care, stem cell research, education and immigration. 
   "The American people have spoken," continued Senator Mikulski. "It's their Supreme Court, and we want to make sure they have the opportunity to ask questions of the nominee. I am so proud of the response this website has received." 
   Senator Mikulski is joined in this project by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Senator Mary L. Landrieu (D-LA), Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Senator Hillary R. Clinton (D-NY).
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 