SEN. MIKULSKI, JACK JOHNSON DISCUSS PRIORITIES FOR PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) met with Prince George's County Executive Jack Johnson today to discuss priorities for the county and how Maryland's federal delegation can help provide necessary resources to the region. The meeting is part of the Senator's effort to visit with several of Maryland's incoming and returning County Executives to explain how they can work together on area needs.  
   "As the leader of the Maryland congressional delegation, I am looking forward to working with County Executive Johnson to make sure Prince George's County gets its fair share," said Senator Mikulski. "We all need to work together as Team Maryland to focus on how federal dollars can help the county." 
   Noting the booming economy emerging in the county, the meeting focused on priority initiatives that will help create and support jobs, families and communities in Prince George's County. Senator Mikulski, a longtime fighter for federal employees, said she would continue her work to level the playing field for all federal workers. Federal civilian employees are essential to our nation's federal agencies, many of which are located in Prince George's County. 
   "Federal employees are America's true patriots and I will continue to stand up for the issues that matter to them: pay parity, the security of their jobs, and their right to fair personnel policies," said Senator Mikulski. "Now that I am Chairman of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, I have a prime opportunity to fight for provisions for federal employees that I have long championed." 
   Senator Mikulski and County Executive Johnson also discussed the impact of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2006 decisions on the county, which is affected by growth at Andrews Air Force Base and Fort Meade. 
   "BRAC brings opportunities, but it also brings great challenges - we need to upgrade our physical infrastructure, roads and mass transit, and provide more and improved schools," said Senator Mikulski. "We're going to focus on how federal dollars can help the state and our counties."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 