SEN. MIKULSKI HONORED FOR ASSISTING THOSE WHO NEED IT MOST IN AIDS EPIDEMIC
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) was honored today with the Myra Hill Partnership in Care Award from the Greater Baltimore HIV Health Services Planning Council. Sen. Mikulski was recognized for her tireless commitment to eliminating health disparities among minority and underserved communities, especially people living with HIV/AIDS. Sen. Mikulski was also honored for her work to support the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act (S. 2823), in which she included language to make sure Maryland retained its federal funding levels for programming.  
   "My own home state of Maryland has one of the highest rates of AIDS cases in the country. AIDS affects not just patients, but their families and communities," said Senator Mikulski. "I have fought in the Senate to fund programs that reduce new incidences of HIV infection, and to increase funding for treatment and finding a cure." 
   The Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act reauthorizes original legislation, initiated in 1990, to provide treatment and care for individuals suffering from HIV/AIDS who are in the greatest need of assistance. The legislation must be reauthorized every five years, with the next authorization scheduled for September 2006. The bill will emphasize underserved populations, access to health care and medications, and essential support services. 
   "The battle against HIV/AIDS must not stop with this bill. I will continue the battle and stand sentry to fight and prevent HIV/AIDS in Maryland and around the world," continued Senator Mikulski. "We must be ready to respond and support our families and communities suffering from HIV/AIDS." 
   The Greater Baltimore HIV Health Services Planning Council provides comprehensive, high-quality services to people living with HIV in the Greater Baltimore Eligible Metropolitan Area, regardless of their ability to pay. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. The reauthorization bill was successfully passed by the full HELP Committee, and is awaiting consideration by the full Senate.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 