SENS. COLLINS, MIKULSKI WRITE SENATE LEADER IN SUPPORT OF EXISTING MORATORIUM ON DRILLING OFF ATLANTIC, PACIFIC COASTS
  Sens. Susan Collins (R-Me.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) have written to Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist to express their support for retaining the existing moratorium on oil and gas drilling off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. They also believe that it is important for the Senate to address the high costs of energy by expanding production in the Gulf of Mexico.
   The Senate is considering the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act, which would expand offshore oil and gas exploration in the Gulf, providing more domestic energy resources. The bill would not permit drilling in any other coastal areas. 
   "The high cost of energy is a burden to American families, manufacturers, fishermen, and farmers," said Senator Collins. "This bill recognizes that we can increase domestic production and reduce our reliance on foreign oil without drilling in ecologically sensitive areas such as off the Atlantic Coast. And most important, it would not lift the current moratorium protecting this area."
   Senator Collins added, "The bill would enable increased production in the Gulf of Mexico, which is already one major source for America's oil and gas, and result in enough additional natural gas to heat and cool nearly 6 million homes for 15 years. This could make a real difference for families in Maine and throughout the nation that are struggling to pay the high cost of energy. It is important that the Senate consider this legislation."
   Senator Mikulski said "We must do what we can to help Americans deal with rising energy costs without opening up our Pacific and Atlantic coastlines to drilling. I will continue to do what I can to protect these coastal areas, and the Chesapeake Bay, for future generations."
   Text of the letter is as follows:
   Dear Majority Leader Frist,
   We are writing to express our strong support for maintaining the existing moratorium on oil and gas drilling along the outer continental shelf of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
   The existing moratorium protects sensitive coastal and marine areas covering the entire Atlantic and Pacific coasts. These areas not only include some of the world's most beautiful beaches and coastlines, but also some of the world's richest fishing grounds. We believe offshore drilling in our waters would put these areas at risk and consequently jeopardize our recreational, tourist, and fishing industries.
   We voted in favor of the motion to proceed to S. 3711, the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act, because we feel it is important that our nation face its ever-growing energy problems with a fair and open debate. The Gulf of Mexico currently provides a great deal of our nation's domestic energy production. In this time of record energy prices, the Senate should debate an agreement that was reached among the Gulf Coast Senators that has important implications for energy supplies for our constituents, many of whom are struggling with the high cost of energy. At the same time, we want you to be aware that we do not view this vote as a step in the direction of relaxing the moratorium on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
   We are deeply concerned with legislation passed by the House of Representatives, H.R. 4761, which would allow drilling in sensitive waters off of our coasts. We would strongly oppose any bill to come before the Senate, be it a conference report or otherwise, which threatens the beaches and ecosystems of our coastlines with unacceptable oil and gas drilling activities.
   Thank you for your attention to our concerns.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 