SENS. MIKULSKI, CARDIN ANNOUNCE $546,000 FOR WESTERN MARYLAND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
  Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (both D-Md.) today announced the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded a total of $546,000 in three grants for Western Maryland projects. 
   "This is a federal investment in infrastructure and education to support jobs today and jobs tomorrow in Western Maryland. I'm so proud that these recipients will be able to use this funding to continue to develop and grow by attracting new businesses and economic development," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to keep Western Maryland communities a priority in the federal checkbook."  
   "The Appalachian Regional Commission is a great example of federal investment that works on a state and local level for the people of Maryland. These much-needed funds will create jobs, improve our health and keep our students on the cutting edge of science and technology," said Senator Cardin. "I proudly will continue to promote leveraging federal resources like these grants for the benefit of our local communities." 
   The Garrett County Board of Commissioners has been awarded $300,000 to make infrastructure improvements to the 150-acre McHenry Business Park to accommodate new and expanding businesses in the area. This project will support the creation of 100 new jobs. Specifically, the funding will be used to design and construct public water and sewer lines, a natural gas line, a conduit for electric, fiber and broadband, and the installation of a fire suppression system. This will help the county balance growth and development while minimizing the impacts on schools, highways, utilities and environmental areas. In addition to ARC funds, the Economic Development Administration (EDA) is providing $2.2 million, the state is providing $1.4 million, and Garrett County is providing $ 458,036 for the project, for a total project cost of nearly $4.86 million. 
   The City of Frostburg has been awarded $150,000 to eliminate combined sewer overflow events that pollute local streams. The city has a combined sanitary and storm sewer system that overflows during storms, releasing fecal coliform bacteria and other pollutants. Economic development in the region relies on maintaining a basic sewer system infrastructure to serve future growth, and support private investments and initiative. The State of Maryland has mandated the city develop a long term plan to eliminate overflow events. Specifically, this funding will be used to help stop overflows, serve as a guiding tool to make efficient spending decisions toward infrastructure, and allow the city to issue sewer taps for new development. In addition to ARC funds, the state is providing $35,000 in Community Development Block Grant funds, and the city will provide $115,000, bringing the total project funding to $300,000. 
   Frostburg State University has been awarded $96,000 for a Nanotechnology Laboratory. This project will serve 430 students each year after it is completed. It will integrate nanoscale science and engineering into the engineering curriculum. The lab will be used for engineering, physics chemistry, and biology programs, extracurricular activities for K-16 students, and providing expertise in nanotechnology to companies in the Allegany Business Center. The facility will include a deposition system for novel nanostructured materials, a scanning probe microscope, and integration materials for chemical and biological sensor applications. In addition to ARC funds, Frostburg University sources will provide $96,000, bringing the total project funding to $192,000. 
   Senator Mikulski is a senior member of the Appropriations Committee. Senator Cardin is a member of the Budget Committee. Every year, they fight to provide funding for the ARC program. The ARC is a federal-state partnership that works with the people of Appalachia to create opportunities for self-sustaining economic development and improved quality of life.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 