SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR SENATE ACTION ON CRITICAL ALZHEIMER'S LEGISLATION
  As the Senate resumes this week, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) urged her colleagues to take immediate action to pass the Alzheimer's disease legislation she introduced in March 2007. Senator Mikulski has introduced The Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2007 (S. 898), which is waiting for a vote in the Senate, and The Family Assistance Act of 2007 (S. 897), which is waiting for consideration by the Senate Finance Committee. Senator Mikulski's insistence follows the recent release of an Alzheimer's Association report called "2008 Alzheimer's Facts and Figures," that revealed the incidence of Alzheimer's is rising.  
   "Wouldn't you like to find a cure for Alzheimer's? Wouldn't you like to be part of a Congress that saved millions of lives? Well I do, and so do a bipartisan group of my colleagues," said Senator Mikulski, Chairwoman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's Subcommittee on Retirement and Aging. "We know that more and more Americans are being diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease every year. We must act now. I ask my colleagues to join with me and move these bills." 
   The Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2007, which passed the HELP Committee in July 2007, doubles funding for Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) from $640 million to $1.3 billion. The increase will give researchers the resources they need to make breakthroughs that are on the horizon in diagnosis, prevention and intervention. It will create a national summit on Alzheimer's to look at the most promising breakthroughs. The bill also creates a system for caregiver support that provides updated news, resources and tools for caregivers, families and physicians. 
   The Family Assistance Act of 2007 creates a $3,000 tax credit for families caring for a loved one with a chronic condition like Alzheimer's to help them pay for prescription drugs, home health care and special day care. It also includes a long-term care tax deduction, making long-term care insurance more affordable for people. 
   The Alzheimer's Association's report, "2008 Alzheimer's Facts and Figures" addresses the high prevalence, mortality, costs, and family caregiving, as they relate to the disease. Currently, 5.2 million people are living with Alzheimer's. Every 71 seconds, someone develops the disease and it is the seventh-leading cause of death in America, according to the report. Without a cure, 10 million baby boomers will develop Alzheimer's in their lifetime. For more information, go to: http://www.alz.org/alzheimers_disease_facts_figures.asp. 
   On Wednesday, April 2, at 9 p.m. EST, the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) will air a special on family members caring for aging loved ones called "Caring for Your Parents." The program highlights the challenges facing family caregivers. For more information, go to: http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/caringforyourparents/.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 