SEN. MIKULSKI ANNOUNCES NEW FUNDING, OPPORTUNITIES FOR COPPIN STATE UNIVERSITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced today that she has succeeded in having Coppin State University's School of Nursing added to the list of national Historically Black Graduate and Professional Institutions. This means greater funding and opportunities will now be available for the university and its students. Sen. Mikulski met with university President Dr. Stanley F. Battle today before making the announcement.  
   "Only three schools have been added to the list of eligible institutions this year and I was proud to fight for Coppin State to be among those prestigious institutions of higher learning," said Senator Mikulski. "Coppin State is doing great things for Maryland and, together, we will continue to fight to increase opportunities for all of our students." 
   Identification as a Historically Black Graduate and Professional Institution means that Coppin State is eligible to receive up to $1 million per year for the next five years. These grants are given to select Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) that make significant contributions to the number of African Americans in the legal, medical, dental and science fields. 
   Grants can be used to buy equipment, fund construction, maintain and renovate classrooms, libraries and laboratories, or provide scholarships, fellowships and other financial assistance for needy graduate students. 
   In addition to offering a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN), the School of Nursing also operates a nurse-managed clinic. The Community Health Center has the unique mission to provide health care that is sensitive to societal needs, demands and values, with providers who are culturally sensitive and responsive to changing trends and needs inner city clients. In keeping with the mission of the University, the Center seeks to improve the health and quality of life of persons residing in the Coppin Heights Community, the University campus community and the surrounding area. 
   Senator Mikulski, a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, fought for Coppin State's inclusion as she joined her colleagues to renew the Higher Education Act earlier this fall. The legislation takes the first steps in providing greater financial assistance for students across the country.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 