SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES AT DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today continued her fight to level the playing field for federal employees by asking that the Department of Labor (DoL) be prohibited from using federal funds to support the competitive outsourcing of federal contracts. In a letter to Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), Sen. Mikulski and several of her Senate colleagues, including Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.), urged the subcommittee to include language in their fiscal year 2008 spending bill that would prevent the DoL "from continuing its aggressive effort to review work performed by federal employees for privatization."  
   "The mission of the Department of Labor is to make the American workplace safer, healthier and more equitable. Efforts to privatize that workforce violate their own stated mission," said Senator Mikulski. "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. These men and women deserve to be treated fairly and they should not be forced to compete for their own jobs." 
   According to the DoL, federal employees have won 21 out of the 23 OMB Circular A-76 privatization reviews conducted since fiscal year 2004. Despite the costs and controversies associated with the A-76 circular and the record of federal employees winning those competitions, DoL officials plan to review significantly larger numbers of federal employees for privatization in the coming years. 
   Senator Mikulski, a long-time critic of the contracting out process, recently criticized the Bush Administration's continued policy of contracting out federal jobs, a practice that is dangerously slanted against federal employees. President Bush's proposed fiscal year 2008 budget encourages agencies to participate in competitive sourcing, and specifies that "the Administration continues to work with the Congress to remove legislative restrictions on competitive sourcing, such as those that require agencies to choose the cheapest providers" (Section: Managing for Results, page 28). 
   "I absolutely oppose the Bush Administration's efforts to privatize the federal workforce. This is part of a dangerous trend to replace our independent civil service with cronyism and political patronage," said Senator Mikulski. "It is very disturbing that the President continues to aggressively encourage a policy that works against federal employees." 
   In May 2003, the administration issued guidelines for these public-private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These new procedures favored contractors and stacked the deck against federal employees. The new rules for the privatization process did not guarantee employees the right to submit their own best bids, did not require contractors to show significant savings, and gave an unfair advantage to contractors who provide inferior benefits.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 