SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT REFORM
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement for the record on the need for reform to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) that passed Congress Friday:  
   "Our first goal as members of Congress is to protect and safeguard the American people against terrorist attacks. I take my oath to do so very seriously. That's why I support reform of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. As we approach the anniversary of September 11th, this is a time for more intense vigilance. Real threats to our country remain. 
   "As a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, every day I see how terrorists want to harm the American people. Terrorists still have a predatory intent to harm the United States. Reforming FISA today provides the Intelligence Community the tools it needs to disrupt ongoing terrorist operations against the United States. 
   "We have two proposals to consider tonight. Both are temporary ways ahead. Each proposal takes important steps to secure the safety of our country by reforming this important law. The Rockefeller-Levin proposal is desirable, while the McConnell proposal is acceptable. 
   "Each proposal provides the Intelligence Community the key tools it needs to disrupt terrorist plans and intentions, while retaining the legal safeguards that protect the rights of every American. 
   "These proposals are consistent with the principles that the Director of National Intelligence requested to improve the FISA process: 
   * Enhance intelligence collection against terrorist operatives communicating to each other overseas (foreign to foreign); 
   * Provide legal safeguards to protect the rights of American citizens. Consistent with law, a warrant is still required to monitor communications of American citizens inside the United States; 
   * provide prospective liability protection to private sector companies assisting our efforts in keeping this country safe. 
   "These proposals are time limited. A more comprehensive and permanent solution is necessary. As a member of the Intelligence Committee, I will work with my colleagues on a more comprehensive and permanent solution to reforming FISA. 
   "Al Qaeda continues to want to inflict damage on our country. This proposal gives important tools to the Intelligence Community to disrupt the terrorist's plans and intentions, while safeguarding the rights and civil liberties of American citizens. 
   "When it comes to protecting America, we don't belong to a political party. We belong to the red, white and blue party. We are Americans first."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122
 
 