SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS SENATE RECESS WON'T STOP H2B VISA FIGHT
  As the U.S. Senate prepares to adjourn for its August recess, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today pledged to keep fighting until the Senate passes her legislation to enact a three-year extension of a crucial provision from her "Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act," which was signed into law by President Bush in May 2005. The language is currently part of the immigration bill pending in a U.S. House/Senate conference committee.  
   "Everything in Washington does not need to be a political hot potato. I promised small businesses they could count on me to keep fighting until we had a solution and they had the seasonal workers they needed to stay in business. My promises made are promises kept," said Senator Mikulski. "Without these seasonal workers, many businesses may be forced to limit services, lay off permanent U.S. workers or, worse yet, close their doors." 
   The "Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act" made significant changes to the federal H2B (non-skilled seasonal worker) visa program that resulted in saving thousands of small businesses around the country. Among the changes, it exempted returning seasonal workers from counting against the national cap of 66,000 people, created new anti-fraud provisions, and ensured a fair allocation of H2B visas among spring and summer employees. The cap exemption, which provided significant relief to Maryland's crab industry that often hires the same dependable workers every year, is set to expire on September 30, 2006. 
   To meet the impending deadline, Senator Mikulski pledged to introduce her legislation as a stand-alone bill if immigration reform remains stalled during the August recess. 
   "When businesses cannot find local workers to fill their seasonal needs, they can then turn to the H2B program," Senator Mikulski continued. "Without being able to get the seasonal workers they need, these businesses would not survive." 
   The H2B extension: 
   * Protects our borders by rewarding immigrants who play by the rules - returning to their home countries after finishing their job. 
   * Protects American workers by requiring employers to recruit American workers before hiring immigrant workers. 
   * Keeps small and seasonal businesses open by guaranteeing the labor supply needed during their peak seasons when they can't find American workers to take the jobs.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 