SEN. MIKULSKI MEETS WITH ALLEGHANY, GARRETT COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) met at Frostburg University today with commissioners from Alleghany and Garrett Counties. This meeting is part of a series the Senator is conducting throughout the state to celebrate legislative victories and hear local concerns.  
   "I know Western Maryland, I fight for Western Maryland, and I deliver for Western Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "It's day to day needs, like C&O Canal rewatering, and water sewer infrastructure. It's also long term needs, like economic development, job creation and education. Western Marylanders can count on me in the U.S. Senate." 
   Earlier in the day, Senator Mikulski visited with students from Frostburg State University to discuss her efforts to help make college tuition more affordable for families. Senator Mikulski has introduced legislation to provide families who send a child to college or adults going to school with a $4,00 tax credit to help them afford the cost of higher education. 
   Senator Mikulski also heard from the commissioners about pressing issues facing Garrett and Alleghany County. "I'm here to give the County Commissioners a Washington update, but I'm also here to listen. As I fight for the day-to-day needs of Marylanders, I need to hear directly from the people. That's where I get my best ideas," noted Mikulski. 
   At today's meeting, Senator Mikulski was presented with the Congressional Partnership Award for her "Outstanding Leadership in Advancing Regional Economic Development," by the National Association of Development Organizations (NADO.) It is NADO's mission to advance America's rural and small metropolitan development organizations through effective federal advocacy, informative training and research programs, and opportunities for professional training and networking. Senator Mikulski was recognized for her staunch and consistent support of the Tri-County Council and its programs during the 108th Congress.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 