SEN. MIKULSKI: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION IS FAILING MISSION TO PROTECT CIVIL RIGHTS
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) said today that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's (EEOC) is failing its mission to protect civil rights and needs closer congressional oversight on its spending. Sen. Mikulski will include language in this year's spending bill that will require annual General Accountability Office (GAO) audits of the EEOC and will provide congressional direction for the agency's spending until she feels supervision is unnecessary. EEOC Chair Naomi C. Earp testified at today's hearing on the agency's fiscal year 2008 budget request. 
   "At every step, the EEOC has ignored the intent of Congress. It has compromised the important mission of enforcing our civil rights laws," said Senator Mikulski. "This broken trust and blatant disrespect leaves me with little choice. It is my responsibility to make sure hardworking taxpayers' dollars are being well-spent and that EEOC is not wasting these resources or undermining civil rights protection."  
   The EEOC has received rising complaints of employment discrimination and increasing backlogs of cases, yet it has downsized its staff and contracted out work. It has cut the number of staff who investigate claims, reduced the number of district offices, decreased the number of attorneys, and reduced staff by 575 employees since 2001. 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "The EEOC has a very important mission to ensure the equality of opportunity by vigorously enforcing federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination through investigation, conciliation, litigation and education. I believe they're failing this mission. 
   "The EEOC is charged with investigating and litigating complaints of workplace discrimination. Last year, the EEOC received 76,000 complaints that they needed to investigate on top of a 34,000 backlog of cases from the year before. In 2007, the EEOC estimates they'll get 76,000 new complaints and the backlog will rise to 40,000. The year after that, the backlog will increase to nearly 55,000. Despite rising complaints and increased backlogs, the EEOC decided to downsize its agency and contract out customer service with a national call center. "I want to focus on two things today - oversight/accountability and advocacy. My duty as an appropriator is to make sure American tax dollars are spent responsibly and that money is used wisely and efficiently. I am disappointed and frustrated with the leadership at EEOC, and I don't believe they are adequately enforcing their mission. 
   "EEOC cut the number of frontline staff who investigate claims, they privatized work that should be done only by federal employees, they reduced the number of district offices from 23 to 15, they decreased the number of attorneys and lost legal expertise, and they bureaucratically reduced staff by 575 employees since 2001 - a 20 percent reduction. 
   "My job as an appropriator is to make sure the EEOC, a federal agency charged with enforcing our civil rights, is fighting to keep the playing field level and ending discrimination at the workplace. EEOC leadership is not using all of its tools to lead this fight. Its mission to enforce civil rights is being compromised and cases are taking over 180 days to investigate. This risks that workplace discrimination will go unchecked and unpunished because the longer a case is caught up in bureaucracy, the greater chances evidence will get lost. 
   "Offices, like Baltimore, with experienced civil rights attorneys and legal expertise are being downsized - losing years of training and knowledge, and leaving constituents without access to meaningful services. 
   "In 2004, the EEOC decided to restructure the agency, reducing the number of district offices from 23 to 15. District offices are the EEOC's flagship offices. They make the decision about which cases EEOC will litigate and decide when to sue employers for workplace discrimination. District offices are full service stops - with investigators, mediation units, regional attorneys with civil rights expertise, and outreach. 
   "Reducing the number of these offices was met with strong opposition from Congress, the civil rights community and labor unions. Fewer district offices and fewer regional attorneys significantly reduced the EEOC's capacity to litigate employment discrimination cases and increased case loads for remaining attorneys, making it impossible for these cases to get the attention necessary. 
   "The EEOC established a call center despite explicit congressional disapproval. This call center is run by a private company. Calls that used to be answered by EEOC employees are now being answered by 36 contract employees who only get seven days of training on civil rights law and read from a script. The 2006 Inspector General (IG) Report found the call center was not effective. It was not serving the public. In the first year, the call center received about 270 calls. This was 1.2 million less than anticipated. The IG found major gaps in training - 37 percent of information given out by the call center was inaccurate, and there was a lack of communication between the EEOC and the call center. 
   "At every step the EEOC has ignored the intent of Congress. It has compromised the important mission of enforcing our civil rights laws. This broken trust and blatant disrespect leaves me with little choice. As Chairman of this subcommittee, it is my responsibility to make sure hardworking taxpayers' dollars are being well-spent and that the EEOC is not wasting these resources or undermining civil rights protection. 
   "Chair Earp, I look forward to hearing from you today on steps you are taking as the new Chair to get this agency back on track - back to doing the people's business of making our nation's workplace a safe place for all, and free of discrimination."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 