SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES PUSH FOR INNOVATION, COMPETITIVENESS IN COMMERCE BUDGET
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today called on the Bush Administration to restore funding in the federal budget for the Department of Commerce and to reinstate critical programs that help keep American businesses competitive. Sen. Mikulski also called on the Commerce Department to develop new approaches for reducing patent backlogs and waiting times for American entrepreneurs. This morning, Department of Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez appeared before committee members on Capitol Hill. 
   "When I look at the Department of Commerce's budget, I see a chance to give Americans the freedom to achieve. We can create opportunities at home by supporting funding and policies that create new technologies and new jobs that will stay in this country," said Senator Mikulski. "We need pipelines to help us compete globally - people, institutions and research, and an innovation-friendly government that will move us forward and ensure our future." 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement from today's hearing, as prepared, is below:  
   "This is Secretary Gutierrez's second opportunity to testify before the Subcommittee. Secretary Gutierrez began his distinguished career as a salesperson for an American business. Now, he is the chief salesperson for all of America's businesses promoting U.S. businesses at home and abroad. He has a tough job. Our trade deficit is a continuing challenge. We are facing real concerns that the United States is losing its competitive edge in the global economy. 
   "When I look at the Department of Commerce's budget I see a chance to give Americans the freedom to achieve. We can create opportunities at home by supporting funding and policies that create new technologies. And new jobs that will stay in this country. 
   "And we can create pipelines to help us compete globally - people, institutions and research, and an innovation-friendly government that will move us forward and ensure our future. 
   "My goals for this hearing are twofold: 
   "First, I want to know how this budget will help America innovate. One of the Commerce Department's missions is to foster the development of new technologies and innovation. New technologies will lead to new products, create American jobs and a world class workforce. 
   "The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) researches new products and technologies that create new jobs. The Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) protects our inventions and the International Trade Administration enforces our trade agreements. 
   "Second, I want to know how this year's budget will save lives and livelihoods. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) saves lives and protects property by forecasting the weather, predicting natural disasters and helping citizens and communities prepare. And NOAA saves livelihoods by protecting and enhancing our natural resources for citizens and industries who depend on them. 
   "I'm proud of the Commerce Department in Maryland. 
   "NOAA is headquartered in Silver Spring, with operations around the State. NOAA's 3,300 employees in Maryland serve our Nation. They save lives and protect property by accurately forecasting the weather and helping communities and citizens prepare. And they save livelihoods by bringing back crabs and oysters to support our watermen who depend on the Bay. 
   "NIST has its labs in Gaithersburg. NIST's 2,400 employees in Maryland contribute to our economic and national security because their research improves construction safety, reliability and security of our computer networks and efficiency and productivity of our manufacturers. 
   "The Census Bureau is headquartered in Suitland. Census' 4,500 employees in Maryland serve our Nation by ensuring that we have accurate data about our population and economy. 
   "NOAA is a flagship agency focused on saving lives and livelihoods. So I am concerned that the budget request for NOAA is six percent lower than last year. In fact, the six percent figure masks the gravity of the situation. Six percent is just the average. 
   "But critical areas of NOAA are cut much more than six percent. The National Ocean Service is cut by 30 percent, the National Marine Fisheries Service is cut by six percent and NOAA Research is cut by eight percent while two areas of NOAA received increases - the National Weather Service gets a four percent increase and satellites gets a nine percent increase. The increases are necessary to fund people and infrastructure, the backbone of our weather and climate forecasting. 
   "But I'm concerned about the consequences of the cuts. The National Ocean Service maps our ports and navigation channels to prevent shipping accidents. The National Marine Fisheries Service restores and protects our nation's fisheries that are critical to our economy. NOAA Research is critical to improving our weather predictions. 
   "The Department of Commerce is the government's main advocate for innovation. 
   "The mission of NIST is to promote U.S. innovation and industrial competitiveness by advancing measurement science, standards, and technology in ways that enhance economic security and improve our quality of life. I am pleased that NIST is a key component of the President's American Competitiveness Initiative. NIST's budget request includes some important new funding to focus on these high priority research areas like nanotechnology and quantum physics. 
   "But I am concerned that these new initiatives are funded at the expense of two existing programs. 
   "The budget request eliminates of the Advanced Technology Program (ATP) - an $80 million cut. ATP supports development and commercialization of new technologies that are too risky to attract private funding. 
   "The request also cuts Manufacturing Extension Partnerships (MEP) in half - a $52 million cut. MEP helps make American manufactures become more efficient, productive and competitive. 
   "We can't innovate without protecting our intellectual property. Our innovators need timely access to patent protections and strong enforcement of our trade agreements. Our entrepreneurs want to be innovating, not litigating. 
   "I am very troubled by the backlog of patent applications and the time it takes to process them. There is a backlog of 500,000 patent applications and it takes almost two years for PTO to take the first action on a patent application. 
   "Our patent system must keep pace with innovation because while our inventors are standing in line their ideas are being stolen. 
   "We need to think creatively about ways to reduce backlogs and waiting times, improve quality and accuracy and improve recruitment and retention of patent examiners. 
   "I want to know how this Subcommittee can help so that we can have a more innovation-friendly government. I look forward to hearing from Secretary Gutierrez about how the Department's budget will foster innovation and save lives and livelihoods. 
   "The budget is tight - we'll be facing a stringent allocation and tough choices. I want to make sure we are strategic about where we invest our resources so that we can keep winning Nobel prizes and market share and make America more competitive in the global economy."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 