SENS. MIKULSKI, DORGAN CONTINUE FIGHT TO STOP HEMORRHAGING OF AMERICAN'S JOBS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today continued her fight to keep jobs in America by joining Sen. Byron L. Dorgan (D-N.D.) in reintroducing a bill that would repeal a federal tax subsidy that rewards U.S. firms that export jobs out of the country.  
   "America is hemorrhaging jobs. One reason manufacturing jobs are disappearing is because American businesses get a tax break if they ship jobs overseas," said Senator Mikulski. "It is wrong to give companies incentives to send millions of jobs to other countries when millions of Americans are looking for work. I'm fighting to make sure companies can no longer use the tax code to boost corporate balance sheets at the expense of American workers." 
   Right now, if a U.S. company moves a manufacturing operation abroad, it can defer U.S. taxes on its profits until it sends those profits back to the United States. This rewards U.S. companies that move American jobs offshore. Repealing the jobs export tax subsidy will not keep U.S. companies from competing against foreign competitors in foreign markets. It is targeted only to U.S. firms that move production abroad and then ship those products back to the U.S. for sale. 
   This legislation, known as the "Runaway Manufacturing Plant bill," aims to end tax deferral where U.S. companies produce goods abroad and ship those products back to the U.S. market. If companies export jobs out of America and import those products back into this country, this bill would ensure they pay U.S. taxes on their profits. 
   Since 2000, more than 3 million manufacturing jobs have disappeared nationwide and Maryland's manufacturing sector has shrunk by 36,000 jobs. 
   The bill is similar to legislation the Senators introduced together in the 109th Congress that never became law. In response to criticism of last Congress' bill, however, the new legislation includes a provision that would exempt any agricultural commodity that is not grown in the United States in commercially marketable quantities, such as bananas. 
   In 2004, Senators Mikulski and Dorgan also teamed up to introduce this legislation as an amendment to the JOBS bill. It was defeated by a party-line vote.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 