SEN. MIKULSKI URGES COLLEAGUES TO IMPROVE DRUG SAFETY AT FDA
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) delivered a speech on the floor of the U.S. Senate today addressing the importance of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA), which would improve drug safety standards at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Sen. Mikulski, a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, was instrumental in shaping this legislation, adding language in the bill based on Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommendations to improve the scientific environment at the FDA and increase transparency. A Senate vote on the reauthorization bill is expected next week. 
   "Congress has a unique opportunity to change the way we monitor the safety of drugs for America. This is a critical issue at a critical time and we cannot afford to miss this chance," said Senator Mikulski. "We owe it to consumers, physicians and patients all over the world who rely on the FDA to be the gold standard for drug safety. I ask my colleagues to seize this moment - heed the call of our nation's scientific community and pass this important bill."  
   To hear and/or broadcast Senator Mikulski's floor speech, call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 8805 or download a high-quality mp3 at: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski070503.mp3. Video of Senator Mikulski's floor statement will also be available on Pathfire's Digital Media Gateway later today. Instructions to access Pathfire's content can be found at: www.mikulski.senate.gov/pdfs/pathfire.pdf.
   Senator Mikulski's speech, as prepared, is below: 
   "I rise today to address one of the most important issues facing our nation: the approval and safe monitoring of our country's prescription drugs and medical devices. This is a critical issue and a critical time. 
   "We have before us the most important drug safety bill of the decade. Former FDA Commissioners, like Dr. Mark McClellen and Dr. David Kessler, point out that this legislation could fundamentally change the way the FDA operates and protects the safety of our drug supply. Like these Commissioners from both the Bush and Clinton Administrations, we must work in a bipartisan way to pass this bill. 
   "Congress has a unique opportunity to change the way we monitor the safety of drugs for America. We cannot afford to miss this chance. We owe it to consumers, physicians and the patients all over the world who rely on the FDA to be the gold standard for drug safety. This is about protecting the American people. 
   "As the Senator from Maryland, I have fought hard for the employees at the FDA, for the resources at the FDA, and for maintaining the mission of the FDA. I have been a leader in the fight for FDA reform - streamlining the drug approval process while ensuring the safety of drugs and medical devices. I created the Office of Women's Health, since medications often react differently for women. With Senator [Orrin] Hatch, I led the effort to consolidate FDA at the new White Oak campus to support the employees by ensuring they had the facilities and resources they needed to complete their essential mission. And these employees - these talented scientists - are my constituents and I hear from them. I hear their scientific dissent is sometimes discouraged, quashed or muzzled at the FDA. At a science based agency? This is unacceptable and unsafe for our nation's drug supply. 
   "This is our opportunity. Now is the time to strengthen the science at the agency, strengthen the drug approval process, strengthen the post-approval monitoring, and improve the way we let the public know about these approvals. 
   "We must heed the call of our nation's scientific community. The New England Journal of Medicine recently alerted the American public to use this legislative opportunity to strengthen drug safety. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) made drug safety recommendations for the FDA. And the hardworking scientists at the FDA in my home state of Maryland tell me we must strengthen science at the FDA. So I listened. I listened to my constituents. I listened to the nation's scientific community and I considered recommendations from the IOM. I worked to get their very valuable suggestions into this bill. 
   "IOM recently released a report: 'The Future of Drug Safety.' This report - commissioned by the FDA - made very strong, very sound recommendations on how to improve drug safety and improve the scientific environment at the FDA. I worked with Senators [Edward] Kennedy, [Michael] Enzi and my HELP Committee colleagues to include these IOM recommendations that strengthen science at the FDA and increase transparency of the drug approval process. We have done a good job. There are always additional pieces we want added, but we worked hard to keep this a bipartisan effort to send the strongest bill to the Senate floor. 
   "I am very proud of provisions we included in the bill related to strengthening science, increasing transparency and improving drug safety: 
   Strengthening Science: The FDA is a science-based agency. The science must be strong to protect the pubic, and to retain and attract the best and brightest scientists. This legislation will create an Office of the Chief Scientist at the FDA. A single scientist will oversee all the science offices at the agency and will work closely with a Scientific Advisory Board. It also requires an advisory committee to review all new drugs. Currently, most new drugs get an advisory committee review, but with this legislation all new drugs will receive this comprehensive review. The language also reinforces the ability of scientists to publish scientific articles. FDA scientists, like scientists working at any other institution, must be able to publish papers in scholarly journals. This is important for scientists who now work at the FDA and important for recruiting new scientists the FDA desperately needs. Improving Transparency: Transparency at the FDA is critical, especially throughout the drug approval process where all scientific views - even dissenting views - must be made public. This legislation will make summaries of the drug approval package available to the public on the internet, including dissenting scientists' views. The summary will be available 48 hours after the drug is approved and the entire drug review package will be publicly available within 30 days. It also creates an Advisory Committee on Risk Communication with patients and consumers. This committee will advise the agency on the best ways to communicate with the public, modeled after two other HHS agencies at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the National Cancer Institute (NCI). 
   Drug Safety: Throughout the drug approval process it is important to involve scientists who know how to follow drugs after they are approved, especially scientists from the Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology. We learn so much about drugs after the public starts using them. The FDA must use all information available to them to monitor the safety and efficacy of drugs once approved. This bill requires scientists from the Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology to be part of the drug approval process from the very beginning, and includes them in the monitoring process after the drug is approved. It also requires the FDA to report on how this office is working with the Office of New Drugs. This bill will also generate additional money for drug safety. The PDUFA agreement will generate an additional $29 million from drug companies specifically to be used for drug safety. Provisions in this bill will add up to an additional $65 million for drug safety. 
   "I love the FDA. The FDA is in my home state of Maryland. It employs over 10,000 of my constituents who are relying on us to reauthorize these programs and protect their jobs. The FDA should be setting the gold standard where a patient, a doctor or a drug company can count on the FDA. 
   "I believe this bill will help the FDA strengthen science and improve drug safety. I ask my colleagues to seize this moment - heed the call of our nation's scientific community and pass this important bill. The FDA is losing our intellectual capital, losing scientists who are choosing other paths because of agency restraints, and the FDA's lost trust of the nation. Passage of this bill is about innovations and discoveries that can save lives today and tomorrow."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 