SEN. MIKULSKI HONORS ASIAN PACIFIC AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH
  As Asian Pacific American Heritage Month begins, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) honored the diverse cultures that for centuries have shaped Maryland and the nation.  
   Senator Mikulski's statement for the record is below: 
   "This month marks the anniversary of two milestones in Asian Pacific American history. 
   "The first-ever Japanese Americans made their home in this country starting on May 7, 1843. And in this same month in 1869, the Transcontinental Railroad, which had a tremendous impact on settling the West, was completed largely due to the hard labor of hundreds of Chinese Americans. 
   "These landmarks in Asian Pacific American history inspired Congress in 1977 to pass legislation establishing a week in May as Asian/Pacific Heritage Week. In 1990, it was expanded into a month-long observation. 
   "So this May, in recognition of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, I honor the diverse cultures and heritages that make up the Asian and Pacific Islander American communities in my own home state of Maryland and across the nation. I recognize the adversity and discrimination so many have faced and continue to face in America, and I vow to continue to fight to make sure all Asian Pacific Americans receive the equality they deserve in all aspects of their lives. 
   "Asian and Pacific Islander American communities come from all different countries of origin - from China, Japan, Laos and the Philippines to Pakistan, Vietnam, Korea and many others. They have brought with them unique cultural traditions, religions and languages. And they make major contributions to all facets of our society - from small businesses to giant corporations, from the government to the front lines of battlefields, schools, athletics, law firms, hospitals and countless other arenas. For centuries, they have helped make America what it is today and they continue to be an integral part of the diverse American tapestry. 
   "That's why I support comprehensive immigration reform and accessible, efficient immigration services to keep our borders open to the immigrants that continue to make their homes in America and contribute to our culture and economy. 
   "Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is a reminder of the contributions this community makes to our society all year round. I will continue to fight in the United States Senate for the needs of the millions of Asian Pacific Americans that have made their home in this country."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 