SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS CENSUS BUREAU MUST RESTORE PUBLIC TRUST
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today joined CJS Chairman Richard C. Shelby (R-Ala.) in sending a letter to Department of Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, stressing the need to restore public confidence in the security of Census information. With the next Census approaching in 2010, the Commerce Department recently informed CJS, which funds the Census Bureau, that there have been more than 1,100 lost Commerce Department computers since 2001.  
   "The Census Bureau makes sure that we have accurate data about our population and economy. The Commerce Department must come up with a plan to let the public know that responses to Census questions are privileged and protected," said Senator Mikulski. "The quality and integrity of this important information must not be compromised." 
   Nearly 250 of the lost computers contained personal information the Census Bureau had collected from the public. A "dress rehearsal" for the 2010 Census is set to take place in 2008. The Census Bureau is headquartered in Suitland, Md. 
   The letter is below: 
   Dear Secretary Gutierrez: 
   The Census Bureau's mission is to be the leading source of quality data about our nation's people and economy. Collecting and safeguarding personal information is core to this mission. That is why we are deeply concerned about the loss of over 1,100 Commerce Department laptop computers, including almost 250 that held personal information collected by the Census Bureau. 
   The 2010 Census is approaching quickly, and will involve the purchase of 500,000 new handheld computers that will cost almost $250 million. Census field enumerators will use these handheld computers to input personal information collected during interviews. The Census Bureau's ability to safeguard this equipment and the personal information it contains will be critical to the validity of the 2010 Census. 
   Census relies on a cooperative public to willingly answer its questions. But public confidence in the security of personal information has been damaged. A reluctant public could decrease the quality and the integrity of Census data. 
   This problem requires a bold response that will restore public confidence in Census' ability to safeguard personal information, and assure Congress and the taxpayers that funding spent on handheld computers is sensible. We look forward to hearing from you about your plans to do so, because with a "dress rehearsal" planned for this new Census equipment in 2008, time is of the essence. 
   Thank you for your attention to this very important matter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 