SEN. MIKULSKI URGES SECRETARY RICE TO WORK WITH ARAB STATES IN FUTURE PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues led by Senator Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) in sending a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, urging her to work with the Arab states who have not yet signed agreements with Israel as the Secretary prepares for future international meetings on the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
   "I stand proudly with unabashed and unwavering support for Israel. I will always fight for its survival and viability," said Senator Mikulski. "But in order to have peace in the Middle East, we must all work together."  
   A lack of support from some of these Arab states has stood in the way of peace agreements in the past. The governments of Israel and the Palestinians are also working as best they can towards that goal, but a sincere commitment from our allies in the Middle East to be partners in this effort is necessary to establish peace in the region. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Secretary Rice, 
   As you step up American diplomatic actions and prepare for a future international meeting on the Arab-Israeli conflict, we believe it is essential that other key players in the Middle East also step up and meet their responsibilities. The success of such a meeting, and ultimately the peace process itself, will depend on the cooperation we receive from the larger Arab world, particularly from those Arab states with close relations with the United States who have not yet signed agreements with Israel. Your ongoing efforts to work with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas are critical, but so is the support these efforts receive from those Arab countries. 
   We know that in the past, the lack of sufficient support from some of these Arab states have made it difficult to reach earlier agreements. We also know that, for many years, many of these countries have been insisting on greater involvement by the Administration in the Arab-Israeli conflict. Now that you and the Administration are indeed more actively engaged in Middle East diplomacy on an ongoing basis, we also believe that these Arab states should step forward with concrete, positive actions to promote peace and stability in the region. 
   In particular, you should press friendly Arab countries that have not yet done so, to: 
   1) Participate in the upcoming international meeting and be a full partner of the United States in advancing regional peace; 
   2) Take visible, meaningful steps in the financial, diplomatic and political arena to help Palestinian President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad govern effectively and meet their obligations to fight terror; 
   3) Stop support for terrorist groups and cease all anti-Israel and anti-Jewish incitement; 
   4) Recognize Israel's right to exist and not use such recognition as a bargaining chip for future Israeli concessions; 
   5) End the Arab League economic boycott of Israel in all of its forms; and 
   6) Pressure Hamas to recognize Israel, reject terror and accept prior agreements, and isolate Hamas until it takes such steps. 
   We are encouraged that you are working hard to advance the cause of peace in the Middle East. The governments of Israel and the Palestinians are also working as best they can towards that goal. However, without a sincere commitment from our allies in the Middle East to be partners in this effort, peace in the region will remain elusive. 
   We appreciate your attention to this critical matter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 