SEN. MIKULSKI CONGRATULATES NOBEL PRIZE WINNER AT GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER
  Sen Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today congratulated NASA Goddard Space Flight Center civil servant scientist, and project scientist on the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE), Dr. John Mather for receiving the highest honor in the world of science - the Nobel Prize.  
   The COBE was built entirely at Goddard in Greenbelt, Maryland. This is the first Nobel Prize for an in-house NASA satellite and for a civil servant at NASA. Dr. Mather has devoted his entire scientific career, the past ten years, on the James Webb Space Telescope. 
   Senator Mikulski's letter of congratulations to Dr. Mather is below: 
   Dear Dr. Mather: 
   It is an honor and a pleasure to add my voice to the chorus of congratulations on the occasion of your receipt of the 2006 Nobel Prize in Physics from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences for your work at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. I know that you share this much coveted award with your friend and colleague, Dr. George F. Smoot of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. Together you enhanced and defined the Big-Bang theory moving us "light years" ahead in our comprehension of the origin of the universe. 
   You know that I am a Goddard cheerleader. So I am really thrilled that your pioneering advances came as a result of your work at the world-class Goddard Space Flight Center with data obtained from the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) Mission. Your team's research into cosmic radiation not only concretized Big Bang, but it also created the discipline of precision cosmology, which permits us to use microwave background radiation to describe the infancy of the universe. 
   Science is about exploration, discovery and innovation. Goddard is all about innovation. It is an incubator for new ideas and new technologies. The future of our economy and our nation will depend upon our ability to innovate and to win market share. The new ideas and new technologies, which you and your collaborators at Goddard advance, will create the jobs of tomorrow for Maryland and for America. NASA is too important to Maryland, too important to America and too important to the world. 
   Dr. Mather, you are an America hero. The people of the United States are grateful for your service to science and to your nation. Enjoy the limelight you so richly deserve. Best wishes for the continued success I know will be yours.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 