SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS PUBLIC MUST BE ALLOWED TIME TO COMMENT ON CLONING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today acknowledged the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) announcement of a 30-day extension of the public comment period before its expected endorsement of the use of meat, milk and other food from cloned animals, but said the public needs a longer extension to share their opinions. The period was set to end on Monday, April 2.  
   "While I am pleased that the FDA has extended the public comment period on the use of food from cloned animals, the American people deserve more time to voice their concerns about the safety of their food supply to the agency that is in place to protect it," said Senator Mikulski. "The American people's confidence in the FDA has been compromised by poor leadership in recent years, and it must be restored. The public's views must be heard." 
   A senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Mikulski has been outspoken out against the FDA's expected endorsement of food from clones since the beginning. Last November, she called on Acting FDA Commissioner Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach to release research used to justify an FDA endorsement, which had been delayed for several years. After the release of the research, the Senator successfully fought for the public comment period that is now receiving an extension. 
   In January, Senator Mikulski also introduced the Cloned Food Labeling Act (S. 414), which would require the FDA and the Department of Agriculture to mandate that all food from cloned animals be labeled as such. Under this legislation, all meat and dairy from cloned animals that is sold in retail supermarkets and restaurants would have to be labeled: THIS PRODUCT IS FROM A CLONED ANIMAL OR ITS PROGENY. 
   "I am strongly opposed to the FDA approving meat and milk products from cloned animals for human consumption. The scientists say we should monitor it, but if the FDA decides it's 'safe,' they will allow the food to enter the market unidentified, unlabeled, unbeknownst to all of us and completely indistinguishable from all other food," said Senator Mikulski. "The public needs to insist that the FDA treat them fairly. If cloned food is safe, let it onto the market, but give consumers the information they need to avoid these products. Americans must be able to speak with their dollars and choose the food they have confidence is safe." 
   Comments on the FDA's endorsement of cloned food can be submitted to the agency at: http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/oc/dockets/comments/getDocketInfo.cfm?EC_DOCUMENT_ID=1509&SORT=&MAXROWS=15&START=1&CID=&AGENCY=FDA
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 