SEN. MIKULSKI: TIME HAS COME TO EXTEND U.S. VISA WAIVER PROGRAM TO POLAND
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has joined Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.) in filing an amendment to pending immigration legislation currently pending in the U.S. Senate that would extend the U.S. Visa Waiver program to Poland.  
   "Shouldn't we make it easier for the Pulaskis and Kosciuszkos and Marie Curies of today to visit our country?" said Senator Mikulski. "We know that our borders will be no less secure because of these Polish visitors to our country. But we know that our alliance will be more secure because of this legislation." 
   The amendment would add Poland to the list of designated countries in the Visa Waiver program. This will allow Polish citizens to travel to the U.S. for tourism or business for up to 60 days without needing to stand in line to get a visa, making it easier for Poles to visit family and friends, or do business in America. 
   "Poland is not some Communist holdover or third-world country begging for a handout. The Cold War is over. Poland is a free and democratic nation," said Senator Mikulski. "Poland is a NATO ally and a member of the European Union. But America's visa policy still treats Poland as a second-class citizen." 
   Senator Mikulski cited Poland's support for a number of American initiatives throughout the world, including the War on Terror. Polish troops have stood side by side with U.S. Armed Forces during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm during the 1990-91 Gulf War. Poland sent troops to Bosnia as part of UNPROFOR and IFOR, and also as part of the international coalition in Afghanistan. 
   Polish troops have also fought alongside American troops since the start of the current Iraqi conflict. Seventeen Polish soldiers have been killed in Iraq and more than 20 have been injured. Today, nearly 1,000 Polish troops are still on the ground in Iraq and next year, Poland will send more than 1,000 troops to Afghanistan to lead NATO's International Security Assistance Force.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 