SEN. MIKULSKI HONORED FOR SAVING SMALL, SEASONAL BUSINESSES
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) joined the seafood industry, restaurant and packing house owners and staff, community leaders, watermen and residents of Hoopers Island today in a celebration of the 2005 Maryland seafood season. The season, once threatened by H2B visa complications, was turned-around with the passage of Sen. Mikulski's "Save Our Small and Seasonal Business Act."  
   "Businesses all over the country, including many right here in Maryland, were facing a crisis, unable to get the workers they needed to survive the summer," said Senator Mikulski. "Without these seasonal workers, many businesses could have been forced to limit services, lay off permanent U.S. workers or, worse yet, close their doors. I couldn't let this happen, and am so proud to have sprung into action for the bipartisan solution that is keeping Maryland in crabs this summer." 
   The event, hosted by the Chesapeake Bay Seafood Industries Association, was billed as a celebration of "the almost miraculous passage of the 'Save our Small and Seasonal Business Act of 2005,' otherwise known as 'the Saving of the Season' made possible by the superhuman effort and parliamentary skill of Senator Barbara Mikulski." 
   For the second year in a row, the H2B visa cap of 66,000 was reached just a few months into the fiscal year. Because companies are not allowed to apply for workers more than 120 days before they are needed, many Maryland businesses - who need about 7,700 workers - weren't able to apply for visas this year before the cap had been reached. 
   Senator Mikulski's bill, the "Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act," exempts returning seasonal workers from the national cap of 66,000 people, creates new anti-fraud provisions and a fair allocation of visas. In an incredibly successful parliamentary manoeuvre, Senator Mikulski attached this legislation as an amendment to the Iraq-Afghanistan Emergency Supplemental. The amendment passed the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support (94-6) and was signed into law by President Bush in May 2005. 
   Senator Mikulski was also joined today by Senator Paul Sarbanes and Congressman Wayne Gilchrest.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 