SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES PUSH SENATE LEADERSHIP TO ACT ON CRITICAL HIV/AIDS FUNDING COMPROMISE
Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee member Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski and colleague Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.), today sent an urgent letter to Senate leadership asking for the swift passage of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act. In a letter to Senate Majority Leader William H. Frist (R-Tenn.), Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), HELP Committee Chair Michael B. Enzi (R-Wyo.) and HELP Committee Ranking Member Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), the Senators argue that the only way to make sure essential HIV/AIDS services are not interrupted is to immediately take up this critical legislation. 
 The Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act reauthorizes original legislation, initiated in 1990, that funds critical programs that provide people living with HIV/AIDS with access to health care, life-saving medication and essential support services. Currently, there are more than 1 million people in the United States and 38 million people worldwide who are living with AIDS. In 2004, Maryland had the ninth highest rate of AIDS in the nation, and the rate of infection continues to climb.  
 The text of the letter is below: 
 Dear Majority Leader Frist, Minority Leader Reid, Chairman Enzi, and Ranking Member Kennedy: 
 We write to urge you to bring to the Senate floor and pass the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006 when the Senate returns for legislative business this week. 
 For the past two years the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee has worked with the House Energy and Commerce Committee on the bi-partisan basis to re-authorize this important program that provides services, medications and treatments to people living with HIV/AIDS in Maryland and across our country. 
 We understand that HELP Committee Chairman Enzi and Ranking Member Kennedy have proposed a short term re-authorization bill for three years instead of five. A short term re-authorization would stabilize CARE act funding and make sure that important HIV/AIDS services are not interrupted while the Senate continues to work on this important legislation in the 110th Congress. Many states, including Maryland stand to lose millions of dollars if the Senate does not act on this important legislation before it adjourns. 
 Language in the bill will allow Maryland to transition from its current coded HIV data reporting system without losing federal funding that provides treatment and care of individuals living with HIV/AIDS. Absent passage of the bill this year current law will direct the Health Resources and Services Administration to allocate FY07 funds based on AIDS cases and names-based HIV cases, triggering funding disruptions in Maryland, and seventeen other states that do not have mature names-based HIV reporting systems certified by the Centers of Disease Control (CDC). Should this happen, it is estimated that Maryland would lose over $20 million dollars in Ryan White Care Act funding. 
 As the Senators of a state that had the ninth highest rate of AIDS in the nation in 2004, with a rate of infection that continues to climb, we strongly support a short term three year re-authorization bill and urge the Senate to address this important legislation during the final days of the 109th Congress.
 Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 