SEN. MIKULSKI CONDEMNS PRESIDENT'S BUDGET CUTS TO MARYLAND PRIORITIES
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, criticized dramatic cuts in President Bush's proposed 2009 budget to essential funding for Maryland's priorities for education, veterans' health care, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) consolidation at White Oak, Md.
   VETERANS: 
   The President's budget taxes veterans - including the 500,000 in Maryland - by proposing enrollment fees and higher prescription co-pays for military retirees. Congress has rejected these proposals in the past four years.
   "President Bush asks for billions a week to fund the war in Iraq, but his budget leaves behind those who have served our military with honor. Promises made to America's veterans must be promises kept. We should do this by giving them the same quality service they gave us, and by providing them with the care they deserve," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight for our true American heroes."
   EDUCATION:
   In addition to underfunding No Child Left Behind programs by $14.7 billion, President Bush's budget proposal eliminates 48 education programs, including literacy and gifted and talented programs, several grant programs to increase technological resources in schools, and financial aid programs that go to the neediest of Pell grant and Perkins loan recipients.
   "College is part of the American dream, it shouldn't be part of the American financial nightmare," said Senator Mikulski, who also serves on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. "How does the President expect our young people to succeed when the cost of higher education continues to rise without an increase in federal aid? We must do all we can to make sure no child is left out or left behind. That's why I will continue to fight for these resources for public schools that families and students can depend on."
   As Maryland prepares for an increase of more than 4,000 students to schools impacted by the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, Senator Mikulski has been fighting for increases to key education programs, which could dramatically ease pressure on local and state government budgets and allow more funds to support BRAC-implementation efforts. However, President Bush provided no increase to the federal Impact Aid program, which received $1.24 billion in last year's omnibus spending bill. This federal program provides funding to school districts that have increased enrollment due to federally connected children. Impact Aid funds can be used for school construction, hiring new teachers, and updating technology.
   President Bush also shortchanged special education funding, providing a total of $11.3 billion in funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), $10.2 billion short of what the federal government should be paying. IDEA entitles children with disabilities to a public education and provides federal funds to help schools with the cost. However, the federal government has not made good on its commitment, leaving local districts to make up the difference by skimping on special education, cutting from other education programs, or raising taxes.
   FDA CONSOLIDATION AT WHITE OAK:
   President Bush again underfunded the FDA's consolidation at White Oak, Md., at $78.5 million. This is nearly $100 million less than what is needed to keep the project on schedule. One of the campus' largest labs was supposed to be built in fiscal year 2009 - the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER). However, the President did not provide any funding for this lab. While scientists wait for this lab to be built, they are working in facilities that are over capacity with outdated technology at four different locations in Maryland. The lack of funding threatens to cause significant delays in planning and construction, and will undermine the FDA's mission to protect public health.
   The FDA has been working to consolidate offices on the 130-acre site of the former White Oak Naval Surface Warfare Center in Montgomery County for nearly 20 years. Senator Mikulski has worked vigorously in the Senate and the community to consolidate the FDA facilities, beginning in 1990.
   "This project has been a top priority for the community and a top priority for me because it means economic development for Montgomery and Prince George's Counties, and jobs for the people of Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "The FDA deserves a world-class facility. Unfortunately, the Bush administration has again neglected this project and its contribution to the agency's mission. I will continue to fight to make sure that the FDA consolidation project receives the funds it needs."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 