SEN. MIKULSKI: PRESIDENT'S BUDGET CONTINUES TO LEAVE LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT BEHIND
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today criticized President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget request, which continues a trend of leaving state and local law enforcement without the tools they need to protect our communities. The President funds the Department of Justice (DOJ) at $22.7 billion, a 2 percent decrease from last year's final enacted bill. This includes a staggering 61 percent cut for state and local law enforcement programs.  
   "The President has again significantly reduced funding for state and local law enforcement programs, even as the pressures on these agencies continue to rise. How can the President ask so much while providing so little? We have an obligation to keep our communities safe from violent crime, and I am committed to giving them the resources they need to do their job," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to give law enforcement the tools they need to clean up the streets, protect our families, and fight the crime that is destroying communities." 
   President Bush's budget eliminates several grant programs for state and local law enforcement including the: Byrne/Justice Assistance Grant program, Byrne Discretionary and Competitive Grant program, State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, COPS Law Enforcement Technology Grants, Juvenile Accountability Block Grants and Secure Our Schools program. 
   "The rise in violent crime and the critical ongoing fight against terrorism have placed new pressure on the law enforcement agencies working hard every day to keep our nation and our neighborhoods safe," said Senator Mikulski. "While President Bush continues to request billions of dollars a week for the War in Iraq, his budget proposal continues to shortchange our nation's domestic priorities." 
   The President's budget also proposes to eliminate all DOJ grant programs for victims of domestic violence including: legal assistance to victims of domestic violence, grants for safe havens for children and grants for victims of domestic violence with disabilities. 
   "I have absolutely no tolerance for crimes against women and children. But I believe in deeds, not just words. That's why I have consistently fought for funding to support the DOJ's Office on Violence Against Women and key initiatives to go after child predators," said Senator Mikulski. "Crimes have gotten more sophisticated, and we've had to become more sophisticated. That means giving law enforcement the resources they need to keep our families safe."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 