SEN. MIKULSKI CONDEMNS PRESIDENT'S EFFORT TO TERMINATE HOPE VI PROGRAM
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today condemned President Bush's proposal to eliminate funding for the HOPE VI housing program in his fiscal year 2009 budget, which was released today. Senator Mikulski pledged to restore funding to at least $100 million, as she did in last year's omnibus spending bill. The elimination comes as both houses of Congress consider legislation to reauthorize the program, which Senator Mikulski created in 1992.  
   HOPE VI was created by Senator Mikulski with the aim of replacing dilapidated public housing with mixed-income developments connected to schools, retail and community services. Since the program started, over $6 billion has been appropriated for HOPE VI and billions more have been leveraged from the private sector. 
   "How can the President ask so much, while providing so little? We need to support federal programs that help those who help themselves. While President Bush continues to spend billions of dollars a week in Iraq, his budget leaves our domestic priorities behind," said Senator Mikulski. "HOPE VI has always been about creating new opportunities for residents of public housing and new hope for the communities surrounding public housing. I will continue my fight to not only reauthorize this vital program, but to make sure the President does not succeed in cutting funds this year." 
   In March 2007, Senator Mikulski, Senator Mel Martinez (R-Fla.) and Senator Jack Reed (D-R.I.) introduced the HOPE VI Improvement and Reauthorization Act (S.829), which is pending consideration by the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development. The bill builds on the past success of the HOPE VI program and makes several improvements to ensure that grants are cost-efficient, and effective at improving resident and community life. This legislation will also incorporate lessons learned from the initial years of HOPE VI to ensure the future success of the program. 
   "Where HOPE VI has been most successful, it has transformed communities and lives," said Senator Mikulski. "Our reauthorization bill will take this program into the new century - reformed, refreshed and reinvigorated - by codifying best practices and correcting weaknesses."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 