SEN. MIKULSKI CRITICIZES PRESIDENT'S CONTINUED FAILURE TO PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS
  Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) today denounced President Bush's continued failure to provide federal funding to help protect high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks in his proposed fiscal year 2009 budget, which was released today. Senator Mikulski, a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, has worked for the past four years to secure this funding in the Homeland Security spending bill.  
   "While President Bush continues to spend billions of dollars a week in Iraq, his budget leaves our domestic priorities behind. Many of our nation's non-profit organizations are on the frontlines, working hard to develop and nuture communities, but the President has done nothing to protect them," said Senator Mikulski. "How can the President ask so much, while providing so little?" 
   Last year, Senator Mikulski fought to have $15 million included in the fiscal year 2008 omnibus spending bill to protect institutions that provide vital health, social, cultural and educational services to the American people, and are often soft targets of terrorism. 
   Senator Mikulski worked to secure funding for high-risk non-profits in the 2005, 2006 and 2007 spending bills. In 2007, Senator Mikulski and colleague Senator Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) were unable to add additional funding to the Department of Homeland Security spending bill. However, they successfully fought for language in the bill to release the $25 million in funding that was signed into law by the President in the 2006 bill, but had been held up by the Bush administration. 
   "We must help protect our hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches from terrorist violence," said Senator Mikulski. "They need a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk of terrorist attacks. I have fought for these funds in the past, and I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   The federal funding goes to the Department of Homeland Security's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute to high-risk non-profit organizations. The non-profits have used past federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 