SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined several of her Senate colleagues, led by Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.), today to introduce the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 (S. 2), which would raise the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour.  
   "An increase in the minimum wage equals an increase in the standard of living for working Americans," said Senator Mikulski. "Raising the minimum wage will help working Americans improve their standard of living. It will help them move one step closer to self-sufficiency, and it will give them the opportunity to practice self-help." 
   The last time Congress voted to raise the minimum wage was in 1996 to its current $5.15 an hour. Today's bill would raise the minimum wage in three steps: to $5.85 60 days after enactment; then to $6.55 one year later; and to $7.25 one year after that. 
   "For too long now, Americans have been working longer and harder only to see their paychecks get smaller and smaller. This cycle has got to stop," said Senator Mikulski. "Those Americans who are working for minimum wage are not asking for handouts. They're asking for fair pay for hard work." 
   The number of Americans in poverty has increased by 4.3 million since President Bush took office. Nearly 36 million people live in poverty, including 13 million children. Among full-time, year-round workers, poverty has doubled since the late 1970s - from about 1.3 million then to more than 2.6 million. An unacceptably low minimum wage is a key part of the problem. Minimum wage employees working 40 hours a week, 52 weeks a year, earn $10,700 a year, which is $5,000 below the poverty line for a family of three. Over two-thirds of minimum wage earners are adults, and nearly 60 percent are mothers, many with young children to support. 
   "Since I first came to Congress, my economic mission has been simple - to help those who are in the middle class stay there or do better, and to give those who are not in the middle class the chance to get there," continued Senator Mikulski. "I know that to some people, this increase may not seem like much. But even a small increase like this one will mean a significant difference in the lives of many hardworking Americans."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 