SEN. MIKULSKI, REP. CUMMINGS BILL HONORING GREAT BLACK AMERICANS ON WAY TO BECOMING LAW
  The National Great Black Americans Commemoration Act, introduced by Sen. Barbara Mikulski and Rep. Elijah Cummings, passed Congress this week. The bipartisan bill (S.1233, H.R. 2424) authorizes $5 million for civil rights programming and violence prevention activities at the National Great Blacks in Wax Museum and Justice Learning Center in Baltimore, Maryland. The Museum, which honors Black Americans who have made a significant contribution to the nation, is working to expand its existing facilities and exhibits. 
   "This is a great victory and brings us one step closer to giving these pioneers the recognition they deserve," said Senator Mikulski, the lead sponsor in the U.S. Senate. "Black Americans have a rich history that must be cherished and remembered. We need to honor African American leaders from across the country who are all too often forgotten. The museum will bring more tourists to the Museum in Baltimore and will give our young people new inspiration."
   "The National Great Black Americans Commemoration Act of 2003 will help the museum continue its mission to bring long overdue recognition to African Americans who have served our nation with distinction, but whose names, faces, and records of achievements are not well known by the public," Congressman Cummings said. "I commend Senator Mikulski for joining me in bringing attention to the Museum."
   The museum showcases the lives of great Black Americans who have proudly served the United States - from civil servants like Mary McLeod Bethune, to military heroes like Colin Powell, to Congressional leaders like Senator Edward Brooke, and civil rights leaders like Rosa Parks.
   The Great Blacks in Wax Museum, America's first wax museum of Black history, was founded in the early 1980s by Dr. Elmer Martin and Dr. Joanne Martin. The museum occupies part of a city block in East Baltimore, and includes more than 100 wax figures. The Museum plans to expand from 15,000 square feet to 130,000 square feet, making it a key source for information and educational programs on African American history, and a leader in outreach and education for at-risk youth.
   The State of Maryland and the city of Baltimore have contributed over $5 million toward this expansion project, which will occupy an entire city block in an Empowerment Zone area. This legislation authorizes a $5 million to be used for programming related to civil rights and juvenile justice. The Museum will use the lessons of Black history to address violence, gang activity and substance abuse in the community.
   The legislation, introduced in the Senate by Senator Mikulski and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT), unanimously passed the Senate last night. The bill passed the House of Representatives by voice vote on June 1, 2004. The bill will now be sent to the President who will sign it into law.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 