AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE HONORS SEN. MIKULSKI FOR COMMITMENT, LEADERSHIP
  In recognition of her continued support of America's Jewish community and her ongoing fight to protect high-risk non-profit community institutions, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) was honored this afternoon with an award from the American Jewish Committee (AJC). AJC Executive Board member Ron Weiner presented the award.  
   "Everyday for the past 100 years, the AJC has fought against discrimination in America and around the world. You fight for human rights by combating anti-Semitism and religious intolerance," said Senator Mikulski. "I am so proud to stand with the people in this room who are bound to their historic traditions and committed to improving the lives of others." 
   Senator Mikulski has worked for the past two years to secure funding for high-risk non-profits. She fought to have $25 million included in the 2006 Department of Homeland Security spending bill, which was signed into law by President Bush on October 18, 2005. In 2004, the Senator offered an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security bill that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. She was able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   "We know that Jewish institutions can be targets simply because they are Jewish institutions - schools, community centers and hospitals face the threat of hate crimes. These institutions are the social glue that hold the American mosaic together," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight for federal support to keep these institutions safe." 
   High-risk non-profit grants help support protection efforts for organizations that provide vital health, social, cultural and educational services to the nation and are often the soft targets of terrorism. Non-profits use the federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers and security cameras. President Bush's FY 2007 budget eliminates funding for this critical program. 
   Founded in 1906, the mission of the AJC is to promote pluralistic and democratic societies where all minorities are protected. AJC works to combat anti-Semitism and all forms of bigotry, promoting civic values and protecting human rights.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 