SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO STOP HEMORRHAGING OF AMERICA'S JOBS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) and Byron L. Dorgan (D-ND) today introduced an amendment to the Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act, currently being debated on the floor of the U.S. Senate, to repeal a federal tax subsidy that rewards U.S. firms that export U.S. jobs overseas.  
   Right now, if a U.S. company moves a manufacturing operation abroad, it can defer U.S. taxes on its profits until it sends those profits back to the United States. This rewards U.S. companies that move American jobs offshore. 
   Senators Mikulski and Dorgan offered an amendment to end tax deferral where U.S. companies produce goods abroad and ship those products back to the U.S. market. If companies export jobs out of America and import those products back into this country, this amendment would ensure they pay U.S. taxes on their profits. 
   "America is hemorrhaging jobs," said Senator Mikulski. "One reason manufacturing jobs are disappearing is because American businesses get a tax break if they ship jobs overseas. It is wrong to give companies incentives to send millions of jobs to other countries when millions of Americans are looking for work. I'm fighting to make sure companies can no longer use the tax code to boost corporate balance sheets at the expense of American workers." 
   According to the Joint Tax Committee, this tax subsidy will cost U.S. taxpayers $6.5 billion over the next ten years. 
   Nearly three million jobs have disappeared since 2000, including 2.8 million manufacturing jobs. Twenty-one thousand of those jobs were in Maryland. 
   In March, Senators Mikulski and Dorgan wrote a letter to their colleagues urging them to act to protect American jobs and prevent any further erosion of manufacturing jobs. "Although some companies may still choose to dislocate thousands of workers in America in search of greater profits overseas, U.S. taxpayers should not be asked to provide billions of dollars in tax subsidies to encourage them to do so," the Senators wrote. (letter attached) See: http://mikulski.senate.gov/Newsroom/DorganMikulskiDearColleaguesmall.pdf)
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 