SEN. MIKULSKI AMENDMENT DEMANDS OVERSIGHT OF NOAA SATELLITE PROGRAMS
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced the Senate has unanimously accepted her amendment to the 2008 spending bill to enforce oversight for two National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) satellite programs: NPOESS and GOES-R. The satellite programs, which are essential to our nation's ability to forecast weather and measure climate change, have struggled with cost overruns and unaccounted for delays in schedules. Senator Mikulski's amendment requires significant oversight by the Secretary of Commerce and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director, and mandates congressional notification of project delays and expenses. 
   "This amendment will act like a circuit breaker, tripping when costs grow too much. It will bring attention to problems before they become too big to manage and provide strong oversight," said Senator Mikulski. "When I look at the agencies in our jurisdiction like NOAA, I see tremendous opportunities to promote innovation that creates jobs and can ultimately save lives, while ensuring accountability and stewardship of taxpayer dollars," said Senator Mikulski. "The funding we put into the federal checkbook must make a down payment on these priorities."  
   Making clear that oceans and global climate change are a priority in her bill, Senator Mikulski has included $6.6 billion for the National Science Foundation (NSF) and $4.2 billion for NOAA. 
   INVESTING IN OUR OCEANS 
   In June 2006, Senator Mikulski received the Joint Ocean Commission Initiative's (JOCI) report, "From Sea to Shining Sea: Priorities for Ocean Policy Reform," which recommended robust funding for ocean research, education, observation and exploration. Senator Mikulski requested the report after organizing a bipartisan group of her Senate colleagues as part of a national initiative to increase visibility and conservation for oceans. Since its release, Senator Mikulski has fought for a federal investment to implement the recommendations, with a $700 million down payment in the 2007 CJS spending bill, which was never brought up for a vote. 
   This year's spending bill includes significant funding to implement the JOCI recommendations. Senator Mikulski secured $795 million in NOAA's budget, as well as $349 million for NSF's ocean research program, which is $18 million above the President's budget request. Senator Mikulski also made a $73 million investment in two major NSF ocean research tools - the Alaska Region Research Vessel and the Ocean Observatories Initiative. 
   "Oceans contribute $120 billion to our economy and support more than 2 million jobs. Investments to protect and understand our oceans provide enormous value to our taxpayers," said Senator Mikulski. "The JOCI report gave us a framework for future action - things we can accomplish today and tomorrow. I will continue to fight for a federal investment in these policy recommendations." 
   ADDRESSING GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE 
   Chairwoman Mikulski, who has criticized a lack of commitment from President Bush in the effort to reduce the effects of global warming, has included a $1.6 billion federal investment in research and technology development that is critical to our understanding and prediction of changes in the Earth's climate and oceans in this year's spending bill. This represents 85 percent of the federal funding for the nation's climate change science. 
   Following the recommendations in the recently released National Research Council's Decadal Survey, "Earth Science and Applications from Space: Urgent Needs and Opportunities to Serve the Nations," Senator Mikulski provided $25 million for the restoration of critical climate sensors on NOAA's weather satellites, ensuring continuity of measures for the climate research community. 
   "The world is facing a climate crisis and we have a responsibility to provide the tools and the resources our scientists need to address this issue. The Senate is ready to take action to halt global warming," said Senator Mikulski. "This is about the future of our country and our planet. Our future depends on the progress we make." 
   To coordinate these federal investments, Senator Mikulski has also included funding to support the creation of an Associate Director of Earth Science and Applications at the White House's Office of Science and Technology Policy. This position will coordinate all federal assets directed at understanding the Earth's oceans and climate. 
   A final vote on the spending bill is expected today or tomorrow. In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the spending bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 