SEN. MIKULSKI INCREASES FUNDING FOR VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PROGRAMS IN SPENDING BILL
  As we celebrate Domestic Violence Awareness Month this October, Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced the Senate has unanimously accepted her amendment to the fiscal year 2008 spending bill, which brings funding for the Department of Justice's (DOJ) Violence Against Women Office to $400 million. This funding restores a $20 million cut by President Bush, and funds programs authorized through the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA).  
    "I have absolutely no tolerance for domestic violence. That's why I strongly support legislation and grant programs that help protect women and their families from continued violence and abuse," said Senator Mikulski, an original champion of VAWA. "I will continue my fight to put funds in the federal checkbook to fund these important programs." 
   Domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking are crimes of epidemic proportions, exacting terrible costs on individual lives and our communities. Nearly 25 percent of U.S. women report that they have been physically assaulted by an intimate partner during their lifetimes, 1 in 6 have been the victims of attempted or completed rape, and the cost of intimate partner violence exceeds $5.8 billion each year. 
   Chairwoman Mikulski joined CJS Ranking Member Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) to offer an amendment during the bill's floor debate, which increased funding for the Violence Against Women Office by $10 million in addition to the $390 million she provided in the original bill. The added funding includes $4 million to engage men and youth in domestic violence prevention programs, and increased workplace resources for victims of domestic violence. Money was reallocated within the bill to offset this amendment. 
   The CJS spending bill funds multiple competitive grant programs that support: training for police officers and prosecutors, state domestic violence and sexual assault coalition grants, rape prevention programs, national domestic violence hotlines, grants for battered women's shelters, victims of child abuse grants, and funding for counselors of rape victims during trials. 
   A final vote on the spending bill is expected today or tomorrow. In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the spending bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 