SENS. MIKULSKI, CARDIN ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR KENT COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (both D-Md.) today announced the Chestertown Volunteer Fire Department has been awarded a total of $270,779 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Senator Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "First responders are our true heroes - protecting our homes, our businesses and our communities. I'm grateful for the sacrifices they make every day," said Senator Mikulski. "The federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter. That's why I will continue to fight to provide the federal support they need to get the equipment, training and resources they deserve." 
   "Firefighter grants represent a major effort by the Federal government to ensure that our nation's first responders have the equipment and training they need to do the job," said Senator Cardin. "Our firefighters are on the frontlines every day, and it is critical that they have the resources to deal with any emergency or life-threatening situation they may have to confront." 
   The Chestertown Volunteer Fire Department in Kent County will use its $270,779 to purchase new Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SBCA) units and turn out gear. This is the third award for the department. In 2003, it was awarded $50,435 to purchase new SCBA equipment, and in 2005 it received $57,000 for operations and safety equipment. For more information, call Department President William Blackiston at 410-708-6500. 
   AFGP grants fund firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, firefighter/first responder safety projects, and staffing recruitment and retention. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received approximately $50 million through the AFGP.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 