SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES APPLAUD PRESIDENT'S APPROVAL OF HOMELAND SECURITY BILL
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul Sarbanes (both D-Md.) applauded the President's final approval of the 2007 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) spending bill, which was signed into law today. The legislation includes key funding for Maryland's security and addresses several high priority items, including a major project for the Coast Guard Yard at Curtis Bay, Md., and grants for firefighters, first responders and port security. 
   "As a nation fighting a war on terrorism, we need to be safer, stronger and smarter, so that we are able to better detect, prevent and respond to acts of terrorism," said Senator Mikulski. "This legislation gets us one step closer to meeting those goals by standing up for our first responders and making sure that if terror strikes, measures are in place to protect and save lives. I will keep fighting to make sure there are resources in the federal checkbook for our homeland security."  
   "In Maryland and across the Nation, state, local and regional authorities continue to struggle to make their communities safer from potential terrorist activities," said Senator Sarbanes. "In many cases, these communities have taken exhaustive measures to identify their areas of greatest vulnerability, and have made significant advances in enhancing their own preparedness and response capabilities - at considerable cost. The federal government must step up and help our states and localities in protecting our domestic homeland and this funding measure helps local communities to meet those needs." 
   COAST GUARD YARD: 
   The Coast Guard Mission Effectiveness Project (MEP) at Curtis Bay will receive more than $45 million in federal funding through the DHS 2007 spending bill. This includes an additional $7.5 million, which was negotiated through the DHS Appropriations Conference Committee, in critical funding that had been cut in 2006. Senator Mikulski fought to restore these needed funds as a member of the Committee. Senator Mikulski and several members of the Maryland Delegation distributed a press release last week on the Coast Guard project, which is available at http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=264067. 
   The Coast Guard MEP will increase mission performance for the Coast Guard's aging fleet of Medium Endurance Cutters, extend the service life and ensure the survivability of the Yard. The bill also includes language that recognizes the Yard as a critical component of the Coast Guard's core logistics capability, which directly supports fleet readiness. 
   PORT SECURITY GRANTS: 
   The bill includes $210 million for the Port Security Grant Program - a $37 million increase over last year. These funds are granted to localities to finance security enhancements at critical national seaports. Over the years, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes have strongly advocated for increased funding for the Port of Baltimore. 
   "I've been fighting to upgrade the Port of Baltimore for more than 20 years," said Senator Mikulski. "For years, my challenge was fixing the twists and turns in our channels that were a safety risk. Today it's threats that were unthinkable years ago. Keeping our port and our people safe from terrorism is one of my top priorities." 
   "While we have funneled massive amounts of money into airport security, our ports continue to pose a threat to potential terrorist activities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These funds will help protect the Port of Baltimore and its surrounding neighborhoods as we seek to combat terror on land, sea and in the air." 
   FIREFIGHTER GRANTS: 
   The spending bill includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. This competitive program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training, equipment, staffing, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. This year, approximately 18,172 departments nationwide applied for funding, requesting more than $2.3 billion in total. This includes 67 awards to Maryland fire departments totaling $10.78 million. 
   "How can the President say he supports Homeland Security when he cut the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski. 
   URBAN SEARCH AND RESCUE: 
   The bill also includes funding for the Urban Search and Rescue Task Force (USAR) program. This year's $25 million in funding is a $5.2 million increase from last year's budget. In Maryland, the Montgomery County Task Force is a member of the program, which structures local emergency personnel into integrated disaster response task forces. These task forces, complete with the necessary equipment and specialized training and skills, are deployed by FEMA in times of catastrophic structural collapse. This team was among those who responded to the attack on the Pentagon on September 11, 2001.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 