CHAIRWOMAN MIKULSKI PRESENTS SPENDING BILL TO FUND A SAFER, SMARTER AMERICA
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today presented the 2008 CJS spending bill to the Senate. President Bush has threatened to veto this bipartisan bill, which funds the Departments of Commerce and Justice (DOJ), the National Atmospheric and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and nine related independent agencies, as he continues to spend billions of dollars every week to pay for the War in Iraq. The $54 billion bill includes $3.2 billion more than President Bush requested in his budget for critical American priorities.
   "Let me be clear - we didn't overspend; the President under funded. The CJS bill reflects bipartisan priorities to make America safer and smarter," said Senator Mikulski. "The President should not veto this bill. If necessary, I believe the Senate will stand up for our families, neighborhoods and communities by standing up against the President's veto."
   Chairwoman Mikulski has focused this year's bill on keeping Americans safe from terrorism and violent crime, investing in the science and technology that will create new American jobs, and making sure taxpayer dollars are used responsibly. 
   Senator Mikulski's floor statement, as prepared, is below:
   "I am proud to present to the United States Senate the bill to fund the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and our science agencies. I want to thank Senators Reid and McConnell for agreeing to bring up the CJS bill, and Chairman Byrd and Ranking Member Cochran for the CJS Subcommittee's robust 302(b) allocation. This is a bipartisan bill. Senator Shelby and I worked hand-in-hand. I thank him and his excellent staff for their partnership.
   "The CJS bill totals $54 billion in discretionary budget authority. Did we spend more than the President asked for? You bet we did. We are proud that our bill is $3.2 billion above the President's budget request.
   "Let's talk about how we spent the money. The subcommittee had three priorities:
   * Security - keeping 300 million Americans safe from terrorism and violent crime.
   * Innovation - investments in science and technology to create jobs that will stay in the United States.
   * Accountability - fiscal accountability and stewardship of taxpayer dollars, standing sentry against waste, fraud and abuse.
   "The subcommittee's first priority is protecting America from terrorism and violent crime. The Justice Department is almost 50 percent of the CJS bill. Funding for Justice totals almost $25 billion, $2.1 billion more than the President's request. The CJS bill funds our major federal law enforcement agencies, and our state and local cops on the beat.
   "CJS funds the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The FBI is our domestic national security agency. It has a dual mission - disrupting terrorism on US soil - tracking and taking down terror cells and dismantling dirty bombs, as well as fighting violent crime in our communities. The CJS bill provides $6.6 billon for the FBI, $150 million more than the President's budget request. This includes almost $4 billion for FBI counterterrorism. Our bill will put 230 new counterterrorism agents on the beat and give agents new tools to collect intelligence to protect Americans here at home. At the same time, the President's budget cut 100 FBI agents dedicated to fighting violent crime. This is outrageous - because for the first time in almost 15 years, violent crime has increased. Robberies are up 7 percent. Homicides are up 2 percent. Nearly every region of the country has been affected - from large cities to small communities. We've heard from our colleagues that the FBI needs more agents fighting violent crime in their communities. The CJS bill rejects the President's irresponsible cut. We provide full funding to retain 100 FBI agents that the President eliminated.
   "The CJS bill also funds the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). The DEA is an international agency - in over 60 countries, with significant local responsibilities. It's fighting a $330 billion annual drug trade in over 60 countries around the world. Drugs finance over two-thirds of all terrorist activity, including the Taliban. The DEA is in Afghanistan fighting narco-terrorism, working hand-in-hand with our military to disrupt the poppy trade that funds terrorist networks. And the DEA is in our communities, fighting the scourge of illegal drugs like heroin and meth that destroy our neighborhoods. We were horrified to learn that the DEA has a hiring freeze. The DEA can't hire new agents. This is outrageous - so we added $50 million to DEA to lift the hiring freeze so DEA can hire up 200 new agents to fight drugs at home and abroad.
   "The CJS bill funds the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), which investigates arson and stops illegal firearms trafficking. The ATF is working hand-in-hand with our military to disable the Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) that are so perilous to our troops on the battlefield. We provide robust support for our U.S. Marshals Service, keeping our Marshals on the beat to track down dangerous fugitives - including sexual predators and drug kingpins - protect federal judges and provide security at terrorist trials here in the U.S. and in Afghanistan.
   "The CJS bill is also the most important source of federal funding for the front-line men and women of our state and local police forces, working tirelessly to keep our families and neighborhoods safe. Our cops on the beat are working harder than ever to fight rising violent crime. And our state and local police are often the first to identify suspected terrorist activities in their communities. At the same time, state and local budgets are under increased stress. So we were deeply troubled by the President's draconian cuts of almost $1.5 billion from grant funds for state and local police. The CJS bill rejects these outrageous cuts. Instead we provide a total of $2.7 billion to give our cops the tools they need to fight crime, gangs, drugs, domestic violence, and crimes against children.
   "Our bill provides $660 million for Byrne formula grants. President Bush eliminated Byrne grants formula grants to states that pay for police and prosecutors, training and technology, and require a 25 percent state match. The first President Bush named these grants for Edward Byrne, a New York City police officer killed in the line of fire. If Byrne grants were good enough for Bush 41, why aren't they good enough for this President Bush?
   "We also provide $550 million for Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) grants. President Bush only asked for $32 million to terminate COPS grants. COPS is a competitive grant program that pays for police salaries and overtime, police technology, and equipment like surveillance cameras and interoperable communications equipment. The CJS bill makes sure that our cops are not walking the thin blue line drawn through green eyeshades.
   "The CJS bill provides over $300 million to prevent, investigate and prosecute despicable crimes against children. This includes:
   * $55 million for a new national initiative for grants to state and locals to locate, arrest and prosecute child sexual predators
   * $65 million to fight child abduction and exploitation and locate missing children
   * $9 million for the FBI's Innocent Images project - for agents and technology to track the deviants who use the Internet to prey on our children
   * $8 million for the U.S. Marshals to apprehend fugitive sexual predators and get them off our streets and out of our neighborhoods
   * $10 million for grants to keep kids safe from violence at school
   "Our second priority for the CJS bill is investing in America's future competitiveness. We added $1 billion above the President's request for science, education and economic development to foster job creation - for jobs that will stay in this country and to inspire and train our future scientists and engineers. We based our funding levels on the best ideas from outside experts like the National Academy of Sciences. We took the politics out of science. The CJS bill implements the framework of the recently enacted America COMPETES Act. This bipartisan legislation recommended investments in science and education to improve America's global competitiveness.
   "We provide $6.5 billion for the National Science Foundation (NSF), $125 million above the President's budget request. NSF is important because it funds 20 percent of all federally supported basic research conducted by America's colleges and universities in many fields such as math and computer science. NSF is the major source of federal support. NSF keeps the U.S. on the leading edge of discovery in areas like astronomy and geology. And NSF supports our college and universities' efforts to educate our next generation of scientists and engineers, including at our Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs).
   "We provide $860 million for the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). NIST is important because it sets standards that are critical to successful commerce, and transfers technology to American industry. Our recommendations provide $100 million to foster the development of the newest technologies, and $110 million for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), which helps U.S. manufacturers to be more competitive.
   "The bill also provides $17.5 billion for NASA, $150 million above the President's budget request. NASA is our number one innovation agency. No other agency has the ability to inspire our future scientists and engineers like NASA does. The bill keeps our commitment to human space flight. It fully funds the Space Shuttle at $4 billion and the Space Station at $2.2 billion. And we provide $3.9 billion to Ares and Orion, the next generation vehicle. The Space Shuttle will be retired in 2010. We must continue to have safe, reliable space transportation.
   "Later, I will offer an amendment with Senators Hutchison, Shelby and Landrieu to finally begin to pay the bill of returning the Space Shuttle to flight after the Columbia tragedy. To ensure that we continue to have the premier space agency in the world, NASA must have a balanced portfolio of human space flight, science and aeronautics research.
   "In the area of earth science, the bill includes $25 million above the budget request to begin to implement the recommendations of the recent Earth Science Decadal Survey, the top priorities of the scientific community, and missions we need to accomplish to help us better understand and predict the earth's environment and climate.
   "For aeronautics research, we provide $554 million. This is so critical because we must rise to the challenge of our international competitors. Aeronautics is an area that we would have liked to do more. As our bill moves to conference with the other body, we hope to be able to add funding for aeronautics.
   "A strong patent system is critical to an innovation-friendly government. We provide $1.9 billion for the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) - this is full access to all fees. We know there have been concerns that the PTO's fees have been used to pay for other priorities. Senator Shelby and I are committed to giving PTO full access to the resources it needs. Our bill will allow the PTO to hire 1,200 new patent examiners to reduce application backlogs and processing times. We are livid that it takes almost three years for the PTO to make a decision on a patent application. Through our oversight, we have required PTO to implement management reforms to reduce the backlog of applications, while ensuring quality.
   "The CJS bill also provides $420 million for the International Trade Administration (ITA) to investigate unfair trade practices and enforce our trade laws. It includes $48 million for the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to negotiate trade agreements that protect our intellectual property.
   "For the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the bill provides $4.2 billion, $400 million above the President's budget request. This includes $795 million to implement the bipartisan recommendations of the Joint Ocean Commission. Seventy percent of the Earth is covered by oceans, but only 5 percent of the oceans are explored. Our nation's economy depends on the oceans. Oceans contribute $120 billion to our economy and support over 2 million jobs. The bill also provides full funding for the National Weather Service, which is so important to saving lives and livelihoods.
   "I think my colleagues would be interested in knowing that the CJS bill funds 85 percent of all federal climate change science. That's about $1.6 billion for peer-reviewed basic research at NSF, atmospheric weather and climate research at NOAA, and NASA earth science missions studying. As we look for solutions to this crisis, the CJS bill will continue to give us sound science to inform our policy decisions.
   "The CJS bill emphasizes oversight, accountability and fiscal stewardship. Let me tell my colleagues - there's a new Sherriff in town. It's a bipartisan posse against cost overruns, ineffective management and mismanagement of taxpayer dollars. The CJS Subcommittee, through its oversight, has uncovered enormous cost overruns and schedule slippages. NOAA's satellite program was $4 billion over budget. NSF's research equipment was $25 million over budget. At the appropriate time, I will offer an amendment to prevent this mismanagement and get our agencies back to fiscal discipline.
   "Through our oversight, we also uncovered dramatic backlogs at PTO and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). And we required effective, efficient management reform. The CJS bill insists on discipline and vigorous oversight. It requires each agency to notify the committee about cost overruns greater than 10 percent, bans funding for lavish banquets, and requires that Inspectors General conduct random audits of grant funding.
   "Unfortunately, the President has threatened to veto the CJS bill. He doesn't support funding for these additional investments I've outlined. The CJS bill reflects bipartisan priorities to make America safer and smarter. I think these investments in fighting terrorism and violent crime, and educating our future scientists and engineers, are wise uses of taxpayer dollars.
   "Let me be clear - we didn't overspend; the President under funded. It's not lavish to lift the DEA hiring freeze so we starve terrorists of their financing, or to give our men and women in blue the tools they need to keep us safe.
   "The President should not veto this bill. Instead, together we should veto funding for the Taliban and jobs moving overseas. I believe that, if necessary, the Senate will stand up for our families, neighborhoods and communities by standing up against the President's veto. Let's veto jobs going overseas; let's veto the Taliban.
   "Again, I want to thank Senator Shelby and his staff for their cooperation and collegiality. This is a fair and balanced bill, and I urge my colleagues to support it."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 