SEN. MIKULSKI AMENDMENT ENFORCES ACCOUNTABILITY AT DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced the Senate has unanimously accepted her amendment to the 2008 spending bill to address questions raised from a September 2007 Department of Justice (DOJ) Inspector General report that the agency may be misusing federal taxpayer funds for lavish conferences and events. A final vote on the bill is expected today or tomorrow.  
   "This report raises serious concerns about how the Department of Justice is prioritizing the use of taxpayer dollars. This kind of excess will not be tolerated," said Senator Mikulski. "As Chairwoman of CJS, it is my responsibility to act as a good steward of tax payer dollars. I will continue to fight for legislation that insists on discipline and vigorous oversight in the Justice Department." 
   The amendment, co-sponsored by CJS Ranking Member Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) requires DOJ to notify the Inspector General of any conference exceeding $20,000 and that DOJ demonstrates what steps are being taken to implement the Inspector General's recommendations. 
   Among its findings, the Inspector General reported that the DOJ spent a total of $81 million on conferences from October 2004-September 2006. Staff at the DOJ also did not have an internal system to account for money spent on conferences and events. 
   The 2008 CJS spending bill emphasizes congressional oversight, accountability and fiscal stewardship. Insisting on discipline and vigorous oversight, the bill requires agencies to notify the Committee immediately after learning of program cost overruns greater than 10 percent. The Committee will work with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to begin biannual reports of programs and projects greater than $100 million as an early warning system to identify cost overruns and mismanagement. The bill also requires that Inspectors General conduct random audits of grant funding. 
   "There's a new Sherriff in town," said Senator Mikulski. "It's a bipartisan posse against cost overruns, ineffective management and the mismanagement of taxpayer dollars."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 