SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO REPAIR DETERIORATING PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDINGS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined Senators Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-N.Y.) and Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) in support of the Public School Repair and Renovation Act (S.1942). The bill would improve the quality of the nation's public school buildings, including $1.6 billion in grants to repair crumbling schools. This is part of Senator Mikulski's ongoing effort to increase the federal government's investment in and responsibility to public school districts to dramatically ease pressure on local and state government budgets. This is particularly important in Maryland communities preparing to implement the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2005 recommendations, which will include an estimated increase of 4,000 students. 
   "We as a nation must do all we can to make sure no child is left out or left behind. We must create a safe environment for young students to succeed," said Senator Mikulski. "Throughout my career, I have fought to ensure children have the resources they need. I will continue to fight for our public schools in Maryland and around the nation."
   The $1.6 billion will be used to repair buildings in high-need and rural school districts, with the grant program managed through the U.S. Department of Education. The bill also includes funding for states for planning and research to better implement school renovations, and requires a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on school facility spending and the first estimate since 1995 on the cost of bringing all schools to good overall condition.
   Public school facilities nationwide were given a "D" grade on the 2005 American Society of Civil Engineers Report Card, and in 1998 the U.S. Department of Education said the average age of public school buildings was 42 years old. Despite a recent influx in local spending for school facilities, the bulk of that spending is occurring in more affluent districts and local spending increases do not reach children living in predominantly poor, minority districts, according to a recent report by the Building Educational Success Together coalition.
   "As a United States Senator, it is my job to speak up for those who might not otherwise have a voice. And one of the most important groups I can speak up for is our children," continued Senator Mikulski. "Our students, our teachers, and our communities deserve improved public school facilities."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 