SEN. MIKULSKI WINS BBQ BET, SEN. DOLE DELIVERS FOLLOWING DRAMATIC TERP WIN OVER DUKE
  In a sea of red and black University of Maryland Terrapins signs and fanfare, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) feasted on North Carolina barbeque today, which Sen. Elizabeth Dole (R-N.C.) personally delivered to Mikulski's D.C. office. The meal was payoff for the double or nothing wager the Senators placed on last night's Women's NCAA Championship game, where the University of Maryland Terrapins dramatically defeated the Duke University Blue Devils in overtime. 
   "I am so proud of the young women of this championship basketball team, who last night showed Duke and the country why to 'fear the turtle.' They are champion student athletes and proved their maturity and grace under pressure," said Senator Mikulski. "I thank the players and coaches for the excitement of such a wonderful season and I am really looking forward to next season when we defend our National Championship title!"  
   Senator Mikulski initially bet her Maryland crab cakes against Senator Dole's North Carolina barbeque on the outcome of last Sunday's Terps-University of North Carolina Tar Heels Final Four game. But Senator Mikulski raised the stakes to double or nothing when Maryland proved victorious the first time and went on to face the Duke Blue Devils for the NCAA Championship. 
   PHOTOGRAPHS FROM TODAY'S EVENT ARE AVAILABLE AT: http://www.mikulski.senate.gov/barbeque.htm.
  Senator Mikulski also introduced a Senate Resolution today in honor of the Maryland women's team. 
   The Senate Resolution is below: 
   "A Resolution commending the University of Maryland women's basketball team for winning the 2006 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I National Basketball Championship: 
   "Whereas the University of Maryland women's basketball team has worked vigorously, dynamically, and very enthusiastically to reach a championship level and, 
   "Whereas the students, alumni, faculty, and fans of the Terrapins are to be congratulated for their commitment to the University of Maryland Terrapins National Champion women's basketball team and, 
   "Whereas the student athletes, led by Crystal Langhorne and her teammates, Kristi Toliver, Freshman of the Year Marissa Coleman, Shay Doron, Laura Harper, Kalika France, Christie Marrone, Ashleigh Newman, Aurelie Noirez, Jade Perry, Angel Ross, Charmaine Carr, and Sa'de Wiley-Gatewood participated in this National Championship season and, 
   "Whereas Head Coach Brenda Frese has recruited and taught the top talent in the country to be student athletes at the University of Maryland and has been assisted by coaches Jeff Walz, Erica Floyd, Joanna Bernabei and Director of Basketball Operations, Mark Pearson, to imbue in these young women the values of teamwork, perseverance and competitiveness and, 
   "Whereas the Terps were able to defeat their two greatest foes en route to a first National Championship in women's basketball and, 
   "Whereas the championship game was won in overtime after overcoming a deficit of 13 points with only 15 minutes remaining in regulation and, 
   "Whereas the grit, heart, and maturity of the 2006 University of Maryland Terrapins women's basketball team will be the standard-bearer for years to come in this game of Women's College Basketball: Now, therefore, be it 
   "Resolved, That the Senate - 
   (1) congratulates the University of Maryland Terrapins women's college basketball team for winning the 2006 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I, National Championship; 
   (2) recognizes the breathtaking achievements of Head Coach Brenda Frese, her assistant coaches, and the all of the outstanding players; and 
   (3) directs the Secretary of the Senate to transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to Brenda Frese, Head Coach of the National Champion University of Maryland Terrapins and a copy to the University of Maryland College Park President, Dr. Dan Mote."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 