SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR CHERTOFF TO APOLOGIZE, SUPPORT EFFORTS TO IMPROVE BUREAUCRACY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) gave Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff a letter today demanding immediate action to improve the bureaucratic incompetence that led to the death of Army Spc. Kendell Frederick, 21, who was killed in the process of trying to become a U.S. citizen while in Iraq.  
   Spc. Frederick, a citizen of Trinidad, tried for more than a year to become a U.S. citizen and his application was delayed several times due to miscommunication and misinformation from the U.S. government. He was killed by a roadside bomb as he traveled in a convoy to a base to get fingerprinted. 
   Senator Mikulski and Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) will hold a press conference with Spc. Kendell's mother tomorrow afternoon to announce they will introduce legislation to ease many of the burdens that plagued Spc. Frederick and his family. The legislation is named The Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act. 
   The text of the letter follows: 
   December 5, 2005 
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff 
  Secretary, Department of Homeland Security 
  Washington, DC 20393 
   Dear Secretary Chertoff, 
   I want to bring to your attention a tragic example of bureaucratic incompetence by the Center for Immigration Services that led to the death of a US soldier in Iraq. I am sure you will be as shocked and as outraged as I am. 
   On October 19, 2005, Army Specialist Kendell Frederick was killed by a roadside bomb in Iraq. He was en route to have his fingerprints taken to become an American citizen. A trip he did not have to take - had the immigration service done its job. 
   This bungling included: 
   * CIS did not send Kendell Frederick's application to the military processing unit. 
   * CIS returned his application because he did not include a fee. Yet military personnel do not have to pay a fee. 
   * CIS did not accept his original fingerprints and told him to show up at an office in Maryland - even though he was serving in Bagdad. They were dismissive of his mother's plea. 
   Because of this incompetence and indifference, Kendell Frederick's fingerprints became outdated and he was forced to travel to another military base in Iraq. This is when he was killed. It didn't need to happen. 
   I ask you to immediately: 
   * Apologize to Kendell Frederick's mother, Mrs. Michelle Murphy 
   * Begin the reform of the citizenship process for soldiers. That means: 
   - Clearing the backlog of 3,000 cases 
   - Providing real customer service to our military, including an 800 number only for them and their families, and an improved and accurate application 
   * Support my legislation, the Kendell Frederick Citizenship Assistance Act, which will correct the systemic problems of the immigration process for the military. 
   I ask for your immediate and personal actions to insure that what happened to Kendell Frederick will not happen to any other service member serving the United States of America. Please report monthly to me and to the Senate Judiciary Committee on the steps you are taking to improve the process. I ask you to assign someone to work on this matter who will be in regular contact with the Congress. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski 
  United States Senator 
   REMINDER: 
   Press conference to announce legislation easing the burden on non-U.S. citizens serving in the military attempting to become U.S. citizens. 
   WHEN: Tuesday, December 6, 2005, at 1:00 p.m. 
   WHERE: Union Bethel AME Church 
  8615 Church Lane 
  Randallstown, MD 21133
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 