SEN. MIKULSKI CONDEMNS PRESIDENT'S BUDGET CUTS TO MARYLAND PRIORITIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, criticized dramatic cuts in President Bush's proposed 2008 budget of essential funding for Maryland's priorities for education, veterans' health care, and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) consolidation at White Oak, Md. 
   VETERANS:  
   The President's budget proposes underfunding health care for Maryland's 481,000 veterans, and increasing enrollment fees and co-pays for some veterans: 
   * President Bush's budget taxes veterans by forcing them to bear the burden of increased health care costs by proposing income-based enrollment fees and higher prescription co-pays. Congress has rejected these proposals in the past three years. 
   * The Bush Administration requested an increase that is less than half the amount of what the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) says is the minimum annual increase necessary to meet the cost of medical inflation and increasing demand. President Bush requested $36.6 billion for veterans' health, which includes these higher enrollment fees and prescription prices for veterans. This comes several million dollars below what the VA has said the Veterans Health Administration needs. 
   "President Bush's budget sets aside critical needs for our veterans. Promises made to America's veterans must be promises kept. We should do this by giving them the same quality service they gave us, and by providing them with the care they deserve," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight for our true American heroes." 
   EDUCATION: 
   The President proposes eliminating 44 education programs and includes cuts to the following programs in Maryland: 
   * A $3.5 million cut for Maryland Education Technology State Grants, which provide grants for technology in schools. This shortfall leaves Maryland schools unable to afford as many computers and unable to update their technology. These grants were cut by $272 million nationwide. 
   * A $1.2 million cut for the Even Start Literacy Program in Maryland, which helps children and illiterate parents of impoverished families learn to read. The President cut a total of $99 million from the program across the country. 
   "We must do all we can to make sure no child is left out or left behind. We must create a safe environment for young students to succeed," said Senator Mikulski, who also serves on the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. "The President's budget ignores the impact these grants have on our schools in Maryland. That's why I will continue to fight for these resources for public schools that families and students can depend on." 
   With tuition at the University of Maryland up 39 percent over the course of four years, student aid is more important now than ever. But the President's budget includes more cuts to student aid, making higher education even less affordable for students and families. The budget again freezes funds for key college programs like work study and zeroes out Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG). In 2006, Maryland received $14.7 million in federal college work study funds and $11.1 million in SEOG grants. 
   "College is part of the American dream, it shouldn't be part of the American financial nightmare," said Senator Mikulski. "How does the President expect our young people to succeed when the cost of higher education continues to rise without an increase in federal aid?" 
   FDA CONSOLIDATION AT WHITE OAK: 
   President Bush's drastic cuts to funding for the FDA's consolidation of its office at White Oak, Md., could cause a delay of as long as three years and seriously impact the FDA's mission of protecting America's food and drug supply. 
   The President requested about one third of the funding for the consolidation of the FDA at White Oak, the 130-acre site of the former White Oak Naval Surface Warfare Center in Montgomery County, as he did last year. At $57.7 million for fiscal year 2008, this request is $120.8 million less than last year's request of $178.5 million. The FDA has been trying to consolidate offices for nearly 20 years, and Senator Mikulski has worked vigorously in the Senate and the community to consolidate the FDA facilities, beginning in 1990. 
   "This project has been a top priority for the community and a top priority for me because it means economic development for Montgomery and Prince George's Counties, and jobs for the people of Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding is crucial for the timely development of the FDA's world-class facility. I will continue to fight to make sure that the FDA consolidation receives the funds they need." 
   As a senior member of the Senate Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski fought for the $178.5 million in federal funds in the 2007 TTHUD spending bill, which the 109th Congress failed to bring up for a vote.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 