SEN. MIKULSKI: PRESIDENT'S BUDGET DRASTICALLY CUTS NURSING PROGRAMS DESPITE NATIONAL SHORTAGE
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, today criticized President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget request, which cuts nursing workforce programs by 30 percent and eliminates the Advanced Education Nursing program, while the nation continues to face an ongoing shortage of nurses.  
   "President Bush continues to spend billions of dollars every week to pay for the War in Iraq, while at the same time cutting funding to support the everyday needs of Americans here at home. How can President Bush ask so much while providing so little? The President is out of touch with the needs of Americans," said Senator Mikulski. "Our nation is facing an ongoing shortage of nurses, and it is only getting worse. The shortage affects every state, every city, every town - and it affects our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. I will continue to fight for nurses, who are so critical to our health care system." 
   President Bush cuts nursing workforce programs from $157 million in 2008 to $110 million in his fiscal year 2009 budget proposal. The cut comes despite the fact that registered nursing will have the second greatest job growth of all U.S. professions from 2004-2014. 
   The President also eliminated the $62 million Advanced Education Nursing program, which prepared approximately 12,000 nurses a year to become nurse faculty and nurse specialists who often serve in low-income and rural areas where physician shortages are acute. 
   The shortage of nurses nationwide and in all health care settings was first noted in 1998. In response, Senator Mikulski introduced the Nurse Reinvestment Act of 2002, which expanded existing programs and created new ones in Title VIII of the Public Health Service Act that offer financial assistance for nursing education and training in order to encourage men and women to enter the nursing field. Senator Mikulski has been a consistent advocate for nursing throughout her 30 years in Congress, and has worked to increase scholarships and access to programs to address the nation's growing shortage.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 