SEN. MIKULSKI: PRESIDENT BUSH'S BUDGET LEAVES MARYLAND'S HOMELAND SECURITY ASSETS BEHIND
  In response to cutbacks in President Bush's proposed 2008 budget, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, today criticized the lack of essential funding for Maryland's homeland security priorities. Sen. Mikulski cited a lack of funding for Maryland's ports, rails and transit systems, and severe cuts to America's firefighters. 
   "This year's budget fails to acknowledge the role that the National Capital Region, and Maryland, plays in protecting our nation from future attacks," said Senator Mikulski. "The President talks about homeland security, but where is the funding so that we can do our part?"  
   Despite signing into law the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act of 2006, which authorized port security grants at $400 million annually for five years to provide vital tools for our national security, military capability and economy, President Bush only requested $210 million - providing no additional funding. The budget also provided no increase for rail and transit security grants, funded at $175 million. 
   "The President's request is spartan and skimpy. How can he talk about homeland security when he has short-changed our ports, rails and transit systems?" said Senator Mikulski. "Ports are now a high-threat target for terrorism. We need to make sure the Port of Baltimore and all ports across America are safe, secure and growing. Our economy depends on moving goods via our ports and rail." 
   Approximately 11 million containers come into the United States each year, including 19,000 containers daily. The Port of Baltimore, which is the 14th largest port for foreign cargo, currently has to compete with 16 other ports for a share of a tiny $40.2 million pot. The Port of Baltimore, which just celebrated its 300th anniversary, is an economic engine for Maryland and America, supporting more than 42,000 maritime-related jobs in Maryland and almost 20,000 direct jobs. 
   The President's budget cuts federal support for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) nearly in half, requesting only $287 million - a $245.7 million cut from last year. In addition, the President's budget eliminates funding for firefighter staffing (SAFER) grants for the second year in a row, despite funding them at $105.8 million in fiscal year 2006. 
   Senator Mikulski has long been a champion of federal fire grants, and fights every year for an increase. This competitive grant opportunity for local fire departments funds activities such as purchasing firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles, and firefighter/first responder safety projects. 
   "The President's budget continues to leave our first responders behind. The federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools they need to do their job safer and smarter," said Senator Mikulski. "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. If you are willing to put your life on the line every day, you should never feel short-changed by your government. I will continue to fight this year for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders." 
   Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received nearly $43.7 million through the AFGP.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 