SEN. MIKULSKI INNOVATION TOUR FOCUSES ON TRAINING OF MILITARY MEDICAL PERSONNEL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) made the seventh stop on her military innovation tour today to announce she has secured more than $3.3 million in federal funding for programs and services at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS). USUHS is the only medical school in the country specifically focused on the unique medical challenges faced by military medical personnel with training and research driven by the needs of the military. 
   "It is so important to highlight the unique work being done at USUHS because they demonstrate every day that a stronger America begins at home," said Senator Mikulski. "USUHS is providing cutting edge medical research with unique training for military doctors and nurses, and programs to bring together military and civilian first-responders to protect our troops on the battlefield and save lives here at home."
   Today's announcement includes $1 million to support the USUHS Centers and Activities in Response to Weapons of Mass Destruction Incidents to coordinate and manage a distance learning program for uniformed and civilian medical students and first responders. These programs help in preparing for and responding to chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear or high-explosive events.
   Senator Mikulski also announced she has fought for $2.3 million to support the new Doctoral and Clinical Nurse Specialist programs at the USUHS Graduate School of Nursing. These newly designed programs will provide specialized training for advanced practice nurses and nurse scientists to meet unique military medical challenges. Senator Mikulski has worked since 2003 to secure nearly $5 million for this project.
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski fought for this funding as part of the 2006 Defense spending bill, signed into law by President Bush on December 30, 2005.
   On her multi-city innovation tour of Maryland, Senator Mikulski is visiting several military facilities as she addresses the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for the state and innovative technology that will protect our troops.
   "My innovation tour is about identifying the work being done in Maryland to support a safer, stronger, smarter American military. Together we are developing the tools to protect America and Maryland. I will continue to fight to make sure we are making the right investments to develop the new ideas that will protect us."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 