SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS NEW HURRICANE PREDICTION TECHNOLOGY AT NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE IN MARYLAND
  Following the launch of hurricane season, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today visited the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) National Weather Service Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) in Prince George's County for a demonstration of the new hurricane prediction technology in development.  
   "We have a tremendous national asset right here in Maryland. Camp Springs is part of our innovation society - it's the brain center of the Weather Service, where new technologies are developed and tested to improve forecasting in the future," said Senator Mikulski. "The nation depends on Maryland to help local weather forecasters get it right so our families and communities can secure their property and get out of harm's way." 
   The NCEP develops and operates models for forecasters to predict where hurricanes will make landfall, how intense hurricanes will be, and how much flooding hurricanes will cause. The NCEP's models are used by the National Hurricane Center in Miami, Fla., for hurricane tracking and prediction. Senator Mikulski saw a demonstration of a new model that is expected to improve hurricane landfall prediction accuracy by 20 percent and intensity accuracy by 30 percent. 
   As the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee that funds NOAA, Senator Mikulski fights each year to put money in the federal checkbook for hurricane forecast and warnings. Last year's spending bill includes $50 million for the Weather Service's work at Camp Springs, including developing and testing models, and $20 million for the supercomputers used to run the models. 
   "Without the experts here at Camp Springs, the Hurricane Center could not do its job. That's why I'm fighting in the U.S. Senate to make sure NOAA is a priority in the federal checkbook," Senator Mikulski continued. "I'm so proud of NOAA's Weather Service in Maryland - it is critical to saving people, their homes and their property. The better we predict, the better we protect."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 