ON SENATE FLOOR: SEN. MIKULSKI CONTINUES FIGHT TO LABEL FOOD FROM CLONED ANIMALS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) went to the Senate floor today to introduce her amendment to the Consumer Product Safety Commission bill (S. 2663), requiring labels on all food from cloned animals or their progeny. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently endorsed cloned food for U.S. shelves.
   "The FDA used to be the gold standard, but we've heard 'it is safe' for too long. We were told asbestos was safe. We were told DDT was safe. We were told Vioxx was safe," said Senator Mikulski. "Labeling does three things - gives consumers the right to know, allows scientists to monitor it, and protects our export markets. I can't stop cloned foods from being approved by the FDA, but I want the public to be informed of what they are eating and drinking." 
   Senator Mikulski's legislation will require the FDA and the Department of Agriculture to mandate that all food from cloned animals be labeled: "THIS PRODUCT IS FROM A CLONED ANIMAL OR ITS PROGENY." This would apply to all food - from wholesale and retail, to restaurants, school lunches and Meals on Wheels. Senator Mikulski introduced this measure in January 2007, as the Cloned Food Labeling Act (S. 414), and in November 2007, as an amendment to the Senate version of the Farm Bill (H.R. 2419), but neither has been brought up for a vote.
   On January 15, 2008, the FDA issued their endorsement of the use of meat, milk and other food from cloned animals for the food supply despite congressional directives to the contrary, objections from the American public, and the recent comments by the FDA's own Science Advisory Board that said the agency lacks expertise in risk benefit assessments, cannot adequately monitor the development of food products, and has been unable to keep up with scientific advances. Senator Mikulski had spent months urging the FDA to delay any major decision on cloned food without greater intellectual rigor and more time to review the impact of bringing cloned food into the nation's food supply. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=290888.
   To hear and/or broadcast a radio actuality of Senator Mikulski's floor speech, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 2182 or go to: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski080305.mp3 to download a high quality mp3. Senator Mikulski's floor statement will be available via satellite TODAY:
   Satellite Coordinates
   4:40 - 4:45 p.m. EST
   AMC 1, Transponder: 23
   Downlink Frequency: 4160 Mhz, Audio Frequencies: 6.2 & 6.8
   C-Band / Analog Satellite
   Satellite Trouble Number: 202-224-1278
   Senator Mikulski's statement, as prepared, is below:
   "I rise today to introduce an amendment to require the labeling of any food that comes from a cloned animal or its progeny.
   "The FDA announced that meat and milk from cloned animals are safe for human consumption, even though most Americans actively oppose cloning and many scientists say we should monitor it. Consumers have the right to know what they are eating and the right to decide whether to eat it. The American people don't want cloned food; they find it repugnant.
   "Gallop found that over 60 percent of Americans think it is immoral to clone animals. Pew found that a similar percentage said they would not buy cloned milk. Yet, the FDA wants to allow cloned food into the market unidentified, unlabeled and unbeknownst to us. I find it unacceptable.
   "Here we have a picture of Dolly - the first cloned animal. Hello Dolly - you have been approved for our food supply. Welcome to the world of the Dolly burger, the Dolly milkshake. I say this decision is baaa, baaa, baaa.
   "My amendment requires the government to label food that comes from a cloned animal or its progeny. These labels would be at the wholesale level, retail level, restaurant level, school lunch level, and Meals on Wheels level.
   "The Consumer Product Safety bill is about protecting the consumer, giving them peace of mind that the products they buy are safe, that the toys they give their children are not filled with lead, that their strollers won't collapse, and that their appliances won't self-destruct. This bill is based on the rights of consumers to be protected, to make their own informed decisions, and to have recourse if something goes wrong. My amendment is based on the same principles - the consumer should have the right to know.
   "In January, the FDA said it was safe for cloned foods to enter our food supply. What factors influenced this decision? Are they allowing an eager industry to force questionable science on an unknowing public? I'm not so sure. The FDA used to be the gold standard, but we've heard 'it is safe' for too long. We were told asbestos was safe. Do you want asbestos in your home? We were told DDT was safe. Do you want to be sprayed with DDT? We were told thalidomide was safe - no pregnant woman would take it today. We were told Vioxx was safe. Would anyone with a heart condition or high cholesterol want to take it?
   "The FDA made their decision despite two congressional directives. First, last year's omnibus spending bill encouraged the FDA to hold off on a cloning decision before additional studies were completed. Second, the Senate Farm bill requires the National Academy to peer review FDA's decision before the FDA made any final decision. The FDA has also ignored Congress and the American people. Where was the urgency? We are not facing a global shortage of beef. We don't know the long-term effect of cloned animals in our food supply, yet they're saying it's ok to put on our store shelves.
   "Labeling does three things - gives consumers the right to know, allows scientists to monitor it, and protects our export markets. My amendment allows the American public to make an informed decision. People should have a right to choose what they want to eat. My amendment allows consumer choice. American consumers find cloned food disturbing and repulsive. Seventy-nine percent of Americans have said that despite FDA approval, they still don't want to buy cloned milk and have a 'yuck' reaction to this technology. Eighty-nine percent of consumers think cloned food should be labeled. The public has a right to know where their food is coming from. They will have no way to tell if food comes from a cloned animal.
   "I can't stop cloned foods from being approved by the FDA, but I want the public to be informed of what they are eating and drinking. I'm for consumer choice. If most Americans do not want cloned milk and me, they should not be required to eat it. Just because scientists have the ability to make something, consumers should not be required to eat it.
   "If America doesn't keep track of this from the very beginning with clear and dependable labeling, our entire food supply could be contaminated. If cloned food enters our food supply, it should be labeled and monitored.
   "The National Academy of Sciences suggested we monitor this new technology. They caution the federal government and urge diligent post-market surveillance. You can't do post-market surveillance if the food is not labeled. How do you know where the cloned food is? If we discover a problem with cloned food after it is in our food supply and it's not labeled, the FDA cannot recall it like they did with Vioxx, Avandia and Vytorin.
   "Our European trading partners have grave concerns about cloned foods. The European Group on Ethics and Science and New Technologies (EGE) within the EU said there is no ethical justification to use clones in the food supply, called for more scientific study, and said if cloned foods are allowed in food supply, they should be labeled. These are flashing yellow lights. Denmark and Norway have already banned cloned food. I worry if our food is not labeled, more of our exports will be banned. My state depends on the export of food - whether it is seafood, chicken or other products. We need to be able to export our food. If it is labeled, we will be able to do that.
   "When we see Dolly in this photograph, I have to wonder what it accomplishes. We don't have a shortage of food in our country. We don't have a shortage of milk. For those people who want to produce Dolly, we can't stop it, but we should stop the effort to put cloned food into our food supply without labeling and without informed consent. Just because scientists have the ability to make something, consumers should not be required to eat it. I urge my colleagues to support my amendment to label cloned foods."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 