SEN. MIKULSKI, COLLEAGUES DEMAND ANSWERS FROM DELPHI ON BANKRUPTCY'S AFFECT ON WORKERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today joined a group of her colleagues led by Sens. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) in calling on the bankrupt Delphi Corporation to be forthcoming with the information employees need regarding its proposed wage, benefit and personnel cuts. 
   "Delphi has an obligation to provide this information to the workers and retirees who have given years of hard work. These people have relied on Delphi, and they need answers to their concerns," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight to make sure workers are treated with the respect they deserve."  
   Delphi Corporation's bankruptcy has devastated many communities - leaving workers, retirees and communities with unanswered questions about their future. Senator Mikulski and her colleagues are urging the head of Delphi to give concerned parties the information they need to assess the company's proposal. 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   Mr. Steve Miller 
  Chairman and CEO 
  Delphi Corporation 
  World and North American Headquarters 
  5725 Delphi Drive 
  Troy, Michigan 48098-2815 
   Dear Mr. Miller: 
   Delphi Corporation's recent proposals to impose significant wage and benefit reductions on workers and to close most of its facilities in the United States threaten to have a devastating impact on tens of thousands of Delphi workers and retirees and their families, on the communities in which Delphi facilities are located, and on our entire nation. 
   Although Delphi Corporation has released some information concerning its current financial difficulties, the company has not yet provided the public with current financial information explaining why the proposed wage and benefit cuts for workers and retirees are necessary, or to why the various facilities need to be closed. Surely the company has an obligation to provide such information to its workers and retirees and their representatives, as well as to the many communities across our nation that are directly impacted. 
   The undersigned Members of Congress want to work with Delphi Corporation to help it restructure and return to profitability. As Members of Congress, many of whom represent communities which may be affected by your proposals or serve on Committees with jurisdiction over workforce issues, we are deeply concerned about whether the proposed wage and benefit cuts and facility closings are truly necessary, and whether they are limited to changes required to allow Delphi Corporation to survive and eventually return to profitability. In addition, we are concerned that any changes that may be necessary should be implemented in a gradual, humane manner, so as to give workers, retirees and communities the longest possible time to adjust. As has been widely reported in the press, the turmoil at Delphi could spill over into other companies, affecting a wider swath of the American automobile industry and even larger numbers of workers and communities than at present. It should be the goal of all parties, including the Congress, to stem such an economic crisis. 
   If an alternative to these proposals for wage, benefit, and job cuts can be crafted, it should be sought vigorously by all parties involved. For such efforts to be successful, Delphi should work openly with all stakeholders and provide those stakeholders with necessary and relevant information. 
   For these reasons, we call on Delphi Corporation to move promptly to provide the public with detailed financial information concerning its proposed wage and benefit cuts and facility closings, explaining why, in the company's opinion, these changes are required and the minimum needed to assure Delphi's survival. In addition, this information should explain how the proposed changes are being implemented so as to minimize the impact. The company should make this information readily available to the public, including your employees and their unions, your retirees, and the communities where Delphi plants are located. 
   We look forward to hearing from you in the near future.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 