DEMOCRATIC RADIO ADDRESS: SEN. MIKULSKI URGES BUSH, REPUBLICANS TO LEARN LESSONS, START FRESH
  Amid weeks of scandal for Washington Republicans, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) delivered the weekly Democratic Radio Address Saturday morning. Sen. Mikulski challenged President Bush and members of his party to come clean on the White House indictments and war in Iraq, and to join Democrats in addressing America's needs.  
   The text of the address is below: 
   "Good Morning. I'm United States Senator Barbara Mikulski. 
   "It's November. Fall has arrived. In my own home state of Maryland, the nights are colder and snow has fallen in Western parts of the state. For many Americans, fall is the time when leaves change colors. But this fall, the leaves aren't the only thing changing. Embarrassed by scandal, Washington Republicans are turning red. 
   "As you know, the last few weeks have been remarkable. A White House aide has been indicted for the first time in 130 years. The Republican leader of the House has been indicted, and the Republican leader of the Senate is under investigation as well. 
   "Meanwhile, Americans like you are wrestling with very serious issues. Energy prices have shot through the roof. We're still at war in Iraq. Our budget deficits are out of control, and we still have neighbors along the Gulf Coast who need help picking up the pieces after those terrible Hurricanes. 
   "I can't remember a situation like this since the Watergate scandal brought down the Nixon Administration. 
   "Given all that's happened, Democrats believe it's time for everyone in Washington to get their act together and focus on your needs. We understand that when elected officials work together, America can do better. 
   "That's why Democrats asked Republicans to help families cope with rising energy prices. 
   "We Democrats pushed to do more to protect your families from threats like Avian Flu. 
   "And it's why Democrats resorted to an extraordinary measure this week to force the Senate to do its job and investigate the President's mishandling of intelligence in the run-up to war in Iraq. 
   "This morning, I want you to know that Democrats are committed to addressing the priorities of working families. We want to work together, and we have real plans to help. 
   "Unfortunately, Republicans continue to block our efforts. Instead of reaching across the aisle to help every American, they've decided to cater to the narrow interests of a special few. 
   "We've seen it in their energy policy. 
   "We've seen it in their budget. 
   "And just this week, we saw it in the President's nomination of Judge Sam Alito to the United States Supreme Court. 
   "I was so disappointed that President Bush didn't nominate a woman to replace Sandra Day O'Connor. I cannot believe the President searched the country and was unable to find a qualified female nominee. More likely, he was unable to find a qualified female nominee who satisfied that far right wing of the Republican Party. 
   "Remember that Judge Alito was not the President's first choice for this seat. President Bush had nominated Harriet Miers. But a vicious campaign by the Republican Party's right-wing forced her to withdraw. Interestingly enough, this same crowd of radicals now thinks Sam Alito is their kind of guy. 
   "We Americans can do better. 
   "Whether it's choosing a Supreme Court nominee or handling intelligence in the run up to war, or the cost of home heating oil - the political ambitions of a few should never come ahead of doing what's right. 
   "In the days to come, President Bush has the opportunity to show us all that he understands this lesson. 
   "It's been one week since the Vice President's Chief of Staff was indicted, and there are still very serious questions about how his White House misused and manufactured intelligence to sell and defend the war in Iraq. The President and Vice President should come clean about this matter. President Bush should honor his pledge to fire all those involved. 
   "After weeks of scandal and misplaced priorities, it's time for a fresh start. 
   "We Democrat stand ready to come together and get down to work. 
   "I hope Republicans will finally join us. 
   "You deserve nothing less. 
   "I'm Maryland Senator Barbara Mikulski. Thanks for listening."
   To download a high-quality mp3 of Senator Mikulski's radio address, visit: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski_radio_address051105.mp3
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 