SEN. MIKULSKI PAYS TRIBUTE TO CAREGIVERS, URGES CONGRESS TO PASS ALZHEIMER'S BILL THAT WOULD PROVIDE RELIEF TO FAMILIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today paid tribute to caregivers, particularly those caring for a loved one with Alzheimer's, at a Capitol Hill press conference hosted by the Alzheimer's Association and Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY). The Alzheimer's Association held the press conference, which was also attended by Sens. Charles Grassley (R-IA) and Kit Bond (R-MO), to unveil a new report showing the toll that Alzheimer's disease takes on family caregivers.  
   The group also urged Congress to take up and pass the Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2004 (S. 2533), legislation introduced by Senators Mikulski and Kit Bond (R-MO) earlier this year that would double the funding for Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health. It would also provide critical support for caregivers and launch a public education campaign to get the word out on the latest advances in research and prevention. The legislation, which has 62 cosponsors, is currently pending in the Senate Finance Committee. 
   "This new study by the Alzheimer's Association shows the toll of the disease on caregivers," said Senator Mikulski. "They are providing constant care for their loved ones and feeling stressed and strained. Caregivers work around the clock. That's why I am fighting around the clock, not just for one piece of legislation and not just this year - but every year." 
   Key provisions of The Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2004 include: 
   * Provides Critical Support to Caregivers 
   The legislation helps family caregivers pay for the costs of caring for loved one with Alzheimer's by providing a tax credit of up to $3,000 to help pay for caregiving costs like prescription drugs, home health care, and specialized day care. 
   This legislation also works to increase the availability of services such as respite care, home health care, counseling and training. The bill proposes doubling funds for two existing initiatives - the National Caregiver Support Program (from $125 million to $250 million) and the Alzheimer's Demonstration Grant Program (from $12 million to $25 million). 
   The bill also increases access to respite care services for caregivers by providing grants to states, nonprofit organizations and others to inform the public about respite care, increase respite care services, and train respite care workers/volunteers. 
   * Strengthens Federal Government's Commitment to Alzheimer's Disease Research 
   By doubling the funding for Alzheimer's Disease research at the National Institutes of Health (from $700 million to $1.4 billion), researchers will have the resources they need to make the breakthroughs that are on the horizon. For example, more funding would mean more clinical trials to test new ideas to prevent Alzheimer's and the best therapies to treat the disease and slow the onset of symptoms. 
   * Educates Public with "News You Can Use" 
   This legislation would launch a "News You Can Use" education campaign to get the word out about advances in research. While scientists are working for a cure, this public education campaign will help families and doctors find out the latest information on how to help prevent Alzheimer's disease and how to slow the onset of symptoms. 
   Senator Mikulski has a long history of fighting for family caregivers. In 2000, she worked to create the National Family Caregiver Support Program as part of the Older Americans Act and secured $125 million in initial funding for the program. The National Family Caregiver Support Program offers counseling and training, respite care, and information and referral services to millions of Americans caring for a family member or friend with a debilitating disease that requires care and assistance. Sen. Mikulski is fighting to increase funding for this program to $250 million, so that it can help more caregivers nationwide. Senator Mikulski also joined Senator Clinton last year in introducing legislation that would provide more relief to family caregivers. Under the Lifespan Respite Care Act of 2003, federal grants would be available to states, non-profit organizations, and agencies to help increase access to respite care services. The legislation would also provide funding to train respite care workers and volunteers. This bill passed the Senate and is awaiting House action. 
   "Today, 4.5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease," said Senator Mikulski. "They live in every state. They live in cities, suburbs and on farms. They may own small grocery stores like my father - who suffered from this disease. They could be President of the United States. Alzheimer's is an All American disease that affected an All American President. Now we need an All American effort to find breakthroughs and speed up the day when no family has to go through the long goodbye."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 