SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR ALLEGANY COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Midland Fire Company in Allegany County has been awarded $72,200 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with enough staff, and the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Allegany County communities. Congratulations to the Midland Fire Company on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Midland Fire Company will use its $72,200 to purchase a new brush truck. They will replace a 1968 army surplus brush truck that often has to be towed back after a call. For more information, call Barbara Knippenburg at 301-463-6114. 
   The 2007 Homeland Security spending bill that President Bush signed into law yesterday includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. This year, approximately 18,172 departments nationwide applied for funding, requesting more than $2.3 billion in total. This includes 67 awards to Maryland fire departments totaling $10.78 million. 
   "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski. 
   This is the third award for Midland Fire Company. In 2004, the department was awarded $165,320, and in 2005, the department was awarded $72,105.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 