SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE MORE THAN $793,000 FOR FREDERICK COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Division of Fire & Rescue Services of Frederick County has been awarded $793,440 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with enough staff, and the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Frederick County communities. Congratulations to the Division of Fire & Rescue Services of Frederick County on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Division of Fire & Rescue Services of Frederick County will use its $793,440 to buy 525 sets of turn out gear and 260 individualized face masks to outfit their career & volunteer firefighters. For more information, call Director Walter F. Murray at 301-600-1537. 
   The 2007 Homeland Security spending bill that President Bush signed into law yesterday includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. This year, approximately 18,172 departments nationwide applied for funding, requesting more than $2.3 billion in total. This includes 67 awards to Maryland fire departments totaling $10.78 million. 
   "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski. 
   This is the first award for the Division of Fire & Rescue Services of Frederick County this funding cycle. The grant comes as part of the first round of awards to Maryland for the FY 2006 funding cycle.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 