SEN. MIKULSKI ONE OF TOP 10 PEOPLE WHO HAVE MADE DIFFERENCE IN SPACE COMMUNITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has been named one of the Top 10 people who have made a difference in civil, commercial and military space this past year by Space News, the industry's leading publication. Sen. Mikulski and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) were recognized as a "formidable team looking out for NASA's interests beyond the parochial needs of their two states." Sen. Mikulski is the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds NASA. Sen. Hutchison is the Chairwoman of the Science and Space Subcommittee on the Senate Commerce Committee and a member of the CJS Appropriations Subcommittee.  
   "I'm so honored to be recognized by one of the most important publications in the space community," said Senator Mikulski. "Space science and exploration is important not just for Maryland's economy, but also for the future of our nation. NASA's cutting-edge science produces cutting-edge technology and is inspiring a whole new generation of researchers and explorers. I will continue my fight for NASA, its missions, and its people." 
   The article calls Senators Mikulski and Hutchinson "a force to be reckoned with when it comes to NASA programs and priorities." The Senators recently introduced an amendment to the 2007 CJS spending bill to provide an additional $1 billion in federal funding to pay back NASA for the costs of returning the Space Shuttle to flight. The funding will also reimburse critical science, aeronautics and exploration programs that were cut to pay for repairs. The funding will be declared as an emergency under the terms of the budget resolution. The CJS bill has passed the full Senate Appropriations Committee and awaits a Senate floor vote, which has not yet been scheduled. 
   In 1987, Congress allocated $2.7 billion in the aftermath of the Challenger tragedy to pay for a replacement shuttle. In the aftermath of the Columbia tragedy, however, NASA was not given any additional funding to repair the remaining shuttles. 
   "NASA was hit with two tragedies - the loss of Columbia and Hurricane Katrina. The agency was never fully reimbursed in either incident, and was forced to make dramatic cuts to other programs," said Senator Mikulski. "I am committed to restoring this agency's budget to ensure the continued safety of our astronauts, and to supporting the critical programs that are the hallmark of their success."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 