SEN. MIKULSKI: ARCHITECT OF CAPITOL'S RESPONSE TO BUILDING HAZARDS INADEQUATE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today sent a second letter to Architect of the Capitol (AOC) Alan M. Hantman that reiterated her concerns about unsafe work conditions in tunnels beneath the Capitol building and deemed the AOC's response in a letter received this week insufficient and unreliable.  
   Senator Mikulski initially sent a letter to the AOC after being contacted by Capitol employees, expressing her outrage over health hazards for workers in the tunnels below the Capitol building and demanded a plan to remedy the problem. 
   "The fact that in the six years since the Office of Compliance (OOC) issued its first citation you have addressed only one of the four areas of concern significantly damages your credibility on these issues. There is very little in your response to indicate that you have taken any steps since these issues were brought to my attention, and that of several of my colleagues, to protect the tunnel workers," said Senator Mikulski. "I look forward to reviewing your detailed report later this month. Mr. Hantman, the tunnel workers should not have to wait another day to be assured of a safe and secure working environment." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   April 6, 2006 
   Dear Mr. Hantman, 
   Thank you for your prompt response to my letter of March 29, 2006. Unfortunately, your response does not in any way lessen my concern about the working conditions in the tunnels. The fact that in the six years since the Office of Compliance (OOC) issued its first citation you have addressed only one of the four areas of concern significantly damages your credibility on these issues. There is very little in your response to indicate that you have taken any steps since these issues were brought to my attention, and that of several of my colleagues, to protect the tunnel workers. 
   Requesting more money, initiating new evaluations, and studying new methods and technologies do nothing to protect these workers from hazardous conditions now. You have the structural assessment that was done 6 years ago which, according to the tunnel workers, found "a substantial number of areas that were in danger of collapsing or severely injuring or killing tunnel personnel." The fact that no workers have been injured by falling concrete to date cannot possibly justify or excuse your failure to address these hazardous conditions promptly, and to take whatever steps necessary to protect the workers while repairs are being made. 
   I look forward to reviewing your detailed report later this month. Given the lack of responsive detail in this interim report, I am requesting that your next report address with specificity each of the issues raised in the tunnel workers' letter, as well as those which are the subject of the OOC citations. I want to know the facts, whether in your estimation a hazardous condition exists, why the problems citied by OOC in 2000 have not been fixed, what you have done and are doing now to protect the workers from hazardous conditions pending repairs, and how you intend to fix the problems permanently and secure for these employees and future employees a safe working environment. 
   Mr. Hantman, the tunnel workers should not have to wait another day to be assured of a safe and secure working environment. They already have waited too long.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 