SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that three Western Maryland Fire Departments are being awarded a total of $484,547 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of Maryland's firefighters. Congratulations to Hancock Fire Company, Inc, New Windsor Fire & Hose Company No. 1 and the Cresaptown Volunteer Fire Department on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The New Windsor Fire & Hose Company No. 1, located in Carroll County, will use its $149,895 award to install a sprinkler system and back-up generator in their new fire hall, which is currently under construction. This sprinkler system and generator will allow the fire department to provide emergency services in the event of a natural disaster or power outage. The new fire hall will be replacing a 50-year-old station and will have four double bays for vehicles and equipment. 
   For more information on the New Windsor Fire & Hose Company No. 1, contact Neal Roop at 410-635-6373.
   The Hancock Fire Company, Inc., in Washington County, will use its $274,500 in federal funding to replace an out-of-date tanker engine. The tanker that the new engine is replacing is 24 years old. The Hancock Fire Company has 25 active members and is the first-due responder for over 6,000 Maryland residents. 
   For more information on the Hancock Fire Company, contact Greg Yost at 301-678-7739.
   The Cresaptown Volunteer Fire Department, located in Allegany County, will use its $60,152 award to improve its fire prevention education and outreach programs by purchasing a mobile trailer that contains a model bedroom, kitchen and living room that are able to simulate common household fires. The trailer will also contain a weather storm warning system to demonstrate the signs of impending tornadoes. The department hopes to use these tools on an educational tour to local schools and senior centers in an effort to educate residents about the best ways to respond in the event of a fire or natural disaster. The Cresaptown Volunteer Fire Department has 60 members. 
   For more information on the Cresaptown Volunteer Fire Department, contact President of the Department, Steven Kesner, at 301-759-2792 or 301-729-1111.
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.  
 
 