SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS VISA WAVER PROGRAM EASES PATH FOR POLAND
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced that President Bush has signed the Improving America's Security Act of 2007 into law, which includes her proposal with Senator George V. Voinovich (R-Ohio) that would authorize an expansion of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP).  
   "I have fought for years to expand the VWP so our allies can visit family and conduct business in the United States without standing in line to get a visa," said Senator Mikulski. "We know that our nation will be no less secure because of these visitors. But we know that our alliances will be more secure because of this legislation. This bill is a good first step, and I will continue to fight to make Poland and our other allies a part of the Visa Waiver Program." 
   The bill authorizes the Department of Homeland Security, working with the Department of State, to admit new countries to the VWP for the first time since 2001. As a condition for joining the program, participating countries would implement enhanced travel security requirements, including reporting lost and stolen passports and sharing information with the United States on passengers who could present a threat. 
   Senator Mikulski has fought - and introduced several bipartisan proposals - to have Poland added to the VWP, citing Poland's importance as a close U.S. ally. Polish troops have been fighting alongside American troops since the start of the war in Iraq, with nearly 1,000 Polish troops still on the ground. 
   "The United States is blessed with few allies as stalwart as Poland. But we tell a grandmother in Gdansk she needs a visa to visit her grandchildren in America," said Senator Mikulski. "Poland is a NATO ally and a member of the European Union. But America's visa policy still treats Poland as a second-class citizen." 
   The VWP was established in 1986 as a pilot program to promote better relations with U.S. allies. Currently, 27 countries participate in the VWP. Statutory requirements for program participation include criteria concerning immigration patterns, security and law enforcement, reciprocal visa-free travel for U.S. citizens, as well as passports that are machine-readable.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 