SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that three Prince George's County Fire Departments are being awarded a total of $63,150 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of Maryland's firefighters. Congratulations to these Prince George's County fire departments on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Greenbelt Volunteer Fire Department was awarded $24,750 to purchase a thermal imaging camera, mobile organization equipment and new communications equipment. The thermal imaging camera will enable firefighters to more easily locate victims and fallen firefighters in emergency situations. The organizational and communications technology will help the department to improve the coordination and speed of their responses. The Greenbelt Volunteer Fire Department has 100 members. 
   For more information on the Greenbelt Volunteer Fire Department, contact Chief Brian Rudy at 301-345-7000 or e-mail him at Brian.Rudy@engine35.com. 
   The Kentland Volunteer Fire Department, in Landover, will use its $16,800 award to purchase two thermal imaging cameras. These cameras will enable firefighters to more easily locate victims and fallen firefighters in emergency situations. The Kentland Volunteer Fire Department is the first due responder on a number of the areas busiest highways, including Routes 50, I-95 and 495. For more information on the Kentland Volunteer Fire Department, contact Stephen Marquette at 301-773-6033 or Mike Madison at 240-508-1086. The Allentown Road Volunteer Fire Department, located in Fort Washington, was awarded $21,600 to purchase two thermal imaging cameras. These cameras will enable firefighters to more easily locate and victims and fallen firefighters in emergency situations. For more information on the Allentown Road Volunteer Fire Department, contact John Donnelly at 301-248-7434 or Chief Nick Finamore at 301-399-5927. Prince George's County fire departments have received four awards this funding cycle, totaling $115, 473 in federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.  
 
 