SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BALTIMORE COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Providence Volunteer Fire Company is being awarded a total of $71,730 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of Maryland's firefighters. Congratulations to the Providence Volunteer Fire Company on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Providence Volunteer Fire Company, located in Towson, will use its $71,730 in federal funding to purchase lightweight, protective equipment for their collapse rescue team. This equipment, which consists of 50 sets of coats, boots, pants, helmets, gloves and respiratory equipment, will supplant the usual, more bulky protective gear that the department uses. The collapse rescue team responds to emergencies involving damaged or destroyed structures throughout the area. The Providence Volunteer Fire Company has 75 active volunteers. 
   This is the second award for Providence Volunteer Fire Company through the AFGP. Last year, Providence received $45,180 in federal funds to purchase an air compressor and a mobile air filling station. 
   For more information on the Providence Volunteer Fire Company, please contact Matthew Herweck at 410-887-5774. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 