SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WORCESTER COUNTY FIREFIGHTERS
Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the Snow Hill Volunteer Fire Company has been awarded $55,902 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP). Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the AFGP and fights each year to increase its federal funding.  
 "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Eastern Shore communities. Congratulations to the Snow Hill Volunteer Fire Company on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
 "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina tragedies, and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Senator Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
 The Snow Hill Volunteer Fire Company in Worcester County will use its $55,902 to install a diesel exhaust system. The diesel exhaust system is critical in removing carbon monoxide and other carcinogens from engine bays. For more information, call Assistant Chief William Heiser Jr. at 410-632-2110. 
 This is the first award for Worcester County this funding cycle. Last year, Snow Hill Volunteer Fire Company was awarded $237,500 to purchase a new pumper tanker. So far this funding cycle, Maryland fire departments have been awarded $4,659,129 in AFGP funding. 
 The Department of Homeland Security 2007 spending bill that President Bush signed into law in October 2006 includes $662 million in federal funding for our nation's firefighters through the AFGP. While this is significantly more than the President requested, it still falls short of the program's authorized funding level of $1 billion. 
 "How can the President support Homeland Security when he has proposed cuts to the most valuable funding source for America's firefighters? We need to support our first responders with more than just words," said Senator Mikulski.
 Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 