SEN. MIKULSKI, TEAM MARYLAND CELEBRATE $1 MILLION INVESTMENT IN SHOCK TRAUMA CENTER
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined several members of the Maryland delegation today to announce $1 million in federal funding for the R. Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center at the University of Maryland Medical System (UMMS). Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes, Rep. Ben Cardin, Elijah Cummings and Dutch Ruppersburger (all D-Md.) joined Sen. Mikulski at this morning's event at UMMS in Baltimore. 
   This funding will create a new science laboratory to better understand trauma-related shock. It will support collaboration between scientists and clinicians that will help develop standardized diagnosis and treatment of trauma injuries.
   "I am so proud to stand with my colleagues today to highlight Baltimore's increasing role as a medical center of excellence. I will keep fighting in the Senate for federal funds to support new and innovative programs throughout Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "These new funds will not only bring together emergency response experts, but will also help attract new practitioners and clinicians to the University of Maryland."
   "UMMS is training military professionals to protect our troops on the field, but they are also training Maryland emergency medical personnel," added Senator Mikulski. "This means new understanding of trauma injuries, new diagnostic tools and treatment, and better trauma care for the people of Maryland."
   The Shock Trauma Center is Maryland's primary adult clinical resource center, where Air Force doctors, nurses and medical technicians complete monthly rotations prior to deploying to Iraq and Afghanistan. Partners in this new project include: Maryland's Emergency Medical System (EMS), Maryland Institute for Emergency Medical Services, Maryland's VA Hospital System, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS), Fort Detrick and the Department of the Army.
   "A stronger America begins at home. As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I want the best protection for our war-fighters and the best value for the dollar. Together, we can develop smart diagnostic tools and treatments to save lives on the battlefield and protect our protectors here at home."
   As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski fought for this funding as part of the 2006 Defense spending bill, signed into law by President Bush on December 30, 2005.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 