SEN. MIKULSKI PLEDGES TO FIGHT FOR HOPE VI DESPITE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET CUT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today renewed her commitment to fight for the HOPE VI housing program, which President Bush eliminated in his proposed fiscal year 2008 budget. The budget also proposes cutting $99 million in funds already included for in the Congressional Resolution (CR), which Congress is currently considering. This is the second year that President Bush has attempted to cut this vital program.  
   HOPE VI was created by Senator Mikulski in 1992 with the aim of replacing dilapidated public housing with mixed-income developments connected to schools, retail and community services. Since the program started, over $5 billion has been appropriated for HOPE VI and billions more have been leveraged from the private sector. The program is up for congressional reauthorization this year. 
   "We need to support federal programs that help those who help themselves. The President talks about creating a better life for Americans, but his budget fails to deliver on his words yet again," said Senator Mikulski. "HOPE VI has always been about creating new opportunities for residents of public housing and new hope for the communities surrounding public housing. I will continue my fight to not only reauthorize this vital program, but to make sure the President does not succeed in cutting funds from this year." 
   Senator Mikulski is working on a new HOPE VI reauthorization bill with a bipartisan group of senators and congressmen, and expects to introduce it this spring. The bill will build on the past success of the HOPE VI program and make several improvements to ensure that grants are cost-efficient and effective at improving resident and community life. This legislation will also incorporate lessons learned from the initial years of HOPE VI to ensure the future success of the program. 
   "Where HOPE VI has been most successful, it has transformed communities and lives," said Senator Mikulski. "Our reauthorization bill will take this program into the new century - reformed, refreshed and reinvigorated - by codifying best practices and correcting weaknesses."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 