SEN. MIKULSKI CRITICIZES PRESIDENT'S CONTINUED FAILURE TO PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) today denounced President Bush's continued failure to provide federal funding to help protect high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks in his proposed fiscal year 2008 budget, which was released this week. Sen. Mikulski, a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, has worked for the past three years to secure funding in the Homeland Security spending bill.  
   "President Bush talks about protecting Americans at home, but his budget fails to acknowledge the risk that many of our nation's non-profits face. The organizations are on the frontlines, working hard to develop and nuture communities, but the President has done nothing to protect them," said Senator Mikulski. "The President talks about homeland security, but where is the funding so that these organizations can do their part?" 
   Senator Mikulski fought to have $25 million included in the 2006 Homeland Security spending bill to protect institutions that provide vital health, social, cultural and educational services to the American people and are often "soft targets" of terrorism. The Senator also successfully offered an amendment to the 2005 spending bill that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. She was able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. 
   While Senator Mikulski and her colleague Senator Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) were unable to add additional funding to the 2007 spending bill, they successfully fought for language in the bill to release the $25 million in funding that was signed into law by the President in the 2006 bill, but had been held up by the Bush administration. 
   "We must help protect our hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches from terrorist violence," said Senator Mikulski. "They need a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk of terrorist attacks. I have fought for these funds in the past, and I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   The federal funding goes to the Department of Homeland Security's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute to high-risk non-profit organizations. The non-profits have used past federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 