SEN. MIKULSKI: I WILL FIGHT FOR ALZHEIMER'S EVEN IF PRESIDENT BUSH DOESN'T
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), senior Democrat on the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, today renewed her commitment to fight for a federal investment for patients, and their families, struggling with Alzheimer's disease. The President's proposed fiscal year 2008 budget eliminates the Alzheimer's Disease State Matching Grants Program, a matching grants program that provides funds to states for the development of innovative and cost effective programs for delivering services to those with Alzheimer's and their caregivers, especially in underserved-communities. This is the second year the President has cut this essential program.  
   "The President talks about creating a better life for Americans, but his budget fails to deliver on his words yet again. The federal government must commit our dollars, our programs and ourselves to those suffering from Alzheimer's," said Senator Mikulski. "We know the emotional and financial costs families face when a loved one has Alzheimer's. That's why I will continue fighting to keep programs for those affected by Alzheimer's a priority in the federal law books and checkbook." 
   Today, there are over 35 million seniors in our nation, and these numbers are expected to double by 2030. One in 10 individuals over 65 and nearly half of those over 85 suffer from Alzheimer's disease. 
   "There are 4.5 million Americans living with Alzheimer's disease," said Senator Mikulski. "They live in every state. They live in cities, suburbs and on farms. They may own small grocery stores like my father - who suffered from this disease. Alzheimer's is an All-American disease that affected Ronald Reagan, our All-American President. Now we need an All-American effort to not only find breakthroughs, but to make sure we are giving patients and their families the support they need." 
   The Alzheimer's Disease State Matching Grants Program, created in 1992, is up for reauthorization, and will be included in a comprehensive Alzheimer's bill Senator Mikulski expects to introduce in March. This will mark the third time Senator Mikulski has introduced legislation to reauthorize the program, in addition to fighting to increase funding by 10 percent every year.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 