SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDS FOR CLEANER MARYLAND BEACHES
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced $269,250 in funds from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to keep more than 66 of Maryland's Atlantic and Chesapeake Bay beaches clean. The grants will fund beach water quality monitoring and notification programs in nine Maryland counties. 
   "Investing in our beaches will ensure safer and cleaner waterfronts for Maryland businesses, residents and the many visitors to our shores year-round," said Senator Mikulski. "Keeping our waterfront communities safe and thriving has always been one of my top priorities and I am so pleased Maryland has received this crucial funding."
   Beaches in Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Calvert, Cecil, Kent, Queen Anne's, Somerset, St. Mary's and Worcester Counties will all receive funding. For a list of beaches receiving funds, go to: www.epa.gov/waterscience/beaches/list/list-of-beaches.pdf. Grants are available to eligible coastal states and territories based on the length of beach season, the miles of beach and the number of people who use that beach.
   To improve water quality testing at the beach and to help beach managers better inform the public when there are water quality problems, Congress passed the Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health (BEACH) Act in October 2000. This act authorizes EPA to award grants to eligible states, tribes and territories to develop and implement beach water quality monitoring and notification programs at coastal and Great Lakes recreational waters at beaches. These grants also help states develop and implement programs to inform the public about the risk of exposure to disease-causing microorganisms in the waters at the nation's beaches.
   Beach water monitoring helps identify actions needed to reduce pollution, such as warnings and closures, when bacteria concentrations reach unsafe levels. As part of their Clean Beaches Plan, the EPA is also working on new technologies to provide faster test results, enabling local health agencies to determine more quickly if a beach should be open for swimming.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 