SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE NEARLY $1 MILLION FOR I-70 IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced $968,333 in U.S. Department of Transportation funds for the state to continue the ongoing I-70 Improvement Project in Frederick County. The funding will support safety improvements to the only stretch of I-70 that does not meet current interstate standards. 
   "The number of stores and businesses in Frederick has increased in recent years, along with the number of people and the number of cars on the highway. While this is great for Frederick's economy, it has become increasingly difficult for Frederick's commuters," said Senator Mikulski. "This federal funding will greatly improve not only the commute, but also highway safety along I-70. I will continue to make Frederick's transportation needs one of my top priorities and a priority in the federal checkbook."
   "These funds represent my continued commitment in working to improve the safety and reduce traffic congestion in the Frederick area," added Senator Sarbanes. "With traffic volumes growing in the area, roadway improvements to I-70/270 corridor are crucial to the continued success of Frederick's business and high technology development plans. And most importantly, it will help to improve the quality of life for the region's commuters."
   According to the State Highway Administration, the Frederick area of I-70 carries more than 69,000 vehicles daily. Forecasts indicate that number will increase by as much as 60 percent by the year 2020. Without these improvements, traffic will be forced onto local roadways and into neighborhoods.
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes recently fought for federal funding for the I-70 project as part of the 2006 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development spending bill. The Senators also fought to include $15 million for I-70 improvements in the Transportation Reauthorization bill, which was signed into law in August 2005.
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes have worked hard to improve transportation in Frederick County. Since 2002, they have secured over $18 million in federal funding directly for the I-70 Improvement Project. More than $75 million in federal funds in the last six years have gone toward the project.
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee. Senator Sarbanes is the senior Democrat on the Banking Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 