SEN. MIKULSKI URGES DEFENSE SECRETARY GATES TO DEVELOP UNIFORM STANDARD ON SEXUAL MISCONDUCT
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and the United States Naval Academy Board of Visitors (BOV), today called on Secretary of Defense Robert Gates to give his personal attention to a recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report that indicates that the Department of Defense has not developed a uniform reporting standard to track incidences of sexual misconduct. The request comes following this week's quarterly BOV meeting at the Naval Academy, in which the issue was raised. 
   The text of the letter is below:
   Dear Secretary Gates:
   I am writing you to express my concern over the findings of a recent Government Accountability Office report on the efforts of military academies to address allegations of sexual misconduct.
   According to the report, the Department of Defense still has not developed a uniform reporting standard to track incidences of sexual misconduct. While the academies have made progress in implementing harassment and assault prevention education programs, I am frustrated that DOD has not clearly defined a common reporting standard. Comprehensive and uniform reporting requirements are necessary for consistency across the military academies in analyzing incident data, surveying results, and evaluating awareness programs.
   As a member of the United States Naval Academy Board of Visitors, I have worked with military leadership at the Academy to establish a policy of "zero tolerance" for sexual misconduct in our Armed Forces. There must be an atmosphere of leadership, accountability and personal responsibility that does not tolerate sexual harassment or misconduct. Nothing will improve until the most senior leadership is forced to take personal ownership for real change.
   You have shown a strong commitment to caring for our men and women in uniform. I ask that you to provide me with your plan for defining standards for reporting incidences of sexual assault. I appreciate your personal attention to this important matter and look forward to hearing from you soon.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 