SEN. MIKULSKI MEETS WITH CARROLL COUNTY COMMISSIONERS TO DISCUSS PRIORITIES FOR REGION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) met yesterday with Carroll County Commission President Julia Gouge and County Commissioner Michael Zimmer to discuss county priorities and how Maryland's federal delegation can help provide necessary resources to the region. The meeting is part of the Senator's effort to visit with Maryland's incoming and returning local leaders to explain how they can work together on area needs.  
   "As the leader of the Maryland congressional delegation, I am looking forward to working with the Carroll County Commissioners to make sure the county gets its fair share," said Senator Mikulski. "We all need to work together as Team Maryland to focus on how federal dollars can help the county." 
   The meeting focused on priority initiatives that will help support jobs, families and communities in Carroll County. In particular, the commissioners discussed the county's water shortage problem and the need to upgrade its water treatment infrastructure. Although the Maryland Department of the Environment (MDE) manages this process, Senator Mikulski fights every year for robust funding for the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Drinking Water State Revolving Fund Program. This federal program, administered by the MDE, provides below- market interest rate loans to local governments for drinking water capital improvement projects. Last year, three of Carroll County's projects received more than $2.2 million in federal dollars from the loan fund. 
   Senator Mikulski and the commissioners also discussed the impact of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2006 decisions on the county, and the priority it may take in state policy. They discussed the inequity Carroll County's school system faces as it struggles to provide for students with disabilities. The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) entitles children with disabilities to a public education and provides federal funds to help schools with the cost. In theory, the federal government pays 40 percent of a state's special education costs, with the rest subsidized by the state and local governments. However, the federal government has not made good on its commitment, despite Senator Mikulski's efforts every year to increase funding and accountability. Senator Mikulski believes an increased federal commitment to IDEA will allow more county funds to support other efforts. 
   "BRAC brings opportunities, but it also brings great challenges," said Senator Mikulski. "We're going to focus on how federal dollars can help the state and our counties."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 