SEN. MIKULSKI: CONTRACTING OUT HARMED PATIENT CARE AT WALTER REED
  Responding to claims made by Walter Reed Army Medical Center officials at this week's congressional hearings, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today admonished the 109th Congress' failure to pass her provision that would have prohibited the U.S. Army from outsourcing 350 federal maintenance jobs at the facility through the A-76 competition process. In the aftermath of the Washington Post series that revealed deplorable living conditions facing returning Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans at the Army's flagship military hospital, Walter Reed officials have stated that the A-76 public-private job competition sapped the facility of workers necessary for proper maintenance.  
   The Mikulski amendment, which would have prevented this competition, was defeated by a close 50-48 vote during the Senate's consideration of the 2007 Defense Appropriations bill, and was not included in the final bill despite Senator Mikulski's fight. 
   "Our worst fears have come true. It seems our troops are facing one enemy in Baghdad, and then a bureaucratic enemy at home," said Senator Mikulski. "For too long in this war, we've seen little people blamed while we see Generals go on to get medals and book deals. I will not allow federal workers to be blamed for the disgraceful conditions at Walter Reed that are a direct result of the Bush Administration's contracting out policy." 
   Although the new private contractor, IAP Worldwide Services, officially took over at Walter Reed on February 4, 2007, federal workers began leaving the facility immediately after Senator Mikulski's amendment lost, causing a dramatic exodus of skilled staff. Prior to the A-76 competition, more than 300 maintenance employees served Walter Reed. By February 2007, less than 60 remained. At the time of The Post's series, the new contractor has only 50 employees doing the same level of work. 
   Senator Mikulski has consistently criticized the Bush Administration's continued policy of contracting out federal jobs, a practice that is dangerously slanted against federal employees. President Bush's proposed fiscal year 2008 budget encourages agencies to participate in competitive sourcing, and specifies that "the Administration continues to work with the Congress to remove legislative restrictions on competitive sourcing, such as those that require agencies to choose the cheapest providers" (Section: Managing for Results, page 28). 
   In May 2003, the administration issued guidelines for these public-private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These new procedures favored contractors and stacked the deck against federal employees. The new rules for the privatization process did not guarantee employees the right to submit their own best bids, did not require contractors to show significant savings, and gave an unfair advantage to contractors who provide inferior benefits. 
   As a senior appropriator and now Chairman of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski has pledged to do everything in her power to make necessary fixes to the contracting out process.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 