SENS. MIKULSKI, CARDIN ANNOUNCE $1.7 MILLION FOR SUPPORT SERVICES FOR MARYLAND PUBLIC HOUSING RESIDENTS, SENIORS
  Senators Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (both D-Md.) today announced that four Maryland recipients have been awarded a total of more than $1.7 million in grants for support services for residents of public housing and seniors through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Senator Mikulski is on the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee that funds HUD. Senator Cardin is on the Budget Committee.  
   "I believe in giving help to those who practice self-help. These grants provide real opportunities to change lives," said Senator Mikulski. "Funding for these services helps transform communities and the lives of people living in public housing. I will continue to fight in the U.S. Senate to give everyone the chance to live the American dream." 
   "These grants will truly make a difference in the lives of people transitioning from welfare to work," said Senator Cardin. "I am committed to ensuring that all Marylanders, regardless of income and disability, have the same opportunity for self-sufficiency and economic growth as their fellow citizens." 
   Three housing agencies around the state have received Resident Opportunities for Self Sufficiency (ROSS) Public Housing Family and Homeownership (RFH) grants through HUD. RFH grants are used for the delivery and coordination of supportive services, such drug treatment, job counseling and child care referrals, and other activities that help public housing residents be economic and housing self-sufficient. Funding is also used to hire a qualified project coordinator to run the grant program. The following agencies have been awarded RFH grants: 
   * $731,429 for the Housing Authority of Baltimore. For more information call Paul Graziano at 410-396-3232. 
   * $350,000 for the Housing Opportunities Commission of Montgomery County. For more information call John Vass at 301-929-5625. 
   * $250,000 for the Housing Authority of Frederick. For more information call Teresa Justice at 301-662-8173. 
   Easter Seals Greater Washington-Baltimore Region Inc. in Washington County has received $375,000 in a ROSS Resident Service Delivery Models - Elderly and Persons with Disabilities (RSE) award through HUD. RSE grants are awarded to provide and coordinate supportive services to help seniors and/or disabled residents of public and Indian housing, continue to live independently. For more information, call Lisa Reeves at 301-931-8700. 
   Public housing authorities, Indian tribes/Tribally Designated Housing Entities, Resident Associations, and nonprofit organizations are eligible for both RFH and RSE grants.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 