CHAIRWOMAN MIKULSKI RAISES GAVEL AT YEAR'S FIRST COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today convened the first of many subcommittee hearings to evaluate fiscal year 2009 budget priorities. This year's CJS spending bill will fund the Departments of Commerce and Justice (DOJ), the National Atmospheric and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and nine related independent agencies. Department of Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez testified before the subcommittee this morning.
   "I want to make sure our agencies have the funding to carry out their missions and mandates for continuity of government in this year of transition," said Chairwoman Mikulski. "I also want to focus on chronic problems at the Commerce Department - management of the 2010 Census, backlogs at the Patent and Trademark Office, and cost overruns on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's satellite programs. The budget is tight and we face tough choices. So we need to be smart and fiscally responsible." 
   Senator Mikulski noted her frustration at the lack of funding in the President's budget for innovation. An original co-sponsor of the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act of 2007, Senator Mikulski is determined to secure funding to strengthen and maintain America's leading edge by investing in STEM education and research programs. President Bush's funding request, however, under funded many of the initiatives outlined in the America COMPETES Act, which was signed into law in August 2007.
   Senator Mikulski's statement, as prepared, is below:
   "Good morning and welcome to the first hearing of the Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS). Today, we're beginning our 2009 budget hearings with Commerce Secretary Gutierrez. This is Secretary Gutierrez's fourth appearance before the CJS Subcommittee. We have had a very productive relationship with him and his team.
   "I want to start this year by thanking Senator Shelby and his staff for our bipartisan work together last year.
   "We are in a year of transition. This time next year, we will have a new President. This year's appropriation will carry agencies through the first year of a new administration, regardless of who will become President. So as chairwoman this year, I want to make sure our agencies have the funding to carry out their missions and mandates for continuity of government.
   "I have two goals for this hearing. First, I want to know how the budget meets the Department of Commerce's mission and whether it follows through on agreed upon policies, such as America COMPETES. Second, I want to focus on what I call "red zone" issues - chronic problems at the Commerce Department. Specifically, the 2010 Census must be managed competently, the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) must improve its operations, and cost overruns on National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) satellite programs must end.
   "The fiscal year 2009 budget request for the Department of Commerce is $8.17 billion, $1.32 billion above the fiscal year 2008 omnibus level. However, this increase goes to the Census Bureau. The rest of the Commerce budget remains flat. At a time when the economy is slowing - fourth quarter growth in the gross domestic product (GDP) was only 0.6 percent - Commerce's proposed budget practically eliminates two programs that help the economy: economic development assistance grants (request is $8.7 million, $147 million cut below fiscal year 2008 omnibus level) and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (request is $4 million, $86 million cut below fiscal year 2008 omnibus level).
   "This budget also falls short in funding innovation. At the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), we applaud that the laboratory programs' request is $535 million, $95 million above the fiscal year 2008 omnibus level. Unfortunately, that increase is offset by the termination of NIST's grants programs, which America COMPETES authorizes at a combined $253 million. At NOAA, the request is $4.1 billion, $213 million above fiscal year 2008, the largest request ever for NOAA. But excluding the growth in the satellite budget, the rest of NOAA is held flat. And innovation and science education at NOAA fare worse - ocean and atmospheric research is cut 4 percent and education is cut 51 percent below the fiscal year 2008 omnibus level.
   "In terms of management challenges, we must take a close look at the 2010 Census because we must have a timely and accurate census. The budget request for the census grows by 112 percent to $2.6 billion, a $1.3 billion increase above the fiscal year 2008 omnibus level. But we've learned that more funding may be needed. This subcommittee has unearthed major problems with the handheld computers. Senator Shelby and I have had concerns about this census management for some time now. Two years ago, laptop computers got lost and we raised concerns about the privacy and security of personal information. And we recently learned that the handheld computer system might not work. We need to know the consequences to the 2010 Census and the budget.
   "Next, at PTO, backlogs and waiting times continue to worsen. It now takes over 27 months for PTO to issue a patent and the backlog of applications waiting is now over 1 million. This backlog is expected to grow to over 1.3 million over the next 3 years. This is unacceptable. We've made progress implementing management reform. We've increased the budget 27 percent since fiscal year 2005, a $411 million increase to $1.9 billion, while many other programs are being cut. More must be done to reverse the backlogs and waiting times.
   "Finally, we will examine NOAA's satellite program, which has had major cost overruns. Satellites account for 25 percent of NOAA's budget - over $1 billion. Satellites are critical to predicting and warning about the weather, and observing changes in the earth's climate. In other words, satellites help save lives and save the planet. Senator Shelby and I included a provision in the fiscal year 2008 omnibus to give us early warning about satellite costs overruns. We want to know how the department is ensuring that costs don't keep going up as NOAA prepares to award a new contract for our next generation weather satellites that will cost over $7 billion.
   "The budget is tight and we face tough choices. So we need to be smart and fiscally responsible. We look forward to hearing from Secretary Gutierrez about how the department's budget request addresses its mission and mandate and how the department will ensure stewardship of taxpayer dollars."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 