SENS. MIKULSKI, CARDIN ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND COMMUNITIES
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (both D-Md.) today announced the Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) has awarded the Tri-County Council of Western Maryland $10,000 for the Allegany Garrett County Community Foundation (AGCF) project.  
   "This funding is a federal investment in Western Maryland communities today and tomorrow," said Senator Mikulski. "I'm so proud that Garrett and Allegany Counties will be able to use these funds to foster growth and development in the region. I will continue to fight to keep Western Maryland a priority in the federal checkbook." 
   "This federal grant is a tribute to the tremendous efforts of the Tri-County Council of Western Maryland to improve economic conditions for the citizens of Allegany and Garrett Counties," said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin. "This grant will enhance communications, which will help the community meet future regional development needs." 
   This funding will support technical assistance - such as website development and materials to increase public awareness - in the development of the AGCF. The ACGF is a joint community foundation that Allegany and Garrett County stakeholders have come together to develop. The Tri-County Council will administer the project, which is expected to bolster awareness for this civic entrepreneurship initiative by increasing donations and benefits to the community. The grant is expected to help the AGCF increase its donor base by $250,000. In the short term, this will make $12,500 available for community reinvestment. In the long term, the AGCF will provide a venue for residents to contribute donations that can be used to address critical community issues. 
   In addition to ARC funds, local sources will provide $10,000, bringing the total project funding to $20,000. The ARC is a federal-state partnership that works with the people of Appalachia to create opportunities for self-sustaining economic development and improved quality of life.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 