SEN. MIKULSKI VOTES TO REFORM, STRENGTHEN NATION'S INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today cast her vote in favor of historic legislation that would reform and strengthen the nation's intelligence community and work to prevent terrorist attacks on the United States. The National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 (S. 2845), introduced by Sens. Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) and Susan Collins (R-ME) and cosponsored by Sen. Mikulski, passed the Senate today by a vote of 96 to 2.  
   Senator Mikulski, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence since mid-2001, is a strong advocate for intelligence reform and modernization, particularly in the area of signals intelligence. 
   "I am deeply committed to broad, deep, and authentic intelligence reform," said Senator Mikulski. "That includes a National Intelligence Director, an inspector general, and alternative or red team analysis to always make sure that policymakers have the best information and that our troops and homeland security officials get the best intelligence so they can protect the nation," said Senator Mikulski. "Following the 9/11 Commission report, but also as a result of the wonderful work of Senators Collins and Lieberman, we now have legislation that strengthens and modernizes our intelligence efforts. That's what we need to keep America safe and that's why I'm proud to vote for this legislation." 
   More specifically, the "National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004" does three main things: creates a National Intelligence Director with budget and personnel authority and responsibility to manage the intelligence community; creates a National Counter-Terrorism Center to unify efforts to combat terrorism as well as improve information-sharing within the intelligence community and with state and local authorities; improves protection for privacy and civil liberties. 
   These reforms are based on the recommendations of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, better known as the 9/11 Commission. 
   "We are at a turning point," added Senator Mikulski. "This is a new century. The nation faces new threats. Therefore, we need a new intelligence framework to serve and protect the American people. That is what this legislation does."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 