SEN. MIKULSKI TAKES TO SENATE FLOOR TO STOP GAS GOUGING
  On the floor of the U.S. Senate today, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) called on President Bush to use his weight in the gas and oil industry to convene a White House summit of CEOs and urge them to reduce gas prices in a time of national crisis.  
   "These sky-high prices have created a crisis for American families and for business, for families who must commute to work, to small businesses who deliver flowers and trucks that deliver food," said Senator Mikulski. "Yes, we do need conservation, but wearing sweaters just won't be enough. The President needs to call on the CEOs of the oil and gas company to be patriots." 
   The Senator's floor statement, as delivered, is below: 
   "I rise today to urge President Bush to convene a White House jawboning session of the American oil and gas companies to urge them to be good corporate citizens and lower the price of gasoline, home heating oil and natural gas. I think it's swell that the President is agreeing that conservation is an important goal, but it's very little and very late. 
   "Yes, we do need conservation, but wearing sweaters just won't be enough. The President needs to call on the CEOs of the oil and gas company to be patriots. It's time for the oil and gas company CEOs to really be looking at the way that they can help the American people, not only the profits. These sky-high prices have created a crisis for American families and for business, for families who must commute to work, to small businesses who deliver flowers and trucks that deliver food. This is real - in the Chesapeake Bay, people are paying $4 a gallon just to take their boats out. This is going to have tremendous inflationary pressure on our economy. 
   "We in Maryland are feeling it very severely. Maryland has the third highest gas prices in the country - more than $3 per gallon. It has been a 30 percent increase in little more than just one month. Maryland is not the only state that's affected. The national price for a gallon of gas is now as high as it has been in 20 years. Some are saying that gas prices are going down. Well, they've been going down a penny or two, but they're still very high. As you go to the gasoline pump, people feel this great anxiety. We know people are just nervous about going there, and also what it means to their families. I saw on our local TV, a soccer mom filling up her minivan, seeing that it was $90 and just putting her head down on the window and just crying about what was the family going to do. 
   "That's why I'll ask the President today to convene a White House jawbone session. Now, there is precedent for this. Forty years ago, Jack Kennedy felt that big steel was really pushing up the prices on steel. Some called it price gouging. And he called in the CEOs of the steel industry to the White House. He made the case for the American people. He said that the steel industry action was unjustified and irresponsible in the public interest. President Kennedy publicly pressed them hard and guess what? Roger Blough and the steel industry decreased their prices. I'm asking President Bush to follow President Kennedy's example and to call in these oil and gas CEOs. 
   "He has called in the oil and gas CEOs before to help write the energy policy. Well, now we need a new energy policy. We need one based on conservation. We need one based on innovation to come up with new ideas on alternative fuel supplies. We need a new energy policy to look at what we can do to rebuild the Gulf. And we understand that oil and gas has suffered some damage there. But also we need them to take a look at the prices they're charging and the consequences to our economy. So we feel if they can write national policy a few years ago, they can come in and write new national policy. 
   "So, Mr. President, I've sent this letter signed by many senators and I would hope that the President would think about how we can engage the private sector to really come to grips with what's happening here and to also get their advice on innovation, to get their advice on boosting our supplies, get their advice on what to do about having new, more refining capacity and at the same time meet some of our environmental constraints. We understand that we are at a crossroads in this country and now is the time to bring them together, but bring them together as patriots. And I believe that they will be able to make profits and be patriots at the same time. Mr. President, I yield the floor." 
   * For a copy of the letter sent today by Senator Mikulski and 28 of her Democratic colleagues, see http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=247034
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 