SEN. MIKULSKI ADVOCATES FOR PASSAGE OF INTELLIGENCE REFORM BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today endorsed the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 (S. 2845) in a speech she gave on the floor of the U.S. Senate. The legislation would create a National Intelligence Director with budget and personnel authority and responsibility to manage the intelligence community. It would also create a National Counter Terrorism Center to unify efforts to combat terrorism as well as improve information-sharing within the intelligence community and with state and local authorities. Finally, it would improve protection for privacy and civil liberties 
   These reforms are based on the recommendations of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, better known as the 9/11 Commission.  
   Below is Senator Mikulski's statement, delivered on the floor of the U.S. Senate today. 
   "I want to take this opportunity as the Senate resumes this afternoon's debate to rise in very strong support of the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004. I am proud to join with Senator Sue Collins (R-ME) and Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT) as a cosponsor of this bill. It is an excellent bill, and I want to commend my two colleagues, Senators Collins and Lieberman, for working so hard and to go at it in a way that is not only bipartisan but nonpartisan, following the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. 
   "I am excited about this bill because I think it reforms our intelligence to be able to make sure that we prevent any more 9/11s affecting the United States; that we reform the intelligence so that we never go to war again on dubious information; that we make the highest and best use of the talent in our intelligence agencies; and that they have the framework to be able to protect the Nation, as well as be able to speak truth to power. 
   "I am no stranger to reform. I am on the Intelligence Committee. I came on the committee before 9/11 to be an advocate for reform, particularly in the area of signals intelligence. As I worked on the committee and served on the joint inquiry about what occurred on 9/11, I became deeply committed to other issues related to reform: to have a national intelligence director, to create an inspector general, to mandate alternative or red team analysis, to always make sure that we policymakers have the best information, and that our troops and our homeland security officials get the best intelligence they need to be able to protect the Nation. 
   "Following the 9/11 Commission report, but also with the wonderful work of Senators Collins and Lieberman, we now have intelligence legislation that will give us a single empowered leader for our intelligence community, a strong inspector general, and a definite alternative analysis to make sure that all views are heard. This reform is broad, deep, and also authentic. I think that is what the Nation wants of us. 
   "Three thousand people died on September 11. They died at the World Trade Center, they died at the Pentagon, and they died on a field in Pennsylvania. At least 60 Marylanders died. We remember that they came from all walks of life. We must remember those we lost that day. The way we honor their memory is to take actions to do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again. That is what the families have asked us to do. That is what the Nation has asked us to do. I am so pleased that we will act on this legislation before we recess. 
   "We need to do this, and we need to do this now. In joining the Intelligence Committee, and also after those terrible acts, like many others I asked what could we have done to prevent the September 11 attacks on our country. Also, why did we think that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction? What kind of information does the President need before he sends troops into harms way? What kinds of information do we, as Members of Congress, need to be able to provide the right response to a President's request? We reviewed a lot of this information, and now we know we have the kind of reform in this legislation that will help us. 
   "The 9/11 Commission built on the 9/11 joint inquiry of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. We did that in a classified way. Then, the 9/11 Commission was organized, and I am happy to say I voted for it. The Commission could bring into the sunshine what many of us knew privately because it was classified. We knew about missed opportunities, insufficient or unreliable information, the failure to share information and the shortcomings of watch lists. 
   "I think the legislation that we have before us will move the priorities forward for intelligence reform. First of all, it gives the intelligence community one leader with authority, responsibility, and financial control. In Washington, if you cannot control people or you cannot control budgets, you cannot control the agency. 
   "Second, it provides for diversity of opinion in the analysis. It requires independent analysis. It also provides a framework for red teaming or a devil's advocate so that, again, the policymakers get the best information. 
   "It also strengthens information sharing. It provides the support to speak truth to power. And it also provides a unity of effort in the global war on terrorism. All of this is done with a delicate balance of protecting privacy and civil liberties. 
   "I salute my colleagues. While they were doing their homework this summer with the 9/11 report, I was doing mine. I built on the experience that I had both as a member of the Intelligence Committee and the joint inquiry to investigate what went wrong on 9/11. I continued my homework over the summer. I read the riveting report of the 9/11 Commission. I attended hearings in the Intelligence Committee and Governmental Affairs. I consulted with officials of the FBI and others in homeland security in my State. I met with the Director of the National Security Agency. Having done that, I now conclude that this is the best legislation. 
   "We are at a turning point. This is a new century. It poses new threats to the Nation. Therefore, it requires a new framework to serve the Nation. That is what I believe this will do. So I say to my colleagues that one of the best things we can do now, in order to serve the Nation, is stand up for our troops, protect the homeland, and pass the Collins-Lieberman legislation, which I truly believe brings about the reform of the national intelligence community. 
   "I also salute the work of Senator Harry Reid and Senator Mitch McConnell, who were working on how we need to reform ourselves in Congress to be able to provide the best oversight of the intelligence community so we can have the best intelligence, the highest value for our dollar, and at the same time protect the Nation, finding the balance to protect our civil liberties. I believe the task force report saying the Senate needs to reform itself internally will come after this legislation. I think we have done a great job working on a bipartisan basis. 
   "I remember that fateful evening of 9/11 and that day when we gathered on the Capitol steps. America had lived through a lot. We didn't know what was yet to come. But joining with our House colleagues, we in the Senate, with our leadership, joined hands and sang 'God Bless America.' We were not a Democratic Party. We were not a Republican Party. We were the red, white, and blue party, and that is what we need to be here today. We need to join hands, pass the reforms necessary to protect the Nation, and to truly ask God to bless the United States of America."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 