SEN. MIKULSKI QUESTIONS MILLARD'S ABILITY TO LEAD PENSION CORPORATION AT NOMINATION HEARING
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), Chairwoman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's Subcommittee on Retirement and Aging, today chaired the HELP Committee's nomination hearing for Charles Millard to be the next Executive Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). A leader in the bipartisan negotiations that led to critical pension reform legislation last year, Senator Mikulski has remained dedicated to promises made in the bill, including strengthening the PBGC. 
   "I'm puzzled about why you want this job. Your professional experience doesn't show that you have the pensions expertise to handle the challenges facing the PBGC, nor does it show that you're committed to the PBGC's mission to improve retirement security for Americans," said Senator Mikulski. "We need to remember that the PBGC is ultimately about people - retired people who often can no longer work and have been let down by their employers. The PBGC has a responsibility to help them, and we in Congress have the responsibility to watch over the PBGC."  
   The PBGC is a federal corporation created by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. It currently protects the pensions of nearly 44 million American workers and retirees in 30,330 private single-employer and multi-employer defined benefit pension plans. 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement for the record is below: 
   "Welcome, Mr. Millard. We're happy to have you here before the Committee. Last Congress, as part of the Pensions Protection Act, we made the Director of the PBGC confirmable by the Senate. This is the first nomination hearing this Committee has held on the position. Strengthening the PBGC was a big part of last year's legislation. So our being here today is an important step toward keeping the commitment we made to America's workers. 
   "I have three criteria for evaluating nominees: Do they have integrity to lead? The competence to manage a government agency? A commitment to the agency's goals and ideals? I have no reason to doubt your integrity. But I don't understand from your experience why you want to lead the PBGC and why this Administration picked you for the job. 
   "You have an interesting personal and professional background and have demonstrated commitment to public service by working for my dear friend Millie Fenwick, volunteering with VISTA [Volunteers in Service to America] and for various other admirable civic groups. But this experience doesn't seem particularly relevant to pension and retirement issues. Your more recent professional career has been based in economic development. But the PBGC isn't about economic development either. You wrote a column that dealt with controversial topics like the Pinochet era in Chile, gay marriage and abortion. But the PBGC doesn't deal with these issues either. So I'm puzzled about why you want this job. Your professional experience doesn't show that you have the pensions expertise to handle the challenges facing the PBGC, nor does it show that you're committed to the PBGC's mission to improve retirement security for Americans. 
   "We need to remember that the PBGC is ultimately about people - retired people who often can no longer work and have been let down by their employers. The PBGC has a responsibility to help them and we in Congress have the responsibility to watch over the PBGC. Everyone wants to retire with dignity and financial security, but retirement security in this country has been declining for decades. We need a strong PBGC to help reverse this damaging trend. 
   "The PBGC's job is to make sure retirees get the benefits they were promised. These retirees have worked hard for their retirement and they rely on their pensions to cover health care costs and provide a comfortable standard of living during retirement. The PBGC has a very important role in protecting millions of American's economic well-being. In order to serve those who rely on it, the PBGC needs to be better managed. 
   "The GAO [Government Accountability Office] doesn't think the PBGC and Department of Labor are working well together. It would be your responsibility as Director to do something about that. And, despite some improvement in recent years, the PBGC still faces a worrying $18 billion deficit. You would need to work to close this deficit so that the PBGC can continue to provide benefits without relying on a taxpayer-funded bail out. 
   "I know first-hand about what happens when we don't have a strong PBGC. When the PBGC took over the pensions of Bethlehem Steel retirees in 2002, there were serious problems, and Maryland workers and their families were treated unfairly. Because of clerical errors and bureaucratic bungling, the PBGC over calculated some retirees' benefits and is now trying to recoup what it paid out in error. This is a hardship on steelworkers who have already endured a great deal. 
   "I need to keep my promise to Maryland workers who were let down by the PBGC and I need you to understand what happened in my state and how it hurt my constituents. I want to know you share my dedication to preventing that from happening in the future. 
   "The PBGC is about more than guaranteeing pensions; it's about promises made to American workers. It needs a Director who has an unwavering commitment to keeping those promises, especially since we've already let down so many workers in the past. It needs a Director with the experience and expertise to deal with the serious challenges facing the Corporation. 
   "I stand with American workers and American employers who offer decent salaries and solid benefits. I need to make sure that is where you stand as well. Thank you again for your willingness to appear before the Committee and to serve your country through public service."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 