SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS H2B VISA ADVOCACY DAY
  Activists from around the country came to Washington, D.C., today to urge their members of Congress to co-sponsor Senators Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) and John Warner's (R-Va.) Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act of 2007 (S. 988), which provides a crucial five-year extension for the returning worker provision that was included in similar legislation that originally passed in 2005. 
   The Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, signed into law by President Bush in May 2005, made significant changes to the federal H2B (non-skilled seasonal worker) visa program. Among the changes, it exempted returning seasonal workers from counting against the national cap of 66,000 people, created new anti-fraud provisions, and ensured a fair allocation of H2B visas among spring and summer employees.
   The cap exemption provides significant relief to seasonal businesses, such as Maryland and Virginia's seafood and cannery industries, which often hire the same dependable workers every year. The provision is set to expire on September 30, 2007.
   "Senator Warner and I are doing everything we can to make sure the exemption is passed before its expiration. We are using every option available to move this as a stand alone bill or to attach it to another piece of legislation. I told small businesses they could count on me to keep fighting, and today they are bringing the fight to their elected representatives," said Senator Mikulski. "I have been fighting for years to help good guy businesses and workers wade through the unfair procedures that were part of the H2B visa process. Without these seasonal workers, many businesses would not survive - forced to limit services, lay off permanent U.S. workers or, worse yet, close their doors. This extension would protect workers, and gives us the time to continue working until we make this cap exemption permanent!"
   The bill has been referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee, but has not yet been considered for a vote. Several of the bill's sponsors, including Senators Mikulski, Warner, Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine), Susan M. Collins (R-Maine) and Carl Levin (D-Mich.), have sent a letter to Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), urging the committee's consideration and vote following the August recess.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 