SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS ON REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP TO PASS CRITICAL 2007 FUNDING BILL
Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), incoming Chairman of the Senate Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, today admonished Senate Republican leadership for failing to take up several lingering 2007 spending bills. The stalled bills include the 2007 CJS spending bill, which passed the bipartisan Senate Appropriations Committee and has been waiting for a vote on the Senate floor for six months. 
 The CJS spending bill includes critical funding to state and local law enforcement, provides increased resources to combat child predators, and enhances national security. On the Senate floor, Senator Mikulski highlighted the dangerous consequences that could result if the Senate fails to pass the bill before the 109th Congress adjourns. 
 Excerpts from Senator Mikulski's floor statement, as delivered, are below:  
 "We are abdicating our responsibility to pass the outstanding appropriations bills. We are having, I think, a very dire impact on our own country. Of the 12 Appropriations bills, only two have passed - one in Defense and one in Homeland Security. I'm so glad that we did pass those, and we did them in a responsible way and in a timely manner, and one can say, 'Well then, we've met our national security responsibilities.' Well, not the way this Senator sees it. "The responsibility for national security also comes from our own FBI, comes from local law enforcement, comes from our U.S. Attorneys' offices. And we're taking away from this. The voters have just said they want us to change the tone, and they want us to change the tempo. Well, I can honestly say that working in the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Subcommittee, we've had an outstanding tone. I'd like to compliment my current Chairman, the gentleman from Alabama, Senator Shelby. We worked so well in producing our Appropriations bill. We held hearings. The Senator from Alabama made sure I was consulted, along with my staff. We worked on what were compelling needs that needed to be funded, but in a fiscally responsible way. 
 "So our subcommittee doesn't need to change the tone. But, wow, do we need to change the tempo - and not because of what Shelby-Mikulski did. We did our bill. We finished it. We've moved it out of the committee. It is now ready to go to the Senate floor. We did it on a bipartisan basis where we feel confident, each one of us and our members, in the bill that we've produced. So we're ready to go. We're like a plane circling an airport. But I am telling you, we're running out of fuel. 
 "I'm concerned that particularly those programs affecting the FBI and law enforcement agencies, as well as the locals, from the FBI to the sheriff, are going to be shortchanged. 
 "We're cutting and running from our responsibility to fund the programs that meet compelling human needs in our own states, in our own country, as well as those things that help with security from national security to funding the FBI to the security in our own community. We're talking about meth and gangs, but I know you feel as strongly as I do about sexual predators. We've worked with Attorney General Gonzales in terms of a very good anti-sexual predator approach with tools that empower local law enforcement. We have a program called PEGASUS that helps sheriffs, so if we want to bring in the posses, we've got to bring in the bucks. What I like about the sheriff initiative, it is in every community, not only urban areas like Baltimore and Seattle, but out in our rural areas. 
 "I live, along with my constituents, in the National Capital Region. We are a high-risk area, and we're committed to national security. Whether it is the Port of Baltimore or whether it is Bethesda, whether it is the Naval Academy, whether it is looking out for their own family - we need these resources. Sure, we need to fund the Defense. Sure, we need to fund Homeland Security. But don't we need to fund the FBI? 
 "What does that mean? It means that the FBI will not be able to maintain the operations tempo they've achieved since September 11. It means that they will not be able to hire and keep the agents that they have. This is an outrageous thing. 
 "It is the basic kinds of things, in addition to the agents, that will directly impact our ability to fight terrorism here at home. Much was said during the 9/11 Commission about the famous watch list and then also emerging technology. Well now we've been working to merge and integrate systems between the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security - and what are we doing? Shortchanging these programs! 
 "What happens when we look at how the Global War On Terror is acting out in our own communities? I want to salute our U.S. Attorneys' offices. For them, this Continuing Resolution will mean that the U.S. Attorneys will be again shortchanged. In my own state, they run something called the Joint Terrorism Task Force. It's the U.S. Attorney that gets all of the stakeholders in the same room, providing important legal guidance to all of the police chiefs - certainly in the Baltimore area - involved in Port Security and local law enforcement. Our U.S. Attorneys run these task forces. The local people love it and they're part of the Global War on Terror because we don't have enough FBI agents. But with enough cops on the beat, we can do that. And what are we doing? We're shortchanging the U.S. Attorneys' offices. 
 "Now, let's go to the Bureau of Prisons. We're going to lose correctional officers under this. Right this minute, we're very concerned about the fact that right now in our federal prisons there could be underground recruitment efforts going on to recruit people for terrorism, or to recruit them for these Latin American gangs, like MS-13. Talk to the head of the Bureau of Prisons, talk to the Attorney General. We've got to stand sentry at our own federal prisons so they do not become the incubator not only of thugs, but of terrorists and terrorizing gangs in our local community. 
 "Now, come on. We've got to get serious. Are we going to fight the Global War On Terror? Or are we going to cut and run from Appropriations? Are we going to stand up for our FBI or are we going to cut and run from our duty? Are we going to stand up for federal law enforcement like the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms explosives that are working here that helped us catch the sniper. 
 "Are we going to stand up for the DEA that's fighting drugs on the street corners of our community and dealing with the drug problem in Afghanistan? I oppose this strategy. I oppose this 'Do-Nothing Congress.' I oppose the fact that we could do the job. I worked with my Republican colleague and I must say, he worked with me. We don't have to worry about changing the tone. But we sure have to change the tempo, and that's why the voters made a change in the Congress. So we're going to have to swallow this, but I will tell you, they can count on Barb Mikulski not to cut and run from her duty, her responsibility, and fighting the Global War On Terror and the thugs and bums on our streets in America."
 Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 