SEN. MIKULSKI INNOVATION TOUR LOOKS AT PROGRAMS TO INCREASE U.S. ARMY EFFECTIVENESS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) made the sixth stop on her military innovation tour today with a visit to the AAI Corporation where she announced $182 million in federal funding for two essential programs: Lightweight Small Arms Technologies (LSAT) and Shadow Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (TUAVs). Both programs are dedicated to developing new tools to make our Soldiers more effective. AAI Corporation, founded in 1950, is a global corporation whose products and services include an array of innovative defense technologies.  
   "A stronger America begins at home. My innovation tour is about highlighting the work being done in Maryland to develop the tools and resources for a safer, stronger, smarter American military," said Senator Mikulski. "Today, we are seeing how AAI is supporting the development of smarter technology that will make our Army safer, faster and more efficient." 
   The Senator has visited several military facilities on her multi-city tour of Maryland. The tour addresses the development of smarter tools for our military, new jobs for the state and innovative technology that will protect our troops. 
   Senator Mikulski announced that $8 million will fund research and development of the LSAT program for the Army. The program will reduce the weight of the M249 Squad Automatic Weapon (SAW), a hand-held combat machine gun, by 30-40 percent. It also seeks to develop a replacement for the SAW that is not only lighter, but reproducible in large numbers, easy to operate and maintain, and reliable in all weather and conditions. 
   Since 2000, Senator Mikulski has secured more than $33 million in additional funding for AAI's TUAV program. Today's announcement includes more than $174 million to continue the development of this vehicle, which was designed to be Army ground commanders' primary tool for day and night reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition. The program recently received a "special achievement award" from the Department of Defense for meeting all operational readiness/availability, weapons system availability and mission success requirements. 
   A senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Defense Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski fought for this funding as part of the 2006 Defense spending bill pending in the U.S. Senate. The bill is expected to be sent to the President for his signature before Congress recesses for the session.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 