SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS STIMULUS PACKAGE FOR WORKING AMERICANS IS ONE VOTE AWAY
  As the Senate considers its version of a stimulus package in the face of a looming economic crisis, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) went to the Senate floor today to call for support of the Senate Finance Committee's amendment, which fell one vote short of passage last night. The amendment focuses on a fix for American families, seniors and veterans. This is the fifth in a series of steps Senator Mikulski is taking to help families struggling with the unstable job and housing markets and the high costs of gas, energy and health care. Senator Mikulski called on Republicans to stop obstructing the economic stimulus package from reaching the families who need it.  
   "Last month, we lost 17,000 jobs. Families are losing their homes because of the mortgage crisis and the cost of food, gas and health care is going up," Senator Mikulski. "Last night what we had was a plan to move the economy forward. One vote stands between the American people and some help during these tough times. I want to thank the eight Republicans who voted with us last night to move the bill forward. We need one more Senator to join us, one more Senator who will stand up for the people, for families, for seniors, for wounded warriors. And we need one more vote against politics as usual." 
   Video of Senator Mikulski's floor statement will be available on Pathfire's Digital Media Gateway later today. Instructions to access Pathfire's content can be found at: www.mikulski.senate.gov/pdfs/pathfire.pdf.
   To hear and/or broadcast a radio actuality of Senator Mikulski's floor speech, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 2074 or go to http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski080207.mp3 to download a high-quality mp3.
  Senator Mikulski's statement, as delivered, is below: 
   "I want to talk about the stimulus package, the economy and the United States Senate. I'm very frustrated with the United States Senate, spending a week maneuvering and twisting over parliamentary procedure. Our processes are slowing us down from meeting day-to-day needs of the American people and the long-range needs of our country. 
   "Our country is at risk, fighting a war against terrorism, our dollar is worth a box of Kleenex, and we need an economic stimulus package and we are fooling around with motions to procedure and cloture and backwards and forwards and so on. The American people wonder, 'what are we doing?' They believe when all is said and done, more gets said, than gets done, and guess what? Put me in the column with the American people. I am very frustrated with this institution. The rules were designed to make sure that the minority party could always be able to express their view. Well, that should happen. But it was not to bottle up progress. It was not to stifle the opportunity to get our economy back on track. It was not to tie the United States Senate up so we couldn't help 250,000 vets, 20 million senior citizens and actually get money in the pocket of people so we could start getting our economy back on track. Everyone agrees we need to jump-start our economy. Everyone agrees we need to do it now. Everybody, but the other side of the aisle that is sitting on its hands and sitting on its parliamentary procedure and sitting on you know what. 
   "I think it's time they get up and I call out to the people, flood our phones, get them off of this, and get this economy going. We know that we're being very hard hit. Last month, we lost 17,000 jobs. Families are losing their homes because of the mortgage crisis and the cost of food, gas and health care is going up. 
   "We voted last night on a parliamentary procedure to move this forward and it lost by one vote. Did it lose on a majority? No, under the rules of the United States Senate you need 60 votes to win. I thought the majority used to be the majority. Now we find that one vote - one vote is standing in the way of moving the economic stimulus package. Well, I say to America, you watch cable TV, you watch the chattering class and read the newspapers. You know where that one vote lies. You see those empty chairs? One vote lies there. Flood us with phone calls. Flood our internet. Flood our fax so we can get moving. 
   "Last night what we had was a plan to move the economy forward. It was a well thought-out plan - tax rebates to help families and that included 250,000 disabled veterans and 20 million seniors. At the same time, we extended unemployment insurance for an extra 13 weeks because people have lost their jobs and it is now taking a longer time to find those jobs. And we help small business. Last night, we Democrats voted to stand up for those disabled vets, for the senior citizens, to make sure they would have the opportunity to be able to benefit from the stimulus, because they have such modest incomes, the money they get will go right into the economy. It won't go into paying the bar bill for someone who has a fifth home in the Hamptons, but it will go into the economy. 
   "Now, this bill helps 250,000 disabled vets. They saw they didn't qualify because they didn't have earned-income. My God! My God! I have a Veterans' Advisory Board. I meet with the disabled vets. Some of them belong to the Purple Heart Association. Some come in wheelchairs. Some come with canes because they have permanent wounds of war. We always say a grateful nation never forgets. We forget them in the stimulus package. We forgot 250,000 of them. If a grateful nation never forgets, let's say we think you earned that. We think you earned that at Normandy, and at Pork Chop Hill and in Mekong Delta. If you have worn the uniform you have earned it. 
   "And now we want to help 20 million seniors out because they say those Social Security benefits aren't earned-income. Well, you pay your Social Security based on your wages. I think that's earned-income. Every day there are people out there working or who had worked every day. They spent their whole lives building our economy, building our nation. 
   "What they need right now is set what they should be entitled for. And people say, 'there she goes again. Barb has a master's degree in social work.' You bet I do! That social work took me into the neighborhoods and families of our constituents. As a Senator, I often try to think that way. Well, everybody here likes to talk about the macroeconomic and take CODELs to Davos to hang out with the rich and the famous who want to be even richer and more famous. 
   "I worry about the macro, but also the macaroni and cheese issues. And the macaroni and cheese issues say, we have to focus on what's happening to our economy. I just don't want to be a bleeding heart, though I'm happy to be a bleeding heart. I'm happy to be a bleeding heart. But I looked at something called Moodys.com. It tells you where you get the most stimulus for what techniques you use to do the stimulus. What do they tell us? Give it to the people who need it the most. Extend unemployment benefits and then extend other benefits like heating, LIHEAP [Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program], which helps people with their energy costs. Now, 41 Republicans blocked this bill. They called it a Christmas tree. They said it was loaded with pet projects. Well, yes, disabled vets are a pet project with me. I stand guilty. Disabled veterans are a pet project with me. Clean up the mess at Walter Reed. Clean up the compensation system. Include them in the stimulus package. You bet. And also, I resent that. Disabled veterans are not ornaments or decorations. They are heroes and they are the backbone of our country. 
   "One vote stands between the American people and some help during these tough times. I want to thank the eight Republicans who voted with us last night to move the bill forward, so we could vote on amendments up and down. We need one more Senator to join us, one more Senator who will stand up for the people, for families, for seniors, for wounded warriors. And we need one more vote against politics as usual. I say over there, to those empty chairs, will one of you come forward and join us?"
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 