SEN. MIKULSKI, MEMBERS OF TEAM MARYLAND FIGHT FOR BALTIMORE HERITAGE AREA
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today led members of the Maryland congressional delegation in introducing the Baltimore National Heritage Area Act. This bill designates the Baltimore Heritage Area (BHA) as a National Park Service (NPS) National Heritage Area (NHA) with $10 million in federal funding over 15 years. Joining Senator Mikulski in co-sponsoring the legislation were Team Maryland colleagues Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Congressmen Albert Wynn, Elijah E. Cummings, Chris Van Hollen and John Sarbanes.  
   NHAs are congressionally designated cultural and historical places of national significance. These areas receive technical and financial assistance from the NPS in order to preserve their history and increase tourism. The BHA will be able to use these funds to develop educational exhibits and programs, and protect and restore historic sites and buildings. 
   The BHA is home to 24 national historic landmarks, 53,000 buildings in National Register historic districts, 8,000 buildings in local historic districts, 12 Chesapeake Bay Gateways, five Maryland Scenic Byways and an All-American Road. The heritage area includes such neighborhoods as Druid Hill Park, Fells Point, Oliver, Jonestown, Little Italy, Mount Vernon, Canton, Patterson Park, Jones Falls Valley and Locust Point. 
   "I am proud to be from a city with such a rich heritage and culture as Baltimore. This bill honors our key role in American history for generations to come," said Senator Mikulski. "We need a federal investment to preserve Baltimore's national treasures and Maryland's historical integrity." 
   "I strongly support establishing a Baltimore National Heritage Area to help us share our rich historic and cultural heritage with the rest of America," said Senator Cardin. "From Fort McHenry to the U.S.S. Constellation to the home of Frederick Douglass, Baltimore is one of our nation's premier historic cities, and this designation will enable all Americans to honor and treasure our past." 
   "The City of Baltimore is an important part of our nation's history and a central part of Maryland's economic and maritime heritage. These designated neighborhoods embody the antiquity and spirit of Maryland. I am proud to join my colleagues from Maryland in preserving this heritage of our state for many generations to come," said Congressman Wynn. 
   "I have spent my entire life surrounded by the rich history and diverse cultures that embody the lifeblood of Baltimore City," Congressman Cummings said. "I am honored to be the lead sponsor on the House version of this bill, to ensure that we can safeguard these fortunes for generations to come." 
   "The Baltimore region is rich in unique historical, natural, and cultural characteristics," said Congressman Van Hollen. "This legislation will highlight the wonderful traits of the region and ensure that the story of Baltimore is preserved and treasured." 
   "The role that Baltimore played in shaping American history is one that deserves to be retold," said Congressman Sarbanes. "Baltimore is a city with vast cultural and historic resources. This heritage area designation will link these resources together in a way that encourages more people to visit Baltimore and learn more about one of America's greatest cities."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 