SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS VA POLICY BREAKS FAITH WITH VETERANS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today expressed outrage after learning of a new Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) policy that forces Baltimore veterans to travel to Washington, D.C., for radiation treatment instead of being treated at the Baltimore VA Medical Center. In a letter to VA Secretary R. James Nicholson, Sen. Mikulski urged a reversal of this policy, which will force gravely ill veterans, many of whom are also elderly, to travel more than two hours each day for care that is easily available to them in their hospital and community.  
   The full text of the letter is below: 
   Dear Secretary Nicholson, 
   I am outraged that the Veterans Administration is forcing our most seriously ill veterans to travel miles from home to receive the care we promised them. To save money, the VA is directing cancer patients to faraway VA hospitals, rather than the hospitals that serve their communities. This policy flies in the face of the VA's mission to provide the best possible health care, and it breaks our promise to our veterans. 
   I learned about this new policy from veterans who have been cared for by the VA Medical Center in Baltimore. Until recently, VA patients who needed radiation oncology care were treated by the world-class University of Maryland Medical Center. This hospital is attached to the Baltimore VA hospital by an indoor bridge - it is across a single Baltimore street. The University hospital has a top-notch program and its staff has given our veterans superb care. 
   Recently, to save money, the VA has begun to send Baltimore's cancer patients to Washington, D.C. for radiation treatment. This policy is forcing gravely ill veterans, many who are also elderly, to travel more than two hours each day for care that is easily available to them in their community hospital. This heartless and mindless approach is creating new burdens for more than 200 patients at the Baltimore VA, and hundreds more seriously-ill veterans across our nation. How can you support a policy that is jeopardizing the health and well-being of our veterans? 
   Our promises made to our nation's veterans must be kept. This policy breaks faith with our most vulnerable veterans, and it should be reversed.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 