SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS NOAA'S WEATHER SERVICE IS CRITICAL TO MARYLAND, NATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), the senior Democrat on the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, today raised questions about how the federal government can make a greater federal investment in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA), National Weather Service. This morning, Vice Admiral Conrad C. Lautenbacher Jr., NOAA's Administrator, and Dr. Louis W. Uccellini, Director of NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Prediction, testified before committee members on Capitol Hill. This week marks the start of the 2006 hurricane season. 
   "I'm so proud of NOAA's Weather Service, which is critical to protecting people, their homes and their property," said Senator Mikulski. "The nation depends on the Weather Service to help local weather forecasters get it right so our citizens can secure their property and get their families out of harms way."  
   Earlier this week, Senator Mikulski visited NOAA's Centers for Environmental Prediction in Camp Springs, Md., for a demonstration of the new hurricane prediction technology in development. 
   "We have a tremendous national asset right here in Maryland. The Camp Springs facility is the brain center of the Weather Service, where new technologies are developed and tested to improve forecasting in the future," said Senator Mikulski. "Without Camp Springs, the Hurricane Center in Miami could not do its job." 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement from today's hearing, as prepared, is below: 
   "I am pleased to be holding this hearing today on NOAA's role in forecasting and warning about hurricanes. I welcome Admiral Lautenbacher, Administrator of NOAA and Dr. Louis W. Uccellini, Director of NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Prediction. This is a very timely hearing since it's the first week of hurricane season. 
   "NOAA predicted a very active 2006 Atlantic hurricane season with four - six major hurricanes of Category 3 or higher. That means wind speeds above 111 mph, winds strong enough to damage homes and enough flooding to cut off evacuation routes. This is fewer than the seven major hurricanes of 2005, but survivors of Hurricane Katrina will tell us it only takes one hurricane to threaten lives and communities. 
   "On Monday, I visited NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Prediction in Camp Springs, Md. What a tremendous national asset! NOAA's Centers for Environmental Prediction develops and operates models for forecasters to predict where hurricanes will make landfall, how intense hurricanes will be and how much flooding hurricanes will cause after they make landfall. Models are the roadmaps for weather forecasters nationwide and Camp Springs creates the models used by the Hurricane Center in Miami to forecast and warn. Without the experts in Camp Springs, the Hurricane Center could not do its job and citizens would not get warnings to secure their property and get out of harms way. 
   "I saw a demonstration of the new hurricane model that this subcommittee funded after Hurricane Katrina. After Hurricane Katrina, we put $1 million in the federal checkbook to accelerate development of the next generation hurricane forecast model. The new model was developed in Camp Springs. It is in dress rehearsal this hurricane season and will go live next year. This new model is expected to improve hurricane forecasting, including improving the prediction of landfall accuracy by 20 percent and intensity accuracy by 30 percent. 
   "This is so important because every mile of coastline evacuated during a hurricane costs local economies $1 million. Today, we can predict hurricane landfall within 120 miles. The new model will get us within 96 miles. That's a 20 percent improvement. So in the future, local communities will save $24 million in prevented evacuation costs every time a hurricane makes landfall. I'm so proud of NOAA's work in Maryland, which contributes to national safety. 
   "My goals for this hearing are twofold. First, I want to know how the subcommittee can stand sentry over NOAA's national assets that save lives and protect property everyday including during hurricane season. These assets include: people - like forecasters and other experts who read and analyze data, and who we need to be able to hire and retain; and infrastructure and technology - like radar, satellites, sensors, aircraft, supercomputers, and weather forecast offices. 
   "Second, I want to hear how the subcommittee can help improve NOAA's forecasting capabilities through the use of innovative new technologies. How can we make the Weather Service better, faster and stronger to improve forecasting to benefit our national economy and save lives? 
   "When it comes to hurricanes, we need to know - where will the hurricane make landfall? How strong and dangerous will the hurricane be? How big will the wall of water be? How far will waves travel inland? How much flooding will the rain cause after the hurricane makes landfall? 
   "This information is critical to emergency managers so they can warn communities, so families can secure their homes and get out of harm's way. The better we are at predicting a storm's intensity, surge and inland flooding, the better we can protect communities and families. 
   "I'm so proud of NOAA's Weather Service. Their work is critical to protecting people, their homes and their property. The nation depends on the Weather Service to help local weather forecasters get it right so our citizens can secure their property and get their families out of harms way. 
   "Our industry and our economy depend on NOAA. One-third of our gross domestic product (GDP) is weather sensitive - $3 trillion. That's why I'm fighting in the US Senate to make sure NOAA is a priority in the federal checkbook so we have the funding needed for the latest technology to keep improving our weather forecasts. 
   "I look forward to hearing from our witnesses about how we can help NOAA improve hurricane forecasting. Because the better we predict, the better we protect."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 