SEN. MIKULSKI TO REMOVE CONTROVERSIAL GUN TRACING RESTRICTION FROM CJS SPENDING BILL
  In order to more effectively fight violent crime, Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today said she will remove language, known as the "Tiahrt amendment" from this year's CJS spending bill. The amendment, originally authored by Rep. Todd Tiahrt (R-Kansas) in 2003, limits law enforcement from sharing gun tracing information and prevents it from being used in issuing warrants and prosecuting gun-related crimes.  
   "Law enforcement agencies work hard every day to prevent crime and keep our neighborhoods safe. I am committed to giving them the tools they need to clean up the streets, protect our families, and fight the crime that is destroying neighborhoods and ruining dreams," said Senator Mikulski. "America's enforcement agencies work around the clock to keep this country safe. It is time to remove this provision to help bring corrupt gun dealers to justice." 
   Chairman Mikulski has consistently expressed her commitment to looking for ways for the federal government to help law enforcement agencies keep our kids and our communities safe. A coalition of mayors, including New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Baltimore City Mayor Sheila Dixon, have advocated for the provision's removal. 
   "At a time when techno-savvy law enforcement is helping keep us safe, I am shocked to hear that Virginia and Maryland authorities can't have access to the same information to track down a gun dealer selling illegal weapons on our streets," said Senator Mikulski. "My role in this is more than just putting money in the federal checkbook - removing this language will fundamentally give police what they need to do their job." 
   The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) operates the National Trace Center, which stores information on gun sales around the country, including a gun's serial number, make, model, seller and buyer. When a gun crime is committed, police can use this data to trace where the gun was bought, who sold the gun, and who manufactured the gun. The Tiahrt amendment, which has been carried in the CJS bill since 2004, prohibits ATF from sharing information with police departments that are outside the jurisdiction of the gun-related crime. 
   ATF has confirmed that corrupt gun dealers are the primary source of guns in the illegal market. Also, indications have shown that lawsuits are the best tool to shutting these dealers down. Bureau data reports that 60 percent of guns used in crimes can be traced to 1 percent of the nation's gun dealers. Removing the Tiahrt provision will dramatically improve ATF's ability to crack down on rogue dealers.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 