SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON PROMISE TO FIGHT FOR IMPACT AID INCREASE
  After hearing of its importance from local county leaders around Maryland, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today delivered on her promise to fight for an increase in federal Impact Aid. In a letter to Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) and Ranking Member Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), Sen. Mikulski requested that the fiscal year 2008 budget include $1.328 billion for the Impact Aid program, returning it to its fiscal year 2005 funding level. President Bush's fiscal year 2008 budget freezes Impact Aid funding for the third year in a row at $1.228 billion. 
   Senator Mikulski has met with several of Maryland's incoming and returning local leaders since January to discuss the impact of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Commission's 2005 recommendations. In light of the expected increase of students, Senator Mikulski believes fully funding Impact Aid will allow more county funds to support BRAC-implementation efforts.  
   "BRAC brings opportunities, but it also brings great challenges. We need to focus on how federal dollars can help the state and our counties. The President's budget ignores the impact these funds have on our schools in Maryland," said Senator Mikulski. "One of the reasons we were so successful with BRAC is that we worked together. Now Team Maryland will move forward to provide the resources our communities need to accommodate the thousands of families coming to our state." 
   The Impact Aid program provides federal funding to school districts that have increased enrollment due to "federally connected children." These are students who have a parent who is either a member of the Armed Forces who lives and/or works on a military base, or who is a civilian contractor who works on a military base or other federally owned land. This also includes children residing on Indian lands or federally-owned low-rent housing facilities. Impact Aid funds can be used for school construction, hiring new teachers, and updating technology. 
   "The BRAC announcements were great news for Maryland and the nation. They were a testament to the strength of Maryland's military bases, our military and the communities that support them," said Senator Mikulski. "But we must now work together to help Maryland address the increased demands on our communities." 
   It is estimated that Maryland will receive at least an additional 4,000 federally connected students between 2007 and 2011, with Harford and Anne Arundel County school districts being among the most heavily impacted. 
   The text of Senator Mikulski's letter is below: 
   Dear Chairman Conrad and Ranking Member Gregg, 
   I am writing to respectfully request $1.328 billion for the Impact Aid program in the fiscal year 2008 budget resolution. This is an increase of $100 million over fiscal years 2007 and 2006 funding levels. This request adjusts Impact Aid funding for inflation and returns it to the fiscal year 2005 level. An additional $100 million would provide just enough funding for school districts to adequately serve the 15 million students enrolled in federally connected school districts across the country. 
   The Impact Aid program provides critical funding to school districts who educate federally connected students. These students include military children, children residing on Indian lands, and children residing on federally-owned low rent housing facilities. School districts lose half of their tax revenue when businesses and homes are located on federal land. Impact Aid is designed so that school districts serving federally connected children have the resources they need to provide these students with a quality education. Impact Aid is especially important in Maryland because the state is home to so many critical federal government and military facilities. Without adequate Impact Aid funding, local county governments are forced to take money away from other vital education programs, such as support services for children with special needs, professional development for our teachers, and technology upgrades for our classrooms. 
   Right now, there are eleven school districts in Maryland serving nearly 40,000 federally connected students. That number is expected to increase significantly in Maryland and across the country over the next four years due to the Department of Defense's Global Re-basing initiatives, including Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). This means that 40,000 additional students will be eligible under the Impact Aid program nationwide, including over 4,000 students in Maryland. This will aggravate the existing needs of schools serving federally connected students who are already operating without adequate resources. If we continue to underfund Impact Aid, school districts will be forced to cut or eliminate important programs. 
   I share your interest in restoring fiscal discipline to the budget process and realize that the Committee will be working under significant budget constraints this year. However, I appreciate your consideration of this very important and vital program for schools serving federally connected children in the state of Maryland and across the country.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 