SEN. MIKULSKI TOURS CHESAPEAKE INNOVATION CENTER
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today visited the Nation's first homeland security incubator - the Chesapeake Innovation Center. Sen.  
 Mikulski toured the facility and met with member companies and their staff about their partnerships with federal facilities, including the National Security Agency. 
   The Chesapeake Innovation Center is a business accelerator focused on providing the government and the private sector with the leading and cutting-edge technologies. It fosters relationships between small businesses, the government and major homeland security and defense contractors, and then works to move the innovative products to the market quickly. 
   "I'm fighting in the Senate for a safer, stronger and smarter Maryland and America," said Senator Mikulski. "That's what they are doing here at the Chesapeake Innovation Center: creating the products that keep America safer, through small businesses that make our economy stronger and produce the smarter tools to secure the homeland. I am going to keep fighting in the United States Senate for an innovation economy." 
   Senator Mikulski serves on several key Senate Subcommittees responsible for funding Homeland Security, Defense, and Commerce initiatives. The Senator was just named Ranking Member (senior Democrat) on the newly reorganized Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, which is responsible for funding key agencies including the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), NASA, National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Small Business Administration. She also serves as a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
   "As the new Ranking Member on the Science, State, Justice and Commerce subcommittee I will have new opportunities to fight for issues of importance to Marylanders and Americans - job creation, safe communities, science, space exploration and technology," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 