BALTIMORE/WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT TO RECEIVE $10 MILLION TO UPGRADE SECURITY
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that Baltimore/Washington International Airport (BWI) is slated to receive $10 million to help pay for a new, state-of-the-art, in-line baggage screening system. The system is being installed in the Airport's new Terminal A/B facility, which is scheduled to open this spring and will house Southwest Airlines.  
   In August of 2004, Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes asked then-Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge to release federal funds to help defray the security costs of the new terminal for Southwest Airlines. The Senators wrote, "The Administration's recent decision to raise our Nation's threat level to Code Orange...is a sobering reminder of the significant challenges we face in securing our homeland against potential terrorist attacks. As one of the three large hub airports servicing the Washington National Capital Region, we cannot afford to delay implementation of these critical security improvements at BWI." (See copy of letter attached) 
   "I'm so proud that BWI will receive a federal investment in these critical security upgrades," said Senator Mikulski. "Every day in the United States Senate I fight to make sure we are doing things safer and smarter; that's why I asked the Department of Homeland Security to release these funds. I'm pleased that the Transportation Security Administration has recognized the needs at BWI. These funds will go a long way to keep Americans safer when they fly." 
   "With BWI growing by leaps and bounds, in large part due to the on-going expansion activities of Southwest Airlines, it is important that we move forward with these critically needed security improvements at BWI for the safety and enhanced convenience of the traveling public," said Senator Paul S. Sarbanes. 
   BWI has experienced a 12% increase in passenger traffic over the last 12 months, and industry predictions are that this growth will continue at 10-12% per year for the next 3-5 years. In 2004, Southwest Airlines was the biggest carrier at BWI and its continued growth necessitated construction that included an in-line baggage screening system.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122.
 
 