SEN. MIKULSKI VISITS BLACKWATER REFUGE, PLEDGES TO CONTINUE FIGHTING FOR ESSENTIAL FEDERAL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) toured the Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge this weekend with Director Glen Carowan, and renewed her pledge to continue working in the U.S. Senate for necessary federal funds to protect and restore the valuable Maryland site.  
   "The Blackwater Refuge is one of Maryland's unique treasures which helps to support the Eastern Shore's economy as well as to provide an engaging environment for both residents and visitors," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight in the Senate with my colleague, Senator Sarbanes, for federal funds that can serve as investments in our heritage and quality of life." 
   Over the years, Senator Mikulski has fought for more than $5.4 million in federal funding for Blackwater. Funds have helped to eradicate nutria from the refuge, upgrade the roads and facilities and, most recently, to study the potential for restoring eroded segments of the refuge with dredged material. 
   This year, Senator Mikulski and Senator Paul S. Sarbanes (D-Md.) secured $500,000 to initiate a feasibility study for restoring marshland at the refuge as part of the U.S. Senate's Energy and Water 2006 spending bill. More than 8,000 acres of valuable marshlands have been lost at Blackwater since 1933. The bill was passed by the full Senate and differences between the House and Senate versions are now being reconciled before it is sent to President Bush for his signature. 
   Senators Mikulski and Sarbanes also succeeded in fighting for $1.5 million to complete the new Visitor's Center, and for trail and road improvements throughout the refuge. The funding was included in the Transportation Reauthorization bill and signed into law in August. 
   Blackwater was originally established in the early 1930s as a refuge for migratory waterfowl. Since that time, the 27,000-acre refuge has become one of the principal wintering areas for Canada geese using the Atlantic Flyway. It is also home to the endangered Delmarva Fox Squirrel, osprey, the peregrine falcon and the American bald eagle. Blackwater is a major tourist attraction for Maryland's Dorchester County and Eastern Shore with close to 500,000 people visiting every year.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 