SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES WORKING TO PROTECT HIGH-RISK NON-PROFITS FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski and Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) announced that both the House and the Senate have given final approval and sent to President Bush for his signature the 2006 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill. The bill includes federal funding to help protect high-risk non-profit institutions from terrorist attacks. This $25 million is an important victory for institutions that provide vital health, social, cultural and educational services to the nation and are often the soft targets of terrorism.  
   "We must help protect our hospitals, schools, community centers, synagogues and churches from terrorist violence," said Senator Mikulski. "This is a federal investment in added security to help protect organizations at risk of terrorist attacks. Know that I will keep fighting to protect institutions that are vital to our communities and the physical, social, spiritual and educational well-being of all Americans." 
   "This funding will be critically important in making needed infrastructure safety improvements and protecting those citizens who work in non-profit institutions that may be deemed 'high risk' in our continued war on terrorism," said Senator Sarbanes. "Senator Mikulski has been a champion in this effort and I applaud her work in keeping our people safe." 
   This $25 million in federal funding would go to the Homeland Security Department's Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness to distribute to high-risk non-profit organizations. The non-profits will use the federal funds for much-needed security enhancements, such as concrete barriers. 
   Senator Mikulski has worked for the past two years to secure funding for high-risk non-profits. Last year, Senator Mikulski offered an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security bill that would have provided $50 million in federal funding for these non-profits. She was able to retain half of this funding - $25 million - in negotiations with the House of Representatives. Senator Mikulski's efforts received broad national support from groups such as United Jewish Communities, Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, American Red Cross, United Way, American Hospital Association, American Association of Museums, National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), American Jewish Congress, Theatre Communications Group, and YMCA of the USA. 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee. Senator Sarbanes is a member of the Budget Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 