SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO ENSURE HIGH THREAT AREAS RECEIVE CRITICAL HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDING
  In an effort to make sure high threat areas receive much-needed funds for homeland security initiatives, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today offered an amendment to delete language in the Homeland Security appropriations bill that requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to distribute federal grants based on population - instead of risk or other factors. The amendment, offered in today's Conference Committee meeting on the FY05 Homeland Security appropriations bill, failed on a voice vote.  
   This year's bill includes new language that limits the Secretary of Homeland Security's ability to take into account new information, threats and risks to certain areas of the country when allocating homeland security funds. Deleting this language would have restored the Secretary's discretion to take risk factors into account. 
   "The new language included in the Homeland Security bill is directly contrary to the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. The Secretary of Homeland Security must have flexibility to respond to evolving threats. When the Department raises the terror alert level for very specific areas of the country, as it did last month for Washington D.C., New York and New Jersey, the Secretary must not be shackled by a statutory requirement that prevents him from allocating resources to respond to new threats," said Mikulski. "My own state of Maryland is part of the National Capital Region. We are high-threat and high-risk. While it is appropriate for some funds to be allocated on a per capita basis, there is an urgent need for homeland security money in high threat areas." 
   In its report, the 9-11 Commission stated: "We understand the contention that every state and city needs to have some minimum infrastructure for emergency response. But federal homeland security assistance should not remain a program for general revenue sharing. It should supplement state and local resources based on the risks or vulnerability that merit additional support." 
   In his budget submission to Congress earlier this year, President Bush requested that formula-based homeland security grants be allocated to states "based on population concentrations, critical infrastructures, and other significant terrorism risk factors, as determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security." Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge urged Congress to adopt President Bush's language in the FY05 Homeland Security appropriations bill. 
   Senator Mikulski's amendment did not affect the state minimum guarantee included in the "Patriot Act" which says that 0.75% of the total amount appropriated for homeland security grants is allocated to all states.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 