SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE MONTGOMERY COUNTY FIRST RESPONDERS TO RECEIVE FEDERAL INVESTMENT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski and Sen. Paul Sarbanes (both D-Md.) announced today that both the House and Senate have given final approval and sent to President Bush for his signature the 2006 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill. The bill includes funding for the Urban Search and Rescue Task Force (USAR) in Montgomery County, Md. This year's $20 million in funding, to be distributed to the local forces, is a $13 million increase from the President's budget.  
   "Montgomery County's USAR is our on-the-ground team in the case of a national emergency," said Senator Mikulski. "On September 11, they raced into the Pentagon, risking life and limb to save the lives of so many others. But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment, training and resources. That's why I am so proud to have fought for a federal investment in our federal government's frontline first responders." 
   "Our region is highly vulnerable to terrorist incidents and our first responders have worked diligently to keep us safe," said Senator Sarbanes. "This new infusion of funding being made available to Montgomery County's Task Force will help to further prepare them by ensuring that they have the resources they need to respond to future terrorist attacks." 
   The Montgomery County Task Force is a member of a framework designed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for structuring local emergency personnel into integrated disaster response task forces. These task forces, complete with necessary equipment and specialized training and skills, are deployed by FEMA in times of catastrophic structural collapse. This team responded to the attack on the Pentagon on September 11, 2001. 
   FEMA teams organize existing search and rescue capability into a national program that can quickly deploy to an event. Teams like the Montgomery County Task Force have additional training, and must be able to deploy within six hours and to sustain themselves for 72 hours. 
   Senator Mikulski has advocated strongly for Montgomery County's USAR, writing in a June 2005 letter to the Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, "This letter is intended to reaffirm [my] continued support for this vital program and request your assistance in funding these dedicated teams at last year's level of $30 million dollars for...maintenance, upgrades and enhancements that they so sorely need." 
   Senator Mikulski is a member of the Appropriations Committee. Senator Sarbanes is a member of the Budget Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 