SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON IMPLEMENTING 9-11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS FOR REFORM AT INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, took part in today's hearing Intelligence Community reform and implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. Testifying at today's hearing were 9/11 Commission Co-Chairs Lee H. Hamilton and Thomas H. Kean, as well as Commissioner John F. Lehman. 
   Following is Senator Mikulski's opening statement at today's hearing:
   "There is much important work to do on intelligence reform. It will require many members of Congress on many committees working together. You're [9/11 Commission members] testifying to a lot of different Committees because what you have to say is so important. Thank you for being here today. 
   9/11 Families Got the Job Done 
   "This Committee held a hearing on proposals to create a Director of National Intelligence, including Senator Feinstein's bill that I cosponsored in late July.
   "Congress is coming back into session today after a long August recess, but for a lot of us it wasn't a vacation. I was here for the Senate Intelligence Committee's hearing with outside experts on intelligence reform. I was also here to join the Governmental Affairs Committee for a very important hearing with 9/11 families, including Mary Fetchet, Stephen Push and Kristen Breitweiser who testified on behalf of all the 9/11 families. 
   "America owes the 9/11 families gratitude and appreciation. They suffered the loss of loved ones. Sixty Marylanders were among the more than 3,000 people who died that day. They have been such a strong voice for taking action to make America safer so other American families do not lose loved ones to terrorism. "The 9/11 families were unflinching and unflagging for three years. They pushed and prodded to make sure there was a 9/11Commission, despite opposition from powerful quarters. And they stood sentry to make sure the Commission investigation was rigorous, thorough and independent.
   9/11 Commission Got the Job Done 
   "America owes the 9/11 Commissioners gratitude and appreciation. They approached their work with integrity, independence, and intellectual rigor. They did in the sunshine what we on the House and Senate Intelligence Committees did in the classified setting of our Joint Inquiry on 9/11. Thank you for your service to the nation.
   Administration and Congress Need to Get the Job Done 
   "The families did their part. The Commission did its part. Now it's time for the Administration and Congress to work just as hard - with the same effort to build a bipartisan consensus and the same commitment to reform - to make America safer.
   "We need a sense of urgency and we need to get it right.
   Intelligence Community Reform
   "I came to the Intelligence Committee as a reformer. Senator Bob Graham asked me to join the Committee in spring 2001 to work on modernizing signals intelligence. The NSA is undergoing real transformation and modernization. Reform has real momentum at NSA. We need that same momentum throughout our intelligence community, and right here in the Congress.
   "Even before the 9/11 Commission report, I joined with Senator Feinstein on a bill to create a Director of National Intelligence. I joined with Senator Snowe on a bill to create an Inspector General for the Intelligence Community.
   "Our colleague Senator Kerry has pointed out that of the 9/11 Commission's recommendations: 16 can be done by the President; 9 can be done by the President with funding; and 16 require Congressional action.
   "We in Congress must look at ourselves and how Congressional oversight of intelligence is structured. Our focus should be on preventing terrorism, not protecting turf."
   Three Rs
   "I believe we need to focus on three Rs: reform, resources, and relentlessness to accomplish both. We need to reform the intelligence community and provide the resources to protect our nation. One thing we can do right now is act on the Homeland Security Appropriations bill.
   "Today, we have the opportunity to ensure that we fully understand the 9/11 Commission's recommendations on intelligence reform and why they came to the conclusions they did so we can use your outstanding work as the basis for our work."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 