SENATE APPROVES $2 MILLION FOR SALISBURY DEFENSE PROJECT
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-Md.) today announced the full Senate has approved the 2007 Department of Defense spending bill, which includes $2 million for a defense project in Wicomico County. The legislation funds the Department of Defense and will go toward critical research, development, test and evaluation programs, as well as weapons and equipment required for the U.S. Armed Forces.  
   "We need to do everything we can to support our troops - not just with words, but with deeds. Together, we can do better. These much needed funds will help our troops fulfill their mission both at home and abroad," said Senator Mikulski. "I will keep fighting to put money in the federal checkbook for U.S. troops and their families." 
   "The funding provided to develop this new blast resistant technology will help protect our troops as they continue to serve our country," added Sarbanes. "The funding being awarded to Sherwin Williams in Salisbury is an example of the significant spillover opportunities in our hi-tech and defense related sectors associated with our close proximity the Pentagon and the quality of work being performed at Maryland's military installations." 
   The spending bill includes $2 million for Life Shield Blast Resistant Panels, developed by Life Shield Engineered Systems in partnership with Sherwin Williams, which employs 50 people in Salisbury. This funding will allow for the continued development of these panels, which provide a superior and cost effective method of blast resistance to structures. 
   In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the two versions of the bill. The Conference report will then be voted on by both Houses of Congress. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Appropriations bill will go to the President for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 