SEN. MIKULSKI PROPOSES INCREASE IN LEGAL AID FOR THOUSANDS FACING MORTGAGE CRISIS
  On the Senate floor today, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a co-sponsor of the Foreclosure Prevention Act, urged her colleagues to consider her amendment to increase funding for legal aid for families facing foreclosure. The Senate is negotiating legislation this week to ease the burden on families struggling under the mortgage crisis nationwide. Senator Mikulski's proposal comes as a result of feedback from housing experts and homeowners at the mortgage crisis roundtables she held throughout Maryland in February.
   "The last few weeks have been all about the bail-out, making sure Wall Street is OK. That's the wrong priority. We need to put government on the side of kids, families and communities," said Senator Mikulski. "The subprime housing crisis is a Code Red emergency. Thousands in my state got caught in the scams. They aren't Wall Street speculators, they're Main Street Americans. The mortgage companies have expensive lawyers on their side. Borrowers and homeowners are by themselves trying to do what's right, but they do not understand the legal lingo. Legal advice can make all the difference. They do not need a bail-out, but they do need a helping hand." 
   During the Senate's February recess, Senator Mikulski brought together housing experts and homeowners for two mortgage crisis roundtables in Prince George's and Baltimore Counties to brainstorm how Congress could help families. Senator Mikulski heard from housing experts at non-profit community groups, who are the first line of defense for homeowners in trouble and are overwhelmed by the size of the problem, that they don't have the staff to handle the amount of people seeking assistance, and need more trained attorneys to deal with the complicated legal issues homeowners face as they try to avoid foreclosure. Unfortunately, there are few attorneys trained in foreclosure law that can help housing counselors, and represent families at risk of losing their homes.
   To hear and/or broadcast a radio actuality of Senator Mikulski's floor speech, please call (800) 511-0763 and, when prompted, enter actuality number 2333 or go to: http://demradio.senate.gov/actualities/mikulski/mikulski080408.mp3.
   Senator Mikulski's amendment will provide $37.5 million in federal funding for housing legal services. The funding would be allocated to NeighborWorks (also known as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation). Grant funding will be distributed to organizations that can put the money to work right away, with areas struggling with the biggest foreclosure problems given priority, such as Maryland. Recipients of NeighborWorks grants will use the funds to represent and negotiate for homeowners facing foreclosure, hold predatory lenders accountable for illegal loans, as well as train and encourage more lawyers to do pro bono work on foreclosures.
   Senator Mikulski intended to also increase funding for Legal Services Corporation (LSC) by $37.5 million. LSC would have used the funding to help seniors who were often targets of the worst foreclosure scams. However, Senate Republicans blocked the LSC funding using parliamentary rules.
   Senator Mikulski's statement, as prepared, is below: 
   "I'm disappointed in this housing bill and what we've done. The original bill that we brought to the floor put people first, took care of the minnows - not the sharks. It had bankruptcy provisions that leveled the playing field and allowed families to put the pieces back together. The original bill had enough money to make a real difference. The $200 million to the front line community groups was cut in half in this so-called compromise, which means thousands of families won't get help. Senate Republicans held the original bill hostage for more tax cuts that we don't need and that do not help the 8,000 people a day who face foreclosure. We need to improve the bill and put the government on the side of those who need it. We need to add Senator Durbin's bankruptcy amendment back to the bill and restore money for the front line groups trying to stop foreclosures.
   "I'm here because I care about the housing crisis and what it is doing to families in my state and throughout the country. I want to offer a simple amendment to help. The subprime housing crisis is a Code Red emergency. Thousands in my state got caught in the scams. They aren't Wall Street speculators, they're Main Street Americans. My state was hit hard, so I went out and talked to everyone - brokers, bankers, realtors. But I also talked to a minister who lost her home and her church, and a mother who traded a good mortgage for a subprime because she trusted the wrong people. I listened and I learned. It's a very complicated problem. Under every rock, there's another rock. But while others may worry about the macro, I worry about the macaroni and cheese. I'm not on the side of the big guys; I'm on the side of that minister and the mother who lost her home.
   "The last few weeks have been all about the bail-out, making sure Wall Street is OK. That's the wrong priority. We need to put government on the side of people who need it. Thousands of community groups are trying to help. They need us to help them be who they are. Legal Services Corporation (LSC) provides legal housing expertise to those who cannot afford it. They've been doing it for years, but Maryland had 20,000 more foreclosures in 2007 than 2006 - 3,000 in 2006 and 23,000 in 2007 - and it is the same story throughout the country. LSC needs new resources to manage this crushing need. NeighborWorks is on the ground in our communities. They are housing experts, but they are not legal experts. They have started to try and get more legal help to represent families facing foreclosures and hold the scammers accountable for breaking the law, but they have limited resources and need us to help them be on the ground in all of our communities and every neighborhood.
   "LSC and NeighborWorks are trying to help families who are overwhelmed by the subprime crisis, but they are overwhelmed themselves. I went out and talked to these groups since they are on the front lines and I asked them what we needed to do. They said more funding for counseling, which this bill provides, but they also need more legal help. There aren't enough lawyers trained to help homeowners who are on their side to stand up to predatory lenders and their corporate lawyers in order to stay in their homes. 
   "My amendment is very simple and helps solve this problem. It provides $75 million for the two advocacy groups with the most expertise - Legal Services Corporation and NeighborWorks - to help families get the legal advice they need, to help them save their homes from foreclosure and keep them from being thrown out on the streets. The funds will help hire, train and recruit lawyers to provide affordable legal advice when and where it's needed the most. These funds are important because they will help those families in the middle who are struggling to keep their homes. They will help borrowers in trouble work out a plan, hold the bad guys responsible for illegal loans, and level the playing field for families. The mortgage companies have expensive lawyers on their side. Borrowers and homeowners are by themselves trying to do what's right but they do not understand the legal lingo. Families should not have to negotiate for their homes and their futures without someone on their side.
   "LSC can really help seniors. We know that predatory lenders target seniors. They trick them out of good safe mortgages and into risky schemes. LSC can help seniors get out of these loans that they never should have been in in the first place and hold the scammers accountable for going after the most vulnerable and targeting the wealth they have built over a lifetime of work.
   "NeighborWorks has experience in the subprime crisis. They know which communities need the most help and they know how to get money to these communities quickly, but they don't have the legal resources they need. This amendment will help NeighborWorks do two things: make grants to non-profits to hire trained lawyers and help NeighborWorks partner with community legal organizations to train and encourage lawyers to take on foreclosure cases pro bono or for a reduced fee and provide advice to the community groups.
   "I'm here to do everything I can to keep Americans in their homes because I understand how important good homes are. Kids do better in school, families are healthier, and communities are safer. We need to put government on the side of kids, families and communities. We've heard too much about bailing out Wall Street. We need to help families on Main Street. Legal advice can make all the difference. Good attorneys are the experts with the answers to help families negotiate mortgages they can afford and hold sharks accountable for predatory loans that should not have been allowed in the first place. We need to help families keep their homes. They want to do the right thing. They do not need a bail out, but they do need a helping hand. That is what this entire bill is about and I'm proud of the Senate for bringing it up. My amendment will help families help themselves by getting the resources to the groups who can help and I urge my colleagues to join with me and support it."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 