SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON MEDICARE PART D ANNIVERSARY
On the third anniversary of President Bush's signing of the Medicare Part D program, Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), incoming Chair of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee's Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee, issued the following statement, reasserting her commitment to fix this flawed system. In the 109th Congress, Sen. Mikulski supported several pieces of legislation that would have fixed dysfunctional components of the law, but were instead blocked by Republican leadership:  
 "Congress created Medicare to provide seniors with a safety net when their health care costs are more than they can handle. But seniors everywhere know that health care costs are skyrocketing and they are paying a greater share out of their pockets for their health care each year. Medicare premium increases are outpacing inflation. Prescription drug costs are shooting through the roof. 
 "The Medicare Part D program is a mess. It is a give-away to drug and insurance companies that makes it harder for seniors. If the 2006 election taught us anything, it is that the American people want a change. They want to see results, not revenge. That means working in Congress to support legislation that improves Medicare Part D. We must do everything we can to create permanent solutions to help, not harm, America's seniors. We need to fix Part D - lowering costs by negotiating drug prices, cutting benefits to drug companies, and closing the coverage gap. 
 "I think it is just good business to use the bargaining power of over 40 million Medicare beneficiaries to get the lowest price possible for senior citizens. We've already seen this work well for our Veterans' Administration, who saved more than $1 billion over the past three years by negotiating the best prices for their patients. With these savings, Medicare could use the money to solve many of the issues plaguing our seniors. 
 "I believe 'honor thy mother and father' is not just a good commandment to live by, it is good public policy to govern by. That's why I feel so strongly about Medicare. Seniors need to know the Medicare safety net is strong, sturdy and there to catch them. Fixing Medicare Part D will not be quick or easy, but I am committed to making sure America's seniors are not left behind when it comes to their health. And I am committed to doing so not just with words, but with deeds."
 Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 