SEN. MIKULSKI SECURES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NURSING DISTANCE EDUCATION PROGRAM USED AT CHESAPEAKE COLLEGE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today visited Memorial Hospital to announce $248,000 in federal funding for a Maryland Nursing Distance Education Program. This program, originating at Villa Julie College in Stevenson, Maryland provides accessible, effective and high quality nursing education to distance sites. Interactive classrooms connect Villa Julie to students attending classes at various community colleges and hospitals throughout Maryland. Sen. Mikulski received a demonstration of the program and spoke with students and administrators.  
   "The Nursing Distance Education Program is an innovative solution to America's nursing crisis that meets the people where they are," said Senator Mikulski. "I have always said nurses are high touch and high energy. Now they are high tech! By taking nursing education out into the community, like here at Chesapeake College, nursing students all over the state have access to exceptional nursing education. I'm so proud to have fought for a federal investment of $248,000 in this important program." 
   This $248,000 federal investment will be used to complete a second distance learning classroom on Villa Julie's campus to allow Villa Julie to transmit classes from two rooms instead of one. It will also be used to employ an additional advisor/recruiter for the program, and additional faculty to teach courses in community health at Chesapeake College and Anne Arundel Community College. 
   America is experiencing a severe nursing shortage: 11% of nursing jobs in Maryland hospitals were vacant in 2003 and nationally, there are 125,000 nurse vacancies in hospitals. This problem is compounded by the fact that America does not have the resources to educate its future nurses; nursing programs in Maryland turned away an estimated 1,850 qualified students last year. At 4-year colleges nationally, 16,000 eligible students were turned away. 
   Senator Mikulski works each year to help ease the nursing shortage in Maryland and across the country. Senator Mikulski sponsored the Nurse Reinvestment Act, which passed Congress in 2002. The legislation offers financial assistance to cover the costs of nursing education and training. Each year, Senator Mikulski spearheads an effort to fund these and other nursing education programs. In this year's omnibus appropriations bill, Senator Mikulski secured an increase of $9 million for Nursing Workforce Development Programs, bringing the total funding to almost $150.7 million for these vital programs. Prior to passage of this bill, Senator Mikulski successfully increased funding for those nursing programs by over $45 million. 
   Senator Mikulski met yesterday with Villa Julie students currently using the Distance Education Program.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 