SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON FDA COMMISSIONER VOTE
Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, issued the following statement today as the Senate approved the nomination of Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach to head the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in a vote of 80-11:  
 "Over the years I have fought for the right facilities, the right resources, and now the right leadership at the FDA. The FDA is in my home state of Maryland. It employs over 10,000 of my constituents. 
 "The FDA needs strong leadership. Dr. von Eschenbach is an experienced and respected scientist and I presume he is committed to the mission of the FDA. But I have concerns. I have yellow flashing lights about his commitment to reforming drug safety, to not politicizing science, and to establishing a channel where employees can speak truth to power. We need his leadership to help Congress establish the legislative framework needed to reform the FDA. We need to restore the morale at the FDA. We need to restore confidence in the FDA for all Americans. We need to restore the FDA to the world's premier food and safety regulatory agency. 
 "We need his commitment to ensure that the best possible science informs the decisions the FDA makes every day. We need him to ensure a culture of openness so that management listens to, and addresses the concerns of, FDA employees. We need him to make significant changes to transform the agency to the gold standard it once was. 
 "The FDA needs a major overhaul and a culture change at the highest levels in order to continue to meet its mission. The FDA needs to re-establish its relationship with its own scientists. The FDA's focus should be only on science and the public good. And I am hoping that Dr. von Eschenbach will be the strong leader the FDA needs to accomplish this overhaul. 
 "The FDA sets the gold standard. Yet today, we have ideology over science; ideology over competence. The FDA needs a strong permanent director. I will therefore vote for Andrew von Eschenbach in the hopes that he can become that strong leader the FDA needs and the American public deserves."
 Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 