SEN. MIKULSKI: FEDERAL EMPLOYEES LOSE UNDER BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S CONTRACTING OUT POLICY
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) today criticized the Bush Administration's continued policy of contracting out federal jobs, a practice that is dangerously slanted against federal employees. President Bush's proposed fiscal year 2008 budget encourages agencies to participate in competitive sourcing, and specifies that "the Administration continues to work with the Congress to remove legislative restrictions on competitive sourcing, such as those that require agencies to choose the cheapest providers" (Section: Managing for Results, page 28).  
   "I absolutely oppose the Bush Administration's efforts to privatize the federal workforce. This is part of a dangerous trend to replace our independent civil service with cronyism and political patronage," said Senator Mikulski. "It is very disturbing that the President continues to aggressively encourage a policy that works against federal employees." 
   In May 2003, the administration issued guidelines for these public-private competitions (OMB Circular A-76). These new procedures favored contractors and stacked the deck against federal employees. The new rules for the privatization process did not guarantee employees the right to submit their own best bids, did not require contractors to show significant savings, and gave an unfair advantage to contractors who provide inferior benefits. 
   As a member of the Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, and Housing and Urban Development (TTHUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski has fought for years to improve the contracting out process - adding provisions in the subcommittee's spending bill to help government workers compete with contractors and provide improved guidelines for a more fair competition process before jobs are contracted out. 
   "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. These hardworking men and women deserve to be treated fairly and, at the very least, deserve to have the same rights that contractors do," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue my fight to give federal employees a level playing field in the competition process."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 