SEN. MIKULSKI INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO GUARANTEE PENSIONS EARNED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today introduced legislation that would adjust unfair disparities for retired law enforcement officials. The Federal Law Enforcement Pay Adjustment Equity Act would allow retired police officers of the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division and the United States Park Police to receive the same Cost of Living Adjustments as active officers. 
   "These retirees gave years of loyal service, often in difficult and life-threatening situations," said Senator Mikulski. "They are the only federal retirees who had existing retirement benefits scaled back. There is no reason the federal government should back out on its word to provide these valuable employees with secure retirement benefits. Restoring their pensions will have a minimal effect on the federal budget, but a major impact on the quality of life for these retirees and their families."
   For almost 80 years, Secret Service and Park Police retirees were assured an automatic increase in their pensions whenever their active counterparts received a Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA). However, when the Law Enforcement Pay Equity Act passed in 2000, the automatic link was severed, leaving their pensions at a static rate. This bill would restore the link, guaranteeing retired U.S. Secret Service Uniformed Division Agents and U.S. Park Police retirees a COLA equivalent to that of officers still on the job.
   "These former Secret Service and Park Police officers planned for their retirement with the understanding that their pension would be enough to live on, even as the cost of living increased," continued Senator Mikulski. "They deserve the retirement benefits they were promised when they signed up for service."
   The Federal Law Enforcement Pay Adjustment Equity Act was referred to the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, where it is currently pending.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 