SEN. MIKULSKI PROPOSES ?LIVING MEMORIAL' TO HONOR PRESIDENT REAGAN, COMBAT ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) and Kit Bond (R-MO) announced today on the floor of the U.S. Senate that in honor of President Ronald Reagan, they will introduce The Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2004 - legislation that would double the funding for Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health. The bill will also provide critical support for caregivers and launch a public education campaign to get the word out on the latest advances in research and prevention. 
   * To hear and/or broadcast Senator Mikulski's statement on the floor of the U.S. Senate today, please call 1-800-511-0763 and enter actuality number 6569
   "As our country reflects on President Reagan's life, many ask how we should remember him. I believe the greatest tribute to President Reagan and the Reagan family is a living memorial - something that he would want to see us do that does good in the world. We should honor his life with new research and new initiatives on how to prevent Alzheimer's, how to care for those who have it, how to support those who are caregivers, and how to find a cure. President Reagan was a man of vigor. Let us attack Alzheimer's with the vigor that President Reagan demonstrated during his life," Mikulski said in a statement on the Senate floor.
   Last month, Senators Mikulski and Bond held a hearing on Alzheimer's research in the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Subcommittee on Aging. Numerous experts testified that increased funding for NIH research over the next year would help scientists make important breakthroughs in the discovery of methods to detect, prevent and treat Alzheimer's.
   "We are truly on the brink of something that can make a huge difference for American families," said Mikulski. "We know what families face when a loved one has Alzheimer's. We know the emotional cost and the financial cost. We know what we'd get for additional investment in research - new treatments that extend a patient's memory or ability to go about his day-to-day tasks. Every month that we can delay admission to a long-term care facility is important to the family - and important to the taxpayers."
   The Ronald Reagan Alzheimer's Breakthrough Act of 2004 does three things:
   1. Strengthens Federal Government's Commitment to Alzheimer's Disease Research
   By doubling the funding for Alzheimer's Disease research at the National Institutes of Health (from $700 million to $1.4 billion), researchers will have the resources they need to make the breakthroughs that are on the horizon. For example, more funding would mean more clinical trials to test new ideas to prevent Alzheimer's and the best therapies to treat the disease and slow the onset of symptoms.
   The legislation also calls for a National Summit on Alzheimer's Disease that would bring in the best minds from across the country to examine the NIH's current research agenda for Alzheimer's, future research priorities, and challenges and opportunities for the research community and the public.
   2. Provides Critical Support to Caregivers
   This legislation helps families caring for a loved one with Alzheimer's by increasing the availability of services such as respite care, home health care, counseling and training. The bill proposes doubling funds for two existing initiatives - the National Caregiver Support Program (from $125 million to $250 million) and the Alzheimer's Demonstration Grant Program (from $12 million to $25 million).
   The legislation also helps family caregivers pay for the costs of caring for loved one with Alzheimer's by providing a $5,000 tax credit to reimburse them for certain expenses like prescription drugs, home health care, and specialized day care.
   3. Educates Public with "News You Can Use"
   This legislation would launch a "News You Can Use" education campaign to get the word out about advances in research. While scientists are working for a cure, this public education campaign will help families and doctors find out the latest information on how to help prevent Alzheimer's disease and how to slow the onset of symptoms.
   "Today, 4.5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease," said Senator Mikulski. "They live in every state. They live in cities, suburbs and on farms. They may own small grocery stores like my father - who suffered from this disease. They could be President of the United States. Alzheimer's is an All American disease that affected an All American President. Now we need an All American effort to find breakthroughs and speed up the day when no family has to go through the long goodbye."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 