SEN. MIKULSKI APPLAUDS SENATE COMMEMORATION OF 39TH ANNIVERSARY OF JERUSALEM'S REUNIFICATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined several of her Senate colleagues this week, including Sen. Sam Brownback (R-Kan.), in introducing a resolution commemorating the 39th anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem and calling for the relocation of the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to the capital city. The resolution was unanimously passed by the Senate.  
   Senator Mikulski's statement for the record is below: 
   "I am honored to join my colleagues today to introduce this resolution congratulating the Israeli people on their celebration of the 39th anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem and calling for the United States to relocate its embassy in Israel from the city of Tel-Aviv to the recognized capital city of Jerusalem. 
   "This year, Israel celebrates the 39th anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem. Starting in 1948 Jerusalem was a divided city. Under Jordanian rule, many of the holy areas were off limits to Israelis of any religion and to Jews of any nationality. In 1967, during the Six Day War, Israeli troops reunified the city of Jerusalem. Then, people of all religious faiths have been guaranteed full access to holy sites within the city, and the rights of all faiths have been respected and protected. 
   "In 1995, the U.S. Congress declared that Jerusalem should remain the undivided capital of Israel. I was proud to cosponsor the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995, and I am proud today to join my colleagues in urging the Administration to move our embassy to Israeli's rightful capital. The President of Israel, Israel's Parliament and the Israeli Supreme court are all located in Jerusalem. What is not located in Jerusalem is the Embassy of the United States. Every sovereign country has the right to designate its own capital and the United States maintains its embassy in the functioning capital of every country. The one exception is Israel, a great friend and ally to the United States. 
   "Israel is a steadfast strategic ally of the United States. The United States conducts official meetings and other business in the city of Jerusalem in de facto recognition of its status as the capital of Israel. It is time for the U.S. embassy to be relocated to Jerusalem. With this resolution, the Senate calls on President Bush to discontinue the waiver contained in the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995, relocate the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem and reaffirm U.S. policy that Jerusalem must remain the undivided capital of Israel."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 