SEN. MIKULSKI ISSUES STATEMENT ON ARTHRITIS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today as the ranking Democratic member of the Veterans, Housing, and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) Subcommittee on Aging participated in a hearing to discuss arthritis research, diagnosis and prevention. Testifying at the hearing entitled "Arthritis: A National Epidemic" were Dr. Joe Sniezek, Chief of the Centers for Disease Control's Arthritis Program and Dr. Susana Serrate-Sztein, Chief of the Rheumatic Disease Branch at the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases. Also testifying were KaLea Kunkel, who was diagnosed with scleroderma at age seven, Virg Jones, diagnosed with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis at age 13, Dr. Deborah Rothman of the Shriner's Children's Hospital, on behalf of the American College of Rheumatology, and Dr. John Klippel, President/CEO of the Arthritis Foundation. The following is a copy of Sen. Mikulski's prepared opening statement: 
   * Introduction
   Thank you to Chairman Bond for holding this hearing on arthritis. This issue is very important, and I thank you for your leadership.
   Today, 70 million Americans are afflicted with arthritis. It is the number one cause of disability in the U.S. among Americans over the age of 15. There are over 1 million people living with arthritis in my home state of Maryland. Nationwide, arthritis limits every day activity for over 7 million Americans.
   Arthritis, and the disability it causes, creates huge burdens for individuals, their families, and the nation. In 1995, arthritis cost more that $22 billion in direct medical costs and over $82 billion in total costs.
   People who suffer from prevalent forms of arthritis such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and juvenile arthritis struggle with everyday activities like getting dressed, brushing their teeth and pouring a cup of coffee. They may even have to quit or change jobs because arthritis prevents them from being able to work.
   * Why Are We Here Today?
   Our hearing today is titled "Arthritis: A National Epidemic." Our witnesses will provide a human face for arthritis and the impact it has on them and their families. Arthritis knows no boundaries of gender, race or age. It affects nearly 300,000 children. It afflicts both women and men, however, it is more prevalent in women. We need to hear from advocates, CDC, and researchers to see what can be done to prevent, treat and cure Arthritis.
   * Where Are We Headed?
   In 1948, there was little or no money being spent on arthritis research. The medical community and the public felt that there was nothing that could be done about arthritis. Today, we know that is not true.
   We are making successful strides in treatments, research and prevention. In 1999 the National Arthritis Action Plan was published. The Plan is a true public health strategy for arthritis, guiding the use and organization of our nation's health resources to combat the greatest single cause of chronic pain and disability among Americans. We must continue to focus on chronic diseases that many Americans will face.
   Arthritis is one of those diseases. Baby boomers are now at prime risk for arthritis. More than half of the people affected by Arthritis are under age 65. As the population ages, the numbers will increase dramatically.
   * Senator Mikulski's Record
   I'm proud to be on the side of arthritis patients and their families. I am working to increase prevention, provide access to treatments, and support family caregivers. I was a co-sponsor of Bond/Kennedy Arthritis bill and secured initial funding of $10 million for the National Arthritis Action Plan. I worked to increase this funding. I supported Medicare coverage of self - injectible drugs that help arthritis patients, and I am sponsoring a tax credit of up to $5,000 to help reduce financial burden on family caregivers caring for loved ones with chronic conditions.
   * Conclusion
   I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today and learning how arthritis impacts the daily lives of adults and children, discussing the current research that is being done on arthritis and getting up to date information about how this disease impacts our society today and in the future with the aging baby boomer population. They are speaking for the millions of people who live with arthritis every day.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 