SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR IMMEDIATE IMPLEMENATION OF COAST GUARD REFORMS FOLLOWING WATER TAXI REPORT
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today called for the U.S. Coast Guard's immediate action to implement the recommendations of the National Transportation Safety Board's (NTSB) recent report on the tragic capsizing of water taxi Lady D in the Baltimore Harbor. In a letter to U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thomas H. Collins, Sen. Mikulski also asked that the Coast Guard provide a full report, within the next 30 days, on how they plan to implement the NTSB recommendations. 
   On March 6, 2004, Lady D capsized, killing five and leaving one child with severe brain damage. The NTSB's report, released yesterday, raises serious questions about the Coast Guard's certification and regulatory practices, and whether or not the Coast Guard is moving fast enough to prevent similar accidents from happening.  
   The text of the letter is below: 
   March 8, 2006 
   Admiral Thomas H. Collins, Commandant 
  United States Coast Guard 
  400 Seventh Street, S.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20590 
   Dear Admiral Collins: 
   I am writing to ask for your immediate action to implement the recommendations of the National Transportation Safety Board's report on the capsizing of the water taxi Lady D in Baltimore Harbor. This report raises serious questions about the Coast Guard's certification and regulatory practices, and whether or not the Coast Guard is moving fast enough to prevent similar accidents from happening in the future. 
   On March 6, 2004, the water taxi Lady D capsized in the frigid waters of the Baltimore Harbor. Five people died - and another child suffered severe brain damage. The casualties would have been even higher if it were not for the heroic actions of a Naval Reserve Unit that was training nearby - and of the Baltimore Fire and Police Departments. These rescuers risked their lives - and saved the lives of many others. 
   The NTSB determined that the probable cause of the Lady D's capsizing was its lack of stability, which was insufficient to withstand the strong winds and waves that the water taxi encountered. The report also notes that body-weight standards are decades out of date - resulting in the water taxi holding too much weight. 
   The NTSB summary report issued five recommendations to the U.S. Coast Guard: 
   1. Revise regulations to require that passenger capacity for domestic passenger vessels be calculated based on statistically representative average passenger weight standard that is periodically updated. 
   2. Identify a method for determining the maximum safe load condition of a small passenger vessel at the time of loading and require that the vessel owners implement that method. 
   3. Revise the stability criteria for small passenger pontoon vessels for all passenger loading conditions to minimize the potential for capsizing in wind and waves. 
   4. Until weight standards are revised, develop interim pontoon passenger vessel stability guidance based on static and dynamic intact stability considerations. 
   5. Establish limiting environmental conditions such as weather in which pontoon vessels may safely operate, and list those limiting conditions on the vessel's certificate of inspection. 
   I ask that you immediately put these recommendations into action. I also ask that you provide a full report on your actions to me, to the Senate and House Homeland Security Subcommittees on Appropriation, the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure within 30 days. 
   When it comes to saving lives, we can't afford to wait for the bureaucratic tape to unfurl. We need quick, decisive action to prevent accidents like the capsizing of the Lady D from happening in the future. 
   Sincerely, 
   Barbara A. Mikulski 
  United States Senator
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 