SEN. MIKULSKI DELIVERS ON PROMISE TO FIGHT FOR INCREASED NIH FUNDING
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today delivered on recent pledges to fight for an increase in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). At April events at Johns Hopkins University and the University of Maryland Medical Center in Baltimore, Sen. Mikulski criticized President Bush's cuts in funding, and received briefings on groundbreaking research and developments that rely on NIH grants. The President's 2008 budget request provides only $28.62 billion for the agency, a $310 million cut from last year's funding level.  
   In a letter to Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.) and Ranking Member Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education & Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) and Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Penn.), Senator Mikulski and a bipartisan group of her colleagues called for a 6.7 percent increase for the agency in this year's spending bill. 
   "How can we search for cures for America's illnesses without the proper funding for research? I'm on the side of cures - that's why I have fought for years to increase NIH's budget," said Senator Mikulski. "NIH needs adequate resources to make discoveries that will save lives today and tomorrow. I will keep up my fight to make sure they get the federal investment they need." 
   NIH improves the health of the nation by conducting and supporting research on the causes, diagnosis, prevention and cures of human diseases. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Mikulski has a long history of fighting for adequate NIH funding. This includes a bipartisan effort to double the NIH budget from $13.6 billion in fiscal year 1998 to $27 billion in fiscal year 2003. 
   "NIH is saving lives, bringing discoveries to patients from basic science to the bedside. But the President's shortfall is slowing the transition from science to treatment and jeopardizing our next generation of scientists," said Senator Mikulski. "Each of us can make a difference, but together, we just might find a new cure."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 