SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO COMBAT GLOBAL WARMING AS VICE PRESIDENT GORE DELIVERS UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND BALTIMORE COUNTY LECTURE
  As she prepares to attend his climate change lecture tonight at the University of Maryland Baltimore County (UMBC), Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Vice President Al Gore in fighting to reduce greenhouse gas emissions nationwide. Senator Mikulski today lent her support to the Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act of 2007 (S. 309), which was introduced by Senators Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.). The bill sets targets, requirements and incentives for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to use to gradually reduce the United States' contributions to global warming.  
   "The world is facing a climate crisis and this bill gives us a roadmap to reduce greenhouse gases and improve our environment. We know people are nervous about global warming, and we know they are nervous about rising energy costs," said Senator Mikulski. "The Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act of 2007 draws on sound science to address the climate crisis and at the same time keeps America rolling. Each of us can make a difference, but together we can make change." 
   The Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act of 2007 caps greenhouse gases with new energy efficiency standards - including a 2 percent reduction of greenhouse gases annually across all industries starting in 2010. It requires electricity suppliers to implement energy-saving technologies, and calls for ongoing National Academy of Sciences (NAS) studies to see if the United States is meeting required standards. By 2020, the bill requires the United States to reduce its emissions to 1990 levels. By 2050, it requires emissions to be 80 percent below the 1990 levels. 
   This bill provides a national solution to climate change, rather than relying on a state-by-state approach. Maryland recently passed a law that would cap greenhouse gases at the same rate required in the Global Warming Pollution Reduction Act. This bill would put national standards in line with the state's new law. 
   The United States is the world's greatest emitter of greenhouse gases and global concentrations the gases are higher than ever. Between 1996 and 2005, we have had the warmest 10 years on record. The United States must lower its emissions in order to avoid some of the most dangerous consequences of climate change.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 