SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE AGREEMENT ON FUNDING FOR OCEAN CITY/ASSATEAGUE ISLAND BEACH REPLENISHMENT EFFORTS
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes and Barbara A. Mikulski (both D-Md.) announced that the House and the Senate have reached final agreement on funding for beach replenishment efforts in Ocean City and the North End of Assateague Island as part of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill for FY 2006.  
   On July 1 the Senate approved $4.9 million in federal funding for beach replenishment efforts in Ocean City and an additional $1.02 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to continue restoring the North End of Assateague Island. However, the House passed bill did not include money for either project, which supported the Bush Administration's budget proposal to zero fund these projects in his FY 2006 budget submission. 
   As a result of the two Senators strong efforts, the final agreement includes the $4.9 million for the Ocean City beach replenishment project but the funding for the North End of Assateague Island was cut from $1.02 million to $765,000. Army Corps of Engineer officials have indicated that the cut will not impact the overall replenishment project at the North End. 
   "While we took a cut in our efforts to restore the North End of Assateague Island, I am pleased that, through our hard efforts, we were able to restore these dramatic cuts for the hurricane protection project at Ocean City and provide some funds for the North End project," said Sarbanes. "These actions will help to maintain our beaches and more importantly provide hurricane protection for the citizens of Worcester County and the billions of dollars in public and private infrastructure in the area. We were witness to several devastating hurricanes this season and it is important that we move forward with protecting our Atlantic Beaches before the next hurricane season." 
   "Beach replenishment is about safeguarding lives and protecting communities. Keeping our shore communities safe from hurricanes and flooding has always been one of my top priorities," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I worked so hard with Senator Sarbanes to provide the funding for these important projects, despite no funding in the President's budget. This hurricane season is one for the record books. We have seen entire communities washed away and people's lives and livelihoods destroyed. I have always made beach replenishment a top priority and will continue to work to protect communities from future storms." 
   The Ocean City hurricane protection project will require the pumping of approximately 800,000 cubic feet of new sand to help stem erosion of the world famous beach. The north end of Assateague Island also requires funding for additional re-nourishment efforts. Funding will now enable the Army Corps of Engineers to address these issues and make sure that Maryland's barrier islands remain intact. 
   Ocean City Mayor Jim Mathias added, "The residents and visitors of Ocean City, Maryland express their gratitude to Senators Sarbanes and Mikulski for working to secure the funding for the Atlantic Coast of Maryland (Ocean City) Hurricane Protection project. We look forward to the President signing this critical legislation for the safety and well being of the over eight million visitors and strong economic contributions Ocean City makes to our state and federal economies". 
   The House and Senate must now vote on the Conference Agreement before sending the final bill to President Bush for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 