SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR EASTERN SHORE FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Hurlock Volunteer Fire Company and the Trappe Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., are being awarded a total of $158,115 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and the Eastern Shore. Congratulations to the Hurlock Volunteer Fire Company and the Trappe Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Hurlock Volunteer Fire Company, in Dorchester County, will use its $80,550 in federal funding to purchase 33 sets of turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats) and 70 Minitor pagers. These new Minitor pagers are voice activated and will give firefighters the ability to communicate with each other and other first responders while responding to an emergency. 
   The Department will also use its federal funding to purchase a thermal imaging camera. The thermal imaging camera will enable firefighters to find people in smoke-filled buildings or other low-visibility situations who may be hurt or otherwise unable to get out of the buildings themselves. Firefighters can use the camera to locate hidden fires and minimize property damage. 
   For more information on the Hurlock Volunteer Fire Company, please contact Captain Earl Hurley at either 410-943-3110 or 410-943-8757.
   So far this year, Dorchester County Fire Departments have received four awards through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, totaling $248,666 in federal funding. 
   The Trappe Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., in Talbot County, will use its federal award of $77,565 to purchase 20 new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units with spare air bottles and individualized face masks. 
   The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   For more information on the Trappe Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., please contact Denise McDermott at 410-476-3535. 
   Talbot County Fire Departments have received two awards through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program this year, totaling $302,565 in federal funding. 
   So far this year, 47 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $5,799,962 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.5 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. This will fund less than one-third of the requests received this year. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $200 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old. 
   Increasing the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, this amendment could have meant protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 