SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR BALTIMORE AREA FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that five Baltimore Metro Area Fire Departments are being awarded a total of $1,187,109 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and the Baltimore Metro Area. Congratulations to these departments on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The North East Fire Company, Inc., in Cecil County, will use its $171,450 in federal funding to purchase 40 sets of turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats) and a thermal imaging camera. The thermal imaging camera will enable firefighters to find people in smoke-filled buildings or other low-visibility situations who may be hurt or otherwise unable to get out of the buildings themselves. Firefighters can use the camera to locate hidden fires and minimize property damage. 
   The Department will also use its award to purchase 25 self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units and 45 individualized face masks. The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy 
   Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   For more information on the North East Fire Company, Inc., please contact Shawn Day at 410-287-8222. 
   So far this year, Cecil County Fire Departments have received three awards through the Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program, totaling $653,094 in federal assistance. 
   The Baltimore County Fire Department will use its $746,550 in federal funding to purchase 270 800 mhz radios. These radios will help firefighters to coordinate their responses with each other and other first responders en route to a call. 
   For more information on the Baltimore County Fire Department, please contact Mark Hubbard at 410-887-8114. 
   This is the second award for a Baltimore County Fire Department through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program this year, totaling $818,280 in federal funding. 
   The Jarrettsville Volunteer Fire Company, in Harford County, will use its federal award of $114,759 to purchase a diesel exhaust system. The new exhaust system will remove potentially carcinogenic exhaust emissions from the rescue vehicle bays and the rooms adjacent to the storage area for the fire trucks and rescue vehicles. 
   For more information on the Jarrettsville Volunteer Fire Company, please contact Stephen Lancaster at 410-887-0964. 
   The Norrisville Volunteer Fire Company, also in Harford County, will use its $23,850 in federal funding to purchase a new generator. The Department is the community center, which is also used as a shelter during storms and other natural disasters, making an alternative power source vital for the community. 
   For more information on the Norrisville Volunteer Fire Company, please contact Gregory Skinner at 410-836-6706 or greg@norrisvilleengraving.com 
   This is the fourth award for Harford County Fire Departments through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program this year, totaling $408,532 in federal assistance. 
   The Sykesville-Freedom District Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., in Carroll County, will use its $130,500 in federal funding to purchase 22 self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units, with individualized face masks and an additional 50 face masks. The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing for two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress. 
   The Department will also use its federal funding to purchase a thermal imaging camera. The thermal imaging camera will enable firefighters to find people in smoke-filled buildings or other low-visibility situations who may be hurt or otherwise unable to get out of the buildings themselves. Firefighters can use the camera to locate hidden fires and minimize property damage. 
   For more information on the Sykesville-Freedom District Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., please contact Bill Flanagan at 410-312-1737 or 443-398-5835. 
   Carroll County Fire Departments have received two awards through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program this year, totaling $280,395 in federal funding. 
   So far this year, 47 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $5,799,962 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.5 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. This will fund less than one-third of the requests received this year. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $200 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old. 
   Increasing the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, this amendment could have meant protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 