SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR WESTERN MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that five Western Maryland Fire Departments are being awarded a total of $655,048 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Western Maryland. Congratulations to these departments on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Hagerstown Fire Department, in Washington County, will use its federal award of $282,408 to purchase new turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats) and a Posicheck self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) testing system. The Posicheck SCBA unit testing system is used to check air bottle seals and fittings. 
   The Department will also use its funding to purchase a Rapid Intervention Team kit. RIT kits include fire axes, rope, bolt cutters, hacksaw harnesses and radios, enabling firefighters to rescue trapped victims or fallen firefighters. 
   For more information on the Hagerstown Fire Department, please contact Cindy Lewis at 301-790-2476. 
   The First Hose Company of Boonsboro, Inc., also in Washington County, received $112,500 in federal funding to purchase a new four-wheel drive, 300 gallon compressed air mini-pumper truck. Compressed air mini-pumper trucks combine water, air and foam to provide the greatest fire suppression capability. 
   At the request of the First Hose Company of Boonsboro, Inc., Senator Mikulski sent a letter to FEMA's U.S. Fire Administrator R. David Paulison to draw his attention to the merits of their application and urge him to give it every appropriate consideration. 
   For more information on the First Hose Company of Boonsboro, Inc., please contact Chief Nolan Brandenburg at 301-975-6520. 
   So far this year, Washington County Fire Departments have received seven awards through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, totaling $1,101,954 in federal funding. 
   The Oldtown Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., in Allegany County, will use its federal award of $90,862 to purchase new air bottles and add rescue and extrication equipment to their vehicles. 
   For more information on the Oldtown Volunteer Fire Department, Inc., please contact Dennis Mallery at 301-777-5941. 
   So far this year, Allegany County Fire Departments have received five awards totaling $469,451 in federal funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. 
   The Bittinger Volunteer Fire Department, in Garrett County, will use its federal award of $69,378 to purchase new turn-out gear (including new helmets, boots, gloves, pants and coats) and hoses. 
   The Department will also use this federal funding to purchase 18 Minitor pagers. These new Minitor pagers are voice activated and will give firefighters the ability to communicate with each other and other first responders while responding to an emergency. 
   This award will also be used to purchase eight new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units. The new SCBA equipment includes the Buddy Breathing system, which is a split in the connection of the SCBA allowing two firefighters to breathe using one tank of oxygen. This is extremely important if one of the firefighters runs out of oxygen while in a fire. The SCBA units will also be outfitted with integrated pass devices, alerting firefighters when a fellow firefighter stops moving for a period of time, which could signal that firefighter is in distress 
   For more information on the Bittinger Volunteer Fire Department, please contact Robert Yaste at 301-245-4414. 
   So far this year, Garrett County Fire Departments have received two award through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, totaling $165,678 in federal funding. 
   The Walkersville Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., in Frederick County, will use its $99,900 in federal funding to purchase a diesel exhaust system and a back-up generator. The new exhaust system will remove potentially carcinogenic exhaust emissions from the rescue vehicle bays and the rooms adjacent to the storage area for the fire trucks and rescue vehicles. 
   The Walkersville Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., reaches out to the community during power outages and storms, making a back-up generator vital for the surrounding area. 
   For more information on the Walkersville Volunteer Fire Company, Inc., please contact Chief Jeremy Peterson at 301-748-6337. 
   Frederick County Fire Departments have been awarded two grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program this year, totaling $162,460 in federal funding. 
   So far this year, 47 Maryland Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $5,799,962 in funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year. 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments across the country. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.5 billion in requests. Grants for this funding cycle will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. This will fund less than one-third of the requests received this year. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year. 
   Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the 2005 Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $200 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. According to the National Fire Protection Association, an estimated 57,000 firefighters lack personal protective gear, one-third of firefighters per shift do not have self-contained breathing equipment, and half of all fire engines are at least 15 years old. 
   Increasing the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program by $200 million, this amendment could have meant protective gear for 200,000 firefighters, more than 650 new fire trucks, 400 new rescue vehicles or more than 33,000 new breathing masks. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 50-45.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 