SEN. MIKULSKI CELEBRATES OPENING OF WILEY H. BATES HERITAGE PARK
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) will join federal, state and Anne Arundel County officials today at the grand opening of the Wiley H. Bates Heritage Park. The new redevelopment project is the result of more than four years of advocacy and cooperation by the community and its partners, including a $450,000 federal investment secured by Sen. Mikulski.  
   "The Wiley H. Bates Heritage Park is a living celebration of the work of Wiley Bates. The students and faculty of this former high school rode buses from all over the county to study and work here," said Senator Mikulski. "They would not let segregation steal their dreams, but instead made this campus a great center of learning and community and that's what we're doing here again today." 
   This new heritage park redevelops the Wiley H. Bates High School site - a 124,000 foot building with four surrounding playing fields. The high school was named after Wiley Bates, a self-taught African American slave who moved to Annapolis after emancipation. Bates High School served the county's African American student community during segregation from 1930 to 1966 and was closed in 1981. In 1994, the site was placed on the National Register of Historic Places. 
   As the senior Democrat on the Veterans, Housing and Independent Agencies (VA-HUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski fought to bring this federal investment to Annapolis in 2003. It was part of an effort by the Senator to support community projects that contribute to neighborhoods where people live, work, worship and shop. 
   "Resources are one thing, but results are another. I fought to put the money in the federal checkbook, but without the right people using it, it doesn't mean anything," said Senator Mikulski. "This community got to work to save this historical building and you did a beautiful job. I am proud to have done what I could to support this project and play a role in the development of this great community." 
   The $27 million redevelopment plan of the historic site was endorsed by the community and funded by grants, state bonds, federal funds and private efforts. The project develops the site into four separate community-oriented facilities: apartments for affordable senior housing, a county-operated senior activity center, the Wiley H. Bates Boys and Girls Club, and the Wiley H. Bates Legacy Center and Bates Memorial Courtyard which will incorporate a museum dedicated to honoring Wiley Bates and the faculty and students of Bate High School.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 