SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS FOR NURSING OPPORTUNITIES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) today continued her fight to increase opportunities for nurses throughout the country. As the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee moved to renew the Higher Education Act, Sen. Mikulski worked to ensure that individuals pursuing careers in nursing received additional funding relief.  
   "We need to empower men and women to consider nursing. We need to provide them with the education and the resources to do their jobs. We need to make it more affordable and we need to provide opportunities for advancement, so nurses can move up instead of moving on," said Senator Mikulski. "It's essential for our hospitals and it's essential for our patients." 
   Senator Mikulski worked to change the Higher Education Act so that students pursuing graduate degrees in nursing will be eligible for fellowships that will cover tuition and fees and provide a stipend. This will enable more nurses to go back to school so that they can get the education they need to become nursing faculty and begin teaching a new generation of nurses. 
   In October 2004, the American College of Healthcare Executives reported that 72 percent of hospital CEOs were experiencing a nursing shortage at their facilities. The Bureau of Labor statistics has projected that health care facilities will need to fill more than 1.1 million registered nursing job openings by 2012 to accommodate growing patient needs and replace retiring nurses. Despite this growing need, nursing schools are still forced to turn away qualified students every year. 
   Nationally, almost 30,000 qualified applicants were turned away in 2004. Most nursing schools cite a faculty shortage as the primary reason for limiting the number of incoming students. 
   "When I passed the bipartisan Nurse Reinvestment Act in 2002, I created that legislation with two things in mind: What do people need to enter the nursing profession? And what do they need to stay there? The Higher Education Act brings us closer to answering these questions and ending this crucial shortage," continued Senator Mikulski. 
   Senator Mikulski is the Ranking Member on the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 