SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP FOR WORKERS, GOOD GUY EMPLOYERS WITH NEW BIPARTISAN PENSION LEGISLATION
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) joined her Senate colleagues today in reaching a bipartisan agreement to strengthen our nation's pension system. The Defined Benefit Security Act, sponsored by Sens. Michael Enzi (R-WY), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Mikulski, came one step closer to passage this afternoon as it was approved by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee.  
   Senator Mikulski, the senior Democrat on the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, fought hard to include special protections for older workers, while at the same time providing relief to "good guy" employers who continue to offer pensions to their employees. 
   Senator Mikulski's opening statement, as prepared, can be found below: 
   "Chairman Enzi and Senator Kennedy, I want to thank both of you for holding this very important mark-up and for all of your work toward reaching this bipartisan agreement. 
   "America's pension system is in crisis. Companies aren't filling their pension responsibilities, and are moving away from traditional pensions toward riskier, less secure retirement accounts. This leaves American workers less secure in their retirement. That's why I have been fighting hard with my colleagues in the Senate to help save pension plans that are in trouble and to save the defined benefit pension system. 
   "Congress must listen to both businesses and their workers. We must protect workers' pensions earned through years and years of hard work without forcing one-size-fits-all solutions on businesses. We especially must protect older workers as the design of pension plans change. 
   "Retirement security is one of the most important issues we face today. Everyone wants to retire with dignity and financial security. And yet every day I hear more from my constituents about how our pension system is in crisis. 
   "From the United Airlines bankruptcy settlement to the PBGC funding shortfall, we have a real problem on our hands! Indeed, many people are losing sleep as they lose their benefits and lose their retirement money. The morale of both employees and retirees is suffering, especially for those who have experienced reductions in their pension benefits. 
   "Promises made must be promises kept, but that isn't easy given these difficult economic times. The Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation is now insuring the pensions of over 40 million workers. These Americans are counting on their pension to be there when they retire. This is especially important for Maryland in 2002 when PBGC took over the pensions for Bethlehem Steel. It was the largest pension plan ever assumed by the PBGC. We counted on the PBGC being there to guarantee the pensions for nearly 100,000 Bethlehem steel workers, many of whom lived in Maryland. 
   "It is important that we take steps to make sure that the PBGC continues to be there to protect workers when their companies go bankrupt. We don't want another Savings and Loan bailout by taxpayers. We in Congress must work to protect both 'good guy' businesses who still offer pensions to their employees and the retirees who rely so heavily on their pensions. I believe the bipartisan compromise that is before us today is a big step forward on addressing all of these concerns. 
   "In this bill, we've also addressed multiemployer plans which give small businesses an easier way to offer pensions to their workers. The relief to multiemployer plans in this bill is very important to these small businesses and their employees. The president's pension plan does not include protection for the 10 million Americans covered under multiemployer plans. We can't ignore these hard working people like we did last year in the Pension Stability Act. This is another reason why it was very important to reach a bipartisan compromise which may save some of these multiemployer plans. 
   "Cash balance plans have been particularly difficult to address. Many people believe that older workers are discriminated against when companies switch from the defined benefit plan to the cash balance plans. But cash balance plans are a real part of today's pension system and when companies convert, they change the rules in the middle of the game for loyal, long-term employees. This new set of rules usually hurts older workers. We need to ensure that age discrimination does not occur when a company switches to a cash balance plan. 
   "The Subcommittee's hearings have helped us to reach an agreement that does something that neither the Finance Committee nor the House has yet been able to do: comprehensively address cash balance plans. Our bill provides relief to 'good guy' employers who have moved to cash balance plans while also including protections for older workers. 
   "Having said that, I still believe we can do more to protect workers in the midst of a conversion. And I think we can make improvements to the bill in this area before it comes to the Senate floor, especially to ensure that older and middle-aged workers do not experience wear-away - which is a period in which employees are working without earning new retirement benefits. Our agreement certainly has more worker protections than some of the other proposals out there, but I will continue to fight to protect this population of workers that has worked hard throughout their lives and deserve our support. 
   "This bill is an important step forward in protecting our nation's pension plans. They are the fragile leg of the three-legged stool of retirement security. We must strengthen all pension plans so that pension promises made are pension promises kept. I'm on the side of employees who are counting on promised pensions when they retire, businesses who have made the commitment and still provide pensions to their workers, and tax payers who also cannot afford to bail out the system. 
   "I want to personally thank Chairman Enzi for his hard work and his willingness to work across the aisle in drafting this very important bill."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 