SEN. MIKULSKI TO INTRODUCE AMENDMENT TO ENSURE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES CAN FAIRLY COMPETE FOR JOBS
  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) will offer an amendment to the Treasury-Transportation Appropriations Bill during tomorrow's subcommittee markup that would overturn the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) decision to rewrite the privatization process (OMB Circular A-76). The Mikulski amendment would allow OMB to use the previous version of A-76 while the Administration develops a more fair and balanced process for contractors and federal workers and gives the taxpayers the best deal for their money. 
   "I'm offering this amendment to protect our civil service from cronyism and political patronage," said Senator Mikulski. "I am not against privatization when it's based on thoughtful consideration. I am against arbitrary quotas, bounty hunters and stacking the deck against dedicated federal employees." 
   "My amendment throws out the new rules for public-private competitions, which put federal employees at an unfair disadvantage. It sends the Administration back to the drawing board to come up with new guidelines for competitions that are truly fair."
   The new rules for the privatization process are unfair for four reasons:
   1. Does not allow employees to submit their own best bids. While contractors are able to submit their best bids, federal employees are forced to compete based on the status quo without the opportunity to come up with a cost-saving bid of their own.
   2. Does not require contractors to show significant savings. The old rules required contractors to show that they would save the government significant money (at least $10 million or 10%, whichever is less). The new rules no longer include this requirement. This means federal workers could lose their jobs to contractor bids that don't even save the government enough money to cover the cost of the competition.
   3. Privatization process is destabilizing. The new rules force federal workers to re-compete for their jobs every five years. Contractors are not held to these same standards. This will make it extremely difficult for the government to attract - and keep - the best and brightest workers if their jobs are at risk every five years.
   4. Unfair advantage to contractors who provide inferior benefits.
  Contractors who save money by providing inferior pay and benefits have an unfair advantage. Federal workers will not be able to compete for their own jobs simply because they have adequate health care. 
   "America needs an independent civil service," added Senator Mikulski. "Our federal employees are on the front lines every day, working hard for America. These hardworking men and women deserve to be treated fairly and, at the very least, deserve to have the same rights that contractors do."
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654.
 
 