SEN. MIKULSKI ENDORSES EFFORT TO INCREASE LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT FUNDING
  Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today lent her endorsement to an effort to provide additional funding for Edward Byrne Justice Assistance (Byrne) grants in the supplemental spending bill that Congress plans to consider by the end of April. In a letter to Appropriations Chairman Robert C. Byrd (D-W.V.) and Ranking Member Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Senator Mikulski noted that the 2008 Senate-passed CJS spending bill provided $660 million for Byrne grants, but was reduced to $170 million in the final 2008 omnibus spending bill in the face of a presidential veto threat. The letter comes as Attorney General Michael Mukasey prepares to testify before the CJS Subcommittee tomorrow on the agency's fiscal year 2009 priorities.
   "I have heard from state and local police around the country that the consequences of these funding cuts will be fewer cops on our streets fighting gangs, drugs, and child predators and fewer prosecutions of criminals," said Senator Mikulski. "We have an obligation to keep our communities safe from violent crime. If we can provide resources to the police in Iraq, we should support our cops here at home." 
   Senator Mikulski has strongly criticized President Bush's fiscal year 2009 budget request, which continued a trend of leaving state and local law enforcement without the tools they need to protect our communities. The President funds the Department of Justice (DOJ) at $22.7 billion, a 2 percent decrease from last year's omnibus bill. This includes a staggering 61 percent cut for state and local law enforcement programs. President Bush's budget also eliminates several grant programs for state and local law enforcement including: the Byrne/Justice Assistance Grants, Byrne Discretionary and Competitive Grants, the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Law Enforcement Technology Grants, Juvenile Accountability Block Grants, and the Secure Our Schools program.
   The text of the letter is below:
   Dear Chairman Byrd and Senator Cochran,
   In my capacity as Chairwoman of the Subcommittee that funds the Department of Justice, I am writing to strongly and enthusiastically support any and all efforts to add funding to the emergency supplemental for Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grants.
   Byrne grant funding is the single most important federal resource for cops-on-the-beat in our states and local communities. This funding goes by formula to state and local police forces to help them prevent, fight and prosecute crime.
   The President has repeatedly proposed to cut drastically and eliminate Byrne grant funding. Each time, the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Subcommittee has rejected the President's proposals. Last year, with your help, the Senate-passed CJS bill provided $660 million for Byrne grants. But because of the President's veto threats, Byrne funding was reduced to just $170 million in the final 2008 omnibus bill. This is $350 million below the 2007 level, and $490 million below the level included in the Senate-passed CJS bill for 2008.
   I have heard from state and local police around the country that the consequences of these funding cuts will be fewer cops on our streets fighting gangs, drugs, and child predators and fewer prosecutions of criminals. I know we all agree that this is unacceptable. If we can provide resources to the police in Iraq, we should support our cops here at home.
   I know you share my deep concern about the impact of these funding reductions, and I thank you for your support of the CJS Subcommittee's efforts to bolster our nation's ability to fight crime in our communities. I look forward to our continued work together to on this very important issue, and thank for your consideration of this matter.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 