SEN. MIKULSKI FIGHTS TO PREPARE VA HEALTH CARE SYSTEM FOR INFLUX OF WOMEN VETS
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today announced she has joined a bipartisan group of her colleagues led by Senator Patty Murray (D-Wa.) in introducing the Women Veterans Health Improvement Act of 2008 (S. 2799) to prepare the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for the unprecedented influx of female veterans who will rely on them for care in the coming years. This effort comes as General David Petraeus and U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker gave a stark assessment of the situation in Iraq to Senate Committees this week that could indicate a slower return for Soldiers in the field. "The brave women of our military have been fighting side-by-side in Iraq and Afghanistan with our men in uniform so that we may live in freedom - they deserve the same support from the government when they return home," said Senator Mikulski. "There is currently an unprecedented number of women defending their country at war. We owe them a debt of gratitude, and that means making sure they have a VA health care system that meets their needs." 
   The bill addresses many of the unique health care needs of women veterans by creating programs to improve care for Military Sexual Trauma (MST) and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), increasing research on the current barriers to health care and expanding women veterans programs at all VA medical centers. With the increase in female troops fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, VA officials estimate the number of women receiving care will double in the next five years. This legislation makes sure the VA is prepared to address their health care needs.
   "We have a sacred trust with the veterans who risked their lives so that we may live in freedom. Part of that sacred trust is making sure we provide them with the services and support they need," said Senator Mikulski. "I will never abandon our troops - on the battlefield or when they come home needing care."
   Senator Mikulski has a history of standing up for our troops and veterans. In addition to fighting to improve conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, she has been working to establish a national reintegration program for members of the National Guard and Reserve to help them readjust to civilian life, like the program available to active duty troops, when they return. For more information, go to: http://mikulski.senate.gov/record.cfm?id=295196.
   A senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Mikulski has also been a champion for women's health throughout her career.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 