SEN. MIKULSKI VOTED ONE OF BEST SENATORS FOR KIDS
  The Children's Defense Fund Action Council (CDFAC) has recognized Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) as one of the "Best Senators for Children." The CDFAC released its congressional report card today, acknowledging Sen. Mikulski as one of the few Senators whose voting record was 100 percent in favor of improving the lives of America's children.  
   "I am so proud to be honored by the Children's Defense Fund Action Council," said Senator Mikulski. "When it comes to looking out for America's children, it isn't about politics. It's about partnership and performance. I will continue to work in the United States Senate to keep children a priority." 
   Senator Mikulski has a long history of fighting for the well-being of America's youth - from supporting after school programs, to working for public schools families can count on, and protecting children from lead paint exposure. 
   Just last month, Senator Mikulski continued her ongoing fight to support the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) - addressing a funding shortfall for the program by introducing the Keep Children Covered Act of 2007. 
   SCHIP is a federal-state matching program that provides health insurance to targeted low-income children, and some adults, in families with income above Medicaid eligibility levels. The Keep Children Covered Act would eliminate a funding shortfall for the SCHIP program that 14 states are facing in fiscal year 2007. The states in need are: Alaska, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, Rhode Island and Wisconsin. 
   During the final days of the 109th Congress, Senator Mikulski fought to pass a provision to allow unspent federal dollars from SCHIP to be redistributed to the 14 states facing a shortage of funds in 2007. This will help the states in the early months of 2007, but, as early as May of this year, the states will once again begin facing a financial shortfall. 
   "The SCHIP program provides health insurance to the children of many of America's working families. I fought to create the SCHIP program in 1997 and I have been fighting ever since to expand coverage and increase payment to states," said Senator Mikulski. "I know that states want to do the right thing, but they can't do it on their own. I will keep standing up for a federal government that fulfills its responsibilities to America's families and America's children."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 