SEN. MIKULSKI BRINGS RESOURCES FOR FIRST RESPONDERS TO MARYLAND COMMUNITIES
  Maryland Fire and Rescue Institute (MFRI) and the University of Maryland, in partnership with Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.), will conduct a series of free regional Firefighters Grant Workshops for all Maryland fire departments and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) personnel. This is the fifth year Sen. Mikulski has partnered with the MFRI to conduct the workshops, which assist departments in preparing successful Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) Applications. Their success has been demonstrated - nearly one in three participating Maryland departments that have applied for funding have received a grant.  
   AFGP grants go toward firefighting equipment, personal protection equipment, training, firefighting vehicles and firefighter/first responder safety projects. Since 2001, Maryland fire departments and fire service organizations have received more than $41 million through the AFGP. 
   "Helping our firefighters is not a political issue, it is a safety issue. First responders are our true heroes," said Senator Mikulski. "I believe the federal government has a responsibility to protect our protectors, providing them with the tools to do their job safer and smarter. I will never give up my fight to give first responders the tools they need." 
   Other workshop partners include Maryland's Office of Homeland Security, Maryland Emergency Management Agency, the Maryland Governor's Grants Office, and the Maryland State Firemen's Association. 
   All Firefighters Grant Program Workshops are conducted from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. For more information, call the MFRI at (301) 226-9920. Pre-registration is not required. 
   Feb 20: Mt. Airy Volunteer Fire Company - Carnival Activities Building 
   Feb 22: Western Maryland Regional Training Center (WMRTC), Cresaptown 
   Feb 27: Northeast Regional Training Center (NERTC), Aberdeen 
   Feb 28: Upper Eastern Shore Regional Training Center (UESRTC), Centreville 
   Mar 6: Southern Maryland Regional Training Center (SMRTC), La Plata 
   Mar 8: Lower Eastern Shore Regional Training Center (LESRTC), Princess Anne
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 