SEN. MIKULSKI BILL TO PREVENT MILITARY HONORS FOR CONVICTED MURDERERS SIGNED INTO LAW
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today applauded as President Bush signed into law her provision, introduced with Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Sen. Larry Craig (R-Idaho), which eliminates burial benefits and funeral honors for any veteran convicted of a federal or state capital offense. The amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill closes a loophole that has allowed convicted murderers to receive full burial honors at national military cemeteries like Arlington National Cemetery.  
   "This law honors our military heroes, and I am so proud to have fought for its passage. This continues what has been a daily fight for more than 18 years to safeguard vital veterans' services and benefits," said Senator Mikulski. "Promises made to our veterans must be promises kept, because they represent America's payment of a debt we owe our brave veterans for their service - a debt that can never be fully repaid." 
   "Thanks to the bipartisan efforts by Senators Craig, John Warner and Carl Levin, we have taken this important step to preserve our national cemeteries as places of honor for our veterans. Today, we have proven that together, America can do better." 
   Senator Mikulski initially brought this issue to the Veterans' Affairs Committee's attention in August 2005 following the controversial placement of convicted killer Russell Wagner's remains in Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors. Wagner killed Daniel and Wilda Davis, two elderly residents of Hagerstown, Md. Their son, Vernon Davis, joined Senator Mikulski in testifying before the committee in September 2005. 
   "Our national cemeteries are hallowed ground," testified Senator Mikulski. "They should not be tainted by the remains of convicted murderers. Arlington is for heroes." 
   The Craig-Mikulski provision takes away burial eligibility for any veteran convicted of a capital crime, whether in federal or state court, regardless of whether parole is a possibility. It also denies funeral honors to veterans being buried in private cemeteries if they have lost eligibility due to a capital conviction.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 