SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MARYLAND FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Darlington Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. in Harford County and the Chillum-Adelphi Volunteer Fire Department, Inc. in Prince George's County are being awarded a total of $230,176 federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program. 
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Maryland's Eastern Shore. Congratulations to these Maryland fire departments on being awarded this well-deserved money."
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities."
   The Darlington Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. in Harford County will use its $177, 853 in federal funding to purchase 30 self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units, individualized face masks, an integrated pass device and spare air bottles. The SCBA units and individualized face masks will protect firefighters from the noxious gases created by fires and fumes from chemical emergencies. The integrated pass device enables firefighters to communicate and share an air supply. The spare air bottles will provide firefighters with approximately 45 minutes of breathable air.
   For more information on the Darlington Volunteer Fire Company, Inc. please contact Assistant Fire Chief Charles Hill at (410) - 638-3760.
   The Chillum-Adelphi Volunteer Fire Department in Prince George's County will use their $52,323 in federal funding to purchase an advanced communications system consisting of four 800 mhz digital radios and eight portable radio units. The 800 mhz radios will be installed into firefighting apparatuses and individual firefighters will carry the portable units. This new telecommunication equipment will enable first responders to communicate directly. The new system is replacing a 150 mhz vhf system that has forced firefighters to communicate through a relay system, which interferes with direct communications between first responders.
   The Chillum-Adelphi VFD first-due response area is one of the most populous in the Prince George's and Montgomery County area, including the University of Maryland at College Park and the National Archives.
   For more information on the Chillum-Adelphi Volunteer Fire Department please contact Assistant Chief Jack Spencer at (301 )- 434- 3435.
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded weekly until September 2005.
   Last year, one in three Maryland fire departments that applied for funding received grants, totaling $8,153,505 - a 100 percent increase from the previous year.
   This year, the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security has approved a $700 million budget for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. While this is $200 million over President Bush's budget allocation, it is a cut of $46 million from last year's funding level. This will reduce the number of fire departments who will be awarded funding this year.
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/224-4654, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 