SEN. MIKULSKI STANDS UP AGAINST CUTS TO EASTERN NECK WILDLIFE REFUGE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne today, urging against proposed budget cuts to Eastern Neck Wildlife Refuge in Kent County, Md. The cuts would result in reduction in staff that would compromise the refuge's ability to accommodate visitors, who have a significant economic impact in nearby Eastern Shore communities.  
   "The Eastern Neck Wildlife Refuge is one of Maryland's unique treasures, helping to support the Eastern Shore's economy and providing an engaging environment for both residents and visitors," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight in the Senate for federal funds that can serve as investments in our heritage and quality of life." 
   The text of the letter is below: 
   The Honorable Dirk Kempthorne Secretary of the U.S. Department of Interior 1849 C. Street N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 
   Dear Secretary Kempthorne: 
   I am writing to express my deep concern regarding the proposed budget cuts to the Eastern Neck National Wildlife Refuge that will reduce the number of staff located on site. Any proposal to cut back the number of full time employees at Eastern Neck is unacceptable. 
   I have been advised that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Region 5 intends to reduce the onsite management staff of Eastern Neck at a time when it is already relying on volunteers for an average of 3,000 hours annually. These volunteer hours represent 1.5 full time employees. Any further reduction in staff will compromise the refuge's buildings and land and its ability to accommodate 70,000 visitors annually. These visitors have a significant economic impact on the surrounding Eastern Shore towns. 
   I am aware that budget constraints are the source of these proposed cuts; however, there must be a better way to increase efficiency within Region 5. Streamlining staff is not the answer. Our refuges will certainly suffer as a result. As a Member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, I welcome the opportunity to discuss with you U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's budget problems that are negatively impacting Maryland's treasured Eastern Neck National Wildlife Refuge and other refuges across the nation. 
   Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. I look forward to hearing from you.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 