SENS. MIKULSKI, SARBANES ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR HAGERSTOWN FIREFIGHTERS
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Paul S. Sarbanes (both D-MD) today announced that the Hagerstown Fire Department is being awarded $89,100 in federal funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Sen. Mikulski is on the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and fights each year to increase federal money for the program.  
   "I'm so proud of Maryland's firefighters, risking their lives to protect others," said Senator Mikulski. "But we need to protect our protectors with the best equipment training and resources. I will keep fighting for a federal investment in the safety of our first responders and Maryland's Eastern Shore. Congratulations to the Hagerstown Fire Department on being awarded this well-deserved money." 
   "As was demonstrated during the 9/11 tragedies and during other emergencies across Maryland and the Nation on an almost daily basis, the heroism and diligence of America's firefighters and first responders is crucial to the health and safety of our communities," said Sarbanes. "These hard-working firefighters deserve the most-up-to-date equipment, and I am pleased that this funding is being awarded to assist them in their efforts to protect their respective communities." 
   The Hagerstown Fire Department. will use its $89,1000 for a citizen information campaign to reduce fires. Their three part approach will include an informational blitz about the risks of fire and prevention strategies, an engineering initiative to provide landlords with technologically advanced smoke alarms for rental properties, and an enforcement mechanism to hold tenants to certain fire safety guidelines. 
   This is the first award for the Lewistown VFD under the AFGP and the third for a Frederick County Fire Department this funding cycle. So far this cycle, Frederick County has received $247,543 in AFGP funds. 
   For more information on the Hagerstown Fire Department, please call Mr. Mike Weller, Public Education Officer at (301) 790 2476 
   The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a competitive program that awards one-year grants directly to fire departments nationwide. Fire departments can apply for federal assistance for training and equipment, fire education and awareness programs, or firefighting vehicles. This year, approximately 20,400 departments nationwide applied for funding, totaling more than $2.6 billion in requests. Grants will be awarded weekly until September 2005. 
   In 2003, Senator Mikulski introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security spending bill that would have increased federal funding for the Fire Grant Program by $150 million, funding it at its authorized level of $900 million. Senator Mikulski's amendment failed by a vote of 48-49.
   Contact: Amy Hagovsky, 202/228-1122, http://mikulski.senate.gov.
 
 