SEN. MIKULSKI SAYS DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BUDGET LEAVES PORT OF BALTIMORE WITHOUT CRITICAL RESOURCES
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) criticized the lack of essential funding for the nation's port security following this morning's Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announcement of allocations for state infrastructure grants. In particular, Maryland's Port of Baltimore, one of 17 second-tier (based on risk assessment) ports vying for a share of $40 million provided, will only receive $1.9 million in federal funding. 
   "The DHS budget for port security fails to acknowledge the role that our nation's ports play in protecting the country from future attacks. Ports are now a high-threat target for terrorism. The President talks about homeland security, but where is the funding so that we can do our part?" said Senator Mikulski. "Port security is a responsibility of the U.S. government. It is essential to keeping our borders and our nation safe."
   Senator Mikulski, a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, has criticized the lack of essential funding for Maryland's homeland security priorities in President Bush's proposed fiscal year 2008 budget, specifically for Maryland's ports, rails and transit systems. Despite signing into law the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act of 2006, which authorized port security grants at $400 million annually for five years to provide vital tools for our national security, military capability and economy, President Bush only requested $210 million - providing no additional funding.
   "Our economy depends on moving goods via our ports, and our security demands that our ports are safe and protected from attacks. We need to make sure the Port of Baltimore and all ports across America are safe, secure and growing," said Senator Mikulski. "I will continue to fight with my colleagues to make sure we are keeping our nation's security a priority in the federal checkbook."
   Approximately 11 million containers come into the United States each year, including 19,000 containers daily. The Port of Baltimore, which is the 14th largest port for foreign cargo, just celebrated its 300th anniversary and is a major economic engine for Maryland and America. The Port supports more than 42,000 maritime-related jobs in Maryland and almost 20,000 direct jobs.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 