SENS. MIKULSKI, CARDIN ANNOUNCE $27,000 GRANT FOR B&O RAILROAD MUSEUM
  Sens. Barbara A. Mikulski and Benjamin L. Cardin (both D-Md.) today announced that the B&O Railroad Museum will receive a Conservation Project grant for $26,979 from the Institute of Museum of Library Services (IMLS) to help the museum archive its vast collection, particularly its paper and audiovisual collection. 
   "The B&O Railroad Museum plays an important role in preserving Maryland and America's railroading history. That's why I'm working with Senator Cardin to protect the museum's collection so that future generations will be able to learn about and enjoy this national treasure," said Senator Mikulski. "This funding is important to ensuring that the museum's collection of historic artifacts is not lost forever."
   "The B&O Railroad Museum is an important part of our nation's heritage," said Senator Cardin. "This Museum is unique because it chronicles the development and growth of our nation through our railroads. This grant will enable the museum to preserve and protect its collection for future generations."
   "The Museum is very pleased to receive this grant. It will allow us to meet our long-term preservation and conservation needs to ensure our collections are available to future generations," said Dave Shackelford, Chief Curator of the B&O Railroad Museum.
   The B&O Railroad Museum is recognized as the birthplace of American railroading. A National Historic Landmark, Affiliate of the Smithsonian Museum, and independent educational resource, the B&O Railroad Museum collects, preserves and interprets artifacts related to early American railroading, particularly the Baltimore & Ohio, Chesapeake & Ohio, Western Maryland, and other mid-Atlantic railroads - to the delight of more than 200,000 visitors a year.
   On February 16, 2003, amid a record-breaking snowfall, one half of the Museum's massive roof collapsed. Restoration was begun almost immediately and the Museum was reopened to the public on November 13, 2004.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 