SEN. MIKULSKI PRAISES SENATE PASSAGE OF FDA DRUG SAFETY BILL
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today said the Senate has passed the most important drug safety bill of the decade: the Food and Drug Administration Revitalization Act (FDARA). The reauthorization bill, which passed the Senate today, will fundamentally improve drug safety standards at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Sen. Mikulski, a senior member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, was instrumental in shaping this legislation, adding language in the bill based on Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommendations to improve the scientific environment at the FDA and increase transparency. 
   "Congress has a unique opportunity to change the way we monitor the safety of drugs for America. This is a critical issue at a critical time," said Senator Mikulski. "We owe it to consumers, physicians and patients all over the world who rely on the FDA for drug safety."
   "This is not about ideology. This is about protecting the American people," continued Senator Mikulski. "The FDA has always been the gold standard in maintaining drug safety and drug efficacy. I have fought for years for the right facilities and the right resources for the FDA. Now, I responded to the call from our top scientists at the IOM by acting on their suggestions to protect our drug supply."
   In particular, Senator Mikulski fought to add language to the bill based on the IOM report, "The Future of Drug Safety." These recommendations improve the scientific environment and transparency at the FDA. Senator Mikulski added important measures to promote transparency, such as requiring the FDA to publicly post summaries of drug approval processes (including scientific disagreements) on the internet, so now scientists, researchers and consumers can review the approval process for all new drugs.
   The Senator also included language that strengthened science by establishing an Office of the Chief Scientist - a single scientist to oversee all the offices at the FDA to be sure the agency has strong scientific guidance from the very top. This bill will mandate that scientists from the important offices for drug safety are integrated into all phases of the drug review process and clarify that scientists at the FDA should be able publish their scholarly papers.
   "We must heed the call of our nation's scientific community," said Senator Mikulski. "The FDA is losing our intellectual capital. We are losing scientists who are choosing other paths because of restraints. This is about innovations and discoveries that can save lives today and tomorrow."
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 