SEN. MIKULSKI SUCCEEDS IN PROVIDING MEDICAID PATIENT ACCESS TO PODIATRY CARE
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) has announced that her "Including Podiatrists as Physicians Under the Medicaid Program" bill has passed the U.S. Senate as part of the Deficit Reduction Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 2005. The bill requires podiatry services to be covered by Medicaid as they are under Medicare.  
   "This is a simple, common sense bill. Podiatrists are considered physicians under Medicare. They should be considered the same under Medicaid," said Senator Mikulski. "Medicaid covers necessary foot and ankle care services. Medicaid should allow podiatrists who are trained specifically in foot and ankle care to provide these services and be reimbursed for them." 
   Podiatry care is an essential component of healthcare. According to the American Podiatric Medical Association, 75 percent of Americans will experience some type of foot health problem during their lives. Foot disease is the most common complication of diabetes leading to hospitalization and about 82,000 people have diabetes-related leg, foot or toe amputations each year. Foot care programs, with regular examinations and patient education, could prevent up to 85 percent of these amputations. Ensuring Medicaid coverage for podiatry visits is an essential preventative measure for this care. 
   Podiatrist services are considered optional under Medicaid. Most state Medicaid programs, including Maryland, recognize and reimburse podiatrists for providing foot and ankle care to their beneficiaries. However, during times of tight budgets, states may choose to cut back on these optional services. 
   "Medicaid patients need foot and ankle care. If podiatrists do not provide the care, patients will see providers who may not be as well trained," added Senator Mikulski. "That's why I'm working to guarantee that the more than 560,000 Medicaid patients in Maryland have access to the services provided by over 400 podiatrists in the state." 
   While the Senate Reconciliation Act contains this bill, the House of Representatives version does not. In the next step of the legislative process, the House and Senate will meet in Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Once passed by the House and Senate, the Reconciliation Act will go to the President for his signature. 
   "As the legislation moves through Conference Committee, I will continue to fight and make sure the language is included in the final bill," said Senator Mikulski.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 