SENS. SARBANES, MIKULSKI ANNOUNCE AGREEMENT ON FUNDING FOR C AND O CANAL REWATERING PROJECT IN CUMBERLAND
  Sens. Paul S. Sarbanes (D-MD) and Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) announced that the House and the Senate have reached final agreement on the FY 2006 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill that includes an additional $900,000 for continuing efforts to restore and rewater the C&O Canal terminus in downtown Cumberland.  
   The National Park Service, along with federal, State and local officials have joined together in support of rebuilding and rewatering the 1.1-mile section of the historic C&O Canal in this area. The Corps of Engineers determined in the late 1990's that it was feasible to re-water the canal successfully without compromising the flood protection for the City of Cumberland. In 1999, Sarbanes and Mikulski obtained legislative provisions authorizing the Corps to construct the project. As part of the project, the City of Cumberland is relocating and improving the City's combined stormwater/sewer system that is located in the Canal. Since that time, the two Maryland Senators have worked to obtain more than $15 million in federal dollars for this project. 
   The final agreement also includes funding for the following efforts in Western Maryland: 
   * $1.716 million to operate and maintain the Jennings Randolph Lake dam and facilities at the dam site. The project is operated by the Army Corps of Engineers for flood control, water quality, water supply, and in-lake and downstream recreation; 
   * $675,000 for continued flood control and protection efforts along Wills Creek and the North Branch of the Potomac River in the Cumberland, Maryland/Ridgeley, West Virginia area. The project provides flood protection to the downtown businesses and residential areas and consists of levees, floodwalls, and channel improvements including a 1.6 mile-long portion of Wills Creek; and 
   * $400,000 to study the potential of constructing an auxiliary spillway at the Jennings Randolph Lake dam to help alleviate the possibility of overtopping of the dam during severe flooding. 
  "The Canal Place project over the years has been one of my top priorities for Western Maryland," said Sarbanes. "Once completed, the rebuilt and rewatered C&O Canal terminus will be a catalyst for increased tourism and economic development opportunities throughout the area.. And this measure also includes needed funding to protect the citizens in and around Cumberland, and also improve recreational opportunities and safety at Jennings Randolph Lake." 
   "The C&O Canal is a pathway into our history and a pathway to enjoying nature and recreation," said Senator Mikulski. "That's why I have always been committed to the preservation of the C&O Canal, the terminus in Cumberland, and Canal Place economic development. For years, Senator Sarbanes and I fought for federal money so that the canal can be rewatered and its history could be preserved. I'm proud to join Senator Sarbanes in working for this federal investment." 
   The final agreement must be approved by both the Senate and the House before being sent to President Bush for his signature.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 