SEN. MIKULSKI CELEBRATES PHASE COMPLETION OF INFORMATION SUPERHIGHWAY ON EASTERN SHORE
  Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) today celebrated the completion of the first step in bringing broadband network capability to the Eastern Shore. Senator Mikulski fought for the initial $2 million in federal funds that launched this project, which has linked Wallops Island to Salisbury University.  
   Senator Mikulski also announced that, as Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee, she fought to include $4 million in the fiscal year 2008 CJS spending bill, which is expected to pass the Senate next week. This funding will support the final phase of the information superhighway from Salisbury across the Bay Bridge. 
   "Bringing broadband to the Eastern Shore means economic development, job growth and innovation whether you are a small business, a school, a major employer or a NASA Center. Today we are so excited that we are getting closer and closer to this goal," said Senator Mikulski. "The Eastern Shore is changing - our space, high tech, health care and higher education facilities need broadband - so do our poultry producers, construction companies and our small businesses. That's why I have worked so hard and will keep fighting for the resources to keep the Shore competitive." 
   This project is a unique partnership with the private sector and state officials, and will be a major source of future economic development for area communities and universities, spurring job creation and innovation on the Shore. It will connect NASA's Wallops Island Flight Facility, schools, universities, medical centers, businesses and consumers along the entire Shore. When completed, the broadband network will cover the entire Eastern Shore and Southern Maryland. 
   As the then-senior Democrat on the CJS Subcommittee, Senator Mikulski secured a $2 million down payment for the broadband construction as part of the 2006 spending bill. This, leveraged with state and private funding, is responsible for the first phase of the project. Despite efforts to include an additional $4 million in the 2007 spending bill to build the next phase of the information superhighway, the bill was not brought up for a final vote by the 109th Congress.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122.
 
 