SEN. MIKULSKI CALLS FOR RELEASE OF 16 KEY ROBERTS DOCUMENTS
  Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) joined Democratic women Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) today in sending the following letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, urging him to immediately release documents on 16 key cases in which Judge John G. Roberts, Jr. played a leadership role as Principal Deputy Solicitor General. This request comes after repeated inquiries from members of the Senate Judiciary Committee for the documents. These documents are essential to understanding Judge Roberts' complete record.  
   All Americans expect the Senate to thoroughly examine the views of Judge Roberts, review important documents from his professional career and ask him questions about his beliefs. This led Senator Mikulski and several of her Democratic women Senate colleagues to create a website in July 2005 that gives Americans an opportunity to submit questions they would like Judge Roberts to be asked during his confirmation hearings. Through democrats.senate.gov/AskRoberts, Americans submitted a variety of questions. Inquiries ranged from privacy, reproductive choice, civil rights (including affirmative action, the rights of the disabled, women, and gay and lesbian Americans) to the environment and religious liberties. Americans also wanted to know Judge Roberts' judicial philosophy, his background and qualifications. 
   On August 31, 2005, the Senators delivered more than 40,000 questions to the Senate Judiciary Committee. Images of the delivery are available upon request. 
   The text of the letter follows: 
   September 9, 2005 
   The Honorable Alberto Gonzales Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 
   Dear Attorney General Gonzales: 
   As the Judiciary Committee prepares for its hearings on the nomination of Judge John G. Roberts, Jr. to be Chief Justice of the United States, we urge you to immediately fulfill the narrow request made by our colleagues on the Judiciary Committee for documents related to16 key cases on which Judge Roberts played a leadership role during his service as Principal Deputy Solicitor General. 
   Judge Roberts's limited judicial record makes it critical that we thoroughly examine the entirety of his legal work, particularly his experience in the Solicitor General's office, which is the other recent, high-ranking and most relevant position to his Supreme Court nomination. These 16 cases raise issues vital to the fundamental rights of all Americans, and would undoubtedly shed important light on Judge Roberts's judicial views and philosophy. We are particularly interested in those cases that could illuminate Judge Roberts's approach to civil rights, women's rights, the right to privacy, reproductive health care, and the environment. 
   Not only is there precedent for the disclosure of these documents - similar information was provided to the Senate when it considered the nominations of Justice William Rehnquist and Judge Robert Bork - but there is also a clear imperative. If we are going to fulfill our Constitutional duty to provide meaningful advice and consent on Judge Roberts's nomination, that consent must be informed, particularly because it concerns a lifetime appointment to be Chief Justice of the United States. 
   While working as a top political appointee at the Justice Department, Judge Roberts's client was not the Attorney General or the President; it was the people of the United States of America. All Americans expect us to thoroughly examine Judge Roberts's views, and the Constitution requires it. With so much at stake, refusing to disclose these documents raises serious concerns about whether the administration is trying to hide something from the Senate and, more important, the American people. 
   We urge you to act immediately to release the requested documents to the Judiciary Committee before it begins Judge Roberts's confirmation hearings. Thank you for your cooperation with this request.
   Contact: Melissa Schwartz, 202/228-1122. 
 
 