SENS. BINGAMAN, DEWINE MEASURE WOULD ELIMINATE MEDICARE WAITING PERIOD FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
  Yesterday, Sens. Jeff Bingaman and Mike DeWine introduced legislation that would phase out the two-year period that disabled people currently must wait before they receive Medicare benefits.  
   In 1972, Congress expanded Medicare from a health care program for older Americans to one that also covers individuals with significant disabilities. At that time, it built in a 24-month waiting period, during which disabled persons can receive Social Security Disability Insurance, but not health benefits through Medicare. 
   Bingaman and DeWine's legislation eliminates the 24-month waiting period, phasing it out over 10 years. As it is phased out, the Secretary of Health and Human Services would be able to waive the waiting period for people with life-threatening illnesses. 
   According to a Commonwealth Fund report, 40 percent of disabled people waiting for Medicare coverage are enrolled in Medicaid - a state/federal health care program for low-income individuals. But Medicaid only covers individuals who meet income requirements and who have assets of less than $2,000; these requirements make many people ineligible. Therefore, Medicare is often the only source of health care available to disabled individuals. 
   "Of the estimated 400,000 uninsured disabled Americans in the waiting period at any given time, 16,000 of them will die awaiting Medicare coverage. Why are we denying Medicare coverage to those who need it most? It just doesn't make sense," Bingaman said. 
   "Under the current system we are withholding Medicare coverage from an entire population at a time when they likely need health benefits the most," said DeWine. "Our legislation would correct this problem, providing health care coverage to the disabled community to help improve the quality of their lives. Passing this measure is the right thing to do." 
   While Medicare costs would rise if Bingaman and DeWine's bill was adopted, Medicaid costs would be decreased. That would, in turn, reduce the state's Medicaid contribution. 
   Bingaman and DeWine's "Ending the Medicare Disability Waiting Act of 2005" was referred to the Senate Finance Committee, the panel with jurisdiction over Medicare and Medicaid. Bingaman is a member of that committee and in that capacity has worked to increase equity in Medicare and Medicaid payments to New Mexico. He is also working to on several proposals to reduce the number of uninsured Americans. DeWine has worked throughout his career to improve the nation's healthcare, specifically as an advocate for children's healthcare, authoring the Better Pharmaceuticals for Children Act, with Senator Dodd, followed by the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act of 2003. He is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee.
 
 