SENS. DODD, DEWINE ANNOUNCE BIPARTISAN AGREEMENT TO REAUTHORIZE POPULAR FIREFIGHTER GRANT PROGRAM
  Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Mike DeWine (R-OH) announced today that they are introducing bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the popular FIRE Act for an additional six years. The FIRE Act initiative, now in its fourth year, has provided nearly $2 billion to local fire departments throughout the nation for a variety of training, equipment and fire prevention needs.  
   "The responsibilities of our nation's firefighters have changed dramatically since the original FIRE Act was enacted," said Dodd. "The tragic events of September 11 have required firefighters to shoulder additional homeland security responsibilities. They are literally serving on the front lines of the war against terror on the domestic front. The bipartisan legislation that Senator DeWine and I have authored will give firefighters across America the tools they need to save lives and do their jobs safely." 
   "I am pleased that today we are introducing the reauthorization of the FIRE Act Grant Program," said Senator DeWine. "Equipping our fire and EMS squads with the tools they need to improve safety and save lives is the essence of this legislation. By building on the strengths of this program and learning from the past four years, we can increase participation and enhance the ability of fire departments to respond to all types of emergencies." 
   Senators Dodd and DeWine are the authors of the original FIRE Act, which for the first time established a federal grant initiative explicitly designed to help firefighters throughout America obtain better equipment and improved training. The Office of Domestic Preparedness within the Department of Homeland Security is now administering the FIRE Act. 
   The FIRE Act is truly a success story. A January 31, 2003 report by the federal government found that 99% of participants were satisfied with its ability to meet the needs of their department. In addition, 97% of the participants reported it had "a positive impact on their ability to handle fire and fire-related incidents." The report concluded that "overall, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program was highly effective in improving the readiness and capabilities of firefighters across the nation." 
   The Dodd-DeWine reauthorization bill is endorsed by organizations such as the International Association of Fire Fighters, International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Volunteer Fire Council, National Fire Protection Association, International Association of Arson Investigators, Inc., and SafeKids. The original co-sponsors of the legislation are Senators Sarbanes, McCain, Collins, Hollings, Warner, Levin, Graham (SC), Lieberman, Snowe, Biden, Specter, Kennedy, Rockefeller, Jeffords, Harkin, Durbin, Mikulski, Baucus, Daschle, Schumer, Clinton, Inouye, Leahy, Johnson, Kerry, Bingaman, Lautenberg, Reid, Corzine, Carper and Reed.
 
 