SEN. DEWINE JOINS 50 CLUB DINNER
  REMARKS - 50 CLUB
   Thank you, Sandy, for that very kind introduction, and thank you to Tom Waltermire for inviting me to speak. I am honored to join you for tonight's 50 Club dinner. Thank you for inviting me back. It is always good to be in Cleveland. Over the last 15 years, I've slept more nights here in Cleveland than anywhere else in the state - except in my home in Cedarville!  
   My biggest challenge in preparing my remarks tonight was to try and keep them brief. There are just so many things that I'd like to talk about. What I'll try to do is limit my prepared remarks and then open it up for questions, because I really want to hear from you. 
   But for now, I want to talk about the future of Ohio. This is a great state - a state whose inventors, entrepreneurs, and dreamers led the world in innovation and change throughout the late 19th and 20th Centuries. As a Unites States Senator, I want to talk about our state's future, because I believe every Ohio leader needs to talk about the crisis our state faces. 
   Now is a crucial time in our state's history. 
   It is a critical time for Ohio. 
   What concerns me today are some of the disturbing trends - most of them long-standing trends - that we are seeing in Ohio. Though we are a great state, with great people, we are also an under-educated, an under-employed, and an under-paid state, with a tax structure that is reflective of the past - not the future. 
   The statistics are clear. You know the numbers. You've heard them many times before. But, I want to repeat just a few of the cold, hard facts about where our state is, because it underscores exactly why it is so important - so vital, really - that we accept reality and start making profound changes. 
   Since 2000, Ohio has lost more jobs than any other state in America - a quarter-million jobs or 37 percent of all jobs lost nationwide. Cuyahoga County, alone, lost 63,900 jobs or 8% of its workforce from 2000 to 2004. 
   In personal income, Ohio continues to lose ground. We just need to look at where Ohio was in 1960 versus where we are today. 
   In 1960, John F. Kennedy was elected President. I was a 13 year-old boy, who just had my first date with my future wife, Frances, and Jim Brown led the Cleveland Browns, rushing 1,257 yards, making it his 3rd consecutive 1,000 yard season. 
   In that same year, Ohio ranked sixth highest in the nation in income levels. Yet today, Ohio citizens rank 24th. Here in Cuyahoga County, for eight straight years, there has been a net loss in personal income, totaling a staggering $2 billion. 
   Today, according to the Ohio Board of Regents, each Ohioan earns almost $1,500 less than the average American. To put it another way, if the average Ohioan earned what the average American earns today, we would have $1.5 billion more in tax revenues to invest in educating our children and improving the quality of life in our state. 
   In 1960, Ohio ranked 30th in the percentage of its citizens who had four-year college degrees. Today, we are 39th in the nation in that same category. In 1960, being ranked 30th maybe wasn't so bad, because an Ohioan without a college degree could get a job on the farm or in manufacturing and provide well for the family. But, in today's new economy, being ranked 39th is simply not acceptable. 
   It is even more troubling if you look at how few students in our cities are actually graduating from high school. In 1999, only one-third of high school students in Cleveland City schools graduated. While I am pleased to say that that number has increased steadily each year since then, still only 40.8% of Cleveland high school students graduated this past May. The figure is staggeringly low for the number of African American males who graduated, with only 19% of them actually graduating last May. 
   While Cleveland's graduation rates are the worst among our major cities in Ohio, the numbers are equally disturbing all across the state, with barely half the students graduating in Dayton (53.8%), Canton (54.1%), and Columbus (59.9%). And, just as in Cleveland, only 19% of African American males graduated in Cincinnati. 
   Further, since 2000, Ohio has led our Nation in the exodus of young people. Between 2000 and 2003, Ohio lost over 79,000 people aged 20 to 40, representing a loss of thousands of the most productive people in our state. Furthermore, during that same time period, 72 Ohio counties either lost or showed no increase in children under five. 
   So, what does all of this mean? Are we heading in the wrong direction? The answer is clearly yes, and the people of Ohio are starting to realize it. 
   A recent poll showed that only one-third of Ohioans think the state is on the right track (33.8%), while nearly 60% think we are headed in the wrong direction. People are really starting to understand that we are living in a new Ohio and that things have to change. The old rules just don't apply anymore. 
   We need to accept the fact that our economic base has eroded and that we need to pivot to a new economy and educate our workforce for new jobs -- different kinds of jobs. Of course we are going to fight for manufacturing jobs here in Ohio, but face it - manufacturing will never again be the employment engine that it once was. 
   Someone a lot smarter than I am once said that "there can be change without progress, but not progress without change." 
   We need to think differently. 
   We need to act differently. 
   And, we need to educate, employ, and empower the people of Ohio. 
   Knowledge and innovation are driving this new economy. Yet, Ohio has been painfully slow to adapt. Though statistically one of every 24 American jobs is in Ohio, new economy jobs are lagging behind. Ohio has just one of every 34 jobs in computer and data processing, one of every 34 in research and development, and one of every 29 in engineering services. 
   Furthermore, we aren't doing enough to prepare our kids with the skills they need to be qualified for these kinds of jobs. Right now, less than a quarter of Ohio high school students take the kind of math and science courses that prepare them for college-level study. And, too few Ohio high school graduates are going on to higher education. Only 39% of Ohio kids even start college compared to 52% among states such as California, Illinois, Kansas, Maryland, Nebraska, New Mexico, and North Dakota. 
   Ohio's investment in higher education has dropped dramatically. When Fran and I went to Miami University, the state paid two-thirds of tuition of students going to public universities in the state. Today, the state pays only one-third of the tuition. Not surprisingly, in the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education's 2004 report card, Ohio flunked, receiving an F grade in higher education affordability. 
   Net college costs for low-income and middle-income Ohio families to attend community colleges represent nearly 40% of their annual family income. For the same students to attend public four-year colleges and universities, net costs represent 53% of their income. The growing income gap and education gap across our state, and especially in our inner cities and in Appalachia, are creating our very own permanent underclass in Ohio. We have to do more to reverse this. Education, as Horace Mann once said, is the "great equalizer." Education is what will give Ohio children and adults the tools they need to make it in this new economy. 
   The fact is that if you raise the education level of society, you will end up with a better workforce, higher salaries, and a stronger tax base. It's that simple. 
   The Governor's Commission on Higher Education and the Economy, which 50 Club member, Richard Pogue chaired, issued nine recommendations earlier this year on ways to build a knowledge-based economy that relies on the assets of education. My Chief of Staff, Laurel Dawson, served on this Commission, and I know that they came up with some really good ideas -- ideas that need to be turned into tangible results. One of the problems here in Ohio is that we've had a number of promising commissions, just like this one, with good ideas and recommendations, but the state simply hasn't acted on them. That needs to change. 
   In the 109th Congress, we'll have a great opportunity in the U.S. Senate to expand higher education opportunities with the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. My focus will be on what it has always been - and that is on getting good, quality teachers into our classrooms in the first place and preparing them for the challenges of teaching. 
   While we can help at the federal level, the state of Ohio really must make a decision to invest in higher education as if the future of Ohio depends on it - because it does. 
   Our Ohio cities will never again be great unless we educate our kids. And, we will never be able to educate them properly unless our business leaders, professionals, and community leaders are intimately involved and stay involved. All of you here tonight need to be involved. Our schools, quite simply, cannot do it by themselves. 
   Governor Taft and the legislature have made important investments in the new economy with the Governor's Third Frontier Project. Unfortunately, the ballot initiative that would have provided more funding failed last year. But, failure is not an option. We must put this back on the ballot, and all of us must do what it takes to get it passed. 
   Another promising initiative is the Fund for Our Economic Future, driven by this region's philanthropic foundations to advance economic development in northeast Ohio counties. The Fund has pledged to invest as much as $30 million over three years to promote economic development. This investment will, indeed, be vital to our future. 
   Of course, there are a lot of other great things happening right here in Cleveland that are fueling advances in the economy. I am proud to be a partner at the federal level in investing in Hopkins Airport and NASA Glenn, and the National Center for Regenerative Medicine. Northeast Ohio, without question, is leading the way in the field of medical research. There is a great synergy between Case Western, University Hospitals, and the Cleveland Clinic. 
   The whole state of Ohio, candidly, is a catalyst for developments in healthcare technology and medical breakthroughs. I passionately believe that this is an area where Ohio must stay committed. Medical research, technology, and innovation are the driving forces to improving the quality of life in Ohio. This is what is driving our new economy. Ohio will not be ranked 30th or 40th in the nation in this area. Rather, we can and we will be ranked among the leaders of the world! 
   Next, and I know you know this, we need to fundamentally reform Ohio's tax structure. We have to figure out how to do it - and do it right. The Plain Dealer recently ran an excellent series about our tax system. In an editorial, the paper summed it up perfectly: 
   "Ohio has reached the end of the line. The state can no longer afford its own tax code.... [D]oing away with the state's Depression-era corporate tax structure means replacing it with something that reflects a modern economy and that does away with the disincentives to locating or expanding business in Ohio." 
   The state's economy cannot grow properly while hampered by the current tax code. Further, unless we fix the tax code, we can't do all of the things we want to do in the state to improve the quality of life of our citizens -invest more in higher education; make our highways safer; improve our foster care system; and help at-risk, young parents get their kids ready for school. We can't do any of these things unless and until we fix our economy and get this state's fiscal house in order. 
   In 1964, Robert Kennedy said that "great change dominates the world, and unless we move with change, we will become its victims." Ohio must not become a victim. Though the shift to the new economy is certainly cause for concern, it also represents a monumental opportunity for our state to grow and innovate and rebuild. 
   We have the chance - all of us together - to do this right. 
   We have the chance to make Ohio stronger, better, and ready for the new economy. 
   We have the chance to lead the way to a more hopeful, promising tomorrow for all Ohio citizens. But, to get there, we must invest in the state's future and embrace the changes necessary to move forward or risk falling victim to our own inaction.
 
 