WAYNESVILLE RECEIVES FIREFIGHTING GRANT THROUGH SEN. DEWINE'S BILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced that the Wayne Township Fire Department will receive $86,876 as part of his Firefighter Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act, which provides competitive grants to local fire departments to help them better serve and protect residents and their property.  
   Senator DeWine wrote and passed the FIRE Act (S. 1941) in 2000, establishing a grant program dedicated to providing federal assistance to local fire departments. Senator DeWine's legislation increased the federal commitment to firefighting and emergency response services. During the fiscal year 2004 appropriations process, Senator DeWine, a member of the Appropriations Committee, helped secure approximately $650 million for the FIRE Act. In the same year, Senator DeWine passed an updated version of the bill that improves the FIRE Act by adding a provision guaranteeing for the first time that federal funding for Emergency Medical Services (EMS) and extends the entire program through 2010. Since 2001, Fire Departments in Ohio have received more than $53 million in grants to assist in firefighting or fire prevention programs. 
   "Waynesville families and the Wayne Township Fire Department will benefit from this grant," said Senator DeWine. "Firefighters and rescue workers are on the front line protecting our families, homes, and businesses from the devastating effects of fire, and we need make sure they have the proper equipment and training. By working to pass and fund the FIRE Act, we have ensured that fire departments in Ohio and elsewhere will have the resources to meet future service demands." 
   The funds were awarded to the Wayne Township Fire Department for operations and firefighter safety. Fire departments can use the grant to fund firefighter health and safety programs, acquire new firefighting equipment, enhance EMS programs, and conduct fire prevention and safety programs. The Office of Domestic Preparedness (ODP) through the Department of Homeland Security awards the grants through a competitive need-based process. More than 20,400 fire departments nationwide applied for grants in 2004, and ODP expects to award more than 8,000 grants. Since 2001, more than 650 separate grants have been awarded to Ohio fire departments. The U.S. Fire Administration processes the applications and 300 fire service representatives from across the United States review the grant requests. 
   Overall, fire is responsible for killing more Americans than all natural disasters combined. Nearly 2 million fires are reported every year. On average, 3,650 children age 14 and younger are killed or injured in a fire a year. Approximately 40 percent of these those hurt or killed are younger than five years old.
 
 