SEN. DEWINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON 'SATELLITE HOME VIEWER EXTENSION ACT'
  Hearing Statement: "The Satellite Home Viewer Extension Act"
   Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding today's hearing on S. 2013, the Satellite Home Viewer Extension Act of 2004, which is the reauthorization of the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act, otherwise known as SHVIA. I am pleased to be an original sponsor of S. 2013, along with you, Sen. Leahy, and Sen. Kohl.  
   The SHVIA has been the foundation of the competitive relationship between cable and satellite providers. Appropriate management of this relationship is critical to bringing lower prices and more choices to consumers, and today's hearing is an important step in that process. The SHVIA, which became law in 1999, has played a critical role in spurring competition in the paid TV market. It created, among other things, a compulsory copyright license for satellite TV, allowing the satellite companies to re-transmit local network TV signals within each station's local TV market, often referred to as "local-into-local" service. 
   This license, combined with rapid technological advances by satellite TV, has led to more and more viewers being able to see their own local TV network affiliates as part of their satellite TV package. For example, "local-into-local" service is now available in my home state of Ohio in the cities of Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Columbus. Additionally, EchoStar offers "local-into-local" service into Dayton, and DIRECTV - with the recent launch of a new satellite by the end of the year - will also be offering this service into Dayton. I am hoping that other Ohio cities, like Toledo and Youngstown, will be getting this service soon. 
   Since 1999, the number of subscribers nationwide to satellite TV has increased from 10 million to 22 million - partly as a result of the increased capacity to provide local signals. As Chairman of the Antitrust Subcommittee I have worked with Ranking Member Kohl, as well as Chairman Hatch and Ranking Member Leahy, to help competition flourish in the pay-TV market, and I am pleased to see that the SHVIA has helped to make satellite TV a more appealing option for consumers. In my view, the 1999 Act is in need of some fine-tuning - not a complete overhaul. The basic framework is in place to promote competition in the paid TV market, and we should keep this framework in place, with an eye toward strengthening it where needed. We should take advantage of this opportunity to make sure that the law has kept up with technological advances since 1999, that "localism" in broadcasting is being promoted, and that all stakeholders are being treated equally - including, especially, consumers. 
   I look forward to hearing the testimony today of our witnesses and working with my colleagues to pass this important piece of legislation.
 
 