SEN. DEWINE BILL TO TREAT MENTALLY ILL, LOWER CRIME GOES TO PRESIDENT FOR HIS SIGNATURE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), announced the Senate passage late last night of his Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act of 2004. The bill addresses the problem of disproportionate numbers of mentally ill individuals in the criminal justice system. The bill would provide incentives such as grants to the criminal justice, juvenile justice, mental health and substance abuse treatment systems to provide treatment to non-violent mentally ill offenders. The Senate gave final approval for the bill to go to the president for his signature. 
   "As a former prosecutor, I have seen the cycle of non-violent, mentally ill offenders who are arrested and put in jail repeatedly," said Senator DeWine. "This bill offers hope to those people by creating a chance for them to receive the treatment they need to break the cycle of arrest, release, and re-arrest. I look forward to this bill becoming law so that this unique approach can treat the mentally ill and reduce crime."
   The bill would create a new, five-year program of grants to states and localities, with grant funding authorized at $50 million in each of the next two years. The grants could be used to establish mental health courts, provide in-jail treatment and transitional services, as well as provide additional training for mental health personnel, police, judges, prosecutors, and corrections officials. The bill would provide incentives for the criminal justice, juvenile justice, mental health, and substance abuse treatment systems to work together at each level of government in establishing a network of services for the non-violent offender with mental illness.
   The bill calls for an Interagency Task Force to be established at the federal level. This task force would include the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, along with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Commissioner of Social Security. The Task Force would be charged with identifying and implementing ways these departments can work together to adopt policies that are consistent and responsive to the needs of mentally ill adults and juveniles.
   According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, more than 16 percent of adults incarcerated in U.S. jails and prisons have a mental illness. In addition, the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention reports that over 20 percent of youth in the juvenile justice system have serious mental health problems, and a significant number have co-occurring mental health and substance abuse disorders.
   During his time as a prosecutor in Greene County, Ohio, DeWine recognized the need to address the challenge presented by mentally ill non-violent offenders in the criminal court system. Senator DeWine brought his expertise to Washington and on November 13, 2000, the President signed into law Senator DeWine's America's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project (S.1865), which authorized grants for the creation of mental health courts during a four-year period. In Ohio, there are currently a number of counties that have mental health courts; including Hamilton County, Butler County, Seneca County, Mahoning County, Athens County Hocking County, Vinton County and Summit County.
   This bipartisan bill was cosponsored in the Senate by Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Charles Grassley (R-IA), Pete Domenici (R-NM), Orrin Hatch, (R-UT), Richard Durbin (D-IL), and Patty Murray (D-WA) and in the House by Representative Ted Strickland (D-OH).
 
 