SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE OHIO MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) announced the final Senate passage Sunday of the 2005 Military Construction Appropriations Bill. The bill includes $50.166 million in projects for Ohio, specifically $6.9 million for a Toledo project secured by Sens. DeWine and Voinovich. Now the bill goes to the President's desk for his signature. 
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, I have worked to secure funding for these important Ohio military projects. Now, more than ever, it is critical that we invest in and strengthen our nation's military infrastructure. Ohio's many servicemen and women need adequate facilities to maintain our military's strength and readiness. It is important that we continue to provide them with the best resources with which to train," said Senator DeWine.
   "Ohio units and facilities are playing a critical role at home and abroad in defending our nation against terrorism. In this difficult time the whole is only as strong as each individual part and that's why it's so important that we make these improvements. I'm glad to have been able to work with Senator DeWine to make them possible," said Senator Voinovich.
   Replace Air National Guard Logistics Complex
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured $6.9 million to replace the Air National Guard's current logistics complex at the Toledo Express Airport. The current building was built 40 years ago and does not adequately support the size, quantity and workflow of supplies required. The project will improve the mission readiness of the 180th fighter wing.
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich also secured funding for steam tunnel replacements at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and the construction of a Combined Support Maintenance Shop at Defense Supply Center Columbus.
   Other Ohio projects included in this bill are funds for an Organizational Maintenance Shop at Rickenbacker International Airport, airfield pavements and funding for a multipurpose hanger at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
 
 