SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE OHIO MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) announced the final Senate passage Sunday of the 2005 Military Construction Appropriations Bill. The bill includes $50.166 million in projects for Ohio, specifically $9.98 million for a Central Ohio project secured by Sens. DeWine and Voinovich. Now the bill goes to the President's desk for his signature. 
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, I have worked to secure funding for these important Ohio military projects. Now, more than ever, it is critical that we invest in and strengthen our nation's military infrastructure. Ohio's many servicemen and women need adequate facilities to maintain our military's strength and readiness. It is important that we continue to provide them with the best resources with which to train," said Senator DeWine.
   "Ohio units and facilities are playing a critical role at home and abroad in defending our nation against terrorism. In this difficult time the whole is only as strong as each individual part and that's why it's so important that we make these improvements. I'm glad to have been able to work with Senator DeWine to make them possible," said Senator Voinovich. 
   Combined Support Maintenance Shop 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured $9.98 million to construct a 56,616 square foot Army National Guard maintenance facility to house and maintain military equipment at Defense Supply Center Columbus. The current facility is in poor condition and does not meet current codes and is not economical to repair.
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich also secured funding for steam tunnel replacements at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and replacements of the Air National Guard Logistics Complex at the Toledo Express Airport.
   Other Ohio projects included in this bill are funds for an Organizational Maintenance Shop at Rickenbacker International Airport, airfield pavements and funding for a multipurpose hanger at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
 
 