SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE OHIO MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) announced the final Senate passage Sunday of the 2005 Military Construction Appropriations Bill. The bill includes $50.166 million in projects for Ohio, specifically $9.2 million for a Wright-Patterson Air Force Base project secured by Sens. DeWine and Voinovich. Now the bill goes to the President's desk for his signature. 
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, I have worked to secure funding for these important Ohio military projects. Now, more than ever, it is critical that we invest in and strengthen our nation's military infrastructure. Ohio's many servicemen and women need adequate facilities to maintain our military's strength and readiness. It is important that we continue to provide them with the best resources with which to train," said Senator DeWine.
   "Ohio units and facilities are playing a critical role at home and abroad in defending our nation against terrorism. In this difficult time the whole is only as strong as each individual part and that's why it's so important that we make these improvements. I'm glad to have been able to work with Senator DeWine to make them possible," said Senator Voinovich. 
   Steam Tunnel Replacement, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured $9.2 million to replace three unreliable steam distribution pressure systems located in underground tunnels in Wright-Patt's Area B. The existing steam system and tunnels were built in the 1930s and 1940s and the structural integrity of the system has degraded to the point that there is a high risk the tunnels and piping could collapse causing a massive heat outage on the base.
   Other Miami Valley projects in the final bill include $4.3 million for airfield pavements, $16.821 million for a multipurpose hanger, and $740,000 for a Special Tactical Unit Detachment Facility.
   Funding for three other Ohio projects secured in this bill include a Combined Support Maintenance Shop at Defense Supply Center Columbus, and Organizational Maintenance Shop at Rickenbacker International Airport and funding for the replacement of a Logistics Complex at the Toledo Express Airport.
 
 