HOUSE VERSION OF SEN. DEWINE BILL TO HELP ASTHMATIC SCHOOL-CHILDREN PASSES SENATE BY UNANIMOUS CONSENT
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) announced late last night the Senate passed by unanimous consent a bill that will help asthmatic students. The Asthmatic School-Children's Treatment and Health Management Act of 2004, sponsored by Sen. DeWine, would encourage states to create laws that allow students to carry their much-needed asthma and anaphylaxis medication with them while at school. 
   "Asthma is the worst chronic-health problem affecting our children and when we allow children to carry their much-needed medication to school, we can ease the severity and possibly the frequency of their asthma attacks," Senator DeWine said. "I look forward to seeing this bill become law, because I want to see a better quality of life for the six million asthmatic children in our country."
   Currently, only 31 states, including Ohio, have laws or policies to protect a child's right to carry an inhaler at school. The Asthmatic School-Children's Treatment and Health Management Act of 2004 would encourage states to create policies that allow students to carry their asthma medication by giving those states preference when applying for asthma-related grants.
   Many children suffer from asthma attacks and allergy reactions so severe that they need to carry anaphylaxis medication, including epinephrine injectors, in case of a sudden life-threatening attack. Right now, 18 have states developed legislation protecting the rights of children to carry and self-administer epinephrine-injectors. This bill would encourage states to adopt laws and policies to allow school-age children to carry their anaphylaxis medication, including epinephrine injectors, at school.
   On average one in 13 children suffers from the disease. In 2002, the Centers for Disease Control reported 14 million school days are missed annually because of asthma-related problems. Tragically, the number of deaths related to pediatric asthma tripled between 1979 and 1996. In 2000, asthma attacks cased 728,000 emergency room visits, 214,000 hospitalizations and 223 deaths in children.
   The Asthmatic School-Children's Treatment and Health Management Act of 2004 is co-sponsored by Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA).
   This bill has been passed in the House of Representatives. It will now go to the President for his signature.
 
 