SEN. DEWINE APPLAUDS OHIOANS FOR RECEIVING HIGHEST HONOR FROM ATTORNEY GENERAL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today applauds a group of Ohioans responsible for creating the Fugitive Safe Surrender program as they receive the Attorney General's Award for Outstanding Contributions to Community Partnerships for Public Safety. The Fugitive Safe Surrender program allows fugitives with outstanding misdemeanor and felony warrants to surrender to courts that have been temporarily established in churches and community centers. Sen. DeWine sponsored the Fugitive Safe Surrender Act of 2006, which became law in July and expands this program nationally from its Cleveland roots. 
   "The Fugitive Safe Surrender Program is a wonderful example of people working at the grassroots level to make our cities safer," said Senator DeWine. "I am proud to have sponsored legislation that will take this effort that has proven to be a successful and safe method of bringing fugitives to justice and expand it nationwide. I congratulate U.S. Marshal Pete Elliott, Pastor C. Jay Matthews, Douglas S. Weiner, and the many others responsible for the program on their well-deserved recognition by the Department of Justice."
   Fugitive Safe Surrender is a program started last year by Northern District of Ohio U.S. Marshal Pete Elliott and Senior Pastor of the Mt. Sinai Baptist Church Dr. C. Jay Matthews. With the support of public, private, nonprofit and faith-based partners, the program has proved remarkably effective at bringing fugitives in to court. In August of 2005, during a four-day pilot program in Cleveland, over 800 fugitives peacefully turned themselves in to Fugitive Safe Surrender, including 324 people wanted for felonies. Almost all of these cases were adjudicated on site and amnesty was not offered for the underlying offenses.
   The Attorney General's Award for Outstanding Contributions to Community Partnerships for Public Safety recognizes outstanding achievement in the development and/or support of community partnerships designed to address public safety within a community.
 
 