RESOLUTION COMMEMORATING 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF BOB FELLER'S 1946 BASEBALL SEASON PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) announced that last night a concurrent resolution commemorating the 60th anniversary of the historic 1946 season, and return from military service, of Major League Baseball Hall of Fame member Bob Feller (H. Con. Res. 449) passed the Senate by unanimous consent. Sen. DeWine sponsored the Senate version (S. Con. Res. 110) with Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH) as a cosponsor. 
   "Bob Feller is not only a great baseball player, but also a model American," said Senator DeWine. "He put aside his baseball career and answered our country's call by enlisting in the Navy during World War II. He returned to baseball after the war and exceeded everyone's expectations, pitching one of the best seasons in baseball history in 1946. It's a season that every Cleveland Indian fan remembers and one that I'm proud to celebrate. I am pleased that my colleagues in the Senate joined me in honoring this American hero."
   "My colleagues in the Senate and I are proud to honor the sacrifices and achievements of Bob Feller, a great baseball player who put duty to his country ahead of his career. Not only did he serve honorably in World War II, he accomplished great feats as a pitcher for the Cleveland Indians," said Senator Voinovich. "When I think of wonderful role models, I think of men like Bob Feller."
   Bob Feller's Major League Baseball career began when he was signed by the Cleveland Indians in 1935 at the age of 16. In his first Major League appearance in August 1936 he struck out 15 Detroit Tigers. Bob Feller was at the pinnacle of his baseball career when he enlisted in the Navy 2 days after the attack on Pearl Harbor. While in the Navy he was able to keep his pitching arm in shape by throwing a ball around the deck of the U.S.S. Alabama where he earned 8 battle stars. He was discharged from the Navy in late 1945 and upon his return home he was able to pitch 9 games for the Indians winning 5 of them. The 1946 season is arguably the best season of Bob Feller's career. He pitched 36 complete games in 42 starts during the 1946 season, attaining a 2.18 earned run average, leading the American League in wins, shutouts, strikeouts, games pitched. His remarkable season also included throwing a no hitter against the New York Yankees on April 30, 1946 and pitching 3 scoreless innings in the 1946 All Star Game. He accomplished all of this amid great speculation that his best pitching days were behind him. At the end of Bob Feller's career in 1956, he had amassed 266 victories and 2,581 strikeouts, because of his outstanding career he was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962.
   Congressman Steve LaTourette (R-14th) introduced the Resolution in the House.
 
 