SEN. DEWINE COMMEMORATES ALAN REICH'S LIFE, ACHIEVEMENTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine's (R-OH) resolution honoring the contributions and achievements of Alan Reich passed the Senate last night (December 12, 2005). Reich, who passed away November 8 of this year, was a man who devoted his own life to improving the quality of life of others, especially those with disabilities. He received the George H.W. Bush Medal which was created to honor outstanding service under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.  
   Reich served his country as an infantry officer and Russian language interrogation officer and while later worked as an executive with Polaroid, his life and his work changed when he suffered an injury in a swimming accident that left him a quadriplegic. Although doctors told him he would not drive or write again, Reich relearned both skills, returned to work at Polaroid, and went on to become an inspiration to the disabled community. 
   "Alan Reich is probably best known for leading an effort that raised $1.65 million to add the statue of Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a wheelchair to the former President's memorial here in Washington, D.C.," Senator DeWine added in his statement honoring Reich. "The unveiling is a major national moment, the removal of the shroud of shame that cloaks disability," Reich said in 2001 about the statue at the Roosevelt Memorial. "The statue will become a shrine to people with disabilities, but it will inspire everyone to overcome obstacles. When you see the memorial that follows the statue, what will be in your mind is that he did all this from a wheelchair." 
   Reich served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Educational and Cultural Affairs in the Department of State, and as the Director of the Bureau of East-West Trade for the Department of Commerce. In 1978, Reich was named the President of the United States Council for the International Year of Disabled Persons and became the first person to address the United Nations General Assembly from a wheelchair when the U.N. opened the International Year of the Disabled in 1981. In the following year, Reich transformed the Council for the International Year of the Disabled Persons into the National Organization on Disability, an organization that actively seeks on national, state, and local levels full and equal participation for individuals with the disabilities in all aspects of life. 
   "Alan Reich's contributions to his family, his community, and to this Nation will never be forgotten. As (G.K.) Chesterton said many years ago 'Great men do great things even when they're gone.' That is certainly true of Alan Reich. His legacy will live on always," said Senator DeWine. 
   Senator DeWine's resolution honoring Reich concludes: 
   "Whereas Alan Reich passed away on November 8, 2005, and the contributions he made to his family, his community, and his Nation will not be forgotten: Now, therefore, be it 
   Resolved, that the Senate - honors the life, achievements, and contributions of Alan Reich; (and) extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Alan Reich for their loss of this great and generous man." 
   The resolution was cosponsored by Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA).
 
 