SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH APPLAUD COORDINATION; SAY MORE RESOURCES ARE NEEDED FOR GREAT LAKES RESTORATION
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) today met with Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Mike Leavitt and seven other Senate and House members from the Great Lakes region. Sen. DeWine, co-chairman of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, called the meeting to discuss the implementation of the Great Lakes Executive Order and the overall long-term restoration of the Great Lakes. Administrator Leavitt presented ideas for creating a process to ensure regional cooperation in the development of short and long-term strategies to achieve the nine Great Lakes restoration priorities adopted by the Council of Great lakes Governors and the Great Lakes Mayors.  
   "Today's meeting was a great example of the overwhelming support by the Great Lakes congressional delegation for immediate action on some short-term goals and continued cooperation to achieve our long-term goals," said Senator DeWine. "But make no mistake, the Great Lakes need more funding from the federal government, and any plan has to involve substantial amounts of new money for restoring wetlands, increasing public access, cleaning up contaminated sediments, and addressing the host of other challenges. Discussions, like the one we had today, are a necessary step in a long process to ensuring the life of the Great Lakes for future generations." 
   "Today's meeting was an important step forward toward resolving what is one of the biggest problems facing Great Lakes restoration efforts-a lack of coordination. I've held hearings on this issue and a recent report by the investigation arm of Congress has also found inadequate cooperation among various federal, state, and local clean-up efforts," said Voinovich. "Administrator Leavitt understands the need to coordinate better and I'm encouraged by that. As we seek additional support for restoration and clean-up, making all the parts operate in unison will only enhance our efforts to preserve the progress we've made in restoring the Great Lakes." 
   Those also attending the meeting were U.S. Senators Carl Levin (D-MI) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and Representatives Vernon Ehlers (R-MI), Candice Miller (R-MI), Bart Stupak (D-MI), Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), and Mark Kirk (R-IL).
 
 