SEN. DEWINE INCREASES FUNDING FOR FIREFIGHTER GRANT PROGRAMS IN HOMELAND SECURITY BILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), Co-Chair of the Congressional Fire Caucus, today announced that the Dodd-DeWine amendment to increase funding for two firefighter assistance grant programs passed the Senate by Unanimous Consent. The amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill, currently being debated on the Senate Floor, continues Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Sen. DeWine's effort to provide federal funding for local fire departments through the Firefighter Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act grant program and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Act grants. The $30 million dollar increase is offset dollar for dollar and will be split evenly between both grant programs. 
   "I am pleased my Senate colleagues saw the importance of increasing essential grant funding for the country's firefighters and other first-responders. I acknowledge the hard work and sacrifice of firefighters and other first responders and this increased funding signals that we are doing all we can so they have the training and equipment they need to protect people in their communities," said Senator DeWine. "Fires are responsible for killing more Americans than all natural disasters combined and the FIRE Act grant program and SAFER grants help ensure that local fire departments have the resources they need to meet future service needs."
   Senator DeWine and Senator Dodd wrote and passed the original FIRE Act (S. 1941) in 2000, establishing grant programs, like the FIRE Act grant program and SAFER grants, dedicated to providing federal assistance to local fire departments. In 2004, Senator DeWine and Senator Dodd passed an updated version of the FIRE Act that guarantees federal funding for Emergency Medical Services (EMS), makes it easier for large cities and small rural departments to secure funding, and extends the program through 2010.
   Since 2001, more than 1100 separate FIRE grants have been awarded to Ohio fire departments, totaling over $100 million in grant funding. This money will assist in firefighting and fire prevention programs, and can be used to fund firefighter health and safety programs, acquire new firefighting equipment, and enhance EMS programs.
   SAFER grants provide competitive grants to local fire departments to meet industry minimum standards and attain 24-hour staffing.
   According to the United States Fire Administration, more than 2,500 children age 14 or younger were injured or killed in residential fires in 2004. Of these casualties, approximately 50 percent were under the age of five.
 
 