BILL INTRODUCED TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL EXPLOITATION, STOP CHILD PORNOGRAPHY
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) continued his fight to protect children from sexual exploitation by being an original cosponsor the Internet SAFETY Act of 2006, which was introduced today by Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ). The bill would crack down on internet child pornography and related conduct by creating new federal offenses and causes of action targeted at those who produce or knowingly facilitate internet child pornography; increasing penalties for child pornography, sex trafficking, and sexual abuse offenses. The bill would also increase resources for prosecution and prevention of child sexual-abuse offenses. 
   "As the father of eight and grandfather of nine, I know that there is nothing more important to parents than protecting their children from harm," said Senator DeWine. "There was a time, not so long ago, when parents could feel secure when their children were at home or in a library-that their child would at least be safe from danger in those places. But along with the tremendous benefit of the Internet, we have also unfortunately, unintentionally invited strangers into our homes, and sometime our children's rooms, just because computers may be located there. These strangers sometimes have the immoral and criminal intent to lure our kids into deviant sexual, abusive, and illegal activity right under our noses. This bill would help crack down on that activity and keep our kids safe."
   The Internet SAFETY Act addresses several issues pertaining to the sexual exploitation of kids. It imposes criminal penalties for financial institutions that knowingly facilitate access to child pornography on the internet. It mandates a 10-year sentence enhancement for sex offenders required to register who are convicted of subsequent child pornography or exploitation offense and mandates a 10-year sentence enhancement for those who are involved in Child Sexual Exploitation enterprises. It also creates a mandatory-minimum life sentence for second time offenders for sexual exploitation of children, domestic or foreign sex travel for sex with a minor, and producing or selling child pornography and increases mandatory minimums on most child sex abuse and child pornography offenses
   In addition to creating harsher penalties for child pornographers and sex offenders, the bill increases the amount the victim can receive through civil remedies, and changes the statute of limitations to capture more offenses. The bill authorizes appropriations for 200 additional child exploitation prosecutors in U.S. Attorneys' Offices around the country and 20 additional Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) task forces. It also authorizes $10M for grants to establish and maintain programs for the prevention of sexual offenses against minors
   According to a May 2006 Justice Department report on internet sexual offenses committed against children, "it is clear that the Internet is helping to fuel an epidemic of child pornography." Unfortunately, by providing greater technical ease and increased anonymity in swapping images, the internet has "taken down barriers that one time served as a deterrent to child pornographers." In 2003, an estimated 20,000 images of child pornography were posted on the internet every week. Between 1998 and 2004, child-pornography reports made to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children increased from 3,267 to 106,119 - a 30-fold increase over a six-year period.
   The "Project Safe Childhood" report concludes that "the nation should be alarmed at the fact that child pornography is being produced, possessed, and distributed in record numbers." As the report notes, child pornography's harm extends beyond the children who are sexually abused to produce such images: "child pornography [also] plays a central role in child molestations, serving to justify offenders' conduct, assist them in gaining compliance with their victims, and to provide a means to blackmail the children they have molested in order to prevent exposure."
   Senator DeWine has a long history of fighting to protect children from sexual abuse and exploitation. He sponsored a bill to enhance the protection of children against crime by eliminating the statute of limitations for child abduction and sex crimes, provide for registration of child pornographers as sex offenders, and establish a grant program in support of AMBER Alert. The Senate merged Senator DeWine's bill into a broader bill, known as the PROTECT Act, which was enacted in 2003. He also sponsored the Child Protection Against Sexual Predators Act (1998), which strengthens penalties against, and creates new laws to protect children from sexual predators and pornographers who use the Internet to commit crimes of sexual abuse and exploitation, such as sending child pornography and soliciting sex from children.
   Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Senator George Allen (R-VA), Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT), Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) are also original cosponsors of the bill.
 
 