SEN. DEWINE ADDRESSES INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP BOOK CEREMONY
  Remarks: Interagency Working Group Book Ceremony
   I am very pleased to be here today to share in this event - an event that has been six years in the making. I am proud to have been involved in this project, along with Rep. Maloney, Sen. Leahy, Sen. Feinstein, and my good friend and deeply missed colleague Sen. Pat Moynihan. I would also like to recognize the presence here today of Professor Norman Goda, a professor at Ohio University and one of the historians who has worked on this important project.  
   In 1998, when Congress first passed the Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act, our goal was to make public information accessible about a terrible part of history - the history of Nazi Germany and the Holocaust and also the history of how our country dealt with Nazi war criminals in the aftermath of World War II. I think it's fair to say that we have succeeded in meeting our original goals. Over 8 million documents have been declassified and made available for study, and the result is this outstanding volume of history, entitled "U.S. Intelligence and the Nazis." This book provides us with 15 chapters of insight and understanding into the Holocaust and the post-World War II era. It represents the culmination of many years of work and dedication to uncovering a very troubling time in history. 
   But, our job is not yet done. There remains more work ahead. Specifically, Congress has extended the Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act for one more year to allow for the disclosure of certain additional CIA documents, and there remains some work to do on the study of the Japanese Imperial Government. On balance, we are almost there, and the historians and professionals at the National Archive have a great deal to be proud of. Special thanks go to the public members of the Intra-agency Working Group - Elizabeth Holtzman, Tom Baer, and Richard Ben Veniste, all of whom have done outstanding work on this project. 
   This study, as well our ongoing work, will help shed light on one of the darkest events of the 20th century and serve as a reminder that we must always be vigilant - always be aware of the potential for genocide and whole-sale slaughter. Unfortunately, standing here today we know that we have not wiped out the scourge of so-called "ethnic cleansing" - it is only too easy to sound the roll-call of recent episodes of just such slaughter and, even today, very difficult to prevent it. But, we can continue to learn from past mistakes, and studies like this one will help us to do just that. 
   The more we know about our past, the more we can shape our future. Our efforts here are a step in the right direction. So, thank you to the hard-working people on the Interagency Working Group and at the National Archives, for your outstanding efforts. I look forward to the completion of this project next year.
 
 