SEN. DEWINE SEEKS JUSTICE FOR ARMY RESERVISTS FROM OHIO UNIT
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today requested that the U.S. Army grant clemency to two Ohio soldiers who served a term of confinement and now risk losing retirement benefits. Clemency would allow the soldiers the opportunity to retire from the military.  
   In a letter sent to Lieutenant General Thomas Metz, commander of the multi-national forces in Iraq, Senator DeWine asked that time served in prison be the extent of the punishment faced by Major Cathy Kaus and Chief Warrant Officer Darrell Birt. 
   The letter written by Senator DeWine follows. 
   14 December 2004 
   Dear Lieutenant General Metz, 
   I want to express my strong interest in seeing justice and fairness prevail in the court-martial cases of U.S. Army Major Cathy Kaus and Chief Warrant Officer Darrell Birt. 
   I am particularly concerned about the severity of the sentences provided to Major Kaus and Chief Warrant Officer Birt. Members of my staff have thoroughly read the court testimony and accompanying documents, and I strongly believe that clemency is warranted in this case. Given the unique wartime circumstances surrounding the respective incidents, I encourage you to grant clemency to both Major Kaus and Chief Warrant Officer Birt. Adequate prison time is already being completed, and any further punishment is simply excessive. 
   I am also very concerned about Major Kaus' current scheduled release date from prison. I understand she is to be released either on Christmas Day or after. I urge you, and the Department of Defense, to reconsider the timing of her release, and encourage a scheduled release prior to Christmas Day. Such a change would make a meaningful difference to Major Kaus and her family. 
   Again, I appreciate your consideration of my requests, and look forward to hearing from you regarding any updates on these cases. 
   Very respectfully, 
   Mike DeWine United States Senator 
   cc: General Richard B. Myers, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
 
 