SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NORTHWEST, NATIONAL PROJECTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced the Committee passage of the fiscal year 2007 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill that includes $875,000 to help Northwest Ohio. 
   "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have helped many worthy projects receive funding," said Senator DeWine. "I am particularly glad that money will be going to preserve and protect waterfront and monitor Lake Erie water quality in Northwest Ohio. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure this program funding is included in the final version of the bill."
   Senator DeWine helped secure funding for the following regional projects:
   Port Clinton
   * Port Clinton Waterfront - $875,000 to acquire 3.4 acres of Lake Erie Waterfront property in Port Clinton. Acquisition of this site will provide continuous public access for over one mile, which includes access to the lake, marshland and the Portage River Confluence Park.
   Bowling Green State University
   * Lake Erie Water Quality Monitoring - $500,000 for Bowling Green State University in partnership with the Heidelberg College Water Quality Laboratory for real-time, continuous monitoring and assessment of harmful algal blooms and coliform in Lake Erie.
   Senator DeWine helped secure funding for the following national projects:
   Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act Grants
   * Grant Program - $5 million in funding for law enforcement and mental health agencies to establish joint programs to provide mentally ill offenders with the services they need to enable them to avoid becoming repeat offenders. Funding for this Senator DeWine initiated program has been used in the past for establishing Mental Health Courts and Crisis Intervention Teams.
   "I am very pleased that grants are now available to help end the cycle of mentally ill offenders who are arrested and put in jail repeatedly," said Senator DeWine. "I wrote this bill to offer hope by creating a chance for non-violent offenders to receive the treatment they need to break the cycle of arrest, release, and re-arrest."
   Justice For All Act
   * DNA Testing - $175.568 million to fund the Justice For All Act's program DNA testing program dedicated to reducing the enormous national backlog of offender DNA profiles and untested DNA evidence from investigations of violent crimes. Senator DeWine was a sponsor of the initial Justice For All Act of 2004, specifically authoring provisions to provide funds for rape kits and to reduce the DNA backlog.
   "I am very pleased that this money will be used to reduce the backlog of untested DNA evidence," said Senator DeWine. "There are at least 540,000 unsolved cases with untested DNA evidence in the United States today and many of them are for violent crimes like rape and murder. This money will go a long way towards solving these cases and putting violent criminals behind bars."
   This bill now goes to the Senate floor for consideration.
 
 