SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE PLANNED OPENING OF IMMIGRATION COURT IN OHIO
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) today announced that an Immigration Court will be opened in Ohio likely in late summer of 2006. Currently Ohio is one of 27 states that does not have its own Immigration Court, and of all these states, Ohio has the largest amount of pending cases - approximately 3,000 backlogged cases. In fact, Ohio has more open cases than 12 states which do have their own Immigration Courts.  
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich had requested an Immigration Court in a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. (see attached letter) 
   "The planned court will not only help ease the thousands of unresolved immigration cases in Ohio, but it will make future trials and proceedings more efficient by eliminating the need for teleconferences," said Senator DeWine, a member of the Judiciary Committee. "As a former County Prosecutor, I know that face-to-face contact is essential to determine someone's credibility and demeanor. Soon, attorneys, clients, and judges will be able to be in the same room when important decisions about asylum are made." 
   "Today's announcement on the establishment of an Immigration Court in Ohio is wonderful news. The 3,000 individuals in our state currently awaiting decisions on their asylum cases deserve to receive timely and fair decisions. The current system of videoconferencing with the Immigration Court of Virginia presents numerous problems for all parties involved in the proceedings - judges should not have to hear cases via video and applicants and their counsel should not have to travel hundreds of miles to have their cases heard. Ohio has a clear need for Immigration Judges today. The planned court will let Virginia judges focus on their local caseload, will ensure more timely review of these important cases and will give applicants for asylum fair, in-person proceedings - allowing judges to better assess the petitioners' reliability and make more informed and accurate decisions," said Senator Voinovich. 
   Right now, Ohio's cases are heard via video and teleconferencing technology by the Immigration Court in Virginia. The establishment of a court would give the judges the opportunity to literally have the petitioner before them, which would enable them to better assess the petitioner's reliability, and would greatly streamline and speed the process in Ohio immigration courts.
 
 