SEN. DEWINE STAFF MEMBER HONORED FOR WORK ON BEHALF OF MILITARY SURVIVORS
  Stacie Oliver, Military Legislative Aide for Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), today received the "Freedom Award for 2006" from The Military Coalition, a consortium of 36 military and veterans groups. The Freedom Award recognizes Ms. Oliver for her extensive work with the Coalition and others on legislation to improve a wide range of survivor benefits for the families of members killed in the course of military service, as well as for her continuing support for the military community at large. A native Ohioan, Stacie is from Garrettsville in Portage County. "I can't think of a more deserving recipient for the Coalition's Freedom Award than Stacie," said Sen. DeWine. "Stacie is one of my most trusted aides and her passion for helping our military's families is an inspiration. Although all of my staff and I know about Stacie's wonderful contributions, it's great when an organization as highly regarded as the Coalition recognizes her publicly. I thank the Coalition and congratulate Stacie on this well deserved honor." 
   In her role as Senator DeWine's aide, Ms. Oliver has been instrumental in developing and working to pass legislation about a range of veterans issues. She has helped the Senator to expand insurance coverage so that it is available to veterans who have been severely disabled in service to their country. She has helped write and pass legislation that improves lump sum benefits for survivors of members killed since 9/11, as well as legislation to ensure that all military members and their dependents have the mental health care services they need. She is currently working with the Senator to ensure that all military survivors since the beginning of the war in Afghanistan have access to the Survivor Benefit Plan Child Option.
   The Military Coalition is a group of 36 military, veterans and uniformed services organizations representing more than 5.5 million members of the uniformed services-active, reserve, retired, survivors, veterans, and their families.
 
 