GRANT FUNDING FOR OHIO FIREFIGHTERS SURPASSES $50 MILLION BECAUSE OF SEN. DEWINE'S BILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced that Ohio Fire Departments have received $53,238,604 is 641 separate grants as part of his Firefighter Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act, which provides competitive grants to assist local fire departments. Fire departments in 86 of Ohio's 88 counties have received FIRE grants.  
   These funds came about because of the FIRE bill (S.1941) that Senator DeWine authored and passed in 2000. It is through Senator DeWine's legislation that this increase in the federal commitment to the fire services is made possible. Most recently Senator DeWine, a member of the Appropriations Committee, helped secure approximately $750 million for the FIRE Act during the 2004 appropriations process. Now administered through the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) distributes these grants based upon a competitive process of need. 
   "Helping first responders is one of my goals on the appropriations committee and I am proud to see this grant money coming to Ohio firefighters," said Senator DeWine. "Federal support of fire departments is essential to help firefighters prepare for future service demands. These grants provide tools to better train and equip firefighters, and ultimately save lives. They also provide a mechanism to begin to modernize local services during times of shrinking local budgets." 
   The awards presented to fire departments can be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, fund firefighter health and safety programs, acquire new firefighting equipment, enhance Emergency Medical Service (EMS) programs and conduct fire prevention and safety programs. 
   The total of all awards, when completed this fiscal year will represent approximately a $750 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery nationwide. More than 20,400 fire departments applied for grants this year and FEMA expects to award more than 8,000 grants. The grant applications are processed by the U.S. Fire Administration and reviewed by 300 fire service representatives from across the United States. 
   Overall, fire is responsible fore killing more Americans than all natural disasters combined. Many of those who die each year in fires are children. Fire kills more than 100 children under the age of 15 each year. In addition, house fires injure nearly 47,000 children ages 14 and under every year.
 
 