SEN. DEWINE HONORED FOR WORK ON BEHALF OF MILITARY SURVIVORS, DISABLED VETERANS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today received the "2006 Award of Merit" from The Military Coalition, a consortium of 36 military and veterans groups. This award recognizes Sen. DeWine for his outstanding leadership on survivor benefit legislation and assistance for wounded service members, as well as his continuing support for the military community at large. 
   "We owe the families of those who have lost loved ones in active duty our gratitude and steadfast support, beginning with giving them the benefits they are due," said Senator DeWine. "I am honored to receive this award from the Military Coalition, an organization that works so hard on behalf our military and their families. I will continue to fight for those families and those service members just as they have fought and sacrificed for us."
   Senator DeWine has a long history of working to improve benefits for military survivor families and the severely disabled service-members. Last year, in the defense authorization bill, Senator DeWine authored language to extend TRICARE Prime medical insurance to any child of a deceased service member at no cost - just as if the military parent was still alive and passed an amendment to close a loophole which had prevented certain beneficiaries of troops that die from receiving an increased special death gratuity of $150,000. Both were signed into law in January. Senator DeWine was also a key Senate sponsor of efforts to create a new "Traumatic Injury Protection" insurance rider to Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance policies. This ensures that severely disabled service members receive much-needed insurance coverage retroactive to the beginning of the War on Terror in October 2001. This provision became law on May 11, 2005.
   Currently, Senator DeWine is working to do more for survivor families. Through an amendment to the FY07 Defense Authorization Bill, which has passed the Senate, he is working to ensure that all military survivors since the beginning of the war in Afghanistan have access to the Survivor Benefit Plan Child Option.
   In addition to Senator DeWine, the Coalition also recognized a key member of Senator DeWine's staff. Stacie Oliver, the Senator's Military Legislative Aide, was awarded the Coalition's "Freedom Award for 2006" for her tireless work to expand survivor benefits.
   The Military Coalition is a group of 36 military, veterans and uniformed services organizations representing more than 5.5 million members of the uniformed services-active, reserve, retired, survivors, veterans, and their families.
 
 