SEN. DEWINE ADDRESSES PORTER GOSS NOMINATION OPEN INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  HEARING STATEMENT: PORTER GOSS NOMINATION OPEN INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HEARING [AS PREPARED]
   Rep. Goss, welcome. I would like to start off by saying that I believe the White House has made an excellent choice in nominating you to become the next Director of Central Intelligence. Your involvement in the intelligence community, both as an analyst at the CIA and as Chairman of the House Select Permanent Committee on Intelligence, makes you an ideal candidate to lead the CIA at this critical juncture.  
   I am also grateful for your willingness to step into the breach at this crucial juncture in the Intelligence Community's history. Not only are we facing the threat of a pre-election terrorist attack, but Congress and the President are weighing significant reforms. This is one of the most difficult jobs in Washington, made only tougher by the present circumstances. I am glad that you have accepted the President's nomination. 
   As many of my colleagues are no doubt aware, you worked for 10 years in the CIA's Clandestine Services in some of the most notable hot spots at the time - Latin America, the Caribbean, and Europe. This work undoubtedly has given you a breadth of real-world experience unusual in the Congress, and it certainly has aided you during your time on the Intelligence Committee in the House of Representatives. 
   As has been noted here today, your affinity for and experience in the Intelligence Community has, by no means, prevented you from providing tough oversight when needed. Indeed, I think it's fair to say that throughout your tenure as Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, you have been both a strong advocate, as well as a thoughtful critic, of the intelligence community. You have been quoted as saying, "I've got to be harsher than the next guy because I was in the business... I think I'm a pretty good watchdog, because I know what to look for." 
   I agree with your assessment, and as I indicated earlier, I am very pleased that the President has nominated you for this important position. I'd like to note for the record, though, that I think your qualifications for this job go a little bit beyond just your strong record of oversight. One area that I believe we collectively have not done a good enough job at protecting is our HUMINT, or human intelligence capability, and you have shown a particular understanding of and interest in the need to improve funding and emphasis on HUMINT. 
   I believe our efforts to build HUMINT in the future will be one of the most critical tasks we face, and I know that you understand that very well. On a personal note, I have been pleased to have the opportunity to work with you in both a legislative and oversight capacity. We served for two years together in the House of Representatives, and several years ago, after I began to serve in the Senate, we worked together to ensure passage of the Ricky Ray Act - an important law which provides support to hemophilia patients infected with the AIDS virus. 
   Finally, of course, we served together recently on the Joint Inquiry into the 9-11 terrorist attacks. In all these instances, I have been very impressed with your ability and hard work, and I know you bring those attributes to this job.
 
 