SEN. DEWINE CALLS FOR INCREASED CAR SAFETY STANDARDS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today joined a bi-partisan group of 43 other senators in calling for the preservation of senate-passed safety initiatives contained in Title IV of S. 1072, the Safe Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act of 2003 (SAFE-TEA).  
   "I look forward to working with members of Congress, automobile manufacturers, public safety organizations, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to make vehicles that transport our families safer," Senator DeWine said. "Thousands of people die on our roads each year, in fact traffic fatalities remain the leading cause of death for Americans age 4 to 34. The stipulations included in this bill will offer people much needed protection on the roads and ultimately save lives." 
   The safety standards included in Title IV of S. 1072 include: vehicle rollover prevention, side-impact crash protection, occupant ejection prevention, vehicle-to-vehicle crash compatibility, 15-passenger van safety, child safety measures, and improved consumer access to safety information. Each of the measures allows the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHSTA) flexibility in setting an appropriate timeline for implementation. 
   "We need to find a way to come together and include as many safety benefits as possible in the final conference report so that SAFE-TEA includes traffic safety provisions," Senator DeWine said. The SAFE-TEA bill has passed both the House and the Senate and is now set to be considered by a conference committee to iron out the differences in versions of the bill. 
   Senator DeWine has a long history of working to make our roads safer. Senator DeWine was an original proponent of .08 blood alcohol limits both in Ohio and nationwide. Groups including Mothers Against Drunk Driving, Consumers Union, Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, Public Citizen, Kids and Cars, and National Safe Kids have recognized Senator DeWine's work on consumer education and transportation safety over the years.
 
 