SEN. DEWINE AMENDMENT COMBINING FDA REGULATION OF TOBACCO, TOBACCO BUYOUT LEGISLATION PASSED BY SENATE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today introduced an amendment that would combine his FDA regulation of tobacco legislation with Sen. Mitch McConnell's (R-KY) tobacco buyout legislation. The amendment was offered to the FSC tax bill and accepted by a vote of 78 to 15.  
   "Every day hundreds of children begin to smoke," said Senator DeWine. "Today we are taking a step toward limiting the tobacco advertisements directed at our children and finally giving the FDA the authority to address the problem of youth smoking. Tobacco is the leading preventable killer in our nation today. This legislation will help slow the spread of tobacco addiction and I am pleased that we were able to pass it." 
   The proposed amendment would provide the FDA with the authority to regulate the sale, marketing and advertising of tobacco products to end practices that target youth and mislead the public. Additionally, it would give the FDA the authority to require tobacco companies to list all the ingredients added by a manufacturer to the tobacco, paper, and filter of a tobacco product. The legislation also would require stronger, more explicit warning labels and would grant the FDA the authority to change labels periodically to ensure the warning remains effective. 
   For the first time, the FDA would be able to review the health risks associated with tobacco products. The legislation would require manufacturers to submit health information to the FDA about "reduced-risk" tobacco products, which claim to be safer than other tobacco products, before they can be marketed and sold as "reduced-risk" products. The FDA, not the tobacco companies, would have the authority to determine which tobacco products are reduced-risk. 
   Each year, 1.6 million young people under the age of 18 have their first cigarette. In Ohio, 36,800 children become new smokers each year; and a quarter (25.7%) of Ohio's children smoke. 
   The buyout section of the amendment ends the federal price support program for tobacco, limits the amount of acreage that can be utilized to produce tobacco, and provides a per-pound payment to quota holders and tobacco growers over a ten-year period. 
   The amendment is cosponsored by Senators Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Ernest Hollings (D-SC), Susan Collins (R-ME), Patty Murray (D-WA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Bob Graham (D-FL), Jim Jeffords (I-VT), and Jack Reed (D-RI).
 
 