SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE WRIGHT-PATTERSON PROJECTS INCLUDED IN SENATE FUNDING BILL
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) today announced the Ohio projects included in the committee-approved fiscal year 2005 Senate Military Construction Appropriations bill, including $30.321 million for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.  
   The funding will be used for two construction projects in support of the 445th Airwing, including $4.3 million for the first phase of airfield pavements and $16.821 million for a new multi-purpose hangar. In addition, $9.2 million was secured to repair and modernize the deteriorated steam tunnels in Area B of the base. The current tunnels were built decades ago and could cause massive heat and power outages on the base. 
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, one of my priorities is bringing funding to Ohio's military installations. Some of our military infrastructure, like the Wright-Pat steam tunnels, is out-dated and in urgent need of repair," said Senator DeWine. "I am pleased these projects included in the bill provide necessary improvements and facilities for Ohio's service men and women." 
   "Our military is playing a critical role at home and abroad in defending our nation against terrorism. In this difficult time the whole is only as strong as each individual part and it's essential that we don't lose sight of that. Wright-Patt's mission is inseparably intertwined with that of the Air Force and the Defense Department which is why I'm pleased we were able to secure these funds. Building a new hangar and improving the airfield will help enhance readiness and ensure the safety of the flight line," said Senator Voinovich. 
   The Senate bill also provides $2.225 million to construct an Organizational Maintenance Shop for the Army National Guard in Columbus. 
   The full Senate is expected to take up the Military Construction Bill early next week. Following Senate passage, a House-Senate Conference Committee, which will resolve the differences between the Senate and House versions of the bill.
 
 