SEN. DEWINE'S HEARING STATEMENT: HELP HEARING ON PROVIDING SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION, TREATMENT SERVICES TO ADOLESCENTS
  HEARING STATEMENT: HELP HEARING ON PROVIDING SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT SERVICES TO ADOLESCENTS
   Thank you all for being here today. I welcome my colleague, Senator Reed from Rhode Island, whom I thank for being here today and also for his continued dedication to issues affecting children and adolescents. He is a great advocate for youth in need.  
   Today, we are meeting to talk about substance abuse prevention and treatment issues concerning adolescents. We all know that alcohol and drug abuse and dependence represent major problems for young people in this country. Providing effective services to adolescents is particularly challenging. Despite the best efforts across the field, much remains to be learned about the types and mix of services and strategies that are most effective in preventing and treating youth with alcohol and drug problems. 
   Some data highlight this challenge: 
   The most recent information we have from the National Household Survey on Drug Use and Health shows that 11.6% (2,878,000) of youth aged 12 to 17 currently use illegal drugs - 20.2% (6,264,000) of those aged 18 to 25 currently use illegal drugs. Marijuana is the drug used by the majority of these young people. Of those aged 12 to 20, 28.8% (10,713,000) are current alcohol users, with 19.3% of this age group having "binged" within the last month - that's five or more drinks on a single occasion - while 6.2% can be considered "heavy drinkers" 
   Research has shown that prevention can be very effective. Comprehensive, community based approaches - combining individually focused strategies with more "environmental" approaches - have yielded very positive results in communities around the country. Yet, as we can see in the data I just mentioned, we have much work to do. 
   If our prevention efforts fail, we must provide treatment services to address substance abuse among our youth. Yet, the Household survey reveals a crisis in this area, as well. For example, 2.3 million youth aged 12 to 17 (9.1% of that total age group) needed treatment, yet only 187,000 (8% of the total) received services. Clearly, we need to do better. 
   I'm glad to say that there is some good news. Results from the 2003 Monitoring the Future survey show an 11% decline in drug use by 8th, 10th, and 12th grade students over the past two years. This decline correlates with data showing a shift in youth attitudes about drug use. The "perceived risk" of using drugs, especially marijuana, continues to increase among youth. 
   As important as our focus on illegal drugs is, and must continue to be, we know that alcohol is the primary substance of abuse among young people and that it is a major contributor to the three leading causes of death among this population: unintentional injuries, such as traffic crashes; homicide; and suicide. The annual societal cost of underage drinking has been estimated at over $50 billion. That's why I'm working with Senator Dodd and five members of the House on a bipartisan, bicameral bill specifically addressing underage drinking prevention. We hope to introduce that bill soon. 
   Further, research now is showing that substance abuse and dependence among our youth can be characterized as a developmental disorder - the prevalence of alcohol and drug dependence actually peaks in the 18 to 25 age group. And of course, the co-occurrence of major mental health disorders, such as depression and bipolar disorder, is also an important factor here. 
   With this important challenge, we must act on what these data tell us. Research must continue to search for answers, and services based on what we learn from that research must receive adequate funding. If we fail our youth in their developmental years, we may be condemning them to a life of difficulty and lowered expectations. That is why I am committed to doing what I can to prevent that from happening. 
   From this hearing, we can learn more specifically what the state of the art in adolescent prevention and treatment actually is; the important gaps in our knowledge; the particular challenges and difficulties faced by government, providers, communities and families; and what we might do to assist or facilitate in developing a broader, more effective system focusing on adolescents' needs. 
   Now I'd like to introduce our witnesses. Thank you all for joining us today.
 
 