SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES GRANTS TO UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI TO STUDY METHODS FOR COMBATING HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN HOMES
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced that the University of Cincinnati will be awarded three grants totaling almost $900,000 from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)'s Office of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control. The grants will fund scientific research into new ways of identifying and eliminating health hazards in housing like lead. 
   "Ohio's families deserve safe and healthy homes to raise their kids," said Senator DeWine. "These grants will support our researchers at the University of Cincinnati in their search for methods of detecting hazardous dusts and lead and preventing them from entering our homes. I applaud the Department of Housing and Urban Development for their continued efforts to protect our families and our children from dangerous substances in their homes."
   One of the awards is $420,600 in federal funds to supplement current research on the longevity of effectiveness of interim soil lead controls by measuring inside and outside dust loading levels at houses. This will help professionals select interim control methods to reduce or eliminate soil as a lead exposure source. A second award of $78,977 in federal funds will be used to conduct a twelve-month study that will be improve X-ray fluorescence analysis of dust wipes in homes after hazard control projects. Both of these awards come from HUD's Lead Technical Studies grant program.
   Finally, $400,000 in federal funds will be awarded to conduct field testing of a new instrument, previously developed with HUD funding, that collects samples of mold and other biological contaminants from building surfaces for testing. These contaminants are important triggers for asthma and allergies. This project will help to improve upon current methods for collecting dust for mold and other contaminants in house dust. Results will be shared with residents who will also be provided with assistance in getting help to address any mold and moisture hazards that are identified. This award comes from HUD's Healthy Homes Technical Studies grant program.
   The Department of Housing and Urban Development's Office of Healthy Homes and Lead Hazard Control addresses childhood lead-based paint poisoning and other childhood diseases associated with poor housing conditions. It promotes preventive measures to correct multiple safety and health hazards in the home environment.
 
 