SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NORTHEAST OHIO PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich today announced the Senate Appropriations Committee passage of the fiscal year 2005 Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations bill which includes $5,000,000 in funding for regional projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, it is one of my priorities to secure funding for worthy projects." said Senator DeWine. "These regional projects will ensure part of Ohio's great assets - its natural beauty and plant and animal life - will be preserved for future generations." 
   "Living on the north shore of Ohio for my entire life, I understand the importance of preserving its natural beauty for our children and grandchildren. I'm glad to help secure these funds which will do that-and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that they stay in the final bill," said Voinovich. 
   The Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations Bill includes funding for the following projects: 
   Flats East Bank Riverfront Park - New Public Park - $2,000,000 for the purchase of land along Cleveland's riverfront to create a new public park. 
   Mentor Marsh 
   * Additional Marsh Acres - $1,500,000 to purchase 100 acres of open space along the Mentor Marsh. 
   East Sandusky Bay Preserve 
   * Additional Preserve Acres - $1,500,000 to purchase 125 acres of land around the East Sandusky Bay Preserve. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding in the bill for the following state projects: 
   Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations 
   * Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), Palmprint AFIS Program - $1,250,000 for the purchase of technology needed to use palmprints left at crime scenes to compare to palmprints stored in Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations files. 
   * Laboratory Improvement Project - $500,000 for the automation and improvement of analytical testing services within the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations labs, and to fund overtime payment to reduce case backlog. 
   Additionally, Senator DeWine secured funding in the bill for the following national project: 
   Mental Health Courts 
   * "America's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project" - $1,000,000 for the creation and expansion of Mental Health Courts. Mental Health Courts provide communities nationwide with a process to link justice and mental health communities to solve the problem of mental illness in the justice system. 
   "These state and national projects ensure Ohio law enforcement officers have the resources they need to fight crime and make our streets safer," Senator DeWine said. 
   The full Senate must now consider the bill.
 
 