SEN. DEWINE RECEIVES ADVOCACY AWARD FOR SUPPORT OF CHILDREN, FAMILIES
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today received the "Lifetime Child Advocacy Award" from the Public Children Services Association of Ohio (PCSAO) for his steadfast support of children and families. Sen. DeWine's wife, Fran, accepted the award on his behalf at the PCSAO's 20th Annual Conference in Columbus. "I am honored to receive this award from the PCSAO and I thank the Association for their tremendous efforts on behalf of Ohio's children and families," said Sen. DeWine. "One of the most important obligations that we have as Americans is to give our children the opportunity for a better life and that begins with giving each child a loving home. I will continue to fight to strengthen Ohio's families and protect children from the horrors of child abuse and neglect." 
   Senator DeWine has a long history of working on behalf of children and families. In 1997, he worked on the Adoption and Safe Families Act, an important bill that helped to provide timelier placement of children in foster care. In 2000, he championed the Child Abuse Prevention and Enforcement Act, which enhances the capability of our criminal justice system to provide timely, easily accessible criminal history information to agencies and those working on child welfare, abuse, and adoption investigations. He also wrote and passed the Strengthening Abuse and Neglect Courts Act, which is designed to improve the administrative efficiency and effectiveness of our Nation's abuse and neglect courts. Most recently, he wrote and helped pass the Safe and Timely Interstate Placement of Foster Children Act of 2006 to help caseworkers and families in Ohio and across America to overcome the difficulties of interstate adoption in order to place children in the loving homes they deserve as quickly as possible. Senator DeWine is a founding member and Co-Chair of the Senate Caucus on Missing, Exploited, and Runaway Children, which helps focus the Senate's attention on the growing problem of violence against children.
   The Public Children Services Association of Ohio is a private non-profit association of the county public children services agencies and departments of job and family services agencies charged with preventing child abuse and neglect in Ohio.
 
 