SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CENTRAL OHIO PROJECT
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced the Senate Appropriations Committee passage of the fiscal year 2005 Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations bill which includes $819,000 in funding for a central Ohio criminal justice project.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, it is one of my priorities to secure funding that improves the services in the law enforcement and criminal justice communities." said Senator DeWine. "These worthy projects will improve criminal apprehension and better rehabilitate non-violent offenders within our criminal justice system." 
   The Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations Bill includes funding for the following regional project: 
   Greater Columbus Area Crime Fighting Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) Project 
   Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) 
   * $819,000 to upgrade an existing AFIS computer, add remote fingerprint capture devises, and to replace old live scan computers. 
   Senators DeWine and George Voinovich (R-OH) secured funding in the bill for the following state projects: 
   Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations 
   Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), Palmprint AFIS Program - 
  $1,250,000 for the purchase of technology needed to use palmprints left at crime scenes to compare to palmprints stored in Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations files. 
   Laboratory Improvement Project - $500,000 for the automation and improvement of analytical testing services within the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations labs, and to fund overtime payment to reduce case backlog. 
   Senator DeWine secured funding in the bill for the following national project: 
   Mental Health Courts 
   "America's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project" - $1,000,000 for the creation and expansion of Mental Health Courts. Mental Health Courts provide communities nationwide with a process to link justice and mental health communities to solve the problem of mental illness in the justice system. 
   The full Senate must now consider the bill.
 
 