SEN. DEWINE'S BILL PERMITS COMPLETION OF IMPORTANT HISTORIC WORK OF PUBLICLY DISCLOSING U.S. GOVERNMENT RECORDS ABOUT NAZI WAR CRIMINALS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today secured Senate passage of his bill that will continue the work of releasing United States government records on Nazi war criminals. Sen. DeWine's bill-introduced yesterday as S. 384 - allows the Interagency Working Group (IWG) that was created by his 1998 Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act to continue its work for another two years.  
   "Undeniably, the Nazi era was one of the darkest chapters in human existence, and there was a natural tendency to try to avoid focusing attention on that tragic part of world history," said Senator DeWine during a speech on the Senate floor. "But, Congress passed the Nazi War Crimes law because we understood that we owe it to all those who suffered and died in the death camps and to their families to bring the whole truth to light." 
   Under the DeWine bill, federal agencies in possession of records of individuals alleged to have committed Nazi war crimes are required to make these records public. The IWG works with U.S. government agencies to locate, identify, and recommend for declassification to the public all records of Nazi war criminals held by the United States. A team of historian and specialists will then complete a report detailing what is discovered. 
   Non-compliance with the law is allowed on only one condition: if releasing the records compromises a narrowly drawn set of privacy and national security interests. An agency head making such a determination is required to justify the decision to Congress. 
   "The IWG told me they need more time to complete their important work, and I agree," said Senator DeWine. "It is my hope that allowing the working group to continue for two more years will bring closure for the many people who have suffered at the hands of Nazi war criminals." 
   Representative Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) is gathering cosponsors and will soon introduce companion legislation in the House. Under current law, the IWG was set to expire at the end of March. Senator DeWine expects House passage of either his Senate-passed bill or Representative Maloney's House companion legislation in the next few weeks.
 
 