SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON FISA ON SENATE FLOOR
  FLOOR STATEMENT: FISA
   Mr. President, I come to the Floor today because I am alarmed. I am alarmed by bottlenecks and barriers blocking the ability of our law enforcement and intelligence agents to fight terrorism. These bottlenecks and barriers are hampering our law enforcement's ability to use the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act - known as the FISA statute - in setting up surveillance against foreign powers working inside the United States. All Americans should be concerned, frankly, as the FISA statute is one of the most important weapons we have to fight terrorism.  
   Bottlenecks in the Justice Department's processing of FISA applications could mean that if there were a terrorist attack being planned against Americans, we might not know about it - we wouldn't know about it because a FISA request simply didn't get processed. We wouldn't know it because the bureaucracy here in Washington didn't get to the application yet - didn't have the time or the people or the resources to process an agent's request allowing him or her to gather that pivotal piece of intelligence - that vital piece of information that very well could be the key to preventing a terrorist attack here at home. That scares me, Mr. President, and it should scare all of us. 
   Though the FBI has been more aggressive in submitting FISA requests since the September 11th terrorist attacks, DOJ efforts and resources have failed to keep pace with the resulting surge in applications. The staff of the independent 9/11 Commission tells us this: "The application process... continues to be long and slow." And that process is still subject to, and again I quote: "Bottlenecks." 
   I was very concerned about that, so on May 20th, at the last FBI oversight hearing held by the Judiciary Committee, I asked Director Mueller how well he thought the FISA statute was being utilized. He said this - and I must say that I was shocked with what he said: "We still have concerns. There is still frustration out there in the field in certain areas where, because we have had to prioritize, we cannot get to certain requests for FISA as fast as perhaps we might have in the past." What does that mean, Mr. President? Does that mean that it is now taking longer post-9/11 to process certain FISA requests? If that is the case, that is a shocking statement -- and one that is not only disconcerting, but downright frightening! 
   At a Judiciary Committee hearing just last week, Attorney General Ashcroft made equally troubling statements. I told him that I felt it was dangerous to prioritize FISA requests because we can never know what kind of information we will get from the warrants - even our best guess is still just a guess. This is what he said: "...we are prioritizing among FISA applications ... so that at least the most promising of those applications are the ones that would be first attended to, but frankly, it is not easy always to know where you are going to get the best intelligence, and it is not a situation where I am confident in saying, 'Oh well, we do not have to worry about that one.'" 
   The Attorney General said it very well. You never can be sure where a promising lead will take you or which lead will be the one that uncovers the information that will save many lives. To have to prioritize - to pick and choose, among these leads - is dangerous business - like a game of Russian roulette. The Justice Department should be able to look at each FISA request individually and do whatever is necessary to process that request - not prioritize it - not just put it higher up in the pile - but actually process it immediately, so that the court can issue a warrant and agents can go about the business of catching terrorists. There is a very real problem here, Mr. President, and I say to the Justice Department - you have got to put more resources into this. You have got to do a better job. What could be more important - of all the things that the DOJ does, what could be more important? Do you need more FISA lawyers at Justice? Do you need more people? Do you need more FISA training for agents? Do you need more resources? How far behind are you in the FISA process? These are all questions that the Justice Department needs to answer right now. No excuses. Our national security is at stake.
 
 