SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH APPLAUD CONFIRMATION OF ZOUHARY FOR FEDERAL JUDGESHIP
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) applaud yesterday's confirmation of the Honorable Jack Zouhary, of Toledo, Ohio, for the position of U.S. District Court Judge for the Western Division of the Northern District of Ohio. Judge Zouhary was confirmed by a vote of 96 to 0 late last night. 
   "Judge Zouhary's confirmation by the Senate is great news for Ohio and our federal justice system," said Senator DeWine. "In addition to his impeccable legal credentials, Judge Zouhary has had a long and distinguished career as a lawyer in private practice and most recently has served with distinction as a judge on the Lucas County Court of Common Pleas. Throughout his career, he has demonstrated a firm commitment to the ideals of civility and professionalism in the legal field - something we unfortunately don't always see in the practice of law. He has the talent, fairness and judicial temperament to be an outstanding federal judge who will make Ohioans proud."
   "I am very pleased with Judge Zouhary's confirmation by the Senate," said Senator Voinovich. "He has a distinguished and impressive record as a lawyer, community leader and, most recently, as a judge on the Lucas County Court of Common Pleas. Judge Zouhary has deep roots in Northwest Ohio, and he has outstanding academic and professional credentials. As a result, I am not surprised that the American Bar Association unanimously rated him as "well qualified," the highest rating it can give to a judicial nominee."
   Judge Zouhary has practiced law in Northwestern Ohio since 1976, as an Associate and Partner with Robison, Curphey & O'Connell between 1976 and 1999. From 2000 through 2003, Zouhary was Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary for S.E. Johnson Companies, Inc., of Maumee. He then served as Of Counsel for Fuller & Henry, a Toledo-based regional law firm. On March 11th of 2005, he was sworn in as a Judge in the Lucas County Common Pleas Court, General Division. Judge Zouhary graduated in 1973 from Dartmouth College with a Bachelor of Arts degree and received his Juris Doctor degree in 1976 from the University of Toledo College of Law.
   Judge Jack Zouhary fills a vacancy on the court which occurred on January 1, 2005 when Judge David A. Katz informed the President that he is taking senior status.
 
 