SEN. DEWINE HELPS SECURE DISASTER RELIEF GRANT FOR VOLUNTEER CONNECTION OF NORTHWEST OHIO
  Sen. Mike DeWine today applauds the Volunteer Connection of Northwest Ohio in Defiance for receiving a Capacity Building Around Disasters Grant from the Points of Light Foundation. The $15,000 grant will be used to strengthen preparation for overall disaster initiatives in the region. This grant will allow the Volunteer Connection to work closely with local organizations to properly train volunteers to manage a reception center should a disaster hit rural Northwest Ohio. It will also create a team of approximately 75 volunteers willing to travel to other parts of the country and set up such centers as part of a disaster response. 
   "We need to be ready for disasters whenever they strike and properly trained volunteers play a critical role in our response," said Senator DeWine. "I am pleased that the Points of Light Foundation is supporting the efforts of Volunteer Connection of Northwest Ohio to keep our families safe in the event of a disaster."
   In February 2006, Senator DeWine wrote a letter to the Points of Light Foundation supporting the Volunteer Connection of Northwest Ohio's grant request. Volunteer Connection was one of 23 volunteer centers across the country to receive funding and was one of only a few to receive the full amount requested.
   The Volunteer Connection for Northwest Ohio is one of 360 volunteer centers in the United States, 22 of which are in Ohio. Although each center varies in size and structure, the core values are the same: to connect people with opportunities to serve, build capacity for effective local volunteering, promote volunteering, and participate in strategic initiatives to mobilize volunteers to address community needs.
   The Points of Light Foundation & Volunteer Center National Network engages and mobilizes millions of volunteers who help solve serious social problems in thousands of communities. Through a variety of programs and services, the Foundation encourages people from all walks of life - businesses, faith-based organizations, low-income communities, families, youth, and older adults - to volunteer.
 
 