SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH ASSOCIATION - LEGISLATOR OF THE YEAR AWARD
  Thank you so much for this important award and for all the work that you do on behalf of the mentally ill. I also want to thank all of you for being here today - it is an expression of your dedication to those who suffer from mental illness.  
   As you know, for many years - even prior to becoming chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services - I have been concerned with issues affecting the mentally ill. As chairman, I have been given the opportunity and forum to explore, in depth, the issues surrounding those suffering from substance abuse and mental illness, and I look forward to continuing to work with your organization. 
   We know that each year, approximately 5 to 7 percent of adults and 5 to 9 percent of children have serious mental illness or serious emotional disturbances. These illnesses are a great impediment to their daily function. Mental health is absolutely fundamental to a person's overall physical health and well-being and is crucial to leading a productive and balanced life. Tragically, mental illnesses, such as depression and schizophrenia, are as destructive as cancer and heart disease if left untreated. 
   Mental illness ranks first among illnesses that cause disability in the United States, Canada, and Western Europe. The World Health Organization (WHO) has reported that suicide worldwide causes more deaths each year than war or murder and is the leading cause of violent death. 
   However, it is apparent that there continue to be barriers to treatment for a great number of those who suffer from mental illness. In a past report by the Surgeon General on mental health, he stated, "[R]esearch-based capacities to identify, treat, and, in some instances, prevent mental disorders are outpacing the capacities of the service system the Nation has in place to deliver mental health care to all who would benefit from it." Passing mental health parity legislation would be the best solution for many of those who suffer. 
   We know that the monetary and emotional toll of mental illness is very high. Annually, the indirect economic cost of mental illness is around $79 billion. There is also a tremendous cost to the system for the incarceration of mentally ill offenders. Approximately $4 billion are lost in productivity for the incarcerated who are mentally ill and for the lost time of those who provide family care. 
   In an attempt to address these problems, I sponsored the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act to create and expand mental health courts and provides training to officers in criminal and juvenile justice agencies in order to properly identify offenders who may be mentally ill. This bill has received broad bi-partisan support, and I feel that it is very important both to public health and to public safety. With regard to children, early childhood is a critical time period to prevent the onset of emotional and behavioral impairments. If ill children do not receive appropriate treatment or if their illness is too severe, these children are more likely to continue on paths which lead to expulsion from school and childcare facilities for disruptive behavior, separation from their family, visits to juvenile justice facilities, and dropping out of high school. 
   Our children and young people need access to services that are appropriately and effectively provided. That is why I have worked with Senator Dodd and Senator Smith from Oregon to introduce the Youth Suicide Early Intervention and Prevention Expansion Act, a bill that would provide funding for the creation and expansion of statewide youth suicide early intervention and prevention strategies. Tragically, suicide is the third leading cause of death of children and youth ages 10 to 24. 
   I've also been working with Senator Reed on a bill we've introduced called the Campus Care and Counseling Act that would provide needed funds to mental and behavioral health centers on our Nation's college and university campuses. We know that rates of university age students seeking care while away at school are rising and counseling centers are struggling to keep up with the rising numbers. 
   Again, thank you again for this award. I look forward to continuing work on all of these important issues.
 
 