SENATE COMMEMORATES 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL'S INTEGREATION
  The U.S. Senate passed by Unanimous Consent Senate Resolution 533, written by Sen. George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and cosponsored by Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), that commemorates the 60th anniversary of the permanent racial integration of professional football by four pioneering players: William "Bill" K. Willis, Marion Motley, Kenny Washington and Woody Strode. This integration, a full year before Jackie Robinson's much-celebrated integration of professional baseball, supported other ongoing efforts to permanently end racial segregation as an accepted practice in the United States. Sen. George Allen (R-VA) is also a cosponsor. The resolution gained the support of all 100 senators. "My colleagues and I have commemorated an important part of the civil rights movement by recognizing the groundbreaking accomplishments of these great men," Sen. Voinovich said. "The integration of major professional sports dealt a blow to segregation across the country, causing other racial barriers to fall. The players deserve to be recognized not only for their outstanding contributions on the field but for the vital roles they played in history." 
   "These players showed courage and leadership as the broke down racial barriers and became role models for children and football fans of all races," said Senator DeWine. "I am proud that two of these players were Cleveland Browns and helped show the country that sportsmanship and teamwork are what matter, not the color of one's skin."
   Thanks to the significant contributions of Bill Willis and Marion Motley, the Cleveland Browns won the National Football League (NFL) Championship in 1950, the first year the Browns played in the NFL. In addition to permanently ending the race barrier, Bill Willis and Marion Motley were elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame, recognizing their outstanding careers.
   Willis is the only surviving member of the pioneering foursome. The NFL will commemorate him and the 60th anniversary of the permanent integration during the 2006 Pro Football Hall of Fame Game on Sunday, August 6, 2006. Sen. Voinovich will present Willis with the resolution which will be aired during halftime on NBC.
   Senate Resolution S. Res. 533
   MR. VOINOVICH (for himself, MR. DEWINE, and MR ALLEN)
   Commemorating the 60th anniversary of the permanent integration of professional football by four pioneering players.
   Whereas the integration of sports supported other ongoing efforts to permanently end racial segregation as an accepted practice in the United States.
   Whereas in 1946 four African-American football players, William "Bill" K. Willis and Marion Motley, who played for the Cleveland Browns, and Kenny Washington and Woody Strode, who played for the Los Angeles Rams, all signed contracts to play professional football.
   Whereas on August 6, 1946, Bill Willis was the first of this pioneering foursome to sign a contract to play professional football for the Cleveland Browns forever ending professional football's race barrier, one full year before Jackie Robinson broke the race barrier in professional baseball.
   Whereas in 1950, the Cleveland Browns won the NFL Championship in just its first year in the National Football League (NFL) thanks in significant part to the contributions of Bill Willis and Marion Motley.
   Whereas in addition to permanently ending the race barrier in professional football, Bill Willis and Marion Motley were recognized for their outstanding professional football careers by their election to the Pro Football Hall of Fame. Whereas 2006 marks the 60th anniversary of the permanent integration of professional football, and the NFL will commemorate this milestone during the 2006 Pro Football Hall of Fame Game.
   Resolved, - that the United States Senate
   (a) Recognizes the 60th anniversary of the permanent integration of the professional football.
   (b) Requests the Secretary of the Senate to transmit for appropriate display an enrolled copy of this resolution to-
   (1) The Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio;
   (2) William K. Willis, the only surviving member of the pioneering foursome who permanently ended the race barrier in professional football.
 
 