SEN. DEWINE APPLAUDS COORDINATION; SAYS MORE RESOURCES ARE NEEDED FOR GREAT LAKES RESTORATION
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), co-chairman of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today applauded President George W. Bush for signing an Executive Order that requires Great Lakes states to coordinate their Great Lakes programs. Sen. DeWine also said more funds are necessary to meet restoration goals.  
   Senator DeWine supports funding Great Lakes programs and creating coordination between all the interested agencies, officials and groups. He introduced S.1398, the Great Lakes Environmental Restoration Act on July 14, 2003. This bill would create a $6 billion grant program to fund important restoration projects on the Great Lakes such as wetlands restoration, increased public access, improved water quality and habitat protection for fish and wildlife. Senator DeWine's bill also calls for a new level of coordination among federal agencies to increase the effectiveness of federal agencies working in the region, similar to the coordination created by the President's Executive Order. 
   "The evidence from a GAO report I requested concluded that restoration efforts lacked funding and coordination," said Senator DeWine. "After seeing the problems in the Lakes year after year and then reading the GAO's findings last year, I introduced a comprehensive $6 billion Great Lakes restoration package that addressed funding, coordination and monitoring. I believe the inevitable conclusion of the process the President mandated today will be the realization that substantial additional funding is needed to restore and protect the Great Lakes." 
   For more than four years, Senator DeWine has called for a shared vision for the Great Lakes. In 2001, he asked governors from Great Lakes states to coordinate Great Lakes clean-up efforts. 
   "The President's Executive Order is an encouraging step forward for the Great Lakes," said Senator DeWine. "I look forward to working with the Great Lakes Congressional delegation, Governors, Mayors, conservation organizations, local groups and the Administration to further develop a shared vision for the future of the Great Lakes ecosystem. The Great Lakes are a unique national treasure worthy of protection. I will continue to fight to see that the Great Lakes region gets the funding and improved management it deserves." 
   The GAO report, "Great Lakes: An Overall Strategy and Indicators for Measuring Progress Are Needed to Better Achieve Restoration Goals," was released in May 2003. Senators DeWine and Carl Levin (D-MI) requested the report three years ago with 12 other members of the Great Lakes Task Force. The complete report is available at www.gao.gov. 
   The DeWine-Levin Great Lakes Environmental Restoration Act would do the following: 
   Grants. The bill would restore the Great Lakes ecosystem by authorizing up to $600 million annually for 10 years in competitive grants administered by Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Great Lakes National Program Office. These grants would be in addition to the existing federal efforts in the Great Lakes. The Program Office, in consultation with the Great Lakes Environmental Restoration Advisory Board, would award grants to states, municipalities, and other applicants. At least one project in each Great Lake state would be funded each year. Every Great Lakes state would receive a minimum of 6 percent of the total available funding each year, and no state could receive more than 30 percent of the total funding each year. Additionally, grants would have to address one or more of the designated Great Lakes restoration priorities designated by the Advisory Board. 
   Advisory Board. The governor-led Great Lakes Environmental Restoration Advisory Board would be comprised of Great Lakes governors, mayors and local officials, and federal agencies, along with Native American tribes, environmentalists, industry representatives, and Canadian observers. This Advisory Board would determine the priority issues for grants issued under the Great Lakes Environmental Restoration Grant Program and advise the Program Office on the grant proposals that should be funded. 
   Coordinating Council. The Great Lakes Federal Coordinating Council would coordinate existing federal activities in the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes National Program Office would serve as the Council leader, while other participants would include the key federal agencies involved in Great Lakes work such as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Department of the Interior. The Council would meet at least three times a year to ensure that federal efforts to clean up and restore the Great Lakes are coordinated, effective, complementary, and cost-efficient. 
   Monitoring. The Great Lakes National Program Office, in coordination with other federal agencies and Canada, would develop indicators of water quality and related environmental factors in the Great Lakes, as well as a network to monitor those indicators regularly throughout the Great Lakes basin. The Program Office would report to Congress on the changes in water quality after initial benchmark data is collected within four years, and again every two years thereafter. 
   The Great Lakes Environmental Restoration Act is co-sponsored by Senators Carl Levin (D-MI), George V. Voinovich (R-OH), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Peter Fitzgerald (R-IL), Richard Lugar (R-IN), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Arlen Specter (R-PA), Evan Bayh (D-IN) and John Kerry (D-MA).
 
 