SEN. DEWINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON AIDS BEFORE FOREIGN OPERATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE
  HEARING STATEMENT: FOREIGN OPERATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING ON AIDS
   Chairman McConnell asked that I preside and begin the hearing today, as he currently has another commitment. He will be present shortly to join us. Today's Subcommittee hearing on the fiscal year 2005 budget request for HIV/AIDS consists of two panels. Global HIV/AIDS Coordinator Randall Tobias will be the sole witness on the first panel, followed by DATA founding member Bono on the second.  
   Our hearing today is a chance for us to take a look at where we've been in terms of how our funding allocations have been spent and what the plans are for the future of the President's Global AIDS Initiative. We are privileged to have before us today on the first panel, Ambassador Tobias, who serves as the Coordinator of the Initiative. He will testify on the progress to date, as well as provide us with details on what lies ahead for the Initiative. 
   We have an historic opportunity with the funding that has been made available for the Global AIDS Initiative. I say that because that money can and should be used not only to fight HIV/AIDS, but also to lay a foundation for improved public health systems in the developing world - health care systems for children, women, and families. The money that we put toward the fight against AIDS has the potential to yield tremendous dividends in other areas of public health. 
   What I hope to hear from Ambassador Tobias are his plans on how to take advantage of the $15 billion in opportunities over the next five years. How can we make certain that we provide care and treatment to as many people as possible - treatment that includes the millions of children with HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases like malaria and tuberculosis? 
   Having read your testimony already, Ambassador, I know that you will speak to the issue of procuring low-cost anti-retroviral medicines for adults. But, what about children? We need to ensure that children infected with HIV are not overlooked in the drug approval and procurement process. I would ask that in your comments you clarify what your office is doing to ensure safe pediatric formulations and how your office plans to increase the number of children receiving treatment. 
   We know from experience that the core features of the Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission programs - voluntary counseling and testing, the establishment of pharmacies and drug distribution mechanisms, and the training of health care workers - all provide a sound foundation on which to build expanded care and treatment. So, I would like to hear from the Ambassador on his plans for the mother-to-child transmission program. What are your plans to increase the number of clinics capable of providing services to prevent the transmission of the virus from mother-to-child, especially since fewer than 1% of women have access to MTCT services in some of most infected countries? What can we do to get more women treated before they give birth to HIV-positive babies? 
   I will say it again - we have $15 billion in opportunities to help build a public health infrastructure; to increase the number of children, women, and families receiving treatment and care; to invest in human capital development; and to put programs in place to take care of orphans and other vulnerable children. 
   I'd like to thank both of our witnesses for being here today. Ambassador Tobias - I look forward to hearing your vision on how we can take advantage of those opportunities. I also am pleased that Bono could join us, and I look forward to hearing his thoughts on debt relief. He has been a tireless advocate for the sick and the impoverished in the developing world. His good works around the globe are making a difference and helping to save so lives each and every day.
 
 