SEN. DEWINE SECURES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CENTRAL OHIO PROJECT
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced that Central Ohio projects he secured funding for were included in the fiscal year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, and Housing and Urban Development and Judiciary Appropriations Conference Report. 
   "This project will help families explore Ohio's treasures by offering a safe, recreational trail linking some of Ohio's largest cities to our smallest towns," said Senator DeWine. "By spurring business development and visitor centers along the trail, planners hope this trail will have a positive commercial and residential impact on our communities. The 'Tecumseh!' Improvement Project will allow more families enjoy the outdoor drama about Ohio's rich heritage."
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following regional projects:
   Ohio to Erie Trail
   * Camp Chase Segment- $2 million for the development of the Ohio to Erie Trail in Madison and Franklin Counties to be built in cooperation with Columbus and Franklin County Metro Parks. The Trail is a multipurpose recreation and transportation trail linking Cincinnati, Columbus, Akron, Cleveland and the communities in between.
   The Scioto Society, Incorporated
   * "Tecumseh!" Capital Improvement Project - $250,000 for improvement projects at the Sugarloaf Mountain Amphitheatre, home to the outdoor drama "Tecumseh!". This project includes updating the lighting system, repaving driveways and parking lots, and refurbishing housing for employees.
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following statewide project:
   Ohio Public Transit Association
   * Bus Program - $5.6 million for the replacement of buses and other vehicles across the state to maintain existing levels of transit service and to provide services to people with disabilities. A portion of these funds will be allocated to the Central Ohio Transit Authority (COTA) for bus replacement and related programs.
 
 