SENATE PASSES SEN. DEWINE BILL TO CONTINUE MENTAL HEALTH COURTS PROGRAM
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) announced late Monday that the Senate passed his bill that extends the work of his America's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project Act. This bill was first introduced six years ago by Sens. DeWine and Pete Domenici (R-NM). The legislation provides for grants to establish and expand mental health courts. The bill is designed to identify at an early stage those non-violent mentally ill offenders within our justice system and to use the power of the court to assist them in obtaining appropriate treatment from trained experts.  
   "I am pleased my fellow senators voted to reauthorize this effort. This is a good bill that helps provide proper care for mentally ill, non-violent offenders," said Senator DeWine. "This program helps to reduce repeat crimes which will make our streets safer." According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, more than 16 percent of adults incarcerated in U.S. jails and prisons have a mental illness. In addition, the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention reports that more than 20 percent of youth in the juvenile justice system have serious mental health problems, and a significant number have co-occurring mental health and substance abuse disorders. 
   During his time as a prosecutor in Greene County, Ohio, Senator DeWine recognized the need to address the challenge presented by mentally ill, non-violent offenders in the criminal court system. Senator DeWine brought his expertise to Washington, and on November 13, 2000, the President signed into law Senator DeWine's America's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project (S.1865), which authorized grants to states for the creation of 100 mental health courts during a four-year period. In Ohio, there are currently several counties that have mental health courts, including: Butler, Cuyahoga, Hamilton, Mahoning, Montgomery, Richland, and Summit Counties. 
   The bipartisan bill is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Pete Domenici (R-NM). 
   The bill now goes to the House for consideration.
 
 