SEN. DEWINE PAYS TRIBUTE TO ARMY PRIVATE FROM OHIO ON SENATE FLOOR
  Speech of Sen. DeWine: 
   "Mr. President, I rise today to honor and remember - a young man from Somerset, Ohio, named Gavin Neighbor - a soldier who gave the last full measure of devotion to our Nation on June 10, 2003, when he was killed by a rocket-propelled grenade while serving in Iraq as part of Company C, 3rd Battalion, 325th Infantry Regiment, of the 82nd Airborne Division. He was 20 years old.  
   When Gavin Neighbor was killed, Marisa Porto, who at the time was a journalist with the Zanesville Times Recorder, had a very difficult time writing about Gavin. She struggled to write about his life and his death because she knew she had to balance the reporting of the news with the personal connection she felt knowing that someone so young from her own community had just been killed. She managed to find the right words and wrote the following: 
   "My thoughts are simple. Gavin Neighbor's family won't get the chance to see his wedding announcement in his newspaper. They won't ever have the opportunity to see his son's birth announced in this newspaper. These next few days may be the last time his name is ever published in this newspaper... So, let's give him the homecoming he deserves." 
   Since his death, I have learned that Gavin Neighbor - in his all too brief 20 years on this earth - lived life fully. He was an outgoing, determined young man, who felt great love and affection for his family, his fianc?, his friends, and his country. 
   Gavin was born in Newark, Ohio, on November 25, 1982. He graduated from New Lexington High School in 2001, where high school friends described him as dependable and fun loving. Gavin was a gifted artist. He had a "signature piece" - a drawing of a dragon. His friends say that he could draw that dragon anywhere. He loved to draw, and he was good at it. According to his high school art teacher, Jody Bowen: 
   "Gavin would work on projects on the side, after his classwork was done. I saw something more in him.... He certainly impacted my life. I feel fortunate I met him and got to know him." 
   Equal in his devotion to art, Gavin was committed to serving his country and making his family proud. Gavin had a strong sense of duty and a strong sense of family. He was always trying to take care of others and protect others. That is part of what compelled him to join the military. He wanted to follow in the footsteps of several relatives. Like them, he wanted to protect his family and his friends and his country. And so, after his high school graduation in 2001, Gavin enlisted in the United States Army. 
   According to Gavin's grandmother, Gladys Hykes, "He was wonderful. He loved the service. That was his goal." Gavin planned to make a career for himself in the military, aspiring to join an elite Ranger battalion. He was well on his way toward achieving that dream. Gavin earned his paratrooper wings and was known for performing with ease some of the most difficult airplane jumps. Known as a "Javelin Jumper," he would jump from planes while carrying part of an anti-tank missile system strapped to his leg. Upon receiving an award of recognition for this accomplishment, Gavin dedicated it to his parents and had his thanks to them engraved on the plaque. 
   Gavin loved his family very much. He had an especially strong bond with his mother, Cathy. He loved her cooking. He loved to spend time with her. He wrote and called home often and when he did, he had simple requests. According to Cathy: 
   "I kept sending him letters and boxes. He wanted Kool-Aid and chips. And Copenhagen. He wanted Copenhagen. I didn't want to send it, but I did." 
   Gavin called home on February 13, 2003, to say that his unit was leaving on Valentine's Day for Iraq. Soldiers only had an hour for family visits. Cathy and her husband Willie drove more than nine hours to visit one last time with Gavin. As Cathy said, "All I knew was that I had to get there. I had to be there to hug him." 
   Mr. President, many of his fellow comrades have said that Gavin Neighbor was the kind of soldier you wanted by your side - anytime, anyplace. He was dependable. He was tough. He was a real leader. 
   Gavin was also known for his ability to make light of serious situations - an admirable quality in the face of war. While training in California, to humor his comrades, he would walk around flapping his arms like a chicken and then claim to be a dinosaur. During a punishing mountain hike, Gavin lightheartedly asked his leader, "Are we there yet? Are we there yet?" 
   The other members of the platoon could not help but smile. As Sergeant Arthur Swartz said at Gavin's memorial service: 
   "When we were at our lowest, Gavin could turn the whole platoon around just by making a joke or saying something funny.... He was definitely the best, youngest soldier in my platoon." 
   Mr. President, Gavin's unique sense of humor did not cloak the fact that he was also a very hard worker and a very independent young man. Captain Todd Hollins, a chaplain with the 82nd Airborne Division, said that when he thinks of Gavin: 
   "I see a young man who chose to walk the road less traveled - a man who gave 100 percent, all the way, all the time.... I see a young man, one who cared about others more than himself, a man with a zest for life, who was willing to face his fears.... I see a volunteer, a bold spirit. I see a young man who was genuine in all regards." 
   Gavin Neighbor's dependability, commitment, and fun-loving attitude will never be forgotten. His life is an example for us all. Left to cherish his memory are his parents; his sisters, Roxanne Lewis and Tracy Neighbor; brother Willie Neighbor, Jr.; and Gavin's special friend - his fianc?, his soulmate - Rachel Sanderson. 
   Mr. President, Gavin Neighbor was just a good young man, who died too young. I think that Brigadier General Abe Turner, assistant division commander of operations with the 82nd Airborne, said it best: 
   "He quickly became a very important part of our band of brothers. We asked him if he'd be willing to pay the ultimate sacrifice, and he did.... He was our hero." 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor."
 
 