SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES AWARDS TO ORGANIZATIONS TO TRAIN, EMPLOY OLDER WORKERS IN OHIO
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Retirement Security and Aging, today announced that six national organizations have received awards from the U. S. Department of Labor's Senior Community Service Employment Program (SCSEP) that will support 2079 jobs in Ohio. The awards will provide on-the-job experience and training to low-income workers age 55 and older. They will also help subsidize part-time employment and training in community service positions so that older workers can move to unsubsidized, private sector jobs. The Older Americans Act of 1965 authorizes this program. Sen. DeWine sponsored the Senate version of this bill when it was last reauthorized in 2000. Currently, a new reauthorization is pending in Committee. Sen. DeWine is a cosponsor of this legislation and, as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Retirement Security and Aging, held a hearing on the SCSEP program this year. 
   "Our seniors play a vital role in our economy and in our communities and we must continue to do all that we can to encourage and support them," said Senator DeWine. "These awards will help Ohio's seniors to develop their skills and prepare them for new jobs while they serve their communities. I congratulate each of the organizations for their hard work and thank the Department of Labor for recognizing and funding these programs."
   The six organizations serving Ohio won competitive awards for fiscal year 2006 totaling 2079 jobs. The following is the breakdown of Ohio jobs created by the individual organizations: - Mature Services - 703 jobs - Experience Works - 380 jobs - AARP - 345 jobs - National Caucus and Center on Black Aged, Inc. - 302 jobs - National Urban League, Inc. -183 jobs - Senior Service American, Inc. - 162 jobs
   SCSEP is the only federal workforce program targeted to low-income older workers. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Labor's Employment and Training Administration through grant agreements with state and eligible organizations. It was created to provide subsidized, part-time, community service work based training for low-income persons age 55 or older who have poor employment prospects. Through this program, older workers have access to the SCSEP services as well as other employment assistance available through the One-Stop Career Centers of the workforce investment system. This year the program is directing $260 million in awards to 18 organizations nationwide.
 
 