BLACK HISTORY MONTH ? FEBRUARY 2005
  Ohio has earned a prominent place in the annals of aviation history. As the home of the Wright brothers, John Glenn, and Neil Armstrong, Ohioans proudly live in the birthplace of aviation. Their names - Wright, Glenn, and Armstrong - are widely known. However, ranked among these legends is a group of men who paved the way for one of the most profound developments in the United States military and our Nation, as a whole - a group of men who also have strong ties to Ohio.  
   During Black History Month, we should remember and honor the men and women who changed the course of history for African-Americans and for our Nation. One such group was the Tuskegee Airmen, who are remembered for the dangerous missions they flew over North Africa, Italy, and Sicily during World War II. As the first all African-American unit of fighter pilots, these brave men completed more than 1,500 missions and earned 150 Distinguished Flying Crosses, eight Purple Hearts, and 14 Bronze Stars. 
   The Airmen are also remembered for the barriers they broke here at home. The Tuskegee Airmen came from across the country to tra in in Alabama - and to prove their worth as American fighter pilots. In all, more than 900 men graduated from training and roughly half served overseas in the war. These courageous men served their country and proved that segregation had no place in our Nation. 
   After the War, the Tuskegee Airmen found a new home at Lockbourne Army Air Base, now known as Rickenbacker International Airport, in Columbus. From 1946 until 1949, when President Harry Truman integrated the military, this was the only air base in the country operated by African-Americans. More than 1,500 men served as pilots, mechanics, air traffic controllers, and engineers. Together, they created a community in central Ohio and further solidified our great state's link to accomplishments in aviation.
   Far more important than this link, however, is the societal impact the Airmen made. At a time when segregation ruled our Nation, the Tuskegee Airmen's success further proved that different races are in fact no different from one another. In the face of adversity both at home and abroad, the Tuskegee Airmen stood resolute against all those who doubted their ability.
   The Tuskegee Airmen achieved great things on the battlefield and at home. Their accomplishments in Europe and Africa helped to prompt the military's integration. Their dedication to equality at home opened the door for other African-Americans to demand equal treatment in all aspects of their lives. 
   Ohio counts itself as the birthplace of aviation. Thanks to the Tuskegee Airmen, we can also count ourselves as home to this remarkable group of individuals. It is my hope that we will always remember their contributions to Ohio, our Nation, and the course of history.
 
 