FLOOR STATEMENT: HAITI TRIP REPORT
  FLOOR STATEMENT: HAITI TRIP REPORT
   Last week, my wife, Fran, and I had the opportunity to spend three days in the troubled country of Haiti. I want to take a couple of minutes to report to my colleagues about the situation there. I believe it is of particular importance because the United States still has troops in Haiti, and we had the opportunity to visit with a number of these wonderful young men and women.  
   Our trip coincided with the horrible flooding that occurred last week in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. In fact, I had the chance to fly out with our troops to a village in Haiti - Fonds Verettes - which is about 35 miles east of Port-au-Prince. I saw our troops doing a tremendous job providing shelter and taking food and water to the many Haitians who had been devastated by this flooding. Our trip was also timely because it is during this period of time that our troops are beginning to leave Haiti, or were scheduled to begin to leave Haiti, and the U.N. troops are scheduled to start to come in. 
   Let me make a few observations first, starting with the flooding. As I said, I went out to the village of Fonds Verettes. What I saw when I got there was just an absolutely unbelievable sight. I saw a village that was in ruins. I had the opportunity to talk to several of the victims, including a man who told me he had lost four of his children. It was absolutely unbelievable - he lost four of his children, and he was still in a state of shock and could barely talk above a whisper. It is hard to believe that someone could lose four kids. We talked also to a woman by the name of Luciani Joseph. She was just sitting on a box when we saw her. It was the only possession she had left in the world. We walked up to her and talked to her. She had lost her 6-year-old son. I know in that village there were dozens and dozens of other stories. Well over 100 people had lost their lives, and hundreds and hundreds of people lost every possession they had. 
   The only good news, I guess, is that U.S. troops were in the country. The only way you could reach this village was because U.S. troops were there. We had helicopters, and that is how they were able to reach the village because nobody could have gotten there any other way. I believe it is important that our troops stay in Haiti until enough food and goods and relief are delivered to these small villages that have been impacted by the floods. There is no other country that has the resources down there. Nobody has the airlift capabilities besides the United States. 
   Again, what an inspiration it was to talk to our young men and women who were assisting in this flood. The seriousness of the flood that hit Haiti is indicative of the problems Haiti faces. Haiti is a country that is 97 to 98 percent deforested. This didn't happen overnight; it is something that has happened over the years. And, this deforestation has exacerbated the seriousness of the flooding. 
   I had the opportunity to talk to the village leader of the devastated community I visited. His name is Father Pierre Etienne Belneau. I said, "Father, what happened? Have you had floods before?" He said, "Yes, but never as serious as this. Each time a flood comes - each time the water comes - it is more serious." He went on to say, pointing up to the hills and mountains, "There is the reason. They keep cutting down the trees. As recently as when President Aristide left, people - sometimes not even people from our area - came up and went into the national forest and cut down more trees." 
   When the water comes, it just goes right down the mountain; there is nothing to stop it. It washes everything down into their village. This priest in this rural village understands what has happened to Haiti. He understands that Haiti is an ecological disaster. And so, along with the international community, we need to help the new Government of Haiti. If we are serious about long-term help for Haiti and the people of Haiti, reforestation of this country has to be part of that help. A sustainable agriculture is essential to the assistance of Haiti. 
   One of the great problems we find in Haiti is malnourishment. My wife Fran and I held children in our arms in Haiti on this past trip and previous trips, some of whom could be saved and some of whom, tragically, were not going to live. They were simply not getting nutritious food. They were not getting protein. 
   There are children all over Haiti who are not well fed, who are not getting enough to eat, who are not getting enough nutritious food. This is due to the fact that this country, which at one time was the crown jewel of the French empire as far as food production, today cannot produce a fraction of the food to feed its own people. If we are talking about long-term assistance, what the United States and other countries have to do is help Haiti develop a sustainable system of agriculture. It is one thing to give them food - and we should do that - but, in the long run, what we really need to do is help them help themselves through better agricultural practices. 
   Now, let me turn to another issue that we talked about when we were in Haiti. I had the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Latortue. We had a very good conversation. The day I arrived, the United States had just announced an additional $100 million in assistance for the new Government of Haiti. This money will assist this Government to survive. 
   Now is a critical time for this new Government to show results to the Haitian people. They are looking for results. In the short term, they are looking to have the electricity on. They only have the lights on in Port-au-Prince for about two hours a day. They need the lights on and the garbage picked up. The Government needs to show that people who commit serious crimes will be arrested and held accountable. The Government needs to show that criminals will be brought to justice. 
   In the long run, Haiti must have serious judicial reforms. The police must be trained. The Government must develop a system of good land titling so that people will know the land they own is truly theirs. They will not have strong international investment until people know that if they invest in property - invest in land - they will be able to sustain that investment. 
   Another issue that was raised by many business people and political leaders was their support for a bill that I have introduced in the Senate and that has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Clay Shaw. And, that is the bill we call the HERO bill - the Haitian Economic Opportunity Recovery Act. This legislation would give Haiti some trade preferences and would create tens of thousands of jobs in Haiti. 
   I cannot tell my colleagues how many people came up to me and said, "Senator, please tell your colleagues we appreciate the aid, we appreciate the assistance, but if they really want to help Haiti and the Haitian people, what we need is jobs, and the way you can help us get jobs is to pass the bill that you have introduced." The Haitian people want to work, Mr. President, and this bill would help give them the opportunity to work. 
   Finally, if the new Haitian Government is to succeed, it can only succeed if there is security in the country. The U.S. Armed Forces who are in Haiti today will be phasing out over the next few weeks. U.N. forces will replace them, and so it is imperative that these U.N. forces be at least as strong in their actions as the U.S. troops have been. 
   The U.N. troops will be tested. The thugs will test them. The chimeres will test them. Aristide's gangs will test them. The rebels will test them. In essence, they will be tested by both sides in what would have been a civil war. Let's keep in mind that the U.S. troops that came in and have done such a wonderful job for the last several months prevented a blood bath in Haiti. They prevented a civil war. The U.N. troops will have to be equally as strong, and when the U.S. forces leave and the U.N. troops come in, the U.N. troops will be tested. The U.N. troops will have to be tough, and they will have to fire back. If they do not, then Haiti will revert to chaos. So, the next several months will be a very crucial time for these U.N. troops and a very crucial time for Haiti. 
   The one very good piece of news forthcoming during our trip was on the AIDS front. Haiti has been for some time a country with the highest incidence of AIDS in the Western Hemisphere. The good news is that there have been doctors in Haiti who have been at the forefront in the battle against AIDS. Dr. Paul Farmer in the rural area and Dr. Bill Pape in Port-au-Prince have been at the center of the battle against AIDS, not just in Haiti, but throughout the world. We had the opportunity to meet with Dr. Pape on our most recent visit. He shared with me a statistic. The statistic is this: The incidence of AIDS in Haiti has now been cut in half. That is an astounding figure. It has been the result of some very aggressive work by a number of people. 
   I will come back to the Chamber sometime in the next few weeks to talk about this issue of AIDS in more detail because it is of such great importance. Haiti, despite all of its turmoil and troubles, can still be looked at as a model for the rest of the world for how to dramatically cut the incidence of AIDS. This impoverished country - a country that certainly has not been governed very well in the last few years - still managed in spite of that to cut the incidence of AIDS by 50%! Indeed, there is a lot to be learned from what has been going on in Haiti. 
   In addition to cutting the incidence of AIDS, we have also seen in Haiti the dramatic increase in the use of antiretroviral drugs. I'd like to tell my colleagues about how miraculous these drugs are. Last year, Fran and I visited the Sisters of Charity orphanage in Port-au-Prince, where the nuns there are taking care of some very sick, very fragile little babies and children. During that visit, we met a little boy named Francois, who was days from death. He was dying of AIDS. He didn't have access to the antiretroviral drugs that could keep him alive. This tiny little six year-old boy - who weighed no more than 15 lbs - was dying literally in front of our eyes. 
   On our trip last week, Fran and I again walked into that same orphanage and again we saw children who were HIV positive and were in need of drugs. But this time, Mr. President, this time the sickest of the children were on antiretroviral drugs. We saw one little boy - his name is David - who we were told had come in just a few months before. He had been critically ill and he would have died, but the sisters - because of Dr. Pape and because of good assistance coming in to Haiti - were able to get that child antiretroviral drugs. And those drugs saved his life. We saw a very healthy, chubby little boy running around this orphanage. Because of very good care from the nuns and because he has antiretroviral drugs, that boy is going to make it. 
   This is the type of miracle we are now beginning to see in Haiti, and it is something for which we can be very proud. That is what we want to see replicated around the world, Mr. President. So, when I come to the Senate Floor and ask my colleagues to vote for more money for AIDS assistance around the world, it is that little boy I am going to be citing - it is that little boy David whom I am going to be talking about. It is this type of little boy whom we can save around the world, because if it can be done in a desperately poor country, like Haiti, it can be done in other countries, as well.
 
 