SEN. DEWINE APPLAUDS MID-OHIO EDUCATIONAL SERVICE FOR RECEIVING GRANT TO TEACH AMERICAN HISTORY
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today applauds officials at the Mid-Ohio Educational Service Center (MOESC) for receiving a grant from the Department of Education's Teaching American History Grant Program. The purpose of the grants is to support programs that raise student achievement by improving teachers' knowledge, understanding, and appreciation of American history. 
   In February 2006, Senator DeWine wrote to Department of Education officials supporting the grant request and explaining that the $999,149 grant would help MOESC collaborate with the Ohio Historical Society and The Ohio State University (OSU) to improve student performance in American history in North Central Ohio. Specifically, the proposal would provide teachers access to OSU's faculty and the Ohio Historical Society's network of sites, artifacts and archival collections in an effort to strengthen content knowledge and sharpen their research and primary source interpretation skills.
   "The importance of learning and appreciating American history cannot be understated," said Senator DeWine. "By understanding our history, our children learn about the past as a way to shape the future, preparing them to be informed and active citizens. This grant will help teachers throughout North Central Ohio to connect local and national historical events to national themes and engage their students in the critical thinking skills required to understand America's rich history. I applaud the MOESC administrators for their efforts and thank the Department of Education for recognizing and funding such a deserving project."
   This year, the Teaching American History program is awarding 124 new grants worth $118.2 million to school districts in 38 states nationwide. Five Ohio organizations, including MOESC, are receiving grants worth over $5.9 million. The Teaching American History discretionary grant program supports three-year projects to improve teachers' knowledge and understanding of traditional American history through intensive, on-going professional development. Grantees must work in partnership with one or more organizations that have extensive knowledge of American history, including libraries, museums, nonprofit history or humanities organizations and higher education institutions.
   More information about Teaching American History grants is available at: http://www.ed.gov/programs/teachinghistory/index.html.
 
 