HEARING STATEMENT: COMMERCE COMMITTEE CONFIRMATION HEARING
  HEARING STATEMENT: COMMERCE COMMITTEE CONFIRMATION HEARING
   Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to be here today with my friend and colleague Senator Herb Kohl to join in the introduction of his former staffer, Jon Leibowitz, and strongly recommend him to your Committee for confirmation as a commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission.  
   Mr. Chairman, as you know, many of these introductions are done as a Senatorial courtesy. I want you to know that is not the case with Jon. I know that he will be an outstanding FTC commissioner if confirmed by this Committee and by the full Senate. 
   I first worked with Jon starting back in the spring of 1997. Senator Kohl and I had just taken over as Chair and Ranking Member of the Antitrust Subcommittee, and Jon was Senator Kohl's minority staff director. We knew that we wanted the Subcommittee to be run in a professional, bi-partisan way, and that we wanted the Subcommittee to promote competition and work for consumers. And, right from the beginning, Jon was always able to do just that. The Subcommittee staff planned the agenda together, did the meetings together, did the work together, and held the hearings together. As a result, I think that we have effectively promoted competition and accomplished more for consumers than we could have otherwise. 
   In working with Jon on competition policy, he was always open-minded - pro-consumer, pro-competition, tough on mergers, but fair to the merging parties. If government agencies were going too slow, he pushed them to make decisions and provide the certainty that businesses need. If a merger were going to substantially lessen competition, Jon and the rest of the Subcommittee would work with the parties to resolve the issues, or hold a hearing, or send a letter to let regulators know that the deal posed problems. If a merger didn't pose problems, he did his best to get out of the way and let the marketplace work. 
   Everything Jon did during his time working on the Subcommittee was to promote competition, and that is one of the reasons he will be such a fine Commissioner. The other reason is that Jon is such an easy person to work with. He is always looking for a solution to problems, looking for ways to work across the aisle to get things done, looking for a way to be reasonable instead of partisan. And, time after time, his efforts were rewarded with solid, effective competition policy. 
   The substantive skills and background that he brings to the Federal Trade Commission will make him a knowledgeable Commissioner; but it his people skills and genuine good-nature that will help make him an enormous asset to the Commission. I can't think of anyone better suited to the position of Commissioner, and I wholeheartedly join Senator Kohl in recommending Jon for confirmation. 
   I also want to mention that I know Jon and his family will be making a significant financial sacrifice in taking this post. We should be grateful that Jon and others like him are willing to do this in order to serve in important governmental positions. 
   Mr. Chairman, I would also like to take a moment to say a few words about the nominee for Chair of the FTC, Debbie Majorus. Senator Allen had planned to be here today to introduce her, but he had an unexpected scheduling conflict. In his absence, I would like to tell the Committee that she is a fine nominee to be Chair of the FTC and I am very pleased to say a few words on her behalf. 
   Debbie spent several years as a Deputy in the Antitrust Division and worked extensively on the Microsoft case, among other important issues. My office worked a great deal with Debbie, and we have always been impressed with her knowledge and professionalism, and I believe she will be an excellent choice to replace Chairman Murris. 
   And of course, it certainly doesn't hurt that Debbie lived in my home state of Ohio and worked there at the very highly regarded law firm of Jones Day. Having a good supply of Ohioans to fill these important agency positions is always a benefit to the agency, and so I am particularly glad to see that Debbie has been nominated to lead the FTC. 
   Mr. Chairman, you have in front of you two excellent candidates for the FTC, and I urge the Committee to confirm them soon, so that they can quickly get to work on behalf of American consumers. Thank you.
 
 