SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH APPLAUD GRANT TO OHIO FOR WINTER STORM RECOVERY
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today applaud the announcement of a $5.5 million U.S. Department of Labor grant to the state of Ohio to complete ongoing cleanup and recovery efforts since storms, flooding and mudslides hit during the 2004-2005 winter. The grant is expected to create approximately 221 additional temporary jobs for the cleanup. 
   "This grant will help Ohio hire the workers needed to finish the cleanup and recovery from a historically rough winter in 2004," said Senator DeWine. "It will help those who need it most, the workers dislocated by the storms and the long term unemployed, and it will prepare Ohio for this coming winter."
   "The cleanup activities and temporary jobs provided by this funding will help the region's economy recover following the devastating floods," said Senator Voinovich. "I will continue to work as Ohio's federal partner to help those in Ohio whose lives have been disrupted by severe weather."
   During the winter of 2004-2005, severe winter storms and flooding hit Ohio, leaving the state in a series of winter emergencies. Between February and March 2005, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declared 63 Ohio counties as eligible for public assistance. In June 2005, the U.S. Department of Labor awarded the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services $11.4 million to provide temporary jobs assisting in cleanup and recovery. As of June 30, 2006, the state had created 710 temporary jobs and the cleanup efforts were continuing in affected areas. This grant will be used to continue that work, including clearing debris along rivers and removing brush and fallen trees to reduce the possibility of future flooding.
   In 2005, Senators DeWine and Voinovich sent a letter to President Bush supporting Governor Taft's emergency assistance request to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which announced that more than $1.3 million in federal funds were provided to the Ohio Emergency Management Agency to help cover the cost of snow removal from highways in 26 Ohio counties.
 
 