SEN. DEWINE SECURES $470 MILLION FOR HUMANITARIAN FOOD ASSISTANCE AS PART OF EMERGENCY FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced Senate approval of an amendment that would devote $470 million to international humanitarian food assistance as part of the $80.6 billion emergency spending bill. In the wake of the urgent need for food aid following the tsunami disaster and other unforeseen crises, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) had to divert assistance from many existing crises in other parts of the world. The bipartisan amendment sponsored by Sen. Herb Kohl (D-WI) provides funding for ongoing USAID efforts around the world. The original FY05 Supplemental Appropriations Bill provided only $150 million, which was insufficient for USAID to meet its commitments.  
   "The magnitude of human suffering in the world can be relieved by the funds provided in this amendment," said Senator DeWine. "Natural disasters have compounded already existing refugee crises and war-torn nations, making terrible situations even worse. The United States has a moral obligation to come to the assistance of some of the world's poorest people. The additional funding will allow USAID to continue its very important work in some of the least developed countries in the world." 
   The Kohl-DeWine amendment would allow the U.S. to meet the estimated emergency food requirements in areas that have been identified by USAID for assistance this year. This includes Sudan, due to the conflict in Darfur; Ethiopia, due to drought; Bangladesh, due to flooding; western Africa, due to locusts; and the Democratic Republic of Congo, Chad, Rwanda and Uganda due to refugees and fighting. The amendment restores funding to developmental food aid programs that were diverted to meet emergencies in other parts of the world. These programs are vital to long-term food security in those countries. The amendment also restores funds to the Food for Progress Program that were diverted to provide immediate assistance to victims of the Indian Ocean Tsunami. The proposal is supported by the Coalition for Food Aid, a group of international relief agencies. Their members include the American Red Cross, CARE, Catholic Relief Services, and Save the Children. The amendment is also endorsed by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.
 
 