SEN. DEWINE SECURES FEDERAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION MONEY FOR RAVENNA
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), a member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations subcommittee, today announced the Senate Appropriations Committee passage of the fiscal year 2007 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which includes federal funding for projects in Ohio. Next, the bill goes to the Senate floor for consideration. 
   "I am proud to have secured funding for these important military construction projects. We need to ensure that Ohio's men and women in uniform have all the resources they need to effectively do their jobs, including the modernization and expansion of facilities," said Senator DeWine, a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veteran's Affairs. "Our military protects us from terrorism and other threats both at home and abroad and they deserve nothing less. I look forward to working to make sure funding for these projects is retained in the final version of the bill."
   Senator DeWine secured Senate funding for the following regional project:
   Ravenna Training and Logistics Site
   * Bachelor Quarters - $1.5 million for construction of bachelor quarters for the Ohio National Guard at the Ravenna Training and Logistics Site. This will permit the facility to serve jointly the training and readiness needs of the Ohio Air Reserve National Guard and other active and reserve component organizations. The existing barracks facility is open-bay, with no private or semi-private rooms for officers or senior enlisted personnel. Further, the severe shortage in the total number of beds often results in senior personnel arranging their own housing, off post and at their own expense.
   The appropriations bill funded other Ohio military construction projects including $7.2 million for the construction of a Security Forces Complex at the Rickenbacker International Airport in Columbus, and $900,000 for the design and planning of a state-of-the-art Information Technology Complex at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton.
 
 