SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CENTRAL OHIO PROJECTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced the Committee passage of the fiscal year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill that includes $1.675 million to help Central Ohio. 
   "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have helped many worthy projects receive funding," said Senator DeWine. "I am particularly glad that money will be going to programs that will help improve healthcare for the residents, and in particular, the children of Central Ohio. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure this program funding is included in the final version of the bill."
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following regional project:
   Columbus Children's Research Institute
   * Center for Injury Research and Policy (CIRP) - $750,000 to support the expansion of research on injury with a focus on children and adolescents. Senator DeWine also included language in the bill's report recognizing the need for an injury control research center that will conduct research on injury and injury prevention related to children and adolescents. This will help CIRP be incorporated as one of the National Injury Control Research Centers of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
   Ohio Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics
   * Early Identification of Autism - $500,000 to fund a public awareness initiative to aid the early identification of autism.
   The National Center for Adoption Law and Policy (NCALP) at Capital University Law School
   * Ohio Adoption Preservation Initiative - $255,000 for training, research, development, and publication of curriculum and educational materials for a workshop series targeting mental health, education, and health care professionals.
   Wexner Heritage Village
   * Larry and Leonore Zusman Jewish Community Hospice - $170,000 for renovation and equipment that enhances the quality of life of hospice patients seeking to spend their final days in an environment that is understanding of their faith-based needs.
   Senator DeWine helped secure funding for the following statewide project:
   Ohio Council of Urban Leagues
   * Mentoring Best Practices Model - $500,000 for a program that allows young people between the ages of 12-18 years of age to receive holistic mentoring, providing them with a well rounded set of life skills development. The project is a proven model that will be implemented by the Urban Leagues in the State of Ohio, including those in Akron, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton, Lorain County, Stark County, Toledo, Warren and Trumbull County, covering the entire state and touching the lives of over 500 young people.
   "All of our children need mentors and I am very pleased that this money will be used for a statewide program with a proven track record for helping our children develop the skills they need to succeed," said Senator DeWine.
   This bill now goes to the Senate floor for consideration.
 
 