SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NORTHWEST OHIO PROJECT
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced the Committee passage of the fiscal year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations bill that includes $850,000 to help Northwest Ohio. 
   "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have helped many worthy projects receive funding," said Senator DeWine. "I am particularly glad that money will be going to fund improvements to the Toledo Children's Hospital and to fund education initiatives in Northwest Ohio that target those students in greatest need. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure this program funding is included in the final version of the bill."
   Senator DeWine helped secure funding for the following regional projects:
   Toledo Children's Hospital
   * Children's Palliative Care Center - $300,000 to fund construction, equipment purchases, and to hire additional staff.
   Putnam County Educational Services Center
   * Reading Mentoring Project - $300,000 to fund a structured reading mentoring project primarily for children with disabilities.
   COSI Toledo
   * Science Education for the Underrepresented - $250,000 for a program aimed at providing underrepresented groups such as minorities, females and low-income students with accessible science programming that advance their scientific literacy.
   Senator DeWine helped secure funding for the following statewide project:
   Ohio Council of Urban Leagues
   * Mentoring Best Practices Model - $500,000 for a program that allows young people between the ages of 12-18 years of age to receive holistic mentoring, providing them with a well rounded set of life skills development. The project is a proven model that will be implemented by the Urban Leagues in the State of Ohio, including those in Akron, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton, Lorain County, Stark County, Toledo, Warren and Trumbull County, covering the entire state and touching the lives of over 500 young people.
   "All of our children need mentors and I am very pleased that this money will be used for a statewide program with a proven track record for helping our children develop the skills they need to succeed," said Senator DeWine.
   This bill now goes to the Senate floor for consideration.
 
 