SENS. MILLER, DEWINE PRAISE COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF BILL TO STRENGTHEN MONTGOMERY GI BILL FOR RESERVISTS
  Sens. Zell Miller (D-GA) and Mike DeWine (R-OH) today praised the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee's passage of legislation that strengthens one of the Reserve Component's most important recruiting and retention tools - the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB), which provides education benefits to eligible individuals in the military.  
   "I know first-hand how the Montgomery GI Bill can change lives. It changed mine, and it gave me and countless others access to the college education we otherwise would not have been able to afford," said Miller, co-chair of the Senate Reserve Caucus. "As our military continues to deploy more Reservists for longer periods, it's important that Congress recognize their sacrifice and commitment. I am extremely pleased the committee has passed this bill, which will help eliminate the current inequities that exist between Active Duty and mobilized Reservists." 
   "Many of our reservists are being called upon to serve for increasing periods of time in the war on terrorism, and we must honor their service to our nation," said Senator DeWine. "We must expand the educational opportunities open to our reservists as the face of our military continues to change and the committee passage of this bill is the first step in that direction." 
   The Veterans Benefit Improvement Act incorporates the "Combat for College" legislation introduced earlier this year by Miller and DeWine that addresses the eligibility of Active Duty benefits for mobilized Reservists. 
   Specifically, the bill would create a pilot program that modifies the eligibility requirements for Active Duty GI Bill benefits. Currently, individuals who serve at least two years of continuous Active Duty are eligible for the full Active Duty benefit. The bill would change the requirement to at least two years of cumulative Active Duty service over a period of five continuous years. This change would be retroactive to September 11, 2001 to allow all the Reservists who fought in Afghanistan and Iraq to be eligible for increased GI Bill benefits.
 
 