SEN. DEWINE'S STATEMENT ON PERFORMANCE, OUTCOME MEASUREMENT IN SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMS
  Thank you all for being here. Today, we are meeting to discuss performance and outcome measurement in substance abuse and mental health programs. With so much effort and funding focused on these programs, it is crucial to understand the effectiveness of these services, especially as we work on reauthorizing the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). All SAMHSA programs are moving toward a core set of performance measures.  
   Our hearing today will help us understand just how this will work. It will also help us better understand the challenges faced by government and providers in making such an approach work and how these measurements can, over time, improve the effectiveness of all substance abuse and mental health services programs. To the degree possible, at this hearing, I want to look at "the big picture." While we are, of course, interested in specific, effective approaches to substance abuse and mental health treatment and prevention, our focus today is really on the overall systems of care and their effectiveness. 
   According to the Agency for Health Research and Quality, health care performance measurement is the process of using a tool based on research - a performance measure - to evaluate a managed care plan, health plan or program, hospital, or health care practitioner. Performance measures generally are developed to establish clear standards of accountability that, in turn, will lead to efforts to improve the quality of care for people with specific health problems. 
   "Performance" also implies that the responsible health care providing entity can be identified, held accountable, and has control over the aspect of care being evaluated. Using these sorts of measures can lead us directly to measuring and understanding the health outcomes associated with programs. That information, then, can help policymakers decide where, and at what levels, to make program investments. Unfortunately, as reported by many researchers, development of performance measures in substance abuse and mental health services has lagged behind similar development for many other chronic medical conditions. 
   Despite that lag, several organizations and initiatives are now focused one way or another on performance and outcomes measurement in substance abuse and mental health. We have heard Mr. Curie, for example, talk about SAMHSA's "seven outcome domains." 
   Organizations involved in recent or current efforts in the field include the Institute of Medicine; the Washington Circle group; the National Committee for Quality Assurance; the National Association of State Mental Health Program Directors and its research institute; the National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems; Ensuring Solutions to Alcohol Problems; Join Together; and SAMHSA, itself. 
   So, while there is a great deal of recently developed information out there, there is also still much more work to be done to fill in the gaps in our knowledge. SAMHSA and the Administration, for several years now, have been getting ready to fully transform the current block grants into performance and accountability-based programs. We have heard often about the "seven domains" I mentioned earlier. I hope that we can get a clearer picture today of exactly where that effort is, more detail about data strategies, where the current challenges lie, and what we can expect in addressing these issues as we move forward on SAMHSA reauthorization. I look forward to hearing the members of our second panel comment on these issues from their unique perspectives. 
   For me, all of this boils down to doing what works best for people with mental health and substance abuse problems. That means using the best information we have to help guide us in the implementation, management, and funding of federal programs.
 
 