SENS. BIDEN, DEWINE SEEK TO STOP GENOCIDE IN SUDAN
  In an effort to prevent the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Sudanese people and provide humanitarian aid to thousands of refugees, Sens. Joe Biden (D-DE) and Mike DeWine (R-OH) today introduced The Comprehensive Peace for Sudan Act. This bill authorizes $200 million to provide emergency food, shelter and medical care for the more than one million Sudanese victims of war in Darfur. The senators also called on the United States and the international community to declare that the international Genocide Convention has been triggered and take whatever appropriate steps are necessary to prevent and punish the crime.  
   "I believe that we are seeing genocide unfold in Sudan," said Biden, the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. "Whether one believes what is happening is actual or potential genocide, we are obligated to act. However, I also believe it is imperative that we acknowledge what is going on. Failure to call the crime what it is and respond fosters a sense of impunity, and emboldens the bad actors in other parts of the world to carry out these sorts of atrocities." "A decade ago, the world stood idle while genocide ravaged Rwanda. We cannot allow this episode of history to repeat itself," said DeWine. "Arguments over the qualifications of the term 'genocide' should not delay intervention, especially as black Africans continue to be killed in Darfur. The Comprehensive Peace for Sudan Act seeks to stem the violence perpetrated by the Sudanese government in Darfur. Tens of thousands have already been killed and we must act quickly. Our bill also attempts to begin meeting the humanitarian needs of the more than one million victims and hundreds of thousands of refugees affected by this violence. We cannot, in good conscience, let this violence continue." The government of Sudan and its allied militia, known as the janjaweed, have engaged in an orchestrated campaign of killing and violence against black Africans in the western region of Darfur. A UN Inter-Agency fact finding team found in April that while villages populated by black Africans were destroyed, villages in the same area populated by Arabs were undisturbed. In some cases the villages that were left undisturbed were less than 500 meters away from those that were bombed and burned to the ground, its residents murdered, raped or tortured, its wells poisoned, its food stores and crops destroyed. "This seems to me to be a pretty profound indicator that black Africans are being deliberately targeted," said Biden. "We know that the government of Sudan, through it janjaweed proxies, has murdered an unknown number of people- perhaps 30,000- because of their ethnicity." United Nations and U.S. officials have called the situation in Darfur the worst humanitarian emergency in the world. Over a million people have been displaced within Sudan. 200,000 refugees have crossed the border into Chad. According to the Agency for International Development, 320,000 people may die even if urgently needed aid is delivered. The Biden-DeWine bill prohibits the normalization of relations between the U.S. and Sudan, and conditions any assistance to support a comprehensive North-South peace agreement upon a Presidential certification that the government of Sudan has stopped its attacks on civilians and disarmed the janjaweed. It must also stop harassment of aid workers and cooperate with the deployment of African Union cease-fire monitoring team for Darfur. If the President determines that the government meets all of those conditions, $800 million is made available over the next four years to support the conclusion of a North-South peace agreement. "The Bush administration has made clear that it will not pursue peace in the south at the expense of the people of Darfur. By passing this legislation, Congress will show that the American people are united on this front and we are committed to stopping the genocidal tactics of the current regime. Time is of the essence," concluded Biden and DeWine.
 
 