SEN. DEWINE'S FLOOR STATEMENT: GENOCIDE IN DARFUR REGION OF SUDAN
  FLOOR STATEMENT: GENOCIDE IN THE DARFUR REGION OF SUDAN
   Mr. President, I am here on the Floor today to discuss whether or not what is happening in the Darfur region of Sudan is, in fact, genocide. I believe that it is genocide, though, there seems to be a lot of confusion about what that term means, and what responsibilities come with its use. I have been using the term genocide to describe what is happening in the Darfur region of Sudan since May, and I think it is high time that this body, as a whole, begins to do the same.  
   That is why Senator Biden and I have introduced a bill that refers to what is happening as genocide. I thank Senator Biden for his leadership on this issue - he too, has been calling this genocide since the beginning, and we hope our colleagues will join us in now in rightly identifying the atrocities in Darfur as genocide. 
   Our bill also would prevent any normalization of relations between the U.S. government and the Sudanese government unless the President can certify that the Government of Sudan is taking significant and demonstrable steps to stop the militias and allow humanitarian aid to flow. The bill would allow us to place sanctions on Sudan contingent on improvements in Darfur. Simply put, this bill would use every weapon in our diplomatic arsenal to attack this problem, and that is exactly what is needed. 
   Only when the Government of Sudan satisfies the requirements laid out in the bill - and we have set a high hurdle - would they be eligible for any U.S. assistance. The bill would authorize an additional $200 million for Darfur and an additional $800 million in support of the North-South peace process. 
   Let me reiterate, though - the $800 million is only going to be available if and when the genocide has stopped, the atrocities have stopped, the humanitarian situation has improved, and the President is confident - and willing - to certify to Congress that the Government of Sudan is protecting its people. It is my hope that this bill will be passed before the summer recess so that the pressure on the Government of Sudan begins immediately, and does not stop until they comply. 
   I do want to return to the larger issue of whether this is genocide, because there seems to be a lot of confusion about this issue. The definition of genocide can be found in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, which entered into force in 1951. Specifically, Article 2 states that genocide is any one of five acts committed with the intent to destroy - in whole or in part - a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. 
   Mr. President, here are the five acts: 
   First, there is the act of killing members of the group. There is no doubt that the militias in Darfur, aided by the Government of Sudan, have been killing the black Africans of Darfur. Their scorched earth campaign has left 30,000 dead, including men, women, and worst of all, children. These people were killed because they were black, while their Arab neighbors went untouched. Even when the people fled, the militias chased them into eastern Chad trying to finish the job. Under this qualification, alone, what is happening should be classified as genocide. 
   The second group of actions that constitute genocide under the Convention are those causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group. Mr. President, the militias have used rape as a weapon, killed children in front of their parents, killed parents in front of their children, made husbands stand by while their wives are raped and killed, and done all this because their victims were black. An Amnesty International report stated that "the long term effects of these crimes can be seen in countries like Rwanda where many women and children remain traumatized." In the same way, the people of Darfur will remain traumatized for years to come, and this is what the militias want. The militias want to make sure that the black Africans they do not kill are broken by the atrocities they have witnessed and suffered through. 
   The third way a group can commit genocide according to the Convention is to deliberately inflict on a group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part. The numbers in Darfur are appalling and clearly make the case that this provision is satisfied. Over 1 million people have been driven from their homes, over 400 villages have been destroyed, wells have been poisoned, crops have been destroyed, and granaries and herds have been looted. The militias and government have done everything possible to ensure that the black Africans of Darfur cannot survive even if they escape the initial killings. 
   What is worse is that the government and militias are also blocking humanitarian aid. Such obstructionist tactics, in the face of the worst humanitarian crisis in the world, can be for no other purpose than to ensure that those who escaped the killing die in camps. 
   The militias have turned these camps into prisons, killing those who leave in search of firewood and food. This campaign is obviously not just about driving these people off their land - it is about destroying the black African groups, and that, my colleagues, is genocide. 
   The final two acts that qualify as genocide are imposing measures intended to prevent births within a group and forcibly transferring children of a group to another group. We have reports that children have been abducted and that women are being raped by Arab men to "make a light baby." In these societies, the child adopts the father's ethnicity, and by raping all of these women, with the purpose of making lighter babies, they are effectively meeting the fourth and fifth criteria for genocide in the Convention. 
   Specifically on the fifth criteria for genocide - forcibly transferring children of a group to another group - I want to share the story of a woman named Mecca. She was killed by the militias when she tried to stop them from taking her three year-old son. I am sure there are countless others who were killed trying to save their children, as any parent would. For these parents, for the children who have been abducted, for the girls and women who have been raped, and for the people dying right now, I besiege this body to support using the term genocide. 
   Although I can make a case that all five of these provisions are met, the Convention is very specific that any one of these actions constitutes genocide. The fact that we have evidence to support all five qualifying categories only makes the decision to call this genocide that much easier. 
   The question remains, though, if we call it genocide, then what? The answer once again is in the Convention, both in its title and in its Articles. The document is called the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide for a reason. We need to make sure that the crimes being committed in Darfur are both prevented and punished. 
   To prevent these crimes, the Government of Sudan and the militias need to be forced to end their reign of terror. We have tried to use diplomatic pressure to get them to stop. UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, and our own Secretary of State Collin Powell, both went to the region to plead with the government to stop the atrocities. The U.S. even submitted a draft Security Council resolution including targeted sanctions on the militias and an option for sanctions on the Sudanese government if they did not keep their promises to reign in the militias. 
   All of this and yet, as Secretary Powell has said, the Government of Sudan is still not keeping their promises. The atrocities continue. That means to prevent genocide we will need more than promises and high level visits. We need troops on the ground. The African Union is going to send 300 peacekeepers, but we all know that is not enough for a region the size of Texas. We need more countries to commit troops, and we, the United States government, need to be prepared to fund and assist these troops in reaching the region and protecting the civilian population of Darfur. 
   The second major responsibility we have under the Convention is to ensure that the crime of genocide is punished. The Government of Sudan must try those individuals suspected of committing these atrocities, and if they are found guilty, they must punish them. This includes vetting the ranks of the military to ensure that no former militia members find refuge there. 
   In addition, the international community will not accept show trials, and if necessary, an international tribunal should be convened to ensure that justice is served in Darfur. 
   Justice also must be blind to the position held by those responsible for genocide. If any public officials in Sudan are guilty of genocide, conspiracy to commit genocide, direct and public incitement to commit genocide, an attempt to commit genocide, or complicity in genocide, they should be held just as accountable as the militia members. 
   Mr. President, it does no one any good to wait until after the fact to call this genocide. That is what happened in Rwanda, and we cannot afford to let that mistake happen again. That is why I have been calling this genocide since May, and will continue to call this genocide. 
   I urge my colleagues to join me in using this term as often as they can, and will support both Senator Brownback's resolution, and the broader bill that Senator Biden and I are introducing today.
 
 