SEN. DEWINE WORKS TO SECURE FUNDING TO HELP CHILDREN, IMPOVERISHED NATIONS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today outlined the package of seven bills he introduced related to the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. These bills would improve teacher quality in low-income school districts, teacher retention, the problem of underage drinking, and provide loan forgiveness demonstration grant programs to understaffed fields. 
   Collaborative Agreements to Recruit Educators (CARE) Act of 2005  
   This grant program would authorize $20 million in competitive grants to colleges of education to collaborate with low-income school districts to recruit their high school graduates to train in teaching. For example, the universities could use their grant funds to offer scholarships or create a mentoring program between the high school students and students enrolled at their college of education. The purposes of these grants are to encourage high school graduation of low-income students, encouragement to those students to go into higher education, and create high-quality teachers. 
   "Education is one of the most important ways to break out of the cycle of poverty, yet 3,000 students drop out of school each day. We need to help them graduate from high school, and increase their access to higher education. This bill will work to remedy this problem, while helping to provide the high quality teachers we need," stated Senator DeWine. 
   Masters in Education Scholarship Program This bill will help with teacher retention as teachers with Master's degrees have an opportunity for promotion and salary increases - the lack of which causes teachers to leave the profession or move to higher paying schools. This bill would authorize $30 million in grants to schools of education to administer scholarships to eligible teachers between $5000 and $7000. Teachers would agree to teach at the school they previously taught or enter into an agreement with another for a 5 year period. They will also commit to mentoring a novice teacher for two years. 
   "Half of all teachers leave the profession all together within their first five years on the job. By providing grants for further education, and therefore providing opportunities to receive the promotions and salary increases that follow, we will reduce the disillusionment of teachers that is nearly at a crisis point. The more we invest in the education of our teachers after they have entered into the profession, the more likely they will remain in the classroom," said Senator DeWine. 
   The Campus-Based Underage Alcohol Use Reduction Act This bill would authorize $5 million in competitive grants for state-wide coalitions with anti-drug and anti-underage drinking non-profits, colleges and universities, and surrounding communities. The purposes of these grants are to prevent underage drinking and work to change the culture that causes it. 
   Currently, many states have such coalitions, and they work with local residents, bar, restaurant and shop owners, and law enforcement officials, toward a goal of changing the pervasive culture of drug and alcohol abuse. Although they are woefully underfunded, they work to provide alternative alcohol-free events, as well as support groups for those who choose not to drink. They also educate students about the dangers of alcohol and drug use and work with the community, including local business leaders, to make it more difficult for minors to purchase alcohol. 
   "It is up to us to change the culture surrounding drinking and drug use around our nation's universities. No longer can it be dismissed with a 'that's just the way it is in college.' It is estimated that we lose 1,400 college students a year to alcohol-related injuries. Seventy-thousand more students will be victims of alcohol-related sexual assault, and 500,000 will be injured in alcohol-related injuries. We must protect the health and education of our young people, and this bill would do just that," stated Senator DeWine. 
   Ready to Educate All Children Act 
   Recent studies show that less than 36 percent of new teachers believe that they are well enough prepared to successfully execute curriculum and performance standards. Moreover, a majority of new teachers feel ill prepared to deal with challenges in the classroom. Research has proven the correlation between the increased achievement by students when taught by teachers who possess a higher verbal communications ability and effective teaching aptitude. Currently, nearly a third of all students who graduate high school and pursue college must take remedial classes in order to keep up. These statistics show that we are not doing enough to prepare our teachers, and, therefore, our Nation's students, to succeed. 
   There is an immense demand for teachers; studies have estimated that 2,000,000 teachers will be needed over the next decade. As per the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, states must recruit and acquire highly qualified teachers by the year 2006. However, for schools which are plagued by poverty or are located in remote rural areas, it is increasingly difficult to attract talented educators. A study by the New Teacher Project has made known that strategic recruiting techniques are capable of finding qualified educators but not retaining them. The same study confirmed that those teachers are more highly qualified educators. Moreover, it also found that students of education consider an early relationship with the school or school district where they will work is the most important factor when in school. It is well known that improving the quality of our nation's educators is a key component to the improvement of our nation's education system. 
   "The quality of a student's education is the direct result of the quality of that student's teachers," said Senator DeWine. "My Ready to Educate All Children Act would ensure that our teachers are receiving the best, most extensive training available before they enter the classroom." 
   Paul Wellstone Early Educator Loan Forgiveness Act 
   This bill, cosponsored by Senator Dodd, will provide for conditional loan repayment to preschool teachers. The authorization amount for this bill is set at $25 million. This loan forgiveness program would serve as an incentive to keep those educators in the field for longer periods of time. 
   Important recent research indicates that proper stimulation of children between birth and five years of age facilitates language development, mathematics aptitude and social skills. It is known that without the proper developmental stimulation a baby's brain does not develop as quickly as a baby with adequate stimulation. Studies have proven the positive correlation between the appropriate cognitive stimulation for young children, by caregivers and teachers, fosters successful learning later in life. Nearly 12 million children are cared for by a person other than a parent everyday. In 2000, 64 percent of children 3 to 5 years-old were in some type of preschool program. Demand for childcare is growing as more mothers enter the workforce. 
   Currently the early childhood education industry is beset by low wages and consequent high turnover. Only 23 States require pre-kindergarten teachers to possess a bachelor's degree and certificate in early childhood education and no state requires any minimum education credential for staff working in a child care center. Yet, the sign on the door says "Preschool". 
   This Act seeks to bring more highly trained individuals into the early childhood education profession and keep highly-educated and highly-trained early educators in the field for a longer period of time. This Act gives the power to the Secretary of Education to carry out a program that assumes the obligation to repay the loans for a person who receives a degree in early childhood education, obtains a job in a child care facility and retains it for at least one year for those who have obtained associate degrees and after two years for those with bachelors degrees. 
   "I worked with a dear friend, Senator Wellstone, before his tragic death, on this legislation, and in his memory, I have renamed this bill to honor his work on this important issue. Research shows that the early development of a child's brain in the most important developmental period. We want to encourage the increased education of early childhood teachers, which is so direly needed in this field," stated Senator DeWine. 
   "If we want children to start school ready to learn, we need to attract and retain the most qualified early educators possible," said Senator Chris Dodd. "And because this profession is historically underpaid, it's imperative that we provide incentives like loan forgiveness and higher salaries to help retain and recruit top-notch people to this profession. Sen. Paul Wellstone was a tireless advocate for children and education and it's an honor to name this legislation in his memory." 
   Loan Forgiveness Demonstration for Family Law Attorneys 
   This bill, cosponsored by Senator Rockefeller, is a $20 million demonstration project to authorize loan forgiveness to attorneys who study and practice in the field of family, juvenile, and domestic relations law. 
   On average a Public Defender who represents juveniles has more than 500 cases per year. Chicago Judges hear an average of 1,700 delinquency cases per month, while in Los Angeles 
   Judges can only devote 10 minutes to each case due to the volume of cases. Compounding their high work load, these attorneys are often some of the least paid in their profession making it difficult to represent clients who are most in need while repaying their educational debt. 
   However, the Constitution provides for equal representation and due process for every citizen. The shortage of attorneys who represent low income families and children in domestic court causes delays in our legal and child care systems - causing an imbalanced system for the most needy. All too frequently, these delays can mean that children and parents remain in abusive situations. 
   "We are seeing more and more children and families in our court system," stated Senator DeWine. "We need to ensure that the interests of the neediest families are represented by making sure that they have an advocate. This bill will encourage attorneys to enter this field and encourage them to stay." 
   "The caseload that family law attorneys have is staggering, and the result is that children and parents may not receive appropriate and quality representation. This bill offers an innovative way to encourage law students to consider a career in this important area of legal practice," stated Senator Rockefeller. 
   Loan Forgiveness Demonstration for Social Workers 
   This bill, also cosponsored by Senator Rockefeller authorizes $20 million for a demonstration grant for loan forgiveness to social workers for child protective services agencies. They must commit to work in the field for five years. 
   The purpose of this Act is to encourage more highly-trained individuals to enter the child welfare profession and to foster a longer term of employment. The Act attempts to achieve this by empowering the Secretary of Education to repay loans to people who obtain degrees in social work. The recipient of the award must also obtain full-time employment as a social worker for two consecutive years. Following the third year of consecutive work the Secretary agrees to repay 20 percent of the full loan amount. After the fourth year of consecutive work the Secretary agrees to repay 30 percent of the full loan amount. Finally following the fifth consecutive year of work, the Secretary agrees to repay 50 percent of the full loan amount. 
   "There are not enough social workers today to fill the need in our child welfare system. We can only expect this to get worse as number of job openings in social work is expected to increase faster than the average for all occupations," stated Senator DeWine. "The need for highly qualified social workers in child protective services is reaching crisis level. Their work is too often a child's only protection from abuse and neglect. Therefore, we must ensure this field is adequately educated and staff. This bill will work to provide adequate tools to our child welfare system to ensure these children are properly protected." 
   "The skyrocketing cost of a college education is driving potential social workers into other, better-paying fields," said Rockefeller. "This bill represents an opportunity to encourage students who want to go into social work to realize that dream. The benefits will be enormous - not only for our students, but also for our children, our families and our society."
 
 