SENS. DEWINE, KENNEDY INTRODUCE HISTORIC TOBACCO LEGISLATION TO PREVENT YOUTH SMOKING
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Edward Kennedy (D-MA) today joined to give the Food and Drug and Administration (FDA) the authority it needs to regulate the marketing and manufacture of tobacco products in an effort to curb youth smoking. 
   "We all know that smoking is not a healthy habit," said Senator DeWine. "But many consumers, including smokers, are surprised to learn that no federal agency has the authority to require tobacco companies to list the ingredients that are in their products - things like trace amounts of arsenic, formaldehyde, and ammonia. No federal agency has the authority to inspect tobacco manufacturers - how the cigarette and smokeless tobacco products are made, whether the manufacturers' machines and equipment are clean. Today we are taking a step toward reducing the number of children who begin to smoke. We are taking a step toward limiting the kinds of advertisements directed at our children. And we are taking a step toward finally giving the FDA the authority to fix the problem of youth smoking."
   "We believe that there is an excellent chance of enacting this bill this year," Senator Kennedy. "The interest of tobacco-state members in passing a tobacco farmers' quota buyout provides a golden opportunity. By joining a strong FDA bill with relief for tobacco farmers, we can assemble a broad, bipartisan coalition to accomplish both of these goals during this session. This approach is supported by the public health community and by farmers' organizations. Most importantly, it is the right thing to do for America's children."
   The Youth Smoking Prevention and Public Health Protection Act would provide the FDA with the authority to regulate the sale, marketing and advertising of tobacco products to end practices that target youth and mislead the public. Additionally, it would give the FDA the authority to require tobacco companies to list all the ingredients added by a manufacturer to the tobacco, paper, and filter of a tobacco product. The legislation also would require stronger, more explicit warning labels and would grant the FDA the authority to change labels periodically to ensure the warning remains effective.
   All tobacco products entering the market would be subjected to an FDA approval process. For the first time, the FDA would be able to review the health risks associated with tobacco products. The legislation would require manufacturers to submit health information to the FDA about "reduced-risk" tobacco products, which claim to be safer than other tobacco products, before they can be marketed and sold as "reduced-risk" products. The FDA, not the tobacco companies, would have the authority to determine which tobacco products are reduced-risk.
   Each year, 80,700 young people under the age of 18 have their first cigarette. In Ohio, 36,800 children become new smokers each year; and a quarter (25.7%) of Ohio's children smoke.
   U.S. Representatives Tom Davis (R-VA) and Henry Waxman (D-CA) plan to introduce the Youth Smoking Prevention and Public Health Protection Act in the House.
 
 