FORMER DISTRICT COLUMBIA APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN REACTS TO CUTS TO FOSTER CARE
  Statement by Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) about the D.C. foster care system: 
   "For the three years I was chairman of the Senate District of Columbia Appropriations subcommittee, I worked hard to directly appropriate nearly $20 million of federal funds to improve the District's failed foster care system. I thought I was working in a close Federal-City partnership to fix this terribly broken system. I held hearings and spent countless hours with experts and city officials to find ways to improve the lives of thousands of children in the DC foster care system and help expedite their placements in stable, loving homes.  
   "This past week, by cutting local funds for foster care, the District's City Council has chosen to abandon our Federal-local partnership and "take the Federal dollars and run." Is it a coincidence that these leaders have decided to cut $5 million from the Child and Family Services Agency personnel budget-the exact amount of the Federal appropriation I fought to provide in fiscal year 2005? To add further insult to injury, City Council cut an additional $2.4 million for mental health services for kids in foster care-perhaps the most important services that these children without parents need! 
   "The funds my subcommittee provided were being used for: intensive intervention when children first enter care; early and continued mental health services for all children in foster care; incentives to retain qualified social workers and foster parents; and a new computer tracking system for children in foster care. 
   "These funds, which were designated for the District's most vulnerable citizens, have been completely sucked away for some other purpose. 
   "Judge Thomas Hogan, who controlled the city's Foster Care system for six years while it was under a court-ordered receivership, has said that this action could cause the agency to backslide. 
   "Shame on City Council for diverting dollars away from these vulnerable children and babies. And shame on these leaders for taking Federal dollars and running. "
 
 