SEN. DEWINE'S BILL WOULD FIGHT TO EASE ASTHMATIC ATTACKS IN SCHOOL CHILDREN
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today introduced bi-partisan legislation to protect school-age children from sudden asthma attacks. The Asthmatic School-Children's Treatment and Health Management Act of 2004, written by Senator DeWine, would encourage states to create laws that allow students to carry their much-needed asthma and anaphylaxis medication with them while at school.  
   "As a parent of children with asthma, and as someone who suffers from the disease, I know how serious and scary a severe asthma attack can be," Senator DeWine said. "Although more than six million school-age children have asthma, some states do not allow children to carry their inhalers with them at school in case of a sudden attack. By allowing children to carry their critical medication at school, we can ease the severity of asthma attacks and possibly save lives." 
   Currently, only 30 states, including Ohio, have laws or policies to protect a child's right to carry an inhaler at school. The Asthmatic School-Children's Treatment and Health Management Act of 2004 would encourage states to create policies that allow students to carry their asthma medication by giving those states preference when applying for asthma-related grants. 
   Many children suffer from asthma attacks and allergy reactions so severe that they need to carry anaphylaxis medication, including epinephrine injectors, in case of a sudden life-threatening attack. Right now, 18 have states developed legislation protecting the rights of children to carry and self-administer epinephrine-injectors. This bill would encourage states to adopt laws and policies to allow school-age children to carry their anaphylaxis medication, including epinephrine injectors, at school. 
   Asthma is the worst chronic health problem affecting our nation's children; on average one in 13 children suffers from the disease. In 2002, the Centers for Disease Control reported 14 million school days are missed annually because of asthma-related problems. Tragically, the number of deaths related to pediatric asthma tripled between 1979 and 1996. In 2000, asthma attacks cased 728,000 emergency room visits, 214,000 hospitalizations and 223 deaths in children. 
   The Asthmatic School-Children's Treatment and Health Management Act of 2004 is co-sponsored by Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA). 
   The Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee is scheduled to mark-up the bill on Wednesday. 
   The House version of the bill H.R. 2003 was passed by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. Now the full House must consider the bill.
 
 