SEN. DEWINE PAYS TRIBUTE TO ARMY SPECIALIST POWELL
  FLOOR TRIBUTE: ARMY SPECIALIST JAMES POWELL, II
   Mr. President, last October, at one of Saddam Hussein's palaces in Tikrit, Iraq, two fallen United States soldiers were honored by several hundred of their comrades. The mood was somber as troops, in full battle gear, stood in formation for the final roll call. When the call came, Army Specialist James Powell, II and Specialist Donald Wheeler did not respond.  
   With tears streaming down their faces, the troops paid their final respects to these two brave men. As Battalion Commander, Lieutenant Colonel Steve Russell told the soldiers, "We will finish their mission. As long as Regulars draw breath, we shall not forget them." 
   We will not forget them, either, Mr. President. 
   I come to the Senate Floor today to pay tribute to one of these men - fellow Ohioan, Specialist James Powell. James lost his life on October 12, 2003, when his Bradley Fighting Vehicle struck an anti-tank mine in Baji, Iraq. James was serving as a member of B Company, 1st Battalion, 22nd Infantry Regiment, 4th Infantry Division based out of Fort Hood, Texas. 
   James grew up in Columbus. James graduated from Linden McKinley High School in 1996. Lifelong friend, Adam Warrix remembers James as "outgoing and always looking to help someone out." 
   After graduation, James enlisted in the Navy and served from 1997 to 2000, as a seaman apprentice on the USS Arctic. Though he was proud of being in the Navy, James's enlistment provided him with much more than service to his country - it introduced him to his best friend and love of his life, Ruby Mann. 
   James became friends with Ruby's brother while the two men were serving in the Navy together. They went to Kentucky for a hunting trip in September 1998, and while there, James met Ruby for the first time. Ruby says it was love at first sight. She was so taken by James that she asked him out on a date the first night he was there. James joked that he would have asked her, but he was afraid she would say no because of the four inches she had on him! 
   The two went out and fell head over heels for each other. Six-months later, James proposed. They married in October 2000. Ruby fondly remembers how much they loved doing the little things at their home in Radcliff, Kentucky - sleeping in on the weekends, lying together on the couch, and drinking coffee in the morning. 
   James and Ruby considered the birth of their daughter, Lauren, as the greatest moment in their lives. James loved his daughter as much as any parent could. Ruby remembers how her husband used to sneak Lauren ice cream and their peek-a-boo matches on the couch. 
   James cried when Lauren told him "I love you" for the first time. 
   Determined to make a better life for his wife and daughter, James enlisted in the Army in January 2001. He loved nothing more than being with his family, but his enlistment took him away from them for extended periods of time. James dealt with the separation by throwing himself into his work. 
   He was sent with his unit to Iraq as part of the 4th Infantry Division, whose base of operations was in Tikrit. James knew the danger - especially of working in Saddam Hussein's hometown. But to James, it didn't matter. He had a job to do. He wanted to make the world a safer place for Ruby and Lauren. 
   Specialist Tim Moore, who served with James in Iraq, remembered James telling him how much he missed his wife and daughter and how he also missed hunting and fishing. He remembers that James never complained. He did what he had to do. Another comrade, Captain Matt Weber, recalled that James didn't just put on the uniform and go to work - he knew what it meant to be a soldier. 
   James was killed just eight days after he received notice that he would be going home. He had called Ruby to tell her the news and how excited he was. James was looking forward to seeing his family and joining the Kentucky state police. 
   Despite the news that he would be going home, Army superiors recalled that James still volunteered for a dangerous combat - the very mission that would take his life. Ruby said that even if James could have known what would happen, he still would have gone on that mission. That's the kind of soldier he was. 
   For his service and bravery, James was awarded the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star, and the Combat Infantry Badge. 
   Mr. President, James Powell defined bravery, honor, and love of country. Indeed, he was a fine soldier. But more than that, he was a strong, loving, supportive father, husband, and son. I had the privilege of meeting James Powell's family at the memorial service held in his honor. I spoke to Debra Powell, James's mother, who told me how proud she was of her son - how much she loved him. 
   Our Nation lost a great soldier in Specialist James Powell. He is an American hero whose memory will forever be cherished in the hearts and minds of all those who were privileged to know him. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor.
 
 