SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE OVER $30 MILLION FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS AT WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE IN DAYTON
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) announced today that the Senate unanimously approved over $32 million in Ohio military construction projects, including more than $30 million for projects at the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton.  
   The funds were approved as part of the 2005 Military Construction Appropriations Bill which passed the Senate today by a vote of 91-0. The bill now goes to a joint House-Senate Conference Committee which will resolve the differences between the Senate and House versions of the bill. 
   Specifically, the funding will be used for three construction projects at Wright-Patt, totaling $30.321 million. These projects include two in support of the 445th Airlift Wing, $4.3 million for the first phase of airfield pavements and $16.821 million for a new multi-purpose hangar. In addition, $9.2 million was secured to repair and modernize the deteriorated steam tunnels in Area B of the base. The current tunnels were built decades ago and could cause massive heat and power outages on the base. 
   "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I work to secure funding for necessary improvement projects at Ohio military installations," said Senator DeWine. "Updating the Wright-Patterson steam tunnels, is just one way we can make sure our service men and women have all the resources they need to defend our country." 
   "Our military is playing a critical role at home and abroad in defending our nation against terrorism. In this difficult time the whole is only as strong as each individual part and it's essential that we don't lose sight of that. Wright-Pat is a vital part of the Air Force and the Defense Department which is why I'm pleased we were able to secure these funds," said Voinovich. 
   The Senate bill also provides $2.225 million to construct an Organizational Maintenance Shop for the Army National Guard in Columbus.
 
 