SEN. DEWINE PAYS TRIBUTE TO CORPORAL SIMMONS
  FLOOR TRIBUTE: CORPORAL ANDREW D. SIMMONS
   Mr. President, an ordnance facility at Al Asad Air Base in Iraq is now called Brownfield Station. The significance of this cannot be overstated nor should the meaning behind it be forgotten.  
   Members of the Marine Wing Support Group 374 renamed the building after one of their fallen comrades - fellow Ohioan Marine Corporal Andrew Simmons, who also went by the name of Andrew Brownfield. Andrew lost his life on March 18, 2004, while serving our Nation in Iraq. He was 24 years old. 
   Andrew was an ordnance man with the task of hanging bombs on planes and helicopters. Major Steve White, Marine casualty affairs officer in Akron, Ohio made a poignant statement regarding the new name for the ordnance facility: 
   "This is a reminder to the Marines in Iraq and those preparing to go there that freedom is not free. Marines never forget the sacrifices that were made by those who have gone before us." 
   Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to Andrew, whose life and sacrifice should remind all of us that freedom isn't free. 
   Andrew Simmons was born on October 13, 1979. Known for his quick wit and sense of humor, family members and friends fondly recall his proficiency at imitating famous movie characters. Among his favorites were Billy Bob Thornton's character from in movie Slingblade, Dustin Hoffman's character in Rainman, and Tom Hanks character in Forrest Gump. Andrew was always the one making everyone around him laugh. 
   Andrew also had a driving desire to succeed. He grew up in Akron, Ohio and attended North High School, where he was one of the first students to join a training program that allowed students to divide their time between school and studying a vocation. After graduating from high school in 1999, Andrew held a number of jobs, but decided that what he really wanted was to join the military. He wanted to be Marine and was so proud to be one, that after boot camp, he persuaded three of his friends to join! Andrew's mother, Melody, remembers how Andrew's attitude changed after he graduated from boot camp. She said that "he walked proud. He had the Marine look, even in civilian clothes." 
   Following the tragedy of the September 11th attacks, Andrew knew that he wanted to fight against terrorism. He volunteered to go to Iraq. His fianc?e, Michell Hackworth remembered him saying that he wanted a piece of the action - that he wanted to prevent any more terrorist attacks in the United States, and this was his way of doing the most he could. 
   On the day he left for Iraq, Andrew called his mother from California, where he was stationed. He left a message on her machine. In it, he perfectly imitated Tom Hanks in Forrest Gump saying, "I love you Jenny." Andrew also told his mother and fianc? that going to Iraq was something he had to do. He felt it was his duty. 
   Without question, Andrew was an exemplary Marine. His comrades knew they could trust him - they knew they could depend on him. Navy Lieutenant James A. Bradshaw, chaplain for the Marine Wing Support Squadron, had this to say: 
   "Andrew took a personal interest in every Marine who worked with him and spent extra hours mentoring them and helping them earn their rank, as well as just helping them be more motivated." 
   Andrew and Michell had big plans for the future. Andrew used to say he wanted nine sons! He wanted to relocate to Northeast Ohio. He wanted to become an electrician, or a law enforcement officer. Tragically, those dreams will not be realized. 
   Mr. President, since the beginning of the war in Iraq, Ohioans have given their support to families and friends of fallen soldiers. They have continually come together to make sure that families know they are not alone in their grief. 
   More than 2,000 people lined the funeral route in Akron to show their support for Andrew's family. In a moving display, people dressed in red, white, and blue. Some carried flags. Others held signs reading, "Thank you for our freedom." Many could not stop the tears and still others waited for over an hour to pay their respects. 
   With their hands over their hearts, mourners silently followed the procession to Andrew's final resting place. Veterans could be seen wearing their uniforms and medals. Tom Bulanda, a Vietnam veteran, stood at the gate of the cemetery with his chest covered in the medals he had earned. He came to honor a fellow Marine - a Marine he considers to be one of his own. 
   Mr. President, we owe a debt of gratitude to Andrew -- a debt we can never fully repay. We honor his memory and remember his life. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor.
 
 