SEN. DEWINE PAYS TRIBUTE TO ARMY SERGEANT CONOVER
  FLOOR TRIBUTE: ARMY SERGEANT STEVEN D. CONOVER
   Mr. President, I rise today to honor and remember a young man from Wilmington, Ohio, who was taken from us far too soon - a young man who lost his life in service to our country in Iraq - a young man who stands as a shining example of bravery, courage, and a profound sense of faith.  
   Army Sergeant Steven Conover, a member of the 82nd Airborne Field Artillery, Charlie Battery, was killed on November 2, 2003, along with 16 other Americans, when the Chinook helicopter they were riding in was shot down near Fallujah. He was on his way home to Ohio for a two week leave, where he was going to surprise his childhood sweetheart - his wife Brooke - for their second wedding anniversary. 
   Steven was just 21 years old, Mr. President - 21 years old. 
   While the tragedy of his loss is undeniable, Steven's family and friends can take comfort in remembering him as he was - as he always will be - frozen in time as an exuberant young man, who tried very hard, and succeeded, in doing much good in the world. 
   Steven grew up in Wilmington, Ohio and attended Wilmington high school, graduating in 2000. His friends remember him as laid back, shy, kind, and caring. He also attended the Laurel Oaks Vocational School, where he was a member of the Air Force Junior ROTC. One of his ROTC instructors - Howard Vosburgh described Steven this way: 
   "Steven was a very mature, genuinely nice guy who automatically, when he spoke, other people listened. His fellow students looked up to him. I admired him. He was just a cut above his peers. He was that kind of person." 
   Throughout his short life, Mr. President, Steven would gain the admiration of many people. His hometown of Wilmington honored him with a story in the local paper about his service and the service of three of his relatives who were also serving in Iraq. Not only did several of Steven's relatives dedicate their lives in service to our country, so did his wife, Brooke. 
   While Steven trained at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, Brooke enlisted in the Army because she knew how Steven loved his career and figured that they would both end up as "lifers." Brooke remembered fondly how Steven would help ease her fears before she started basic training. The two would spend as much time together as they could, fishing and walking the trails at the base. However, Brooke suffered a leg muscle injury during basic training that resulted in her honorable discharge. 
   Steven was forced to leave his soulmate when his unit was sent to Iraq in April 2003. He always made an effort to write to his wife, as well as his mother and stepfather in Wilmington. Additionally, Steven remained in contact with students from his alma mater. Wilmington High School created a trophy case that displayed the photos of 22 former students serving overseas in the military and students wrote letters to the soldiers, including Steven. This contact brought Steven great comfort as he dealt with the death of his best friend in combat, as well as the suffering he saw in Iraq. 
   Steven was a devout Christian. He used his faith as a guide during many difficult times while serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom. As Steven's step-father, Michael, recalled, "They were ambushed quite often, and Steven just said he knew the hand of God was on him. He saw the hand of God in Iraq." 
   According to Pastor Elizabeth Looney, who knew Steven since his birth, his time in Iraq changed his beliefs and bolstered his faith. She said of Steven that "the pain and suffering he saw increased his resolve to do good and made him proud to serve his country." Steven told her of his desire to return home and sit in the church with her. His faith was strong, and he had a profound sense that he was doing what was right - that it was necessary. 
   Upon his death, at a memorial service at Fort Sill in Oklahoma, Steven and five of his fallen comrades were eulogized. The most poignant moment of the service was the final roll call. For those not familiar with the tradition, the Sergeant rises and calls the names of the soldiers present in the audience. Each responds with "here." A deafening silence is the only response to the call for the fallen soldier - the silence that reminds us all of the ultimate sacrifice they each have made. 
   Mr. President, I had the privilege of meeting Steven's family and friends at his funeral service in Wilmington. During the eulogy, Pastor Looney described him as "a hero ... mischievous ... everything he did was funny." Most profoundly, though, she described Steven as a watchman - a watchman who protects all of us - who watches over us. She concluded with these words, "We're going to miss his smile and his face and all the love he gave. I know where Steven is." 
   We all know where Steven is, Mr. President. His faith guided him through life and into his eternal resting place. 
   Left to cherish his memory are his wife, Brooke; his mother, Lorraine; step-father, Michael; brother, Aaron; sisters, Kaliegh and Corrie, as well as grandparents, nephews, nieces, aunts, and uncles. 
   I know they miss Steven deeply. Steven Conover was an exceptional young man, who will never be forgotten. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor.
 
 