SEN. DEWINE APPLAUDS CLEVELAND ORGANIZATIONS FOR GRANTS TO HOUSE, SERVE HOMELESS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today applauds 20 Cleveland-area shelters and community assistance programs for receiving $21.5 million in grants to combat homelessness from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). These 20 organizations are part of the nearly 5,000 nationwide that will be receiving $1.33 billion in HUD grants, which are expected to provide critically needed assistance to approximately 172,000 persons and families living without a home of their own.  
   "I commend and congratulate Cleveland-area organizations for successfully obtaining the money they need to effectively combat chronic homelessness in our communities," said Senator DeWine. "This money will address the issue of homelessness in a comprehensive way, providing more than just affordable housing. With this money, Cleveland organizations will be able to provide a wide range of support services to sustain housing and keep Ohio's children and families off the streets and in stable homes." 
   20 Cleveland-area organizations won competitive grants from HUD for 2006. They are: 
   - AIDS Taskforce of Greater Cleveland - Cleveland Housing Network - Continue Life Inc. - Cuyahoga County Dept. of Health & Human Services - Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority - Domestic Violence Center - East Side Catholic Center and Shelter, Inc. - Emerald Development & Economic Network ( EDEN) , Inc. - Hitchcock Center for Women, Inc. - Housing and Support for Women With Disabilities - Joseph's Home - Lakewood Christian Service Center - Lutheran Metropolitan Ministry - Mental Health Services for Homeless Persons, Inc. - New Life Community - Salvation Army - The Salvation Army, Harbor Lights Complex - Volunteers of America of Northeastand North Central Ohio, Inc. - West Side Catholic Center - YMCA of Greater Cleveland 
   A longtime supporter of aid to the homeless, Senator DeWine introduced the Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act (SELHA) in April of this year. This legislation would provide mental health and substance abuse treatment, general health referrals, life skills training including money management, family support, and other supportive services to individuals and families who are chronically homeless. SELHA would also encourage Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to coordinate their efforts, not only with the Department of Housing and Urban Development, but with other federal departments and agencies in order to develop and provide more effective strategies to combat chronic homelessness. 
   For nearly five years, HUD has increasingly emphasized the goal of ending chronic homelessness in its assistance programs. Research indicates that 10-15 percent of all homeless persons experience long-term or chronic homelessness. These studies also find that this hardest-to-serve population utilizes over half of all emergency shelter resources designed to assist homeless individuals and families. By shifting the federal emphasis toward meeting the needs of the most vulnerable homeless persons, more resources become available for those who experience homelessness as a temporary condition.
 
 