SEN. DEWINE UPDATES ON SITUATION IN DARFUR ON SENATE FLOOR
  FLOOR STATEMENT: UPDATE ON THE SITUATION IN DARFUR
   Mr. President, over a month ago I came to the Floor to talk about the crisis in Darfur, Sudan where 30,000 people have already been killed, and two million more stranded, in a government lead campaign of ethnic cleansing. This past Friday the situation changed in Darfur, and it sounds like good news. The Government of Sudan announced Saturday that it intends to disarm the militias responsible for the atrocities, and present them to justice.  
   What I do not want to happen is for this body to think that because the Government of Sudan made these promises that the crisis has passed. The Government of Sudan has made similar statements in the past that it is "ok" for the refugees to return to Darfur, at the same time as government planes were locating villages for the militias to attack. In addition, there are still 2 million people in need of humanitarian assistance. We do not need promises of change - we need to see actions. 
   That is why I am here today - to outline what we need to see accomplished in Darfur. 
   First, we need to see that the Government of Sudan is allowing unfettered access to humanitarian aid. This means granting visas and travel permits in a timely manner not just to U.S. government agencies, but all of the groups trying to help deal with the humanitarian crisis in Darfur. If even one truck, or one pallet of supplies is unreasonably delayed I plan to be back down here talking about it. The Government of Sudan needs to know that we are watching, and we will not accept anything short of their full cooperation. 
   Second, the recent decision to disarm the militias needs to be accompanied by a plan to prosecute those guilty of ethnic cleansing and genocide. The ranks of the government and military branches in Sudan need to be searched, and those guilty of participating in the ethnic cleansing need to be prosecuted. Competent tribunals need to be established, and justice served in Darfur. An unjust peace will provide no peace for Darfur. 
   Third, the Government of Sudan must prove that they have a long-term plan to ensure that these atrocities will not continue. That is why it is essential that we dedicate the resources necessary to ensure a robust African Union monitoring mission in Darfur. The region is the size of Texas, and a handful of monitors will not be enough to ensure that the killing and violence has stopped. We are committed to this in the long haul, and the Government of Sudan should be too. 
   Until such time as the Government of Sudan accomplishes all of these things we should not relieve any of the pressure we have put on them, and neither should our allies. The pressure is working, and it should continue. 
   Therefore, I expect the UN Security Council to pass a resolution authorizing peacekeepers for Darfur. If the Government of Sudan is serious about ending this conflict, then they have no reason to object to UN troops monitoring the cease-fire, and ensuring that the humanitarian aid flows. If the Government of Sudan objects to peacekeepers we will know their promises were not serious. This is a litmus test, and the world will be watching. 
   I also expect that the U.S. Department of State will move forward in naming names of militia members and Sudanese Government officials involved in the killings and atrocities. We must do everything in our power to ensure that the guilty are punished. For the women who were raped and then branded, for the children who were slaughtered, and for the 30,000 who were killed because of the color of their skin - we must ensure that justice is served. 
   I closed my speech last time talking about time - and about how our window of opportunity was closing. Nothing has changed that reality, Mr. President. We still face the worst humanitarian crisis in the world, and 2 million people are counting on us. If we were serious after Rwanda that we will never again allow genocide to go unpunished then we cannot lose our focus. The Government of Sudan must know we are still watching, and that nothing short of complete compliance will deter us from helping the people of Darfur.
 
 