SEN. DEWINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON FY 2005 DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA APPROPRIATIONS MARK-UP
  Mr. Chairman, the District of Columbia fiscal year 2005 appropriations bill is within the Subcommittee's 302 (b) allocation of $560 million, and I recommend that the Full Committee favorably report this bill.  
   Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank Senator Landrieu, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee. She and I share the same concerns for the children and residents who live in our Nation's capital, and we have worked as close partners in writing this bill. Together, we are recommending a bill which focuses on improving the well-being of the District's children and protecting the safety of all who live and work here. 
   The funds in the DC bill focus on three key priorities for the District of Columbia: First, improving the lives and opportunities for children in the District; second, reducing and preventing crime in the District; and third, increasing security in our Nation's Capital. 
   First, the bill continues an initiative we began last year to help improve the City's long-troubled foster care system by providing funds for intensive intervention when children first enter care; providing resources for early and continued mental health services for all children in foster care; providing incentives to retain qualified social workers and foster parents; and funding a new computer tracking system for children in foster care. 
   Second, this bill provides funds to help reduce and prevent crime in the District. The federal government entirely funds the D.C. Courts and the Court Services and Supervision Agency. The Committee is providing a total of $373 million for these agencies, which is $51 million more than the fiscal year enacted level. 
   Most of these additional resources are for renovations and repairs to the City's 4th oldest building - the Historic Old Courthouse - which will make it habitable once again and provide much-needed courtroom capacity. The bill also provides additional resources to enhance supervision of high-risk sex offenders, offenders with mental health problems, and domestic violence offenders. 
   Mr. Chairman, with this bill, we are also beginning an important federal investment in a new forensics lab for the District of Columbia. Currently, the City must rely on the generosity of the FBI's crime lab. Because of its own heavy workload, the Bureau limits the amount of evidence that it can process for the City. With so many unsolved rape, murder, and other violent crime cases in the District, a new crime lab is a crucial need. And, Mr. Chairman, as the seat of our Nation's Capital, the anthrax attacks of 2001 and the ricin scare of 2004 have shown that a forensics lab is vital to public safety in the District and deserving of federal support. 
   The final priority in this bill is increasing security here in the Nation's Capital. As the seat of the federal government, the District of Columbia faces increased risks of terrorist attacks. Therefore, the bill provides security funding, including resources to complete a Unified Communications Center, which will be the center for coordinated multi-agency responses in the event of regional and national emergencies. The bill also continues to provide funds to reimburse the City for increased police, fire, and emergency personnel costs associated with events that occur in the District because of the presence of the federal government.
 
 