SEN. DEWINE PAYS TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT KINNEY
  FLOOR TRIBUTE: STAFF SERGEANT LESTER "BUDDY" KINNEY, II
   Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to a young Ohioan who lost his life in the service of our country - a young Ohioan who dedicated himself to preserving the safety of his family, his friends, the Iraqi people, and his fellow Americans.  
   Army Staff Sergeant Lester Kinney, II was known to his family and friends by a nickname that exemplified his outlook on life, as well as the way he treated all who had the privilege of knowing him - and that nickname was "Buddy." 
   Buddy was born on February 28, 1976, and grew up in Muskingum County, Ohio. His mother, Barbara, fondly remembers his love for animals, classic cars, Johnny Cash, and blue-grass music. As a young boy, Buddy loved to play pranks on people - especially on Halloween, greatly increasing the popularity of his family's Zanesville home on the holiday! 
   Buddy attended John Glenn High School, where he played baseball and basketball. Described as "everybody's kid," Buddy was the kind of guy you wanted on your team. He was always a team player. And, he was always in a good mood and could get along with anyone - and everyone. People liked Buddy Lester. As his former high school principal, Gary Lucas, said: "Everybody would be glad to have him as their son. He's the kind of kid you'd be glad to take home to meet your parents." 
   After graduating from high school in 1994, Buddy enlisted in the Army. His mother recalled that Buddy had always liked the "Be All You Can Be" commercials and was determined to join the Army from the time he was just eight years old. 
   Buddy Kinney served in Afghanistan for most of 2003, where he earned a number of awards and decorations for his service and leadership. These include the Bronze Star, Expert Infantry Badge, Combat Infantry Badge, Army Service Ribbon, Army Commendation Medal, Good Conduct Medal, Parachutist Badge, Jumpmaster, and Air Assault Badge. 
   As a section leader in Afghanistan, Buddy was proud that after more than 150 movements in the dangerous country, none of the soldiers under his direction were ever injured. Mr. President, clearly, Buddy was one of this country's finest soldiers. However, he was more than just a great soldier - he was a family man and a model big brother. 
   Kurtis Bennett loved his big brother. He looked up to him. He respected him. He wanted to be like him. When Kurtis's father passed away, Buddy became the male figure in his life. Kurtis quickly learned that he could count on his brother Buddy for anything. 
   Kurtis fondly remembers how supportive Buddy was of his decisions. When Kurtis graduated from high school, he told his big brother that he was thinking of taking a year off before going to college. Buddy thought that was a good idea. However, the military recruiters came calling and Kurtis decided to sign up. Buddy was proud of his younger brother and helped him decide on joining the Army because of the opportunities it would provide. Buddy was only a phone call away when Kurtis went through boot camp. When the two were serving overseas, Kurtis would make sure to call his brother whenever he could. 
   Buddy Kinney had big plans for his life. He married the love of his life, Marisa, on November 24, 2001. Though their married life together was short, it was rich and meaningful. He loved Marisa dearly. 
   Buddy's military career also brought him great fulfillment and meaning. He made 58 jumps as a paratrooper - only two jumps away from earning a gold star above his parachute wings. He was known for making the best of his opportunities. While stationed in Alaska, Buddy learned to snow ski, and while in Hawaii, he learned to surf. Buddy was proud of his service and believed in what he was doing. After his service in Iraq, Buddy was hoping to become a warrant officer and a helicopter pilot. 
   But tragically, Mr. President, Buddy Lester's dreams were cut short. This country lost one of its finest on January 27, 2004, when a roadside bomb exploded while Buddy was conducting a dismounted patrol near Iskandariyah, Iraq. He had been assigned as the section leader to Bravo Company, 2nd Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment, based out of Fort Bragg, North Carolina. 
   Mr. President, I had the privilege of meeting Buddy's family and some of his friends at a service held in his honor. Each remembers Buddy's smiling face and positive attitude. I was particularly moved by a letter that his comrades from their service in Afghanistan wrote. It read: 
   "We could not ask for a better friend or leader. From the dusty mountains of Afghanistan to the hot, flat desert of Iraq, we will always have a seat open for you." 
   We always will have a place for Buddy in our hearts. He will be cherished forever in the memories of his beloved wife Marisa, mother Barbara, stepfather Jack, brother Kurtis, sister Jodi, grandmother Nita, and many aunts, uncles, cousins, comrades, and friends. 
   Mr. President, Lester "Buddy" Kinney is an American hero and may we always remember the sacrifice he made for our Nation. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor.
 
 