SEN. DEWINE'S REMARKS: JUDICIARY MARK-UP DNA BILL
  S.1700 - the Advancing Justice Through DNA Technology Act of 2003 - will extend more federal funding to states and localities to fight crime with DNA technology, expand our national database of DNA profiles from criminals, and afford greater protections to the innocent. This is a good bi-partisan bill that has already passed the House. We should pass this bill so that the President can sign this important piece of legislation this year.  
   While the overall violent crime rate has decreased in recent years, the occurrence of rape has only increased. Somewhere in America, a woman is sexually assaulted every two minutes. This is truly staggering. Adding to this tragedy is the fact that in cities across the country, hundreds of thousands of rape kits are sitting untested in police department evidence rooms. While these kits contain DNA evidence that could lead to the arrest of rapists, many rape kits have gone untested for more than a decade due to a lack of funding. 
   In my home state of Ohio, officials estimate that there are thousands of rape kits with rape evidence that remain unanalyzed, despite recent strides in science that allow DNA evidence from rapes and other violent crimes to be compared against DNA profiles in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), our national DNA database. Laboratory researchers at the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation report that they have a 25 percent success rate in matching unknown DNA collected from crime scenes to either the DNA of offenders on file or to other crime scenes. Testing these untested kits could yield evidence that could bring hundreds rapists to justice in Ohio alone. 
   We now have both the technology to analyze DNA evidence and a growing database of DNA profiles with which to compare this evidence. This system works and it catches criminals. And, just as DNA catches the guilty, it exonerates the innocent. 
   We owe it to rape victims, crime victims, and our society as a whole, to do all we can to apprehend and prosecute sex offenders. To this end, the bill would make two important improvements in the law: 
   First, this bill would expand CODIS, our national DNA database. The expansion of this database is important, since the larger the database, the more likely it is that state crime laboratories will be able to match DNA evidence to offenders. The U.S. Department of Justice has expressed support for expanding the DNA database in this manner. Second, this bill would change the criminal code to better protect victims of sexual violence by eliminating the statute of limitations, under federal law, for prosecuting certain sex crimes. 
   This is a good bipartisan bill, and I encourage my colleagues to support it.
 
 