SEN. DEWINE PAYS TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT RAMEY
  FLOOR TRIBUTE: STAFF SERGEANT RICHARD P. RAMEY
   Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to Army Staff Sergeant Richard Ramey, from Perry Township, in Stark County, Ohio. He died on February 8, 2004, when his convoy was attacked in Mahmudiyah, Iraq - a village 20 miles south of Baghdad.  
   Richard lived life well. He made good choices. He never took the easy path. He never shied away from a challenge. 
   That is what drew him to the military. He pursued a career as a soldier knowing the possible dangers. Richard took on one of the most risky jobs in the Army. He took on the responsibility of explosive ordnance disposal. This meant, simply, that if someone found a bomb on the side of the road, or in a building, or anywhere, Richard's task was to disarm it. 
   Many of us would wonder why he volunteered for such a dangerous position. But Richard would have a simple answer. He did it to protect and ensure the safety of his comrades and the Iraqi people. He did it because he was never afraid to do what needed to be done. 
   Mr. President, Richard was born on November 6, 1976, to loving parents, Jerry and Julie Ramey. Jerry can still remember looking at Richard when he was in the hospital baby room. He couldn't help but laugh at Richard's curly brown hair with its frosted tips. 
   As a boy, Richard was known for hanging around the Perry Township fire station where Jerry was a volunteer fire investigator. Richard loved the excitement of the fire station and being there spending time with his dad. At Perry High School in Massillon, Ohio, Richard made a lasting impression on all who met him. English teacher and assistant football coach, Bob Kilpatrick remembered Richard as, "a good guy - a solid citizen. He came to class with his work done, came to practice ready to practice, and came to the game ready to play." 
   Richard was a great football player with an even greater work ethic. As an offensive guard and tackle, he was known for his hard hitting and determination to play despite an injury to his shoulder. Richard's coaches remember that even at practices in the summer heat, he would always be smiling. 
   Speaking of smiling, Richard was known for his sense of humor. One time, he described eggs as "liquid chickens" to his teacher - a proclaimed vegetarian. The teacher swore off eggs shortly thereafter. 
   Richard loved the outdoors. He loved to camp, hike, explore caves, and climb. He especially loved to fish. Richard's friends fondly recall how he always caught bigger fish than they did no matter what kind of bate they used or what kind of fishing pole they had. 
   Richard had the same passion for the military that he did for the outdoors. Even as a youngster, Richard's parents knew he would join the military. On Halloween, he would dress up as Rambo or G.I. Joe. Friends remember that at sleepovers, Richard would make them watch his favorite movie, Red Dawn - a film about foreign armies taking over the United States. 
   In third grade, Richard's teacher asked the students to write a sentence about what they wanted to do when they grew up. Richard responded, "I will go to war and fight if I have to" - a motto he carried with him throughout his all too short life. 
   After high school, Richard joined the Army and entered the service on his mother's birthday. He carried on the military tradition of his family. His dad served four years in the Navy, and grandfather Bernard Richard Sr. fought in World War II, notably at the Battle of the Bulge. 
   While Richard's mother knew that her son would follow his beliefs and do what he felt he needed to do, all she asked was that he call her every week - and he did. She said that "Richard loved to do his job. No matter where it would take him. He really felt deeply that he wanted to protect people who couldn't protect themselves." She understood that it took a special person to do what Richard did. 
   Richard's comrades loved him. They trusted him with their lives. And, they had fun together. Staff Sergeant Max Voelz, a member of Richard's unit, remembers the stories Richard would tell and the pranks he loved to play on people. In one instance, Richard filled an officer's room with balloons from the floor to the ceiling. 
   Richard served at the White House, in Kosovo, and in Egypt before his unit was transferred to Iraq. While in Iraq, he witnessed several tragic events. In December, Richard watched helplessly as one of his comrades and closest friends was killed while trying to defuse a bomb. Clearly shaken and understandably "numb", Richard called home for support from his parents. Shortly thereafter, Richard found himself in close proximity to another exploding bomb. Shrapnel hit his face and ruptured his eardrum. Through it all, Richard's unit became very close. They were family, both at home and in Iraq. 
   Despite these difficult times, Richard did not lose sight of his ultimate goal - to help those who could not help themselves. And that is why he was determined to continue his career in the military. While overseas, he enlisted for six more years and was looking forward to his next assignment in Alaska. His mom and dad were planning on driving him there. 
   Mr. President, Richard Ramey always will be remembered for his bravery and dedication to helping make the world a safer place. In the words of his father, Richard lived 80 years in 27 - and in those 27, he made a difference. 
   In Massillon, Ohio, this past February, hundreds of soldiers, firefighters, police, Boy Scouts, sailors, and family and friends paid their final respects to this American hero. Outside the church and along the funeral possession, many more braved the cold to show their support to the Ramey family by waving flags and holding signs. At Perry High School, a memorial plaque and photograph hangs in the hall as tribute to the school's brave alumnus. 
   Richard will forever live on in the hearts and minds of all those who had the privilege of knowing him, including his parents Jerry and Julie, sister Sarah, and brother-in-law, Nicholas. The Reverend Thomas Dyer, who spoke at Richard's funeral service, said it best: 
   "[Richard] goes on in our memory with the powerful lesson to each one of us - to make of ourselves the best we can - to make a difference in our home and community." 
   Indeed, Mr. President, Richard made the best of himself and in doing so, made a very real, very lasting difference in this world. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor.
 
 