SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NORTHWEST OHIO PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) today announced the Senate Appropriations Committee passage of the fiscal year 2005 Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, which includes $14.8 million for Ohio projects overall, and $1.3 million in funding for Northwest Ohio projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, it is one of my priorities to secure funding for worthy projects," said Senator DeWine. "These projects are important for development in Ohio and I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure funding is retained in the final bill." 
   "These funds will help boost Ohio's recovering economy, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure that the funding is maintained in the final version of the bill," said Senator Voinovich. 
   The Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill includes funding for Northwest Ohio projects in the following areas: 
   Celina 
   * $750,000 to the City of Celina for the Water Treatment Plant Project. 
   Lucas County 
   * $250,000 to Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority for the Northwest Ohio Brownfield Restoration Initiative. The Brownfield Initiative is expected to create jobs through restoring the area and attract jobs through economic development once the restoration is complete. 
   Allen, Putnam and Van Wert Counties 
   * $100,000 to the City of Delphos and Allen, Putnam, and Van Wert Counties for the Tri-County Regional Water System Project. 
   Defiance and Paulding Counties 
   * $200,000 to the Defiance County Commissioners and Defiance and Paulding Counties for the Auglaize River Sewer Project. 
   The full Senate must consider the bill. Once the bill passes the full Senate, it goes to a conference committee where differences will be worked out with the House version. Then the final version goes to the President for his signature.
 
 