SEN. DEWINE PAYS TRIBUTE TO DEAN OF OHIO PRESS CORPS
  Mr. President, I rise today to recognize the dean of the Ohio press corps. Tom Diemer, a veteran reporter who spent more than 26 years at the Cleveland Plain Dealer newspaper, has left the paper to pursue another career.  
   Tom is one of those rare reporters who truly "gets it." Tom understands Ohio. He understands Ohio government and politics. And, he understands what his readers need and want to know. 
   Tom began working at the Columbus bureau of the Plain Dealer in 1978. A few years later, in 1981, he was promoted to bureau chief. When the opportunity came in 1985 to join the Plain Dealer's Washington bureau, Tom took it. 
   During that time, he covered Ohio's Senators Howard Metzenbaum, John Glenn, George Voinovich, and me. Tom knew he could call my office and speak to me anytime. It's a real credit to Tom that he was open-minded enough to begin to understand a Republican Senator from the south side of I-70! 
   With a healthy dose of skepticism, Tom reported to his readers in Cleveland about the activities in the United States Senate. But, Tom was never a reporter to take a press release or a prepared statement at face value. Tom was a constant skeptic, and he required his sources to make the case to him. He always returned fire with a rapid set of questions that showed he was looking for the story behind the story. 
   Whether it was local issues like the Great Lakes or the Euclid Corridor, or national issues like the a war declaration or the Patriot Act, I could expect Tom to dig deeper and go farther with his line of questioning than most other reporters. He would want to know the implications of a certain outcome, or he would want some "color" for his story so that he could capture the feel of an event for his readers. 
   A true test of Tom's writing ability was that his editors used a light touch when editing his work. Tom usually got it right the first time. And, no matter how tough his questions were, I always knew that any story I read by Tom Diemer would be fair and accurate. In Washington, Tom came to lead the pack of Ohio's reporters. His expertise about Ohio politics often made him the go-to person for C-SPAN and CNN, among others, when they needed someone to analyze the Ohio political scene during election years. 
   I have always appreciated Tom's professionalism, his thoroughness, his frankness, and his fairness. Tom will still be writing, but he's leaving the Plain Dealer to set out on his own. I will miss my frequent contact with him, but I wish him the best of luck.
 
 