SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON TRANSPORATION SAFETY
  "Mr. President, over 43, 000 people lost their lives on our Nation's roads last year. That's one death every 12 minutes, or the equivalent of two Boeing 747-400's filled to capacity going down every week with no survivors.  
   This past May, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) released its 2003 traffic safety report, which details when, where, and why so many Americans lose their lives on the road. This information gives us an idea of how effective our efforts are at the local, state, and national levels and where we need to focus resources in the future to help save lives. Based on the preliminary 2003 data, we have a long, long way to go. 
   Overall, fatalities increased 1% from 42,815 in 2002 to 43,220 in 2003. This is the fourth consecutive increase in annual traffic fatalities. This is bad news, particularly in light of the progress made throughout the 1990s, when the norm was a reduction in fatalities each year. On the other hand, the number of deaths per 100 million vehicle miles traveled stayed constant at 1.5 from 2002 to 2003. While not an increase, this figure does show just how difficult it will be to reach the Secretary of Transportation's very aggressive goal of reaching 1.0 fatalities per 100 million vehicle miles traveled by 2008. 
   The 2003 report, available online at http://www.nhtsa.dot.gov, also includes a number of other findings that shed light on the direction our country is taking as far as roadway safety. Among other things, the report states that: 
   * Standard passenger car fatalities are down, but deaths in sport utility vehicles (SUVs) are up in the past year, with most of the increase coming from rollover crashes. NHTSA estimates that this trend may continue as SUVs grow as a share of sales volume. 
   * Motorcycle crash deaths are up 11% from last year, now totaling 3,592. 
   * Drunk driving death rates are essentially unchanged from 2002, with 40% of crash fatalities involving alcohol in 2003. 
   * The number of fatal crashes involving young drivers (ages 16 to 20) declined by 3.7% from 7,738 in 2002 to 7,452 in 2003. 
   While the report does bring welcome news with regard to young drivers, who are much more vulnerable while driving than adults, it is also clear that progress needs to be made in a host of other areas - particularly rollover crashes and drunk driving. I am working in the Senate to see to it that we do just that, through safety initiatives added to the six-year highway bill currently under consideration by a joint House-Senate conference committee. 
   These initiatives are designed to advance our ability to test vehicles for passenger protection in rollover crashes, get consumers vital crash-test information when they need it most, and increase seat belt use and reduce drunk driving through nationwide, high-visibility traffic safety enforcement campaigns. Combined with increased seat belt use, something Ohio State Senator Jeff Armbruster is working diligently to achieve in Columbus, better driver education, which the Ohio Department of Public Safety is focusing on, and responsible practices, such as using a designated driver, can make a real difference. 
   Traffic safety affects all of us, and we all have a role to play in making sure that when the 2004 numbers come out early next year, they are headed in the right direction. 
   Now, Mr. President, in a related matter, I would also like to discuss a very important development in the effort to make our Nation's roads safer. Earlier this month, Delaware became the 50th and last U.S. State to adopt a .08 blood-alcohol content (BAC) per-se drunk driving standard. This development constitutes the culmination of many years of work here in the Senate to get tough, uniform drunk driving laws on the books across our country. In 2000, the Senate took decisive action to help stop drunk driving by implementing mandatory sanctions for States that do not adopt a .08 per-se standard. And now, we are finally seeing the full realization of this effort, as all 50 States now have .08 laws. 
   This is so important from a safety perspective because the fact is that a person with a .08 Blood-Alcohol Concentration level is seriously impaired. When a person reaches .08, his or her vision, balance, reaction time, hearing, judgment, and self-control are severely impaired. Additionally, critical driving tasks, such as concentrated attention, speed control, braking, steering, gear-changing and lane-tracking, are negatively impacted at .08. 
   Beyond these facts, there are other scientifically sound reasons to have a national .08 standard. First, the risk of being in a crash increases gradually with each blood-alcohol level, but then rises rapidly after a driver reaches or exceeds .08 compared to drivers with no alcohol in their systems. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) reports that in single vehicle crashes, the relative fatality risk for drivers with BAC's between .05 and .09 is over eleven times greater than for drivers with BAC's of zero. Second, .08 BAC laws have proven results in reducing crashes and fatalities. Some studies have found that .08 laws reduce the overall incidence of alcohol fatalities by 16% and also reduced fatalities at higher BAC levels. Now that all 50 States have a .08 law, we will have the opportunity to see its effects on a much larger scale. 
   The reduction in alcohol-related fatalities since the 1970s is not attributable to one single law or program. Rather, it is the result of a whole series of actions taken by state and federal government and the tireless efforts of many organizations, such as Mothers Against Drunk Driving, Students Against Drunk Driving, Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, the Alliance of Auto Manufacturers, and many others. I want to conclude by thanking my friend from New Jersey, Senator LAUTENBERG, for his continued dedication to fighting drunk driving. His hard work and perseverance have made the nationwide .08 standard possible. Mr. President, .08 was definitely a legislative effort worth fighting for, and now that all 50 states have a companion law in effect, I believe we will see why. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor."
 
 