SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NORTHEAST OHIO PROJECTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $7.55 million in funding for regional projects. 
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I am pleased I was able to fund these worthy Ohio projects," said Senator DeWine. "Ohioans will be better off because of this assistance from the federal government."  
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following Northeast Ohio projects:
   Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital - $750,000 to expand and upgrade the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. The funding will allow the hospital to upgrade the NICU's 38-bed facility by incorporating it with the hospital's NICU Transitional Care Unit. Funds will also be used to enhance the surgical capabilities in the NICU by providing state-of-the-art surgical facilities.
   Vocational Guidance Services - $300,000 to purchase equipment for an educational and employment program for people with disabilities. Vocational Guidance Services is the oldest and among the largest vocational rehabilitation agencies in the State of Ohio and it has helped Greater Clevelanders with challenges achieve greater independence and self-reliance through vocational training. 
   Humility of Mary Health Partners - $700,000 for the construction and equipment for an inpatient hospice facility in Youngstown. The 14-bed inpatient hospice facility, which will be the only one of its kind in a five-county area, will include direct care areas, rooms for family member to stay overnight and bereavement services. 
   Cleveland Clinic Health System - $400,000 to renovate the Euclid Hospital Emergency Department. The renovation will help the hospital meet the ongoing needs of the community and to accommodate the increased numbers of emergency visits due to closures of hospitals in surrounding neighborhoods. 
   Visiting Nurse Association - $300,000 to expand its home monitoring programs. This funding will allow VNA, based in Cleveland, to purchase seventy-five HomMed home monitoring units, doubling the capacity of the CareWatch program and allowing the program to expand into the remaining nine central Ohio counties served by VNA. Visiting Nurse CareWatch brings full access care of the highest quality to older Ohioans at home and performs advanced health and disease screenings. 
   Howe House - $100,000 to restore the Richard Howe House in downtown Akron.
   US 224 Mahoning County/Canfield Improvements - $1.7 million to widen and improve a portion of US 224 in Mahoning County. 
   Fulton Road Bridge Reconstruction - $2 million for the replacement of the Fulton Road Bridge in Cleveland. The existing bridge was built in 1932 and is in an advanced state of deterioration. 
   Disabled and Senior Citizen Call Center - $2 million to relocate the facility that coordinates transportation arrangements for elderly and disabled citizens of Cuyahoga County. 
   Senator DeWine also secured funding in the bill for the following national programs: 
   Mental Health Courts - $400,000 for the creation and expansion of Mental Health Courts. Mental Health Courts provide communities nationwide with a process to link justice and mental health communities to solve the problem of mental illness in the justice system.
   Graduate Medical Education - $303.17 million to reimburse children's hospitals that train doctors. Each year, Senator DeWine fights for additional funding for independent children's hospitals so that they are able to train doctors. There are seven independent children's hospitals in Ohio and 52 others across the nation. 
   Poison Control Centers - $23.696 million to operate the national poison control hotline and to fund poison control centers nationwide. Senator DeWine sponsored the Poison Control Center Awareness and Enhancement Act of 2003, which directs funding for local poison control centers, and institutes a national effort to educate parents, the American public and health care providers on the prevention and treatment of accidental poisonings. There are more than 70 poison control centers nationwide, which have fielded more than 1 million phone calls since January 2002. Poison control centers employ a specially trained staff of pharmacists, pharmacologists and nurses who answer questions about poisonings, drug overdoses, product contents, substance identification interactions and adverse reactions. 
   Universal Newborn Screening - $2 million to test newborns for a variety of genetic diseases. 
   New Car Assessment Program - $200,000 for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to purchase additional vehicles used in its frontal, side impact and rollover crash tests. The funding secured by Senator DeWine brings the total funding for the program to $7.8 million.
 
 