SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR SOUTHWEST OHIO PROJECTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $6.9 million in funding for regional projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I am pleased I was able to fund these worthy Ohio projects," said Senator DeWine. "Ohioans will be better off because of this assistance from the federal government." 
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following Cincinnati-area projects:
   Good Samaritan Hospital - $800,000 to renovate the High Risk Pregnancy Center. Funds will be used to renovate an older, inpatient unit to accommodate expecting mothers that will have longer stays at the hospital.
   Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center - $1 million for the MIND Center. This funding will allow the hospital to provide the stereotactic 3D imaging hardware and software that will increase the precision of highly complex brain surgery. Cincinnati Children's Hospital is a leader in the management of pediatric neurological disorders. 
   Screening for Mental Health - $100,000 for Loveland-based SOS Signs of Suicide? Program. This will allow Screening for Mental Health to provide the SOS program free to schools nationwide, reaching 100,000 students. SOS is a nationally recognized, cost-effective program of suicide prevention for students, grades 9-12, that can be easily implemented by existing school personnel during one or two school periods.
   Route 27 Improvements - $4 million for preliminary engineering, environmental analysis, final design work, and reconstruction of a portion of US 27 South in Oxford, Ohio. 
   I-75 Improvements - $1 million for preliminary design work of three interchanges at Hopple, I-74 and Mitchell Avenue along I-75 in Cincinnati. 
   Senator DeWine also secured funding in the bill for the following national programs: 
   Mental Health Courts - $400,000 for the creation and expansion of Mental Health Courts. Mental Health Courts provide communities nationwide with a process to link justice and mental health communities to solve the problem of mental illness in the justice system.
   Graduate Medical Education - $303.17 million to reimburse children's hospitals that train doctors. Each year, Senator DeWine fights for additional funding for independent children's hospitals so that they are able to train doctors. There are seven independent children's hospitals in Ohio and 52 others across the nation. 
   Poison Control Centers - $23.696 million to operate the national poison control hotline and to fund poison control centers nationwide. Senator DeWine sponsored the Poison Control Center Awareness and Enhancement Act of 2003, which directs funding for local poison control centers, and institutes a national effort to educate parents, the American public and health care providers on the prevention and treatment of accidental poisonings. There are more than 70 poison control centers nationwide, which have fielded more than 1 million phone calls since January 2002. Poison control centers employ a specially trained staff of pharmacists, pharmacologists and nurses who answer questions about poisonings, drug overdoses, product contents, substance identification interactions and adverse reactions. 
   Universal Newborn Screening - $2 million to test newborns for a variety of genetic diseases. 
   New Car Assessment Program - $200,000 for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to purchase additional vehicles used in its frontal, side impact and rollover crash tests. The funding secured by Senator DeWine brings the total funding for the program to $7.8 million.
 
 