SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NORTHWEST OHIO PROJECTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $2.1 million in funding for a regional project.  
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following Northwest Ohio projects: 
   Hospice of Northwest Ohio in Perrysburg - $250,000 to purchase a nurse communication module and 25 patient hospital beds to link to the communication module for the Perrysburg Hospice Center.
  Mercy Health Partners in Toledo - $450,000 to expand and equip the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. This funding will be used to add eight additional patient spaces to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, as well as purchase state-of-the-art monitors and incubators. 
   Northwest Ohio Regional Information System (NORIS) Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) - $200,000 for the purchase of equipment to increase the storage of fingerprint images and latent print images for possible future identification of criminals. 
   I-75/I-475 North Interchange - $1 million for the right-of-way acquisition and design work on the interchange in Lucas County.
  Historic Holland Theater - $200,000 to restore the mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems of the historic building. 
   Senator DeWine also secured funding for the following programs: 
   Mental Health Courts - $400,000 for the creation and expansion of Mental Health Courts. Mental Health Courts provide communities nationwide with a process to link justice and mental health communities to solve the problem of mental illness in the justice system.
  Graduate Medical Education - $303.170 million to reimburse children's hospitals that train doctors. Each year, Senator DeWine fights for additional funding for independent children's hospitals so that they are able to train doctors. There are seven independent children's hospitals in Ohio and 52 others across the nation. 
   Poison Control Centers - $23.696 million to operate the national poison control hotline and to fund poison control centers nationwide. Senator DeWine sponsored the Poison Control Center Awareness and Enhancement Act of 2003, which directs funding for local poison control centers, and institutes a national effort to educate parents, the American public and health care providers on the prevention and treatment of accidental poisonings. There are more than 70 poison control centers nationwide, which have fielded more than 1 million phone calls since January 2002. Poison control centers employ a specially trained staff of pharmacists, pharmacologists and nurses who answer questions about poisonings, drug overdoses, product contents, substance identification interactions and adverse reactions.
  Universal Newborn Screening - $2 million to test newborns for a variety of genetic diseases. 
   New Car Assessment Program - $200,000 for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to purchase additional vehicles used in its frontal, side impact and rollover crash tests. The funding secured by Senator DeWine brings the total funding for the program to $7.8 million.
 
 