SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CENTRAL OHIO PROJECTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $4 million in funding for regional projects.
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I am pleased I was able to fund these worthy Ohio projects," said Senator DeWine. "Ohioans will be better off because of this assistance from the federal government."  
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following Central Ohio projects: 
   Greater Columbus Area Crime Fighting Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) Project-- $400,000 to upgrade an existing AFIS computer, add remote fingerprint capture devises, and to replace old live scan computers. 
   Columbus Children's Hospital Center for Child and Family Advocacy - $450,000 for integrated child abuse and domestic violence assessments, treatment and investigation and expanding upon the traditional child advocacy center model as a basis for pediatric outcomes research. The Center for Child and Family Advocacy (CCFA) is a partnership between Columbus Children's Hospital and the Columbus Coalition Against Family Violence. 
   Visiting Nurse Association - $300,000 to expand its home monitoring programs. This funding will allow VNA, based in Cleveland, to purchase seventy-five HomMed home monitoring units, doubling the capacity of the CareWatch program and allowing the program to expand into the remaining nine central Ohio counties served by VNA. Visiting Nurse CareWatch brings full access care of the highest quality to older Ohioans at home and performs advanced health and disease screenings. 
   Dennison Railroad Depot Museum - $200,000 to restore turn-of-the-century railcars and double the existing space of the museum. A theater, children's exhibit hall, research library, historic exhibits, restrooms and office space would be added to the museum. 
   Center of Vocational Alternatives - $150,000 to develop a computer-training center. The mission of the Center of Vocational Alternatives (COVA) is to help people with mental illness and other employment barriers to select, secure, and retain meaningful employment. 
   US 62 -Franklin County/Frank Road - $1 million to improve a section of US 62 adjacent to the Frank Road interchange. 
   Rickenbacker Intermodal Rail Facility - $1.5 million to design and construct an intermodal facility at Rickenbacker Airport.
   Senator DeWine also secured funding in the bill for the following national programs: 
   Mental Health Courts - $400,000 for the creation and expansion of Mental Health Courts. Mental Health Courts provide communities nationwide with a process to link justice and mental health communities to solve the problem of mental illness in the justice system. 
   Graduate Medical Education - $303.17 million to reimburse children's hospitals that train doctors. Each year, Senator DeWine fights for additional funding for independent children's hospitals so that they are able to train doctors. There are seven independent children's hospitals in Ohio and 52 others across the nation. 
   Poison Control Centers - $23.696 million to operate the national poison control hotline and to fund poison control centers nationwide. Senator DeWine sponsored the Poison Control Center Awareness and Enhancement Act of 2003, which directs funding for local poison control centers, and institutes a national effort to educate parents, the American public and health care providers on the prevention and treatment of accidental poisonings. There are more than 70 poison control centers nationwide, which have fielded more than 1 million phone calls since January 2002. Poison control centers employ a specially trained staff of pharmacists, pharmacologists and nurses who answer questions about poisonings, drug overdoses, product contents, substance identification interactions and adverse reactions. 
   Universal Newborn Screening - $2 million to test newborns for a variety of genetic diseases.
   New Car Assessment Program - $200,000 for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to purchase additional vehicles used in its frontal, side impact and rollover crash tests. The funding secured by Senator DeWine brings the total funding for the program to $7.8 million.
 
 