SEN. DEWINE INTRODUCES JUDGE BOYKO NOMINATED TO BE FEDERAL DISTRICT JUDGE FOR NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO
  HEARING STATEMENT: INTRODUCTION OF JUDGE CHRISTOPHER BOYKO NOMINATED TO BE FEDERAL DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO
   I'm happy to introduce Judge Christopher Boyko, who President Bush has nominated for an upcoming vacancy in the Northern District of Ohio, in Cleveland.  
   Judge Boyko currently serves on the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas. This is Ohio's highest trial court, where all the major civil and criminal matters are tried. During his time on the bench, Judge Boyko has seen virtually every type of case you can imagine. He is an excellent judge, and his reputation reflects that. The consensus among lawyers in Cleveland is that Judge Boyko is intelligent, fast, fair, and has a terrific temperment. 
   So much so that lawyers want their cases to be assigned to Judge Boyko. The only objection I've heard to Judge Boyko's nomination is that the Court of Common Pleas will be losing one of its best judges! I'd like to note that the ABA and I are in agreement on Judge Boyko - they've given him a rating of "Unanimous Well Qualified." 
   Before serving on the Court of Common Pleas, Judge Boyko also served as a judge on the Parma Municipal Court in 1993. From 1981 until 1993, Judge Boyko was Assistant Prosecutor and then Prosecutor for the City of Parma, prosecuting a variety of criminal matters for the City. During much of that time, Judge Boyko was the Director of Law for Parma, overseeing the civil litigation in which the City was involved. And, also during that time period, Judge Boyko was engaged in private practice with his father and brother at the firm of Boyko and Boyko. There are only a few attorneys in Ohio who are willing to tackle this kind of a diverse practice - engaging in a private practice, acting as a prosecutor, and representing a local government, all at the same time. 
   I think this is a real testament to Judge Boyko's work ethic, not to mention the vast legal experience he gained from this type of practice earlier in his career. 
   Finally, I just want to mention the broad bi-partisan support Judge Boyko has in Cuyohoga County. I have a number of letters here from prominent Ohio Democrats, which I'll submit for the record without objection. Let me just read to you from a few of those letters: 
   Jimmy Dimora, the Chairman of the Cuyahoga County Democratic Party, wrote to Senator Leahy: 
   "I am recommending that Judge Chris Boyko be confirmed for appointment as Federal District Judge.... He is fair and open-minded with a commitment and dedication to the law. His high ethical standards and judicial temperament will be useful on the federal bench - with experience and a background to match.... If any Republican deserves Democratic support, Judge Boyko does." 
   George Forbes, President of the Cleveland Chapter of the NAACP, wrote to Senator Daschle: 
   "Judge Boyko has not only served with distinction on the Court of Common Pleas, but is a person of fairness, integrity, keen knowledge of the law and possesses the judicial temperament to execute the duties of a federal judge in a fair and impartial manner.... I can say without reservation that Judge Boyko would make an excellent judge." 
   Russell Tye, President of the Norman S. Minor Bar Association, the largest African-American Bar Association in the State of Ohio, wrote to Senator Leahy: 
   "Judge Boyko has always been honest, fair and a man of great integrity.... Judge Boyko is a very learned judge who has certainly mastered the art of always following the law and carefully applying it with judicial discretion and fairness." 
   Tony George, who describes himself as "a Kerry delegate, lifelong Democrat, Teamster member, and Ohio businessman" wrote to Senator Feingold: 
   "I have known Judge Boyko for over 15 years and he has built a reputation for integrity, fairness, and professional competence. Although he is a Republican nominee of President Bush, he finds as much favor among Democrats as he does Republicans. His non-partisan approach to judging and politics has earned him extensive bi-partisan support." 
   I have other letters of support here from people like Dennis White, the Chair of the Ohio Democratic Party; Dean DePiero, the Democrat Mayor of the City of Parma; Loree Soggs, the Executive Secretary of the Cleveland Building and Construction Trades Council; and many others. 
   I recognize that the Committee is considering this nominee in an election year. But, I'd encourage the Members of this Committee to seriously consider Judge Boyko on the merits. 
   I believe he is an excellent nominee, and I hope any political considerations can be set-aside, especially given Judge Boyko's strong support from Ohio Democrats.
 
 