SEN. DEWINE SECURES FUNDING FOR NORTHEAST OHOI, STATEWIDE AGRICULTURE PROJECTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, announced the Committee passage of the fiscal year 2007 Agriculture Appropriations bill that includes $2.188 million for projects to help Northeast Ohio. 
   "As a member of the Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have helped these worthy projects receive funding," said Senator DeWine. "With the knowledge gained from agricultural research and policy initiatives we can help Ohio's agricultural community remain strong."
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following regional projects:
   University of Toledo
   * Greenhouse and Hydroponics - $1.5 million for the continuation of a cooperative project between United States Agriculture Research Service and the University of Toledo on ways to optimize environmental conditions and enhance production and quality while reducing pests and disease problems in the greenhouse industry. This project is managed in Wooster and supports scientists in both Wooster and at the University of Toledo.
   Natural Resources Conservation Service and Ducks
   * Lake Erie Wetlands Conservation Corridors Project - $124,000 for accelerating wetland conservation along Ohio's Lake Erie Coastal zone. The goal of the program is to target conservation activities so they are linked at the landscape level to ensure high quality habitats and safe migration corridors.
   The Ohio State University
   * Emergency Detection and Response Research Program - $564,000 to research newly emergent plant and animal diseases, and develop responses to those diseases to protect human health and the agricultural economy.
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following statewide project:
   The Ohio State University
   * The Ohio Center for Farmland Policy Innovation - $396,000 for The Ohio State University to develop a land policy laboratory that will work with local governments and area farmers to help preserve farmland.
   "This center would help Ohio's farmers work with local governments to develop farmland policy that meets the specific needs of the area," added Senator DeWine.
   The bill now goes to the full Senate for consideration.
 
 