SEN. DEWINE CONTINUES EFFORT TO ENSURE FOSTER CHILDREN HAVE SAFE, STABLE HOMES
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced the "Safe and Timely Interstate Placement of Foster Children Act," passed the Senate by unanimous consent. This bill was introduced in the House and passed in May of this year. Senator DeWine sponsored the companion bill in the Senate. It is cosponsored by Sen. John Rockefeller (D-WV), Sen. Pete Domenici (R-NM), and Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY). This bill would help improve the lives of foster children by working for timelier placement of foster children who are placed or adopted across state lines. 
   "There is no excuse for a child languishing in the foster care system for months and sometimes years, this important bill provides resources for states to enhance and speed up their systems of interstate placement of foster children," said Senator DeWine. "Every child deserves to grow up in a safe and loving home and this bill works to make sure kids get to that home sooner."
   Specifically, this bill would allow a 60-day period for the study of homes for foster children who may be placed or adopted across state lines. This two-month window should provide state and child welfare agencies sufficient time to conduct thorough assessments. The bill also expresses the sense of the Congress that states should accept these home studies done by another state, to reduce the waiting time and redundancy of effort in the child welfare system.
   This bill would provide resource incentives to enhance and speed up state systems for interstate placement for states who earn it. The legislation would provide $1,500 per child who is placed within a 30-day period. States can use the money to improve their systems for placement, hire more placement staff, or for other purposes to improve services for foster children.
   "While these time frames may not seem long to you and me, for a child who longs for and deserves a permanent home, this is a long time. While the primary power to move these children to homes rests with each individual state, we must do what we can to encourage quick action," added Senator DeWine.
   This bill also improves the rights of children and their caregivers to be heard in court proceedings concerning their case within the child welfare system by ensuring that parties are present when important matters are being considered. It also requires courts to work more closely with their counterparts in other states when the situation warrants, speeding up the placement process.
   The bill goes to the President's desk for his signature.
 
 