SEN. DEWINE-COSPONSORED BILL CONTINUES FIGHT TO ENSURE CRIME VICTIMS RIGHTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) continued his fight for the victims of crime by being an original cosponsor of the Restitution for Victims of Crime Act of 2006, which was introduced today by Sen. Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA). The bill would improve restitution for crime victims by improving collection procedures, preserving pre-trial assets of the defendant, and providing immediate restitution to victims of environmental crimes. 
   "As a former Greene County prosecutor, I have seen firsthand the devastating effects of crime on its victims and this bill would help those victims get justice," said Senator DeWine. "Every victim of a crime deserves to be compensated in full and in a timely manner. Too often, our criminal justice system overlooks the victims of crime in efforts to ensure the legitimate rights of accused defendants. This bill would ensure that victims receive fair restitution and that their rights are not forgotten." The Restitution for Victims of Crime Act of 2006 provides several methods to improve the "right to full and timely restitution" promised in the Crime Victims' Rights Act of 2004. It establishes improved procedures for collection of restitution and makes the amount immediately due in full. It allows victims to recover reasonable and necessary attorneys' fees, while also allowing courts to preserve assets pre-trial in criminal cases in a similar manner to civil forfeiture cases.
   The bill permits the issuance of prejudgment remedies in criminal cases by the same procedure already available for civil cases. The bill also permits the Attorney General to commence a civil action to prevent the sale or use of assets of any person who is "committing or about to commit a Federal offense that may result in an order of restitution." Finally, the bill provides for immediate availability of restitution to victims of environmental crimes.
   Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) are also original cosponsors of the bill.
 
 