SEN. DEWINE PROVISIONS HELP OHIO TROOPS, MILITARY FAMILIES
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), a member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, announced that a number of provisions he helped secure were included in the fiscal year 2007 Defense Authorization Bill (S. 2766) that passed the Senate yesterday evening. This bill authorizes appropriations for military activities of the Department of Defense, military construction, and defense activities of the Department of Energy. 
   "Everyday, so many of Ohio's brave, young men and women defend this country's freedom and values. We must do what we can to ensure their physical and mental health, and give them piece of mind as they make sacrifices to serve their country," said Senator DeWine. "The measures included in this bill would help not only members of our military, but more families who lost a service member would receive an additional benefit, as well."
   The following DeWine-sponsored provisions were included in the bill:
   Survivor Benefit Plan Child Option - Currently survivors are eligible to receive two different monthly payments: a $1033 entitlement (Dependency and Indemnity Compensation) and an additional sum based on the service member's rank and time in service at death (Survivor Benefit Plan). However, one is offset dollar for dollar by the other. This problem has been fixed for all survivors with children whose service member died after November 23, 2003, by allowing the child to be designated as the recipient of the Survivor Benefit Plan. Senator DeWine's provision would give the same benefit to all survivors since October 7, 2001, the start of the war in Afghanistan.
   Mental Health Self-Assessment Program - This program offers anonymous, self-directed mental health and alcohol screening both online and through special military installation events. These self-assessments help diagnose depression, bipolar disorder, alcohol use, post-traumatic stress disorder, and generalized anxiety disorder and offer information about how to obtain mental health services. It is available to family members and service personnel affected by deployments and mobilizations.
   The Michael G. Oxley Administration and Technology Center - This measure names an administrative building at the Joint Systems Manufacturing Center in Lima after retiring Congressman Mike Oxley. In the FY06 Military Construction Appropriations bill Senator DeWine and Congressman Oxley secured $11.6 million to construct the administrative building at the Lima Tank Plant.
   The bill now goes to a Conference Committee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions.
 
 