SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES CLEVELAND AREA DEFENSE PROJECTS INCLUDED IN SENATE FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) announced today that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $124.9 million in additional Ohio defense projects for fiscal year 2005. The bill includes three defense projects totaling $18.9 million for the Cleveland area.  
   "Bringing funding to Ohio's military installations and projects is one of my priorities on the Appropriations Committee," said Senator DeWine. "The projects included in this bill will fund more research and development so that our defense preparedness is strengthened where it's needed most. The war on terrorism demands a strong commitment to our national defense and I am proud of what I have secured for Ohio in this bill." 
   The following Cleveland projects were included in the bill: 
   Metals Affordability Initiative (MAI) - $ 10 million to Brush Wellman, Inc. in Cleveland to improve the military war fighting capability while reducing life cycle cost through technology innovation. MAI projects have an overall success rate of 62 percent, with a return on the Government's investment of greater than 15 to 1. Because of the rigorous peer review process and high success rate of the projects, MAI is becoming the template for Government/Industry collaboration in a specific critical industrial sector. 
   Army Lightweight Structures Initiative (ALSI) - $ 4 million to Alcoa Aluminum Corporation in Cleveland to develop a method for producing lightweight vehicle components and assemblies for the Army Future Combat Systems. The technology substantially reduces costs and greatly reduces the weight of structures in commercial auto frames and U.S.A.F. aerostructuctures. 
   Weapons Elevator Automation - $4.9 million to Rockwell Automation in Mayfield Heights for the removal of existing aircraft carrier weapons elevators on the aircraft carriers USS Theodore Roosevelt, Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, John C. Stennis, and Harry S. Truman. The elevators are unreliable and unsafe. They will be replaced with state-of-the-art control automation platforms that would greatly increase their ability to deliver ordnance from weapons storage areas to aircraft in a timely, efficient and safe manner. 
   The following national projects were also included in the bill: 
   U.S. Naval Sea Cadet Corps - $ 2 million to fund a nationwide program to develop a Cadet program promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation, while also instilling the cadets with self-discipline and strong moral character. 
   Engines for Block 42 F-16s for the Air National Guard - $30 million to protect the Air National Guard pilots from Oklahoma, Ohio and Iowa in their deployments by upgrading their aircraft with more powerful engines by purchasing additional engines, remaining support equipment and spare parts, paying installation costs and permiting fully powered aircraft to deploy overseas. 
   The full Senate now must consider the bill. Senator DeWine is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
 
 