SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES NORTHWEST OHIO DEFENSE PROJECTS INCLUDED IN SENATE FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) announced today that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $124.9 million in additional Ohio defense projects for fiscal year 2005. The bill includes two defense projects totaling $8 million for Northwest Ohio.  
   "Bringing funding to Ohio's military installations and projects is one of my priorities on the Appropriations Committee," said Senator DeWine. "The projects included in this bill will fund more research and development so that our defense preparedness is strengthened where it's needed most. The war on terrorism demands a strong commitment to our national defense and I am proud of what I have secured for Ohio in this bill." 
   The following Northwest Ohio projects were included in the bill: N-STEP Enabled Manufacturing Cell for FCS - $ 5 million to the Lima Army Tank Plant in Lima to develop an automated, state-of-the-art welding and machining process. 
   Beryllium Supply Industrial Base - $ 3 million to Brush Wellman, Inc. in Elmore toward the preliminary design of a new primary beryllium facility. Beryllium plays a key role in systems that support the Transformational Armed Services. The domestic supply of beryllium is in danger of being depleted by 2009 because Brush Wellman, the only domestic supplier, had closed its primary metal production facility. 
   The following national projects were also included in the bill: 
   U.S. Naval Sea Cadet Corps - $ 2 million to fund a nationwide program to develop a Cadet program promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation, while also instilling the cadets with self-discipline and strong moral character. 
   Engines for Block 42 F-16s for the Air National Guard - $30 million to protect the Air National Guard pilots from Oklahoma, Ohio and Iowa in their deployments by upgrading their aircraft with more powerful engines. This funding will go to the Toledo Air National Guard Unit. 
   The full Senate now must consider the bill. Senator DeWine is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
 
 