SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES COLUMBUS AREA DEFENSE PROJECTS INCLUDED IN SENATE FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) announced today that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved $124.9 million in additional Ohio defense projects for fiscal year 2005. The bill includes four defense projects totaling $14 million for the Columbus area.  
   "Bringing funding to Ohio's military installations and projects is one of my priorities on the Appropriations Committee," said Senator DeWine. "The projects included in this bill will fund more research and development so that our defense preparedness is strengthened where it's needed most. The war on terrorism demands a strong commitment to our national defense and I am proud of what I have secured for Ohio in this bill." 
   The following Columbus projects were included in the bill: 
   Project Madison - $ 3 million to Battelle to support research on foreign states' chemical weapons programs and to enhance the Intelligence community's efforts to combat chemical weapons threats and proliferation risks. Project Madison is led by the National Ground Intelligence Center (NGIC). 
   Long Range Biometric Target Identification System - $ 3 million to Battelle to develop a suite of biometric sensors that can be used at long range to identify specific individuals. Special Operations Forces (SOF) require the capability to identify targeted individuals at a distance using biometric data (e.g., facial recognition, etc.). 
   Armed Forces Medical Intelligence Center (AFMIC), Life Sciences, Infectious Diseases, Foreign Medical Capabilities, and Environmental Health (LIFE) Project - $ 4 million to Battelle to augment Armed Forces Medical Intelligence Center's (AFMIC's) established competencies and to build new capabilities to meet the need for the highest quality medical intelligence in support of force health protection for deployed personnel. Funding will be directed specifically towards the dissemination of worldwide medical capabilities, environmental hazard assessments, infectious disease risk assessments, as well as foreign medical scientific and technical intelligence in the life sciences. 
   Materials Joining for Army Weapons Systems - $4 million to Edison Welding Institute to develop advanced materials joining technologies targeted for the Future Combat System (FCS) and other weapons platforms for the new Objective Force. The following national projects were also included in the bill: 
   U.S. Naval Sea Cadet Corps - $ 2 million to fund a nationwide program to develop a Cadet program promoting interest and skill in seamanship and aviation, while also instilling the cadets with self-discipline and strong moral character. Engines for Block 42 F-16s for the Air National Guard - $30 million to protect the Air National Guard pilots from Oklahoma, Ohio and Iowa in their deployments by upgrading their aircraft with more powerful engines by purchasing additional engines, remaining support equipment and spare parts, paying installation costs and permitting fully powered aircraft to deploy overseas. 
   The full Senate now must consider the bill. Senator DeWine is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
 
 