SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT WITH ENERGY DEPARTMENT TO AMEND BENEFIT PLANS FOR PIKETON WORKERS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced Department of Energy has agreed to work with contractors at the Piketon Gaseous Diffusion Plant to resolve healthcare and pension disputes that affect more than 100 hourly workers there. The Department of Energy agreed to allow defined benefit pension and health care benefits to be reimbursed as an allowable cost of contracts. This will ensure that workers at the Piketon Plant receive their healthcare and pension benefits. 
   "This is good news for Piketon workers and their families. While we are still working out the details, the Department of Energy agreed to change their agreements with contractors and reimburse defined benefit pension and health care benefits as an allowable cost of the contract," said Senator DeWine.
   Years ago there were multiple Department of Energy (DOE) contractors at the Piketon Plant and DOE formed what is known as a Multiple Employer Pension Plan (MEPP). Under this plan employees could switch from contractor to contractor and not lose any seniority, benefits, and pensions. Since the number of contractors at the site is decreasing, DOE announced they would not compensate new contractors for benefits such as health care. This would affect current U.S. Enrichment Corporation Employees, who have been hired by one of the new cleanup contractors.
   Senator DeWine spoke with Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman about the problem and asked for his help in resolving the situation. Senator DeWine also placed holds on all Department of Energy nominees, yet to be confirmed by the Senate, and will maintain the holds until the situation is rectified. This means no further action on those nominees can be taken until Senator DeWine removes the holds.
   Senator DeWine today met with Dan Minter, President of USW Local 5-689, and other labor leaders from the Piketon Plant to inform them of the new agreement.
   "We very much appreciate Senator DeWine's leadership and his actions to help Piketon workers and their families. We've grown to rely on that leadership and feel confident that while we work out the details of this agreement, Senator DeWine will continue to fight on behalf of Ohio workers," Minter stated.
 
 