COLUMBUS SECURES $6.64 MILLION FEDERAL GRANT TO HELP IMPROVE COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH), along with U.S. Reps. Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), Deborah Pryce (R-OH) and Dave Hobson (R-OH), today announced that Columbus has been awarded $6,638,811 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD). The funds were awarded from the agency's Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. CDBG annual grants are issued to state and local governments to help develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and suitable living environments, and by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate-income individuals. 
   "This program has a long track record of success and truly helps communities obtain the tools they need so they can be safer, healthier, and more prosperous," said Senator DeWine. "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I look forward to working with my colleagues to secure more funding for this deserving program."
   "As a former mayor and governor, I know how important CDBG funds are to revitalizing our cities. Great work has been done in Ohio's communities with these funds. These federal dollars will help fund community infrastructure projects aimed toward making our communities better places to live, and that is great news," said Senator Voinovich.
   "This money will mean assistance where it matters most, right at the neighborhood level. As a member of the Housing Subcommittee in the U.S. House of Representatives, I'm keenly aware of the positive impact these grants have on our local communities," said Congressman Tiberi. "These federal dollars reflect a continued commitment to neighborhood revitalization, housing development and job creation in central Ohio. The CDBG program in particular remains a vital tool for development for many of our area's communities. Understanding how our communities count on these funds, I have strongly supported the program, and recognize how these programs have become the tangible face of the federal investment in our cities and neighborhoods," said Congresswoman Pryce.
 
 