FAIRBORN SECURES $272,753 FEDERAL GRANT TO HELP IMPROVE COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH), along with U.S. Rep. David Hobson (R-OH), today announced that Fairborn has been awarded $272,753 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD). The funds were awarded from the agency's Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. CDBG annual grants are issued to state and local governments to help develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and suitable living environments, and by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate-income individuals. 
   "This program has a long track record of success and truly helps communities obtain the tools they need so they can be safer, healthier, and more prosperous," said Senator DeWine. "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I look forward to working with my colleagues to secure more funding for this deserving program."
   "As a former mayor and governor, I know how important CDBG funds are to revitalizing our cities. Great work has been done in Ohio's communities with these funds. These federal dollars will help fund community infrastructure projects aimed toward making our communities better places to live, and that is great news," said Voinovich.
   "Grants like this one not only contribute to ongoing neighborhood revitalization efforts, but they can also result in making real improvements to the quality of life of individuals living in those communities," said Congressman Hobson.
   CDBG serves more than 1,100 entitlement communities, urban counties and states, and more than 3,000 rural communities nationwide. It is the centerpiece of the federal government's efforts to help states and localities meet the needs of low-income communities. The program funds vital homeownership, housing, rehabilitation, public improvement, public services and economic development projects. It also supports community-based organizations and the crucial work they do to deliver human services and rebuild neighborhoods.
 
 