SEN. DEWINE BILL TO ENSURE COLLABORATION ON GREAT LAKES PRESERVATION PASSES COMMITTEE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today announced his bill, the Great Lakes Coordination and Oversight Act of 2006 (S. 2912), will now be considered by the full Senate. The bill would codify the Great Lakes Executive Order (#13340) signed by President Bush on May 18, 2004, which requires the Great Lakes federal agencies, states, cities and tribes to coordinate their Great Lakes programs and to establish regional collaboration to address environmental and natural resource problems in the Great Lakes. By codifying the Executive Order, the bill would preserve two important organizations, the Great Lakes Federal Interagency Task Force and the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration. The Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works passed the bill by voice vote, and it now goes to the full Senate for consideration. Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH) is a cosponsor of the bill and a member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. 
   "It is important that we continue to involve all the members of the Great Lakes Congressional delegation, governors, mayors, conservation organizations, local groups and the Administration to further develop a shared vision for the future of the Great Lakes ecosystem. This legislation ensures the continuation of the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration and Interagency Task Force," said Senator DeWine. "The Great Lakes are a unique national treasure that must be protected. I will continue to fight to see that the Great Lakes region gets the funding and improved management it deserves."
   "I am pleased that my colleagues on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee have passed this legislation. By doing so, the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration will continue to play a critical role in the overall restoration effort. The Collaboration represents the hard work of many different groups, and we must continue the path forward to ensure this national treasure is restored," said Senator Voinovich. "I look forward to working to ensure this legislation is considered by the full Senate."
   In May 2004, President Bush signed the Great Lakes Executive Order creating the Great Lakes Federal Interagency Task Force and the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration. The Task Force brings together ten U.S. Cabinet and Agency heads to coordinate restoration of the Great Lakes. It focuses on outcomes like cleaner water and sustainable fisheries, and targets measurable results. Together, the ten agencies administer more than 140 federal programs that fund and manage restoration efforts.
   The Great Lakes Regional Collaboration (GLRC) is a unique partnership of members from federal, state, and local governments, tribes, and other stakeholders whose purpose is to develop a strategic action plan for the Great Lakes. An Executive Committee made up of senior elected and appointed officials from different levels of government and tribes has helped guide the GLRC as the strategic plan has been developed. The final recommendations were released in December of 2005. In April of this year, Senator DeWine introduced the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration Implementation Act, a bill aimed at implementing many of the recommendations of the December plan. The legislation would reduce the threat of invasive species, restore fish and wildlife and clean up contaminated sediment.
 
 