SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CENTRAL OHIO PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced the Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $1.65 million in funding for regional projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, it is one of my priorities to secure funding for worthy projects." said Senator DeWine. "These projects are important not only for the preservation of Ohio's natural beauty, but for developing needed technology in Ohio." 
   "These are important and needed investments in our state that will improve the quality of life for Ohioans. I'm glad to work with Sen. DeWine to provide funding for these worthwhile projects," said Voinovich. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill includes funding for the following local projects: 
   Plant/Animal Agriculture Security Research - $547,000 to The Ohio State University for research and operational funds for The Ohio State University's Plant and Animal Agro-Security Facility at the Ohio Agriculture Research and Development Center. 
   Ohio Aquaculture Research and Development Initiative - $853,000 to the Ohio State University for research to improve the growth rate and production of aquaculture species of Yellow Perch and Shrimp. 
   Darby Creek Watershed - $250,000 for the Franklin County Metro Parks to purchase land in the Darby Creek Watershed. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following state-wide projects: 
   Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), Palmprint AFIS Program - $375,000 to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations for the purchase of technology needed to use palmprints left at crime scenes to compare to palmprints stored in Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations files. 
   Laboratory Improvement Project - $250,000 for the automation and improvement of analytical testing services within the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations labs, and to fund overtime payment to reduce case backlog. 
   Central Ohio Transit Authority's (COTA) Intelligent Transportation Systems - $800,000 for the purchase and integration of Advanced Traveler Information System (ATIS) Smart Card Systems hardware and software. 
   Joint Forest Service & The Ohio State University Research - $250,000 to address the impacts the Emerald Ash Borer Beetle in Ohio. The beetle is immune to insecticides and has no known natural predator in North American, making it extremely difficult to manage its spread. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following national programs: 
   National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Program - $300,000 for the Network to Freedom Grant Program, which provides technical and rehabilitation assistance to registered Underground Railroad Network to Freedom sites. 
   State Historic Preservation Office Funding - $36 million for the state programs within the Historic Preservation Fund. 
   Commercial Technology Program - $30 million for the nationwide NASA Commercial Technology Program (CTP) that develops ways private companies and businesses can use NASA-related technologies.
 
 