SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCED FEDERAL FUNDING FOR SOUTHEAST OHIO PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich today announced the Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $1.95 million in funding for regional projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have secured funding for these worthy projects." said Senator DeWine. "These are important development projects that will improve the lives of Ohioans." 
   "These are important and needed investments in our state that will improve the quality of life for Ohioans. I'm glad to work with Sen. DeWine to provide funding for these worthwhile projects," said Voinovich. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill includes funding for the following local projects: 
   Water Treatment Plant Improvements - $500,000 to the Village of Racine in Meigs County for water treatment plant improvements. 
   Waverly Connector - $1 million for the construction of new connecting routes to State Route 220 serving the City of Waverly and surrounding areas in Pike County. 
   Water Treatment Plant Improvements - $100,000 to the Village of Corning in Perry County for the Wastewater System Improvement Project. 
   Water Interconnect Project - $175,000 to the Tri-County Rural Water and Sewer District in Washington, Morgan and Noble Counties for the Tri-County/Noble County Water Interconnect Project. 
   Sewer Project - $175,000 to Jefferson County Water and Sewer District for Crestview/Belvedere Sewer Project. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following state-wide projects: 
   Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), Palmprint AFIS Program - $375,000 to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations for the purchase of technology needed to use palmprints left at crime scenes to compare to palmprints stored in Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations files. 
   Laboratory Improvement Project - $250,000 for the automation and improvement of analytical testing services within the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations labs, and to fund overtime payment to reduce case backlog. 
   Central Ohio Transit Authority's (COTA) Intelligent Transportation Systems - $800,000 for the purchase and integration of Advanced Traveler Information System (ATIS) Smart Card Systems hardware and software. 
   Joint Forest Service & The Ohio State University Research - $250,000 to address the impacts the Emerald Ash Borer Beetle in Ohio. The beetle is immune to insecticides and has no known natural predator in North American, making it extremely difficult to manage its spread. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following national programs: 
   National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Program - $300,000 for the Network to Freedom Grant Program, which provides technical and rehabilitation assistance to registered Underground Railroad Network to Freedom sites. 
   State Historic Preservation Office Funding - $36 million for the state programs within the Historic Preservation Fund. 
   Commercial Technology Program - $30 million for the nationwide NASA Commercial Technology Program (CTP) that develops ways private companies and businesses can use NASA-related technologies.
 
 