SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR CINCINNATI-AREA PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced the Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $1.5 million in funding for regional projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have secured funding for these worthy projects." said Senator DeWine. "These projects are important for the development of needed technology and infrastructure in Ohio." 
   "These are important and needed investments in our state that will improve the quality of life for Ohioans. I'm glad to work with Sen. DeWine to provide funding for these worthwhile projects," said Voinovich. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill includes funding for the following local projects: 
   I-75 Interchanges - $1 million for the preliminary engineering and environmental impact study within the Interstate 75 Corridor in Cincinnati. 
   Cincinnati Riverfront Grid - $500,000 to improve the access to the Roebling Suspension Bridge, the Taylor Southgate Bridge, the Clay Wade Bailey Bridge and the Central Riverfront area. The street improvements will re-establish the link between the bridges and the downtown streets. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following state-wide projects: 
   Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), Palmprint AFIS Program - $375,000 to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations for the purchase of technology needed to use palmprints left at crime scenes to compare to palmprints stored in Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations files. 
   Laboratory Improvement Project - $250,000 for the automation and improvement of analytical testing services within the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations labs, and to fund overtime payment to reduce case backlog. 
   Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities - $6 million to purchase transit vehicles and assist with transit infrastructure projects throughout the state. 
   Central Ohio Transit Authority's (COTA) Intelligent Transportation Systems - $800,000 for the purchase and integration of Advanced Traveler Information System (ATIS) Smart Card Systems hardware and software. 
   Joint Forest Service & The Ohio State University Research - $250,000 to address the impacts the Emerald Ash Borer Beetle in Ohio. The beetle is immune to insecticides and has no known natural predator in North American, making it extremely difficult to manage its spread. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following national programs: 
   National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Program - $300,000 for the Network to Freedom Grant Program, which provides technical and rehabilitation assistance to registered Underground Railroad Network to Freedom sites. 
   State Historic Preservation Office Funding - $36 million for the state programs within the Historic Preservation Fund. 
   Commercial Technology Program - $30 million for the nationwide NASA Commercial Technology Program (CTP) that develops ways private companies and businesses can use NASA-related technologies.
 
 