SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NORTHWEST OHIO PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced the Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $5.185 million in funding for regional projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have secured funding for these worthy projects." said Senator DeWine. "These are important development projects that will improve the lives of Ohioans." 
   "These are important and needed investments in our state that will improve the quality of life for Ohioans. I'm glad to work with Sen. DeWine to provide funding for these worthwhile projects," said Voinovich. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill includes funding for the following local projects: 
   McCord Road Rail Separation over Norfolk Southern Railroad - $1 million to build a rail separation over rail lines from an arterial highway in Lucas County. The rail lines carry 75 to 85 trains per day. 
   Water Treatment Plant Project - $750,000 to the City of Celina for the Water Treatment Plant Improvement Project. 
   Water System Project - $100,000 to the City of Delphos and Allen, Putnam and Van Wert Counties for the Tri-County Regional Water System Project. 
   Sewer Project - $200,000 to Defiance County Commissioners, Defiance and Paulding Counties for the Auglaize River Sewer Project. 
   Brownfield Initiative - $250,000 to Toledo-Lucas County Port Authority for the Northwest Ohio Brownfield Restoration Initiative. The Brownfield Initiative is expected to create jobs by restoring the area and attracting jobs through economic development once the restoration is complete. 
   Agriculture Research Building - $2 million to the University of Toledo for design of an Agricultural Research Service facility to support research on the greenhouse industry. 
   Phytoestrogens Development - $100,000 for the University of Toledo to continue its phytoestrogen research. 
   Phytoremediation of Arsenic Contaminated Wastes - $785,000 to the University of Toledo to support research on soil remediation techniques. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following state-wide projects: 
   Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), Palmprint AFIS Program - $375,000 to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations for the purchase of technology needed to use palmprints left at crime scenes to compare to palmprints stored in Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations files. 
   Laboratory Improvement Project - $250,000 for the automation and improvement of analytical testing services within the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations labs, and to fund overtime payment to reduce case backlog. 
   Central Ohio Transit Authority's (COTA) Intelligent Transportation Systems - $800,000 for the purchase and integration of Advanced Traveler Information System (ATIS) Smart Card Systems hardware and software. 
   Joint Forest Service & The Ohio State University Research - $250,000 to address the impacts the Emerald Ash Borer Beetle in Ohio. The beetle is immune to insecticides and has no known natural predator in North American, making it extremely difficult to manage its spread. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following national programs: 
   National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Program - $300,000 for the Netwrok to Freedom Grant Program, which provides technical and rehabilitation assistance to registered Underground Railroad Network to Freedom sites. 
   State Historic Preservation Office Funding - $36 million for the state programs within the Historic Preservation Fund. 
   Commercial Technology Program - $30 million for the nationwide NASA Commercial Technology Program (CTP) that develops ways private companies and businesses can use NASA-related technologies.
 
 