SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR MIAMI VALLEY PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced the Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $11.575 million in funding for regional projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I am proud to have secured funding for these worthy projects." said Senator DeWine. "These projects are important for the development of needed technology and infrastructure in Ohio." 
   "These are important and needed investments in our state that will improve the quality of life for Ohioans. I'm glad to work with Sen. DeWine to provide funding for these worthwhile projects," said Voinovich. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill includes funding for the following local projects: 
   Park-Wide Handicap Accessibility - $200,000 to build ramps and lifts necessary to make the Aviation Heritage Foundation Park fully accessible to handicap visitors. 
   Exterior Exhibits and Interpretive Displays - $75,000 to build exterior exhibits and interpretive displays at the Wright Dunbar Interpretive Center Plaza. 
   Repair and Restore Park Buildings - $450,000 to repair and restore buildings at the Aviation Heritage Foundation. 
   Field Hangar - $650,000 for the Huffman Prairie Flying Field Hangar at the Aviation Heritage Foundation. 
   Miamisburg Mound Advanced Technology Center - $4 million to the Miamisburg Mound Community Improvement Corporation for the conversion of a former DOE nuclear weapons, superfund site, into a technology and industrial park. This is subject to the requirement for matching funds. 
   Austin Interchange - $5 million for a new I-75 interchange in southern Montgomery County. The interchange will relieve congestion and improve safety for Montgomery, Warren, and Butler County residents. 
   Business Incubator - $250,000 to the Springfield Center City Association for the construction of a business incubator to attract technology-based businesses to the area. 
   Development Model - $250,000 to Improved Solutions for Urban Systems, Inc. to create a new model for economic, community and workforce development in Dayton. 
   Amphitheatre Revitalization - $250,000 to First Frontier, Inc. for the revitalization of an amphitheatre in Xenia. 
   Downtown Development - $450,000 to Development Projects, Inc. for Downtown Dayton projects in the city's Northeast Quadrant. 
   National Aviation Heritage Area - The bill incorporates language from a bill written by Senators DeWine and Voinovich that creates a National Aviation Heritage Area that encompasses historic aviation sites in Ohio. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following state-wide projects: 
   Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), Palmprint AFIS Program - $375,000 to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations for the purchase of technology needed to use palmprints left at crime scenes to compare to palmprints stored in Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations files. 
   Laboratory Improvement Project - $250,000 for the automation and improvement of analytical testing services within the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations labs, and to fund overtime payment to reduce case backlog. 
   Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities - $6 million to purchase transit vehicles and assist with transit infrastructure projects throughout the state. 
   Central Ohio Transit Authority's (COTA) Intelligent Transportation Systems - $800,000 for the purchase and integration of Advanced Traveler Information System (ATIS) Smart Card Systems hardware and software. 
   Joint Forest Service & The Ohio State University Research - $250,000 to address the impacts the Emerald Ash Borer Beetle in Ohio. The beetle is immune to insecticides and has no known natural predator in North American, making it extremely difficult to manage its spread. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following national programs: 
   National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Program - $300,000 for the Network to Freedom Grant Program, which provides technical and rehabilitation assistance to registered Underground Railroad Network to Freedom sites. 
   State Historic Preservation Office Funding - $36 million for the state programs within the Historic Preservation Fund. 
   Commercial Technology Program - $30 million for the nationwide NASA Commercial Technology Program (CTP) that develops ways private companies and businesses can use NASA-related technologies.
 
 