SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH ANNOUNCE FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NORTHEAST OHIO PROJECTS
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) today announced the Senate passage of the fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill which includes $38.575 million in funding for regional projects.  
   "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, it is one of my priorities to secure funding for worthy projects." said Senator DeWine. "These projects are important not only for the preservation of Ohio's natural beauty, but for development in Ohio." 
   "These are important and needed investments in our state that will improve the quality of life for Ohioans. I'm glad to work with Sen. DeWine to provide funding for these worthwhile projects," said Voinovich. 
   The fiscal year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill includes funding for the following local projects: 
   Flats East Bank Riverfront Park - $1.5 million for the purchase of land along Cleveland's riverfront to create a new public park. 
   Mentor Marsh - $1 million to purchase 100 additional acres of open space along the Mentor Marsh. 
   East Sandusky Bay Preserve - $1.5 million to purchase an additional 125 acres of land around the East Sandusky Bay Preserve. 
   Sewer Improvements - $400,000 to the City of Akron for combined sewer overflow improvements. 
   Sewer Replacement - $300,000 to the City of Parma for a city sewer replacement project. 
   IDEA Center - $550,000 to Cleveland Playhouse Square for an IDEA Center. 
   Manufacturing Complex - $300,000 to CAMP for a Cleveland Manufacturing Technology Complex. 
   Manchester Road - $1 million for improvements on Manchester Road (State Route 93) in the City of Akron between Waterloo Road and Kenmore Boulevard. 
   Euclid Corridor Transportation - $25 million for the completion of the established new Bus Rapid Transit line connecting the central business district to University Circle in Cleveland. 
   Runway Safety Area Improvements - $1.3 million to make safety improvements to runways for Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) guideline compliance at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. 
   Youngstown Convocation and Community Center - The bill included language that would extend by three years the time the City of Youngstown has to use $25 million in federal funds that were earmarked for the construction of a downtown convocation and community center. 
   Advanced Technology Incubator - $250,000 to Youngstown Central Area Community Improvement Corporation for construction of the Advanced Technology Incubator for Market Ready Applications. 
   Water Treatment Plant Improvements - $300,000 to the Muskingum Watershed Conservancy District for improvements to the Atwood Conference Center Water Treatment Plant in Carroll County. 
   Sanitary Sewer Project - $175,000 to the Jefferson County Water and Sewer District for the Crestview/Belevedere Sanitary Sewer Project. 
   National Center for Communications, Navigation and Surveillance - $1 million for the National Center for Communications, Navigation and Surveillance that will allow NASA Glenn to continue as the leader within NASA on aerospace communications, navigation management and surveillance technologies. 
   Commercial Technology Programs - $4 million for the Glenn Research Center for Commercial technology programs. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following state-wide projects: 
   Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS), Palmprint AFIS Program - $375,000 to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations for the purchase of technology needed to use palmprints left at crime scenes to compare to palmprints stored in Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations files. 
   Laboratory Improvement Project - $250,000 for the automation and improvement of analytical testing services within the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigations labs, and to fund overtime payment to reduce case backlog. 
   Central Ohio Transit Authority's (COTA) Intelligent Transportation Systems - $800,000 for the purchase and integration of Advanced Traveler Information System (ATIS) Smart Card Systems hardware and software. 
   Joint Forest Service & The Ohio State University Research - $250,000 to address the impacts the Emerald Ash Borer Beetle in Ohio. The beetle is immune to insecticides and has no known natural predator in North American, making it extremely difficult to manage its spread. 
   Senators DeWine and Voinovich secured funding for the following national programs: 
   Great Lakes Legacy - $22.5 million for the Great Lakes Legacy Act, a bill authored by Senator DeWine and Senator Carl Levin (D-MI) that became law in 2002. The Act expedites the cleanup of the Great Lakes. In Ohio there are four major areas of concern, the Maumee River, the Ashtabula River, the Black River, and the Cuyahoga River. 
   National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Program - $300,000 for the Network to Freedom Grant Program, which provides technical and rehabilitation assistance to registered Underground Railroad Network to Freedom sites. 
   State Historic Preservation Office Funding - $36 million for the state programs within the Historic Preservation Fund. 
   Commercial Technology Program - $30 million for the nationwide NASA Commercial Technology Program (CTP) that develops ways private companies and businesses can use NASA-related technologies.
 
 