SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON FY 2004 DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  FLOOR STATEMENT: FY 2004 DC APPROPRIATIONS BILL
   Mr. President, first let me thank the Sen. from Louisiana, Sen. Landrieu, the Ranking Member on the DC Appropriations Subcommittee, for her hard work and efforts in helping to draft the appropriations bill before us today. This bill provides $560 million in federal funds for the District of Columbia and includes the City's own local budget of $6.2 billion.  
   Mr. President, the funds in this bill focus on a number of key priorities for the District of Columbia: First, improving the lives and opportunities for children in the District; Second, reducing and preventing crime in the District; and Third, increasing security in our Nation's Capital. 
   The bill continues an initiative we began last year to help improve the City's long-troubled foster care system by providing funds for intensive intervention when children first enter care; providing resources for early and continued mental health services for all children in foster care; providing incentives to retain qualified social workers and foster parents; and funding a new computer tracking system for children in foster care. 
   Mr. President, the bill also focuses on children by enhancing educational opportunities for inner-city students. We are continuing to provide a total of $40 million for three interrelated educational components: $13 million to promote excellence in traditional public schools; $13 million to expand choice through high quality charter schools; and $13 million for opportunity scholarships for low-income students in failing schools. 
   Mr. President, the second priority that this bill funds crime fighting in the District. The federal government entirely funds the D.C. Courts and the Court Services and Supervision Agency. The Committee is providing a total of $377 million for these agencies, which is $55 million more than the fiscal year enacted level. Most of these additional resources are for renovations and repairs to the City's 4th oldest building - the Historic Old Courthouse - which will make it habitable once again and provide much-needed courtroom capacity. The bill also provides additional resources to enhance supervision of high-risk sex offenders, offenders with mental health problems, and domestic violence offenders. 
   Mr. President, with this bill, we are beginning an important federal investment in a new forensics lab for the District of Columbia. Currently, the City must rely on the generosity of the FBI's crime lab. Because of its own heavy workload, the Bureau limits the amount of evidence that it can process for the City. With so many unsolved rape, murder, and other violent crime cases in the District, a new crime lab is a crucial need. The sobering fact is that, as the seat of our Nation's Capital, the District of Columbia is a target of bioterrorism attacks. And, those attacks must be investigated. Indeed, the anthrax attacks of 2001 and the ricin scare of 2004 have shown that a forensics lab is vital to public safety in the District and deserving of federal support. 
   The final priority in this bill is improving security in the District. As the seat of the federal government and as a symbol of our democracy, the District of Columbia faces increased risks of terrorist attacks. Therefore, the bill includes security funding, including resources to complete a Unified Communications Center, which will be the center for coordinated multi-agency responses in the event of regional and national emergencies. The bill also continues to provide funds to reimburse the City for increased police, fire, and emergency personnel costs associated with events that occur in the District because of the presence of the federal government. 
   Mr. President, I want to take this opportunity to recognize the City's leadership in improving the financial condition of the District. Recently, the District received a vote of confidence from Wall Street when its bonds were upgraded two steps from "BBB+" to "A". Despite this good news about the City's short-term financial performance, I am well aware that the City faces a long-term economic structural imbalance. This imbalance represents a gap between the District's ability to raise revenue at reasonable tax rates and its ability to provide services of reasonable quality to its residents. 
   I recognize that the structural imbalance is driven by expenditure requirements and revenue restrictions which are mostly beyond the control of the District's leadership. Clearly, the City's revenue capacity would be larger without federal constraints on its taxing authority, such as its inability to tax federal property or the income of non-residents. 
   I agree that the City faces a troubling problem in the long-term. I want to help close the financial gap and help ensure the long-term economic health of our Nation's capital. This is a federal enclave, established by the Constitution, and it must live by the constraints imposed on it by the federal government. I believe that the federal government must recognize the costs it places on the City and the burden it places on the City's infrastructure, all the while limiting the ability of the City to raise revenue. Indeed, many of the problems facing the District result from it being the seat of the federal government. 
   This bill takes two small steps to begin to address the structural imbalance. First, we are providing $4 million to assist the City with its annual operating payment to the Washington Metropolitan Transit Authority (commonly referred to as the "Metro"). 
   The District's share of the Metro operating subsidy is $208 million. Whereas the state governments of Maryland and Virginia both help subsidize the Metro, the District does not have a state to help share the burden of this cost. In addition, many federal workers use the Metro system to travel between federal buildings throughout the workday. 
   Second, the bill provides $10 million for a combined sewer overflow system. The current system was constructed in 1890 and overflows 60-70 times each year, dumping raw sewage into the Anacostia River. Clearly, the federal government places a heavy burden on this system and should help share the cost of upgrading it. I believe these small federal contributions for infrastructure are important, but clearly the federal government must do more to help eliminate this structural imbalance that it has helped create. 
   Mr. President, I would again like to thank Senator Landrieu. She and I share the same concerns for the children and residents who live in the District of Columbia, as well as the millions of visitors who come here every year to see America's seat of government. She and I have worked as close partners in writing this bill. Together, we have put together a bill that focuses on improving the well-being of the District's children and protecting the safety of all who live and work here. I thank the Senator from Louisiana, and I turn to her now for her remarks.
 
 