SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON HAITI FLOODING
  Mr. President, let me begin by thanking Chairman McConnell and Ranking Member Leahy for their great work on this bill. In a very tight budget year, they did a remarkable, bipartisan job. I'd also like to personally thank their staff - Paul Grove, Tim Reiser, and Mark Lippert. Their tireless efforts are greatly appreciated.  
   I would like to highlight quickly several items that we were able to accomplish this year with the Subcommittee's support. First, we are providing life-saving humanitarian assistance to the Darfur region in Sudan. With Chairman McConnell's and Ranking Member Leahy's support, we were able to add $150 million in emergency humanitarian relief. 
   I'd also like to recognize specific language we were able to secure in the bill related to Child Survival and HIV/AIDS. Specifically, I thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for their inclusion of language addressing the continued need for mother-to-child transmission programs, as well as the importance of AIDS pediatric treatment. 
   In addition, I am pleased that the bill includes specific language about how to protect the transfer of land and property rights to AIDS orphans, as well as an additional $15 million to the Child Survival Primary Causes line item. Also, the bill includes Senator's Durbin and Brownback's provision that would increase funding to the Global Fund by $150 million, with half of that money dedicated to the treatment and prevention of malaria - a disease that kills over a million people or more a year, at least 700,000 of them African children. 
   Finally, I want to thank the Chairman and Ranking Member, and their staff, for the tremendous attention they've paid to Haiti. Because of their support, the Senate bill provides over $82.5 million dollars, excluding any programmed food assistance. That represents a 230% increase over the Administration's original request. As my colleagues know, our assistance to Haiti is critical in helping our neighbor - a nation less than 800 miles from our shores - get back on its feet. 
   The Committee included much needed report language in the bill outlining key priorities that should form the basis of our U.S. assistance strategy in Haiti and provides a reporting requirement to ensure that this strategy is developed in a multi-year, long-term fashion. Haiti's needs are immense, and we simply cannot afford to turn our backs. 
   Mr. President, the Chairman and Ranking Member's commitment to Haiti is clear - and made even more so by their support of the amendment we are offering today - a resolution calling for increased international assistance in Haiti. Specifically, the resolution focuses on two principal deficiencies we're facing in Haiti - funding and security - challenges that have been even further exacerbated these past few days. Haiti has been hard hit by Tropical Storm Jeanne. The death toll so far is estimated at over 1000, but that figure could climb as high as 2,000, as more than 1250 Haitians remain missing - presumably washed out to sea or buried in feet of thick, heavy mud. 
   Mr. President, I spoke this morning to my good friend, Father Tom Hagan from the organization Hands Together, who has been on the ground in northern Haiti. He has visited some of the hardest hit areas, like the city of Gonaives and the village of Brunette. He described the devastation - and it is tragic, Mr. President, absolutely tragic. 
   As Father Tom approached Gonaives, the village about a mile outside of the city was covered in water - two, three, four feet of water. He said it was just a huge lake. In some places, the water was up to the windows of his truck. As Father Tom said, in the city, most of the houses have been destroyed. The mud huts and concrete shacks have crumbled, leaving standing only houses made of stone. 
   The stench is overwhelming. Dead bodies are littering the roads and floating in the putrid, standing water that remains. Dead animals abound. Disease will soon be rampant. 
   People are wandering about aimlessly in a state of confusion and desperation. You can see the fear on people's faces. Mothers can be seen holding dead babies in there arms or carrying their young children above their heads trying helplessly to keep them out of the vile flood water. 
   Even the animals seem confused and don't know where to go. Thousands of people have been displaced, Mr. President, with no food, no water, and no shelter. Father Tom told me that UN troops are visible on the ground, but even their compound is underwater. He has also seen aid workers from the Pan American Development Foundation and they are trying to get aid to the people. A couple of their trucks got through to Gonaives, but others were turned over, stuck in the mud. 
   The Village of Brunette, which lies very near Gonaives, has also become a lake. In January 2003, Senator Durbin and Senator Nelson from Florida traveled to Brunette with me. We visited the village and met with village leaders and school children. We saw one of Father Tom's water development projects. Senators Durbin and Nelson will recall the rather "bumpy" four hour van ride it took to get there! 
   I ask my colleagues to imagine this village completely submerged in water - completely covered in feet of fetid, disease-ridden flood water. Father Tom said you can no longer see the houses above the water. All that you can see is part of the cistern from the water project we visited. 
   Clearly, Mr. President, the people of Haiti need our help - now more than ever. This bill today is taking a number of steps that will aid the Haitian people. With this recent disaster, their need for food, and water, and medicine will be even greater. I want to thank all of my colleagues who have been so supportive of the efforts to help bring Haiti back on its feet and I ask for their continued support, especially now. 
   I might add, Mr. President, that while there is a great deal of misery and suffering going on in Haiti right now because of the flooding, my home State of Ohio is also hurting. Several regions, particularly in Southeastern Ohio, have been hard it. At least seven people have died as a result of flooding since August. Hurricane Ivan has taken quite a toll. I intend to visit the flooded areas in Ohio tomorrow and will be on the Floor next week to report back. I know it is going to take a lot of time to get things back up and running in a number of areas hardest hit, but I commend Governor Taft, the Ohio Emergency Management Agency, the men and women of the Ohio National Guard, and the countless volunteer organizations for their quick response and efforts to provide assistance. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor.
 
 