SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON ASSISTANCE FOR DARFUR, SUDAN
  Prepared Floor Statement: Assistance for Darfur Sudan
   Mr. President, Monday I came to the floor to outline what we need to see accomplished in Darfur, Sudan, where tens of thousands have died, hundreds of thousands are in peril, and millions more have lost their homes and livelihoods. My last speech focused on what the Government of Sudan needed to do - today I want to focus on what the U.S. Government can and must do.  
   Today, I am offering an amendment, to the fiscal year 2005 Department of Defense Appropriations bill, together with Senators Leahy, Brownback, Alexander. This critical amendment will provide $95 million in emergency funding to address the urgent crisis in Darfur and eastern Chad. The House included the same $95 million in their bill, this past Tuesday, and I hope we will do the same. Specifically, the amendment would add $70 million to USAID's International Disaster and Famine Assistance programs in Darfur, as well as $25 million to the Department of State for refugee assistance in eastern Chad. This type of crisis is exactly why we created these accounts - now let's use them. 
   We need to do this. We failed to act when 800,000 people were slaughtered in Rwanda. We can't go back and change that. But we can do something differently today. This is genocide. This is hundreds of thousands of people dying, and we can prevent it. To ignore this crisis would be a tragic mistake. To deny this funding would be to deny children the right to live, and people the right to survive. We are not responsible for the genocide, but we will be responsible if we do not do something today. 
   This is truly an emergency - we use that phrase a lot - but this truly is a crisis. If the situation wasn't so dire, I would wait and offer this amendment to the Foreign Operations bill, but I cannot stress enough that time is not on our side. Using this bill will make the emergency funding available as soon as we pass it, and the need is immediate. 
   Every major humanitarian organization recognizes Darfur as the worst humanitarian crisis in the world today, but a quote by the UN World Food Program deputy director in Chad captures it best. He said, and I quote, "There will be a tragedy if nothing happens. I don't think any of the children under the age of five will make it, and the pregnant women too. For those who are under five there is no chance. They will die from starvation." 
   The U.S. Agency for International Development is also increasing their mortality figures. They now say that their original estimate that 350,000 could die of disease and malnutrition over the next nine months is conservative. That is because the violence that started all of this has not stopped, and because the conditions these people face are getting worse with the oncoming rains. Hundreds of thousands are now in shantytowns around the regional capitals, or in refugee camps in eastern Chad. The conditions are quickly deteriorating because aid groups simply cannot accommodate the large numbers. The United States is currently meeting 25 percent of the food need, but that means 75 percent of the people are starving. 
   Malnutrition and disease are our biggest enemies in a crisis such as this. The polio epidemic hitting Africa has spread to Darfur, and yet only 50 percent of the children are immunized. The race against the clock is well under way, and we need to make sure that USAID and the State Department have the money they need to respond. I have no doubt in my mind that the long-term needs in Darfur and eastern Chad exceed what this amendment calls for, but for now, this will allow our aid agencies to meet their immediate needs this year. The children will not wait to die, and therefore we cannot delay these funds any longer. 
   That is why I will ask yet again that my colleagues join me in pressing for a U.N. Security Council resolution authorizing peacekeeping troops to monitor the cease-fire in Darfur, and ensure, by force if necessary, that humanitarian aid is not obstructed. According to the U.S. Ambassador to Sudan, there is no evidence that the Government of Sudan is serious about addressing the militias, and if the Government of Sudan refuses to address the ethnic cleansing, then we should make sure that the United States will. Senator Durbin and I have a letter to Secretary Powell being circulated right now addressing this issue, and I hope my colleagues will sign on. 
   Finally, I want to alert my colleagues to the crisis in the Congo right now. Militant groups who escaped from Rwnaada after the genocide there are destabilizing the Congo, and 3.3 million people are without humanitarian aid. If we don't pay attention there, then the Congo is going to look like Darfur, and we will have failed again. We must learn to stop these things before they become crises. 
   That is why our response to Darfur is so important. We need to set the precedent that we failed to set in Rwanda - that the U.S. Government will be watching for ethnic cleansing and genocide, and no matter where it is found, we will respond, and those responsible will be held accountable. We simply cannot tolerate crimes against humanity. If we fail in this effort, we doom not only the people of Darfur, but the victims of future conflicts as well. We need to make "never again" a promise of the United States Government that is enforced by our actions. 
   I therefore urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and to continue to call attention to what is happening in Darfur.
 
 