SEN. DEWINE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION WITH SEN. MURRAY TO HELP AMERICA'S HOMELESS, FOSTER CHILDREN BETTER ACCESS EARLY EDUCATION, SERVICES
  Late yesterday, Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced bipartisan legislation to increase access to Head Start benefits for some of our most needy children. Sens. DeWine and Murray have previously worked together on coordinating and improving access to services for homeless and foster children in the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).  
   In the United States, on any given day, more than half a million children are in foster care, 20,000 of which are in the State of Ohio, alone. Of this group, 27 percent are aged 5 and under. In 2003, we also know that more than 900,000 children were found to be victims of child abuse or neglect. However, research also shows that intervening in the early years of their lives improves the risks that these children face in their development. This is why we need to ensure that these abuse and neglected children have the opportunity to access the services provided through Head Start. 
   "What can be more vulnerable than a child, under the age of 5, living on the street or in a shelter? What can be more vulnerable than a child under 5 who has been abused and neglected?" said Senator DeWine. "This bill will serve as one more step, one move closer, to ensuring homeless and foster children are made visible and their voices made audible." 
   Head Start began in 1965 and since its inception, has served more than 22 million of America's poorest children. This important program has helped these children build the skills they need to succeed in school and provided them with the services they need to be healthy and active in society. With its comprehensive services and family-centered approach, Head Start often offers the most appropriate educational setting for children and families experiencing homelessness and children in foster care. 
   Homeless and foster children face barriers that continue to limit their access to, and participation in, Head Start. Some barriers to Head Start access are related to lack of coordination with child welfare agencies, high mobility, lack of required documentation, and lack of transportation. 
   The Murray-DeWine bill would encourage Head Start grantees to reduce these barriers by directing them to increase their outreach to homeless and foster children. It would also encourage coordination between Head Start grantees and community service providers to homeless and foster children. It would increase the coordination for these populations as they transition out of Head Start to elementary school, and increase reporting requirements. It would also allow homeless children to be automatically eligible for Head Start.
 
 