SENS. CORZINE, DEWINE AMENDMENT PROVIDES EMERGENCY FUNDS TO HELP BRING SECURITY, STABILITY TO DARFUR
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced Senate acceptance of a bi-partisan amendment he co-sponsored with Sen. John Corzine (D-NJ) that would provide $75 million in emergency funds for the logistical and material support of an expanded African Union monitoring force in the Darfur region of Sudan. The amendment was added to the Fiscal Year 2005 Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, which passed the Senate late last night.  
   "The mission of the African Union troops is necessary for short-term security and long-term stability in the Darfur region," said Senator DeWine. "Designating funds that will help relieve the crisis in Darfur is the right thing to do. Anyone who has seen the pictures of what is going on is Darfur, anyone who has read about the genocide understands the need to have the African Union troops in there as monitors." 
   The African Union has 125 monitors in Darfur. Rwanda and Nigeria have sent an additional 305 protection forces. The African Union and the United Nations are considering a total force of 3000-4000. 
   The Corzine-DeWine amendment would bring the anticipated U.S. contribution to the African Union force to $95.5 million, which is roughly one-third of the anticipated cost of the mission. 
   Senator DeWine also co-sponsored an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2005 Foreign Operations Appropriations bill with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT). The Leahy-DeWine amendment provides for $150 million in humanitarian aid for the crisis in Darfur. The amendment would trigger a provision Congress included in the Iraqi Relief and Reconstruction Fund, which allowed the President to use up to .5 percent of the funds for Sudan and Liberia. The amendment was adopted into the bill during the committee markup of the bill and was included in the bill that was passed by the Senate last night. 
   A House-Senate conference committee will work out the differences between the House-passed and Senate-passed versions of the bill before it is sent to the President for his signature. The President is also required to provide Congress with a written request for both of these contingent emergency funds before they are released to the State Department.
 
 