SEN. DEWINE CALLS ON U.K. TO INVESTIGATE MURDER OF NORTHERN IRELAND ATTORNEY
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) late last night introduced a resolution (S.RES.493), with cosponsor Sen. Christopher Dodd (D-CT), calling for the government of the United Kingdom to establish a "full, independent, public judicial inquiry" into the 1989 murder of Northern Ireland defense attorney Pat Finucane. The resolution will now be referred to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations for consideration. 
   "Pat Finucane was a loving family man, who worked bravely and tirelessly for human rights," said Senator DeWine. "His family and the people of Northern Ireland deserve to know the truth about his horrific murder so that justice can finally be served."
   In 1989, Pat Finucane, a human rights attorney, was brutally murdered in front of his wife and three children at his home in Belfast, Ireland. Numerous international bodies and nongovernmental agencies have connected loyalist paramilitaries and British security forces with the murder.
   In July 2001, as part of the Weston Park Agreement and as an attempt to help jump start the stalled Good Friday Agreement, the British and Irish governments pledged to follow the recommendation of an independent, international judge charged with investigating the possibility of collusion in certain murder cases. That judge, Peter Cory, found sufficient evidence of collusion in the Finucane murder and called on the British government to initiate a judicial public inquiry as soon as possible. After public release of the report, the United Kingdom enacted legislation that limits the scope of an independent investigation. Judge Cory, the Finucane family, the Irish Government and human rights groups all objected to the legislation.
   Senator DeWine's resolution specifically calls on the British government to reconsider its position on the matter of an inquiry into the murder of Mr. Finucane, to amend the Inquiries Act of 2005, and to take fully into account the objections raised by the Finucane family.
 
 