SEN. DEWINE BILL WOULD IMPROVE SCREENING OF NEWBORNS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today introduced The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act of 2006 with co-author Christopher Dodd (D-CT). The Act would help states expand and improve their newborn screening programs, educate parents and health care providers about newborn screening, and improve follow-up care for infants with an illness detected through screening. 
   "There is nothing more precious than human life," said Senator DeWine. "We need to dedicate all the resources necessary to ensure that every child born in America has the chance to grow up healthy and that begins with newborn screenings. The importance of these screenings cannot be overstated." Newborn screening is a public health activity used for early identification of infants affected by certain genetic, metabolic, hormonal and functional conditions for which there may be an effective treatment or intervention. If left untreated, these conditions can cause death, disability, mental retardation and other serious health problems. Every year, over 4 million infants are born and screened to detect such conditions with an estimated 3,000 babies identified in time for treatment. However, the number and quality of newborn screening tests performed varies dramatically from state to state. The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act of 2006 aims to remedy these problems and improve newborn screening for all of America's newborns.
   This legislation would authorize $65 million in FY07 and such sums as may be necessary for FY08-FY11 for grants to educate health care professionals, laboratory personnel and parents about newborn screening and relevant new technologies. It would provide resources to states to expand and improve their newborn screening programs and encourage states to test for the full roster of disorders recommended by the Advisory Committee on Heritable Disorders in Newborns and Children.
   The legislation would require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to ensure the quality of laboratories involved in newborn screening, so that tests are as accurate as possible and infants receive the appropriate care.
   Finally, the legislation would establish a system for collecting and analyzing data from newborn screening programs to help researchers develop a better understanding of the disorders detected by newborn screening, and how those disorders might be better detected, prevented, treated and cured.
 
 