SEN. DEWINE ADDRESSES GATHERING AT CITIZENSHIP CEREMONY
  REMARKS (AS PREPARED) -- CITIZENSHIP CEREMONY
   Congratulations on your achievement! It is really my honor to be here today to see you all taking this final step toward becoming American citizens.  
   I know it has been a long haul to get to this point. I know how hard it has been for each of you to get here - not because I=ve been through it like you -- but because I serve on the U.S. Senate=s Immigration Subcommittee. I serve on this subcommittee because I believe our immigration policy defines who we are. It says a lot about our national values. I serve on the subcommittee because I think it is a place where my work will make a real difference. The impact of our decisions will last for 10, 20, or 30 years, because when you make a determination about who can come into the United States, the consequences are profound. 
   In the darkest days of the Cold War, Ronald Reagan gave an historic address to the British Parliament. In that speech, he made an appeal to unify the West - to replace Communism with Democracy and freedom. President Reagan appealed to our sense of identity - who we were, who we are. This is what he said: 
   Let us ask ourselves: What kind of a people do we think we are? And let us answer: Free people, worthy of freedom and determined not only to remain so, but to help others gain their freedom, as well. 
   Ronald Reagan expressed, better than any political leader of my lifetime, a sense of what America really is - "the city on a hill, the land, the country of the future." America's greatness has been created, generation after generation, by driven self-selected individuals who came here as immigrants. 
   I think about George Olah who came here to Ohio from Budapest in 1957 and taught at Case-Western Reserve, and who won the Nobel Prize for chemistry in 1994. Maybe one of you here today is another George Olah. You are all talented, energetic people who have come to help us build a better country. You are here today by choice and hard work. You did not have to become citizens. You could have simply stayed here for the rest of your lives as permanent residents, as many people do. You should be applauded for your effort and dedication to our country. 
   After 911, some would say we should reverse course on immigration. But, that would say that we are a country that defines itself as fearful of change, afraid of competition, and convinced that her best days are past. That is not the attitude that made America the greatest country the world has ever seen. An America that thinks itself as weak and threatened is not the America that I see. 
   It is not the America that we Americans believe in. It is not the America that a dirt poor Irishman named Dennis DeWine saw in his dream as he left County Galway 150 years ago to escape the potato famine in Ireland. We do not know a lot about my great-great-grandfather. All we know for sure is that he came over to America from Galway. It is pretty clear, though, that Dennis DeWine came here with guts and with ambition. He took a chance on America, and America took a chance on him. That is the kind of America we need to be -- an America that is open to new people and new ideas. 
   Even at the very beginning of our history, back when we were a very small country, we were always a country with a very big meaning - a country whose future was unlimited and a country that believed in people and believed in their capacity to make the world a better place. That is the legacy and the responsibility you have taken on by taking the oath of citizenship today. I again congratulate you, and thank you for letting me be here with you on this great day.
 
 