PRESIDENT SIGNS INTO LAW SEN. DEWINE COSPONSORED BILL TO HELP KEEP KIDS SAFE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today attended the presidential bill-signing of H.R.4472, the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, a bill that establishes a National Sex Offender Registry, creates mandatory minimums for federal crimes of violence against victims under 12, increases penalties for sex offenders, provides more resources to enforce sexual exploitation laws, and provides more tools to prosecute accused sex offenders. The bill is named after the son of America's Most Wanted host, John Walsh. Adam was kidnapped and killed 25 years ago, today. The Walsh family was in attendance at the bill signing. Sen. DeWine is a cosponsor of the Senate version of the bill.
   "This bill will go far in helping to protect our children from being violated and provide the tools necessary to punish the criminals who harm children," said Senator DeWine. "I am pleased that my colleagues saw the importance of including the PAL Program Reauthorization and the Fugitive Safe Surrender Act in this bill. Both have proven successful - PAL by helping at-risk youth form positive relationships with police officers, and the Fugitive Safe Surrender Program by helping bring criminals in from the streets." 
   This bill incorporates a number of DeWine backed measures to help keep children safe and reduce crime in Ohio and across the nation including:
   Police Athletic/Activities League (PAL) Program Reauthorization
   Senator DeWine was the sponsor of the National PAL Youth Enrichment Act to reauthorize the PAL program. The Adam Walsh legislation incorporates this language. This measure would allow up to $16 million to create and expand PAL youth crime prevention programs that provide activities to create trust and understanding between police officers and students by providing opportunities for them to join together in various activities.
   "PAL programs help break down the sometimes adversarial relationship between police officers and kids, as well as provide children and teens with positive role models," said Senator DeWine. "This effective program has real-world results. Studies have shown in communities where PAL programs are introduced, there has been a dramatic drop in juvenile crime during peak non-school hours."
   Fugitive Safe Surrender Program
   The Fugitive Safe Surrender Act, sponsored by Senator DeWine, is incorporated in this Act. It would expand a successful program aimed at encouraging fugitives with outstanding warrants to voluntarily surrender in a non-traditional setting - in temporary courts that have been set-up in churches and community centers. Eight cities, including Akron, have been identified for program expansion later this year. "The Fugitive Safe Surrender Program was a success in Cleveland where more than 800 fugitives surrendered during a four-day pilot program. We owe it to our families to find ways to take fugitives off the streets," said Senator DeWine. Internet SAFETY
   Senator DeWine was a cosponsor of the Internet SAFETY Act, and provisions from this act were included in the Adam Walsh Act. Some of these measures include increasing penalties for registered sex offenders, authorizing the hiring of additional prosecutors for sexual exploitation offenses and additional computer forensic examiners. It also creates additional Internet Crimes Against Children Task Forces.
   Protecting Children from Sexual Exploitation
   Senator DeWine was a cosponsor of the Protecting Children from Sexual Exploitation Act, and provisions of this bill have been included in the Adam Walsh Act. This measure will require that those in the movie industry keep records of the names and birthdates of actors in depictions of either simulated or actual sexual conduct and require them to permit inspection of those records. This will help deter sexual abuse before it happens.
 
 