SEN. DEWINE HONORED FOR WORK ON BEHALF OF MILITARY FAMILIES
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) tonight received the "Support of Military Families Award" from the National Military Family Association (NMFA). This award recognizes Sen. DeWine for his work and leadership that has positively affected the lives of military families around the globe. 
   "We owe America's military families our gratitude and steadfast support, beginning with giving them the benefits they are due," said Senator DeWine. "I am honored to receive this award from the NMFA, an organization that works so hard on behalf our military and their families. I will continue to fight for those families and those service members just as they have fought and sacrificed for us."
   Senator DeWine has a long history of working to improve benefits for military survivor families. Last year, in the defense authorization bill, Senator DeWine authored language to extend TRICARE Prime medical insurance to any child of a deceased service member at no cost - just as if the military parent was still alive and passed an amendment to close a loophole which had prevented certain beneficiaries of troops that die from receiving an increased special death gratuity of $150,000. Both were signed into law in January.
   Currently, Senator DeWine is working to do more for survivor families. Through an amendment to the FY07 Defense Authorization Bill, which has passed the Senate, he is working to ensure that all military survivors since the beginning of the war in Afghanistan have access to the Survivor Benefit Plan Child Option.
   The NMFA was organized in 1969 as the National Military Wives Association by a group of wives and widows seeking financial security for survivors of uniformed service personnel and retirees. From their efforts, the Survivor Benefit Plan came into being. In the ensuing years, NMFA has been in the vanguard of advocacy for improvements in the quality of military family life. The name of the organization was changed in 1984 to reflect the broad scope of its involvement.
 
 