HONDA TO USE SEN. DEWINE'S 'STARS ON CARS' ON WINDOW STICKERS OF 2006 MODELS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today joins the American Honda Motor Company as they voluntarily enact a piece of DeWine legislation included in the Senate version of the Highway bill, the "Stars on Cars Act." Beginning with model year 2006, American Honda will begin including star safety ratings on the window stickers of their new cars.  
   The National Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) regularly conducts tests measuring the safety performance of vehicles in frontal and side impact crashes, as well as roll over resistance, and assigns star ratings based on those tests. 
   The "Stars on Cars Act" takes the common sense approach of adding government issued star safety ratings to the other information on car pricing stickers already required by law, such as cost, fuel economy and vehicle features. Graphics depicting the number of stars achieved by a vehicle in each NHTSA "New Car Assessment Program" (NCAP) test, as well as a brief explanation of their meaning, would be added to the labels if the proposed legislation becomes law. Currently, the star ratings are available on the NHTSA website; however, they are not accessible to car shoppers when they need the information the most, on the dealership lot. 
   "I am pleased that leaders at American Honda are taking the initiative to voluntarily include this common sense consumer education measure on the window stickers of their new cars," said Senator DeWine. "Stars on Cars will make government issued safety measures readily available for families at the exact moment decisions about purchasing cars are made. I look forward to the day when all new cars on dealer's lots will have star safety ratings on their window stickers, but this is a good first step in raising important consumer awareness." 
   "Like Senator DeWine, American Honda is committed to safety and believes that consumers should be able to make informed decisions when purchasing a vehicle," said John Mendel, senior vice president, American Honda Company, Inc. "The Stars on Cars proposal makes major strides in safety awareness and we are happy to voluntarily provide this information beginning on all of our 2006 model year vehicles." 
   Senator DeWine's point of sale labeling legislation, the "Stars on Cars Act" is included in Section 7257 of the Senate's version of H.R. 3, but is not in the version passed by the House. 
   Currently the differences in the two versions of the Highway bill are being worked out by a conference committee. 
   "I hope conferees on the Transportation bill will see the importance of making this, consumer information immediately accessible, so buyers can make informed decisions when it comes to their family's safety on the road. I urge the conference committee to include the Stars on Cars provision in the final version of the bill," said Senator DeWine. 
   Congressional leaders have set a June 30th target date for completion of the conference report; however, leaders have indicated negotiations are ongoing and additional time may be needed to complete the bill.
 
 