SEN. DEWINE ADDRESSES GATHERING AT DEPLETED URANIUM HEXIFLUORID ROUNDBREAKING CEREMONY
  REMARKS (AS PREPARED) -- DEPLETED URANIUM HEXIFLUORID (DUF6) GROUNDBREAKING CEREMONY
   Thank you Kyle, and please extend my thanks to Secretary Abraham for the DOE's work and dedication in making this day happen. I also would like to thank Senator Voinovich and Congressmen Portman and Hobson, along with Governor Taft for all their efforts, as well as Dan Mintor and Greg Simonton, and all the state and local elected officials and community leaders who have worked tirelessly on behalf of this facility from Pike to Scioto to Ross County. There are simply too many names to mention. Without everyone's collaborative efforts, we wouldn't be enjoying this great day.  
   I am so excited to be here with everyone! This groundbreaking certainly has been a long time in coming! We have overcome many hurdles and obstacles to be able to stand here today. Southern Ohio is a great place to be and the people here are dedicated, hard workers who have waited a long time to finally hear good news. 
   This DUF6 plant will keep 150 people working in skilled, full-time jobs for the next 18 years, almost 200 construction jobs will be created over the next two years! To date, we have secured $55 million for the planning and initial construction. We will continue to work with DOE to provide funding for the plant over the life and clean-up of the operation. This project also has local environmental benefits. It will remove one of the largest amounts of environmental waste on the site by processing over 16,000 barrels from Ohio, not to mention 4,800 barrels from Oak Ridge, TN. The community has had to deal with this potential hazard for the past 50 years, and I'm proud to say we've finally found a solution. It is important that we clean up this site for future uses. I am pleased with USEC's American Centrifuge Technology operations and will continue to support their work. I also will be working with DOE to make sure the communities' interests are represented as we move forward with other projects on the site. 
   We are also working hard to fix the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation program. This program has taken entirely too long to get off the ground - and in the meantime many people are suffering. I was a proud co-sponsor of Senator Bunning's amendment to the Defense Authorization bill. This bill takes major steps toward fixing the problems. As soon as the House names their conferees, we will begin working with the House, DOE, and DOL to come to an agreement on the amendment. We need to move this program forward and get Ohioans paid. 
   I would now like to introduce my good friend and colleague Senator George Voinovich for his comments.
 
 