SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH RECOMMEND BARRETT, ZOUHARY FOR FEDERAL JUDGESHIP
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George Voinovich (R-OH) today announced that they recommended two Ohioans to President George W. Bush for judicial positions in Ohio. The first, Michael R. Barrett, of Cincinatti, Ohio, was recommended for the position of U.S. District Court Judge for the Southern District of Ohio. The second, the Honorable Jack Zouhary, of Toledo, Ohio, will be considered for the position of U.S. District Court Judge for the Western Division of the Northern District of Ohio.  
   Michael Barrett served in the Hamilton County Prosecutor's Office from February 1978 through February 1984, first as Assistant Prosecutor, then as the Chief Assistant Prosecuting Attorney, Felony Trial Division, and Chief of the Special County Arson Task Force. He then became an Associate and Partner with Graydon, Head & Richey from March 1984 through December 1994. Since January of 1995, Barrett has been a practicing in the law firm of Barrett & Weber of Cincinnati, OH. Barrett also currently serves as chairman of the Hamilton County Republican Party. He will resign that post next week. Barrett graduated in 1974 from University of Cincinnati with a Bachelor of Arts degree and continued his education at the University of Cincinnati, receiving his Juris Doctor degree in 1977. 
   Judge Jack Zouhary has practiced law in Northwestern Ohio since 1976, functioning as an Associate and Partner with Robison, Curphey & O'Connell between 1976 through 1999. From 2000 through 2003, Zouhary was Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary for S.E. Johnson Companies, Inc., of Maumee. He then served as Of Counsel for Fuller & Henry, a Toledo based regional law firm. On March 11th of this year, he was sworn in as a Judge in the Lucas County Common Pleas Court, General Division. Judge Zouhary graduated in 1973 from Dartmouth College with a Bachelor of Arts degree and received his Juris Doctor degree in 1976 from the University of Toledo College of Law. 
   "We are pleased to recommend both Michael Barrett and Judge Jack Zouhary to the President," said Senators DeWine and Voinovich. 
   Barrett and Zouhary, if nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate, will fill current vacancies on the courts. Barrett would replace Judge Walter H. Rice, who informed the President that he was taking senior status on December 1, 2004. Zouhary would replace Judge David A. Katz, who took senior status on January 1, 2005.
 
 