CASTALIA TO RECEIVE FIRE FIGHTING ASSISTANCE FROM SEN. DEWINE'S BILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced that the Groton Township Fire Department will receive $43,200 as part of his Firefighter Investment and Response Enhancement (FIRE) Act, which provides competitive grants to assist local fire departments. 
   These funds came about because of the FIRE bill (S. 1941) that DeWine authored and passed in 2000. It is through DeWine's legislation that this increase in the federal commitment to the fire services is made possible. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, DeWine helped secure approximately $750 million for the FIRE Act during the fiscal year 2004 appropriations process. Now administered through the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) distributes these grants based upon a competitive process of need.
   "This is good news for the residents of Castalia and the Groton Township Fire Department," said Senator DeWine. "Firefighters and rescue workers deserve the best possible equipment and training so they can help save lives. By working to pass and fund the FIRE Act, we have ensured that fire departments in Ohio and elsewhere will have first responders who are prepared for any rescue."
   The funds were awarded to the Groton Township Fire Department for operations and firefighter safety. The awards presented to fire departments can be used to increase the effectiveness of firefighting operations, fund firefighter health and safety programs, acquire new firefighting equipment, enhance Emergency Medical Service (EMS) programs, and conduct fire prevention and safety programs.
   The total of all awards, when completed, will represent approximately $750 million investment to enhance fire and EMS service delivery nationwide. More than 20,400 fire departments applied for grants this year and FEMA expects to award more than 8,000 grants. The grant applications are processed by the U.S. Fire Administration and reviewed by 300 fire service representatives from across the United States.
   Overall, fire is responsible for killing more Americans than all natural disasters combined. Many of those who die each year in fires are children. Fire kills more than 100 children under the age of 15 each year. In addition, each year, fires in the home injure nearly 47,000 children ages 14 and under.
 
 