SEN. DEWINE HELPS SECURE GRANT FOR OHIO RIVER SCENIC OBSERVATION DECK AT NEW RICHMOND
  Sen. Mike DeWine today applauds the Village of New Richmond for receiving a $191,621 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). The DOT grant is from the Federal Highway Administration's National Scenic Byways Program, which recognizes and enhances selected roads based on their archeological, cultural, historic, natural, recreational or scenic qualities. The grant will be used to construct a new handicap accessible observation deck along the Ohio River within the historic downtown business district of the Village of New Richmond. In February, Sen. DeWine wrote a letter supporting the grant request and explaining that it would enhance the overall tourism experience in the surrounding area. 
   "This project will offer travelers a place to relax and enjoy magnificent river views, and will also allow access to the adjacent National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom site," said Senator DeWine. "Travelers will also be able to shop and dine in the New Richmond area, experiencing small town charm at its best. I applaud officials at the Village of New Richmond for their efforts and thank the Department of Transportation for recognizing and funding such a deserving project."
   This project benefits byway travelers by allowing them to escape the heavy traffic along U.S. 52, enter a historic downtown business district and enjoy some of the most attractive scenic views of the Ohio River Valley available along the entire byway. The area surrounding the proposed observation deck includes the Village Bandstand, which hosts festivals and the popular summer concert series. New Richmond also boasts the historic Ross-Gowdy House Museum, direct Ohio River access and Haussermann Park, all of which make visiting a truly rich experience.
   The National Scenic Byways (NSB) Program was established under the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991. Under the program, the U.S. Secretary of Transportation recognizes certain roads as National Scenic Byways or All-American Roads based on their archaeological, cultural, historic, natural, recreational, and scenic qualities. There are 126 such designated byways in 44 states. The Federal Highway Administration promotes the collection as America's Byways.
 
 