AKRON MUNICIPAL HEALTH COURT NAMED AS NATIONAL LEARNING SITE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R - OH) today announces that the Akron Municipal Mental Health Court has been chosen by the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) to serve as a national learning site for other mental health courts (MHCs). 
   The Akron MHC, the first such court in the state of Ohio, was recently named one of five Mental Health Courts Program Learning Sites by the Bureau of Justice Assistance, a division of the Office of Justice Programs out of the U.S. Department of Justice. The five learning sites, selected from over 120 existing mental health courts nationwide, will facilitate efficient and effective peer-to-peer technical assistance among jurisdictions that are interested in developing and refining mental health courts across the country. Furthermore, they will receive assistance from nationally renowned experts in the fields of criminal justice and mental health to continue improving their operations in the next two years.
   "I am pleased that the Akron Municipal Mental Health Court has been chosen as a model for other courts to follow," said Senator DeWine. "By helping people suffering from mental illness get the treatment they need to lead productive lives, Akron has shown success with breaking the cycle of arrest, incarceration, release, and rearrest. We must end this cycle, and mental health courts are a proven way to do it."
   Regarding the selection of the Akron MHC, Justice Evelyn Lundberg Stratton of the Ohio Supreme Court added: "I think the peer-to-peer learning model of the Learning Sites Initiative is an incredibly effective way to provide information and training on mental health courts. As a leader in the state of Ohio and in the field, the Akron Municipal Mental Health Court will serve as an excellent learning site."
   A longtime supporter of MHCs, Senator DeWine sponsored the America's Law Enforcement and Mental Health Project Act, which authorized grants to establish or expand mental health court systems in 2001-2003. The Senator also re-introduced the bill, which passed the Senate in April 2005. He also introduced the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act of 2004, which was signed into law in October 2004. This bill authorizes grants not only for mental health courts, but also for such programs as treatment in jails and prisons, and training officers to in how to respond to the mentally ill.
   The Akron MHC was established in January 2001 and accepts approximately 100 participants per year. Individuals with misdemeanor charges, who have bi-polar disorder, schizoaffective disorder, or schizophrenia, are eligible for participation in the MHC. The program is a collaborative effort between the Summit County Alcohol, Drug Addiction & Mental Health Services Board, Community Support Services, and the Akron Municipal Court.
 
 