SEN. DEWINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON STATE OF THE UNION
  "Tonight, the President provided us with his vision for America by outlining his priorities for this year, a strong follow-up to his Inaugural Address. As a cosponsor of the original reauthorization of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act, I am committed to working with the President on his domestic AIDS agenda to ensure that those Americans living with the disease receive treatment. Additionally, I intend to support the President's DNA Initiative by advocating for funding that will go to state and local police departments to help eliminate the DNA backlog and solve more crimes. 
   "I was pleased to hear about the President's continued support for job training and higher education so that our children can afford college and American workers can upgrade their skills to contribute to our growing economy. Through an increase in Pell Grants and through legislation like my Workforce Investment Act, students and workers will have access to the training and education needed to close the skills gap. 
   "The President spoke about our children and grandchildren, and our need to ensure the state of 'their' union, and has outlined a plan to do just that. I agree with the President's plan to encourage personal savings, and tonight's speech opened a very important dialogue to protect what he called 'a great moral success' - Social Security. I am open to all ideas and believe that this is something we can come together to strengthen. Our children and grandchildren deserve that much. 
   "President Bush gave a very strong signal that he is going to use his position to seek peace in the Middle East, and I am encouraged by the successes we have recently seen in the elections in Afghanistan, Iraq and Palestine. This offers a great opportunity for peace in the region, and worldwide.
   "As we begin the 109th Congress, I look forward to working with the President, our leadership, and all members of Congress to forward this bold agenda and continue the progress of this great nation."
 
 