SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH, REP. STRICKLAND ANNOUNCE APPROVAL OF FOREIGN TRADE ZONE IN SOUTHERN OHIO
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), along with Sen. George Voinovich (R-OH) and Rep. Ted Strickland (D-OH), today announced that the Department of Commerce recently approved a Lawrence County Port Authority application for the establishment of a Foreign Trade Zone (FTZ) in Lawrence County, Ohio. 
   The application had the overwhelming support of the community and local school board officials and was expedited as a result of the collaborative efforts of DeWine, Voinovich, and Strickland in sending a letter to Commerce officials. As a result, Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez quickly approved a board order that will ultimately lead to increased economic investment, development, and opportunity in the area.
   "This announcement marks a critical development in the economic health of Lawrence County and Southern Ohio," said Senator DeWine. "This is good news for Lawrence County families as the Foreign Trade Zone classification could inspire economic growth, create new jobs, and help area businesses compete globally."
   "Having Foreign Trade-Zone status in Lawrence County is excellent economic news for the state of Ohio. The designation, along with Appalachian Regional Commission funding that is available for economic development in Southern Ohio, will help the area attract new industry, encourage existing industry to re-invest, and create new employment opportunities. It is of the utmost importance that America stays competitive in the global market. This decision will expedite and encourage international business in Southern Ohio and gives Ohio an important tool to compete globally for new economic development opportunities," said Senator Voinovich.
   "This is very good news for Lawrence County," Strickland said. "The Port Authority has gained a valuable economic development tool with the Foreign Trade Zone designation, and the Authority's leaders are to be commended for their foresight. We live in a global economy, and I am glad Southeastern Ohio will have this opportunity to better compete on a global scale."
   As one of over 250 Foreign Trade Zones in the United States, Lawrence County will greatly benefit from tariff and tax relief that will lower the costs of businesses engaged in international trade.
 
 