SEN. DEWINE RECEIVES ADVOCACY AWARD FROM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR MENTALLY ILL
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) yesterday received the "2006 Exemplary Legislator Award" from the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill (NAMI). The award recognizes Senator DeWine for his leadership in ending the unnecessary criminalization of mental illness.  
  "Far too many of our Nation's mentally ill persons have ended up in our prisons and jails," said Senator DeWine. "I have worked to ensure that mentally ill persons are given appropriate care and attention rather than thrown into a destructive cycle of recidivism that fails to treat them and burdens our police and corrections officials. I am honored to receive this award from such an admirable organization as NAMI and I will continue to work to see that the mentally ill receive the treatment and help they deserve."
   "Since 1999, Senator DeWine has been the preeminent leader in Congress on the issue of criminalization of mental illness," said Harvey Snider, President of the NAMI-Ohio Board of Governors and a resident of Cleveland.
   Senator DeWine sponsored the Mental Health Court Act, which authorized up to $10 million in grants per year for 2001-2003 to establish or expand mental health court systems. These programs offer funding and specialized training to courts to address the needs of the mentally ill in the criminal justice system. Senator DeWine introduced a bill to reauthorize this Act until 2009, which passed the Senate in April 2005. Senator DeWine also sponsored the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act. This measure encourages mental health and criminal justice systems to work together in devising new, more effective ways to assist the mentally ill. The President signed this bill into law on October 30, 2004. Senator DeWine secured $5 million in fiscal year 2006 for these grant programs, the first awards of which are expected in September. As a member of the Judiciary Committee, Senator DeWine has convened hearings examining the complex issue of people with mental illness in the criminal justice system and the ways that they can best be integrated back into society without recidivism.
   NAMI is the nation's largest grassroots mental health organization dedicated to improving the lives of persons living with serious mental illness and their families. NAMI-Ohio has nearly 60 local affiliates and provides support, education, and advocacy on a local level. They offer not only a hotline and referral service, but also support groups and a "Family to Family Education Program," where trained family members of those with mental illnesses provide basic education and skill training to others.
 
 