SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR TANKS, HUMVEES IN SUPPLEMENTAL
  Sen. Mike DeWine, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee today announced success in helping to restore $300 million in funding for the Army's M1A2 Abrams tank program in the FY06 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill. The M1A2 System Enhancement Package (SEP) tanks are produced and tested at the Joint Systems Manufacturing Center (formerly the Lima Tank Plant). Senator DeWine was also instrumental in securing an additional $480 million in funding for up-armored Humvees in the bill. This brings the total funding for the new purchase of new up-armored Humvees to $890 million. 
   "By excluding funding for the M1A2 Sep in the Supplemental, we would be withholding the best equipment available from our Nation's brave men and women fighting on the front-line in the War on Terror," said Senator DeWine. "These funds will provide our warfighters with necessary troop protection and critical survival capabilities for our current military operations."
   Hours before the FY06 Emergency Supplemental Request was submitted to Congress the U.S. Army was forced to reduce its procurement request. As a result, funding for the M1A2 SEP tanks was eliminated. Without the funding Senator DeWine helped secure, there could be a break in production resulting in layoffs or a reduction of work across the country, including the Joint Systems Manufacturing Center in Lima. This break could affect jobs in Ohio, Alabama, Michigan, California, Florida, Indiana, Idaho, Arizona, Texas and Pennsylvania.
   After the Supplemental Request was submitted Senator DeWine immediately engaged in discussion with Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS), Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and Senator Ted Stevens (R-AK), Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, requesting the Subcommittee restore the tank funding in the Supplemental Appropriations bill. Senator DeWine then took the lead, writing two letters with his colleagues to the Appropriations Committee in support of funding restoration.
   "I am pleased the Committee saw the importance of this funding, not only for our service members, but for the nearly 600 Ohio workers who would be affected if the MIA2 SEP tank funding were excluded from this bill," added Senator DeWine.
   The bill also includes additional, necessary funding to field up-armored Humvees to troops stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan. Senator DeWine continues to promote addition funding for these Humvees, which are up-armored in Fairfield.
   "My fellow Committee members recognized the critical funding need for Level I and Level II up-armored Humvees, which are truly the best protection for our troops serving overseas," stated Senator DeWine.
   The bill must now pass the Appropriations Committee before going to the Senate Floor for consideration.
 
 