BUSH SIGNS BILL THAT FURTHERS SEN. DEWINE EFFORT TO ENSURE FOSTER CHILDREN HAVE SAFE, STABLE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced the president signed the "Safe and Timely Interstate Placement of Foster Children Act," into law this morning. Sen. DeWine attended the bill signing ceremony at the White House this morning. This bill was introduced in the House and passed in May of this year. Sen. DeWine sponsored the companion bill in the Senate which passed by unanimous consent June 23, 2006. This law helps improve the lives of foster children by working for timelier placement of foster children who are placed or adopted across state lines. 
   "I am pleased this bill is now law because there is no excuse for a child languishing in the foster care system for months and sometimes years. This measure provides resources for states to enhance and speed up their systems of interstate placement of foster children," said Senator DeWine. "Every child deserves to grow up in a safe and loving home and this law will help make sure kids get to that home sooner."
   Specifically, the law allows for a 60-day period for the study of homes for foster children who may be placed or adopted across state lines. This two-month window should provide state and child welfare agencies sufficient time to conduct thorough assessments. The law also expresses the sense of the Congress that states should accept these home studies done by another state, to reduce the waiting time and redundancy of effort in the child welfare system.
   The law provides resource incentives to enhance and speed up state systems for interstate placement for states who earn it. It also provides $1,500 per child who is placed within a 30-day period. States can use the money to improve their systems for placement, hire more placement staff, or for other purposes to improve services for foster children.
   "While the primary power to move these children to homes rests with each individual state, we must do what we can to encourage quick action because while this time frame may seem brief to you and me, it may seem like a long time for a child who deserves a permanent home," added Senator DeWine.
   It also improves the rights of children and their caregivers to be heard in court proceedings concerning their case within the child welfare system by ensuring that parties are present when important matters are being considered. The law requires courts to work more closely with their counterparts in other states when the situation warrants, speeding up the placement process.
 
 