SENS. DEWINE, KOHL APPLAUD HOUSE PASSAGE OF ANTITRUST REFORM LEGISLATION
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Sen. Herb Kohl (D-WI), chairman and ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights, today applauded House passage of "The Standards Development Organization Advancement Act," a substitute for Judiciary Committee legislation sponsored by Sens. DeWine, Kohl, Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT).  
   "Antitrust crimes such as bid rigging and price-fixing cheat consumers and must be strongly punished," said Senator DeWine. "Corporate executives should know that they face serious consequences if they collude with their competitors, and this bill sends that message loud and clear to the marketplace." 
   "We are pleased that the House passed our antitrust reform package, which among other things enhances criminal penalties. Antitrust criminals steal from consumers just as surely as a thief on the street," said Senator Kohl. "The bill also protects consumers when the government settles antitrust cases. This added court authority will ensure that all cases are settled in the public interest." 
   The Senate-passed "The Standards Development Organization Advancement Act," one of the most significant reforms in antitrust laws in recent years, on April 2, 2004. The bill has four major provisions, three of which were originally introduced by Senators DeWine and Kohl as part of "The Antitrust Criminal Penalty Enhancement and Reform Act of 2003." 
   Specifically, the bill would target: 
   Criminal Penalties - The bill increases the maximum prison sentences for antitrust violations to ten years from the current maximum sentence of three years, and raises the maximum fine for individuals from $350,000 to $1 million. In addition, maximum fines for corporations that violate the Sherman Act are raised to $100 million, from the current $10 million maximum. Congress last raised the maximum fines for both corporations and individuals in 1990. Congress last increased the maximum prison sentences in 1974. 
   Tunney Act Reform - The bill clarifies the law to ensure that courts continue to provide appropriate levels of scrutiny to settlements in the Department of Justice's civil antitrust cases under the Tunney Act. 
   Single Damages for Corporations that Cooperate with Investigations - The bill encourages more corporations to give the Department of Justice information about antitrust conspiracies by limiting the civil liability of corporations that take part in the Department of Justice's corporate leniency program. Under the existing corporate leniency program, the Department of Justice agrees not to criminally prosecute corporations that provide critical information about antitrust conspiracies. This bill expands the appeal of that program by limiting the civil liability of corporations that take part in the leniency program. In exchange for this limitation, the corporations must pay restitution to private plaintiffs and assist the private plaintiffs in other antitrust lawsuits. Under existing law, without the Single Damages provision, corporations are liable for triple the damages caused by every member of the conspiracy. 
   Decreased Liability for Standard Development Organizations (SDOs) - SDOs are private, voluntary non-profit organizations that set standards for industry products (e.g., one SDO sets the standard for the required depth of a swimming pool before a diving board may be installed). Under the bill, qualifying SDOs that pre-notify the Antitrust Division of their standard-setting activities will not be subject to treble damages in private suits brought against them.
 
 