SEN. DEWINE WORKS TO PREVENT DESTRUCTIVE SPECIES FROM INVADING GREAT LAKES
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), co-chairman of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today announced the reintroduction of important legislation to expand protections of the Great Lakes from invasive species. The National Invasive Species Council Act, introduced by Sen. DeWine and cosponsored by Sen. Carl Levin (D-MI), would permanently establish the National Invasive Species Council to coordinate federal agency activities to develop a national invasive species management plan.  
   The establishment of the National Invasive Species Council would call upon the Secretaries of State, Commerce, Transportation, Agriculture, Health & Human Services, Interior, Defense, and Treasury and the Administrators of Environmental Protection Agency and U.S. Agency for International Development to work together through the Council to develop a national invasive species management plan. 
   In 2002, the Government Accounting Office (GAO) reported that implementing the national invasive species management plan is difficult because the Council does not have a congressional mandate to act. The GAO also reported that most of the agencies that have responsibilities under the national invasive species management plan have been slow to complete activities by the due date established under the plan and the agencies do not always act in a coordinated manner. Senator DeWine's National Invasive Species Council Act would answer both of these cited roadblocks so that all levels of government involved will be coordinated to respond in a complementary, cost-efficient manner. 
   "Invasive species are a national and local threat," said Senator DeWine. "Invasive species are estimated to cause $137 billion of annual economic damage nationally, which is why a coordinated and efficient national plan must be established if the Great Lakes and other waterways are to see any relief." 
   The Council would also provide guidance to federal agencies on prevention, control, and eradication of invasive species so that federal programs and actions do not increase the risk of invasion or spread non-indigenous species. Lastly, the bill also establishes an Invasive Species Advisory Committee to the Council. 
   Additional co-sponsors include Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), George Voinovich (R-OH), and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI).
 
 