SEN. DEWINE BILL WOULD REAUTHORIZE PAL PROGRAM THAT WORKS TO PREVENT YOUTH CRIME
  Sen. Mike DeWine today introduced the National Police Athletic/Activities League (PAL) Youth Enrichment Act of 2006 to reauthorize the PAL Program. This bill allows up to $16 million to create and expand PAL youth crime prevention programs that provide activities for kids to create trust and understanding between police officers and students. 
   "The PAL Programs are a proven way to create a lasting relationship of trust between young people and police officers. Of the 330 chapters nationwide where police officers provide recreational and educational activities, 28 of them are in Ohio," said Senator DeWine. "This program provides children and teens with positive role models and shows them that their relationships with police officers do not have to be adversarial. Studies have shown that in neighborhoods where PAL programs are introduced, there has been a 44 percent drop in juvenile crime during peak non-school hours. This is a good program that produces proven results." In addition to expanding existing PAL programs, this bill would help establish 250 new PAL chapters over the next five years, and provide support for officers and youth leaders to attend the annual Youth Leadership Conference. This reauthorization also reduces the number of activities required for chapters to receive grants from 4 to 2, so more programs will qualify for assistance, ultimately involving more children in PAL.
   PAL Chapters across the country currently serve approximately 2 million children between the ages of 5 and 18.
   Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA), Diane Feinstein (D-CA), Joe Biden (D-DE), John Kerry (D-MA), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Chris Dodd (D-CT), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT) are cosponsors of the bill.
   A similar bill (HR 4005) was introduced in the House by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA).
 
 