SEN. DEWINE SECURES FUNDING FOR CENTRAL OHIO AND STATEWIDE AGRICULTURE PROJECTS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, today announced the Senate passage of the final Fiscal Year 2006 Agriculture Appropriations bill that includes $1.97 million for projects to help Central Ohio.  
   "I am pleased my colleagues in the House and Senate saw the important research, and policy-making initiatives these projects provide," said Senator DeWine. "These projects will help Ohioans not only preserve our abundant natural resources, but will help farmers across the nation benefit from agricultural research and policy initiatives." 
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following regional projects: 
   The Ohio State University 
   - Ohio Aquaculture Research and Development Initiative - $900,000 for The College of Food, Agricultural and Environmental Sciences to improve broodstock, production techniques and to recalculate aquaculture systems for fish using long and short-term strategies aimed to increase the productivity, innovation, and profitability of Ohio and Midwest aquaculture operations. Sites in Franklin, Pike, Wayne, and Wood counties. 
   - Emergency Detection and Response Research Program - $570,000 for The College of Food, Agricultural and Environmental Sciences to provide pragmatic support for the operation and maintenance of the proposed BSL-3 Ag facility to be built on the campus of the Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center. This will support faculty and staff on both the Columbus and Wooster campuses. 
   Small Farm Institute 
   - Seasonal Grazing Dairy Research Project - $100,000 for the establishment of a seasonal grazing dairy in Coshocton. The North Central Ohio Dairy Grazing Council, the Department of Agriculture and The Ohio State University will work together to research the needs for a grazing dairy in the Appalachian region. For small and mid-size producers, dairy grazing is profitable, and protects area soil and natural resources. 
   Senator DeWine secured funding for the following statewide project: 
   The Ohio State University 
   - The Ohio Center for Farmland Policy Innovation - $400,000 for The Ohio State University to develop a land policy laboratory that will work with local governments and area farmers to help preserve farmland. 
   "The proposed Center will help local governments statewide to test new techniques for protecting farmland and better serving area farmers," added Senator DeWine. 
   The bill now goes to president for his signature.
 
 