SEN. DEWINE INTRODUCES RELIEF BILL TO HELP OHIO RESIDENT GAIN LEGAL STATUS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today introduced a private relief bill that would give permanent resident status to Manuel Bartsch, an 18 year-old German citizen who lives in Gilboa, Ohio. Bartsch has lived in the United States for years with his step-grandfather, and did not know that his step-grandfather never filed the proper paperwork to legalize Bartsch's status until last year. The bill is now being considered by the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security, and Citizenship. Sen. DeWine sent a letter to Sen. John Cornyn, the Chairman of the Subcommittee, requesting support to ensure the bill's passage. 
   "In my opinion, Manuel's status in this country must change," said Senator DeWine. "Through no fault of his own, Manuel is not a legal resident of the United States. Had his step-grandfather adopted him, Manuel would be an American citizen today. And, if his step-grandfather had moved to legalize Manuel's status at some point before he turned 18, he would not be subject to deportation today."
   Manuel was born in Germany to a German citizen, and several months after his birth came to live with his grandmother. When Manuel was still young his grandmother died in a car accident and his step-grandfather, an American citizen, brought him to the United States on a Visa Waiver.
   Manuel went to school and lived in Ohio under the assumption he was a legal resident. However, not once in the 8 years Manuel has lived in the United States did Manuel's step-grandfather take the steps to adopt him or legalize his status. Only when Manuel applied for a social security number so that he could take the ACT exam did he learn of his illegal status. Shortly thereafter, his step-grandfather abandoned him and returned to Germany. Manuel is set to graduate high school in May of this year and has been accepted to the University of Northwest Ohio, School of Business. Without a legalization of his status and the passage of this bill, Manuel has little chance of attending college in the United States.
   Currently, the Bureau of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement has deportation proceedings pending against Manuel and if he does not voluntarily leave the country by July 21, 2006, he will be barred from returning for 10 years.
   "I have asked the Subcommittee to request a report from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement about Manuel's status and have requested their help in passing this relief bill in the Senate," added Senator DeWine.
   Congressman Paul Gillmor (R-OH) introduced similar legislation in the House.
 
 