SEN. DEWINE APPLAUDS COMMUNITY OF CHRIST FOR RECEIVING HOUSING GRANT TO ASSIST ELDERLY
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today applauds administrators at Community of Christ for receiving a grant from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to fund their "White Oak Restoration Plaza" project in Washington County. The HUD grant is from the Section 202 Supportive Housing for Seniors Grant Program, a program designed to increase the supply of affordable rental housing equipped with supportive services for elderly persons. In May of 2005, Sen. DeWine wrote to HUD officials supporting the grant request and explaining that the $3,130,300 grant would help the Community of Christ continue its efforts to house Ohio's neediest seniors.  
   "Regardless of income, seniors deserve to live independently as active community members in housing they can afford," said Senator DeWine. "The Community of Christ strives to construct comfortable, safe facilities specifically designed for the needs of the elderly, with an emphasis on community space. This grant will help expand these efforts in Washington County by funding the construction of a 30-unit apartment building. I applaud the administrators at Community of Christ for their efforts and thank the Department of Housing and Urban Developments for recognizing and funding such a deserving project." 
   HUD's Section 202 Program awards allow elderly persons, including the most frail, to live as independently as possible in the community by increasing the supply of rental housing with the availability of supportive services. Under this program, capital advances are made to private nonprofit organizations to build, acquire and rehabilitate rental housing appropriately equipped for elderly persons. The capital advance is interest free and does not have to be repaid as long as the housing remains available for low-income elderly persons for at least 40 years. Ohio organizations received over $24 million in Section 202 Awards this year.
 
 