SEN. DEWINE ADDRESSES NORTHERN OHIO CHAPTER OF LEUKEMIA & LYMPHOMA SOCIETY'S 'SERVICE TO MANKIND' AWARD CEREMONY
  Speech of Sen. DeWine:
   Thank you so very much for this honor. I am humbled to be on the same podium with Dr. Loop and Fred Nance. I congratulate them and thank them for their strong support for medical research and for effort to find cures for blood cancers. I also want to thank Dr. Loop for all of his years of service to the Cleveland Clinic and the community and wish him will on his upcoming retirement. I also want to congratulate Dr. Cosgrove as he takes the reigns. We all know he will do an outstanding job.  
   The older I get, the more I realize, just how short life is. Our time on this earth is limited. And what we choose to do with that time is what really matters. I want to thank all of you here tonight for choosing to care - for caring and for realizing that there is no more important investment in our future than in medical research and the health of our children and families. 
   This is why Fran and I decided years ago that children's health and medical research would be an area of great focus for me during my time in Congress. Though this investment in research doesn't always grab headlines, it does save lives. That matters. What you do matters. Your efforts are saving lives. 
   Here in Cleveland - here in Northeast Ohio - we have a huge opportunity to expand medical research. We have a lot going on for us in this part of the state. There is a great engine here in Cleveland driving much of the advances and technologies that are so vital to fighting, treating, and curing disease. But, all of us need to do more. I need to do more in the Senate - and as a member of the Senate HELP Committee and the Appropriations Committee, I pledge to do just that. And, I also challenge all of you here tonight to do more. We all have an obligation - a mission to fulfill. And, I am honored to continue working with all of you to meet our goals and ultimately save more lives. 
   Thank you very much.
 
 