SEN. DEWINE BILL WOULD IMPLEMENT GREAT LAKES REGIONAL COLLABORATION RECOMMENDATIONS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), co-chair of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today introduced the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration Implementation Act, aimed at the restoration and protection strategies outlined in the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration strategy released in December 2005. The legislation would reduce the threat of invasive species, restore fish and wildlife and clean up contaminated sediment.
   "The recommendations made by the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration last December provided a vision for the Great Lakes and this bill reflects that vision" said Senator DeWine. "It continues our work on projects to protect and restore the Great Lakes. As I have said throughout this process, the problems in the Great Lakes are getting bigger and more expensive, and we cannot make real progress without new dollars. I hope that my colleagues in the Congress agree and make a full commitment to protecting this national treasure." 
   In May 2004, an Executive Order authorized a Great Lakes Regional Collaboration (GLRC). A unique partnership of members from federal, state, and local governments, tribes, and other stakeholders came together for the purpose of developing a strategic action plan. An Executive Committee made up of senior elected and appointed officials from different levels of government and tribes has helped guide the GLRC as the strategic plan has been developed. The final recommendations were released in December of 2005.
   The Great Lakes Regional Collaboration Implementation Act would limit the introduction of invasive species, restore fish and wildlife, upgrade wastewater infrastructure and clean up contaminated sediment at Areas of Concern. It would provide money to limit toxic substances in the Great Lakes basin and restore waterfront areas. It also calls for the development of comprehensive environmental indicators to be used to track changes in the Great Lakes. Finally, it would authorize the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force to coordinate and oversee federal programs.
   Senator DeWine has a long history of working to protect and restore the Great Lakes, including securing nearly $15 million for Ohio to purchase critical land around Lake Erie, authorizing additional funds for the construction of a second dispersal barrier in the Chicago Ship & Sanitary Canal, and sponsoring the Great Lakes Environmental Restoration Act, a long-term initiative which provides grants to make improvements in the Great Lakes Watershed. In 2002, he sponsored the Great Lakes Legacy Act, a program that recently provided $25 million for cleanup of contaminated sediments in the Ashtabula River.
   DeWine-Levin Great Lakes Regional Collaboration Implementation Act of 2006
   Summary: The Great Lakes are unique and extraordinary natural resource for the region and the nation. A variety of stressors impair the health of the Great Lakes, and deterioration of the ecosystem is accelerating. As a result over 1,800 beaches closed in 2003; Lake Erie develops a 6,300 square mile dead zone every summer; the zebra mussels, just 1 of the over 160 aquatic invasive species in the lakes, cause $500 million per year in economic and environmental damage to the Great Lakes. In December 2005, the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration produced a strategic action plan for protecting and restoring the Great Lakes. The Regional Collaboration was a partnership of federal, state, and local government officials and program managers, scientists, and interested private stakeholders, and 1,500 participants focused their attention on addressing the most critical threats to the Lakes. The Great Lakes Regional Collaboration Implementation Act makes many of the necessary legislative changes to implement many of the policy recommendations made by the Collaboration strategy.
   Invasive Species:
   Subtitle A- Reduces the threat of invasive species introductions-through ballast water and other pathways-by establishing a mandatory ballast water management program, instituting a ballast water treatment technology program for ships by 2011, and authorizing an experimental ballast treatment technology program. The bill also prevents invasive species introductions by identifying pathways that pose the highest risk and by creating a screening process for planned importations of live aquatic organisms. Makes federal funding and resources available for rapid response to introductions of invasive species. Creates education and outreach programs to inform the public on preventing transfers of invasive species. The bill authorizes research on high-risk invasion pathways and alternative prevention and control technologies.
   Subtitle B- The Corps of Engineers would complete construction of the Chicago Ship and Sanitary Canal Dispersal Barrier II, operate and maintain Barriers I and II, and conduct a feasibility study on the full range of options to prevent the spread of invasive species through the canal. The bill would amend the Lacey Act (18 U.S.C. ?42) by listing three species of Asian carp as injurious wildlife and prevent the importation of or interstate movement of live Asian carp.
   Subtitle C- Establishes the National Invasive Species Management Council (NISC) to coordinate federal activities in an effective, complementary, cost-efficient manner; update the National Invasive Species Management Plan; ensure that federal agencies implement the Management Plan; and develop recommendations for international cooperation.
   Habitat/Species- Reauthorizes the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act, a program designed to provide competitive grants to states and tribes to restore fish and wildlife. The bill increases the existing grants from $4.5 million to $12 million. The Fish & Wildlife Service would also be authorized to conduct regional projects, based on recommendations from the states and tribes, which benefit the region.
   Coastal Health- Reauthorizes a program for technical assistance for small treatment facilities. The bill also reauthorizes the State Revolving Loan Fund and authorizes $20 billion over five years to assist communities with the critical task of upgrading and improving their wastewater infrastructure.
   Areas of Concern- The bill authorizes $150 million per year for contaminated sediment cleanup at Areas of Concern under the Great Lakes Legacy program. It also provides the EPA with greater ?exibility in implementing the program by allowing the EPA to disburse funds to the nonfederal sponsor of a Legacy Act project. The bill increases the authorization for appropriations for EPA's Great Lakes National Program Office from $25 million to $50 million so that it can provide additional coordination assistance to states.
   Toxic Substances- The bill establishes a new grant program within EPA called the "Great Lakes Mercury Product Stewardship Strategy Grant Program." The program could receive up to $10 million per year for grants to Great Lakes states and Tribes to implement projects to phase-down mercury in the Great Lakes basin.
   Indicators and Information
   Subtitle A- Directs EPA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the U.S. Geological Survey to prepare an annual joint research plan. The research plan will identify research being carried out to address the needs of the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement, the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration priorities, and a comprehensive, regional database. Authorizes a competitive research grant program through NOAA for research institutions.
   Subtitle B- The bill authorizes the NOAA to establish and maintain an integrated system of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes observations and data for analysis, modeling, research, education, and outreach.
   Subtitle C- EPA would develop, in coordination with other federal agencies and Canada, indicators of water quality and related environmental factors in the Great Lakes and a network to monitor those indicators regularly throughout the Great Lakes basin. The EPA would collect initial benchmark data within four years and report to Congress on changes in water quality.
   Sustainable Development- The bill authorizes NOAA to restore and remediate waterfront areas. Projects will require a non-federal partner who will provide at least a 35% cost-share. Individual projects may not cost more than $5 million. The bill authorizes $50 million per year.
   Coordination & Oversight- Authorizes the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force which currently operates under a 2004 Executive Order. The 10 federal agencies that make up this Task Force would ensure that Great Lakes programs are coordinated and cost-efficient; develop an annual Great Lakes budget; and report to Congress on the status of restoration efforts being carried out in the Great Lakes. The bill authorizes the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration process. The Great Lakes Governors, Tribes, Mayors, and the Great Lakes Interagency Task Force would serve on the Executive Committee. Through Regional Collaboration, the Executive Committee would hold annual meetings, establish a process to work with interested parties, and submit a report to Congress on their work.
 
 