SEN. DEWINE SPONSORED BILL AIMS TO IMPROVE COMPETITION IN OIL INDUSTRY
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced his cosponsorship of the Oil and Gas Industry Antitrust Act of 2006, introduced by Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA). The bill instructs the Department of Justice (DOJ), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to examine how effective antitrust laws have been in the past and consider whether changes in antitrust laws regarding oil industry mergers are needed to promote greater competition. The Act also includes a provision, similar to Senator DeWine's NOPEC legislation that clarifies that the U.S. government may take legal action against OPEC nations for price-fixing in the oil and gas industry. 
   "High fuel costs are affecting every family, whether they're driving across town, or heating their homes," said Senator DeWine, Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Business Rights, and Competition. "This bill would help ensure oil and gas industry mergers are not contributing to rising costs, and allow government agencies to take action to prevent collusive price-fixing by oil producing nations."
   Specifically, the Act requires the DOJ and the FTC to study whether the antitrust laws need to be modified to provide special rules for the oil industry. It also requires the GAO to study whether divestitures required by FTC and DOJ during prior investigations have been effective at preserving competition. The FTC and DOJ will then use this study to reevaluate past mergers and decide if further action needs to be taken to preserve oil industry competition.
   The Act would make it unlawful for companies to unfairly withhold or divert supplies of gasoline or natural gas from local markets. It also creates a Joint Federal and State Task Force to investigate information sharing practices among oil companies to see if these practices have been used to foster anti-competitive activity.
   Finally, the bill incorporates a provision similar Senator DeWine and Senator Herb Kohl's (D-WI) NOPEC bill that makes it clear that OPEC nations doing business in the U.S. must abide by U.S. antitrust laws. This provision clarifies that OPEC's activities are not protected by sovereign immunity and that the federal courts should not decline to hear a price-fixing case against OPEC based on the "act of state doctrine." This would force OPEC to begin pricing in a competitive, free market manner or face the possibility of being prosecuted for civil or criminal antitrust violations.
   The bill is also cosponsored by Senator Kohl, Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA).
 
 