SEN. DEWINE SPEAKS AT JACOB RADER MARCUS CENTER OF THE AMERICAN JEWISH ARCHIVES
  Thank you, Dr. Cohen, for that introduction and thank you for all you have done as Provost. 
   I am truly honored to be with all of you today for this very special occasion. The American Jewish Archives is an utterly amazing collection of documentary evidence on the history of the American Jewry. No doubt, these new state-of-the-art buildings will help continue fulfilling the mission of achieving a greater understanding of how American Jews lived and worked and in turn, created the thriving Jewish community we have today.  
   This year marks the 350th anniversary of Jewish communal life in North America and the American Jewish Archives has been instrumental in documenting that life and allowing us to connect to our history. The Jewish community in America, and indeed all over the world, has had a rich - and at times difficult - past. It is this history - and an understanding of the underlying story - that helps us to better understand ourselves, where we are from, and where we are going. Access to the story is crucial. 
   During my time in the Senate, I have worked with much the same goal that all of you have with the American Jewish Archives - and that has been to access the real story. Many of you are familiar with the Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act, which I introduced in the Senate and was signed into law in 1998 and extended in 2000 and again this past March. It was instituted with the purpose of making public previously classified information about a terrible part of history - the history of Nazi persecution and also the relationship of the U.S. Government to the Nazi war criminals in the aftermath of World War II and during the Cold War. 
   This law created the Interagency Working Group, which has been tasked with locating, identifying, and recommending documents for declassification. The government officials, professional historians, and archivists have done an amazing job coordinating the single largest specifically focused declassification effort in American history. To date, over 100 million documents have been screened for possible relevance, and over 8 million documents have been declassified and used to create a book titled, "U.S. Intelligence and the Nazis." This book provides us with 15 chapters of insight into the Holocaust and the post-World War II era - insight into what U.S. government officials knew and when they knew it. This book gives us access to stories like that of Gonzalo Montt, the Chilean consul in Prague during the early 1940s. Montt was a Nazi sympathizer and, as such, appears to have had significant access to Nazi plans regarding "the Jewish problem" and how the regime was planning to address it - and that plan involved moving the Jews into ghettos, expropriating their assets, and eventually eradicating the Jewish population. 
   British intelligence got access to many of Montt's dispatches to his home government and provided them to the United States as early as March 1942. Under the law, the Interagency Working Group recommended that these documents be declassified, and our government agreed. These documents show that certain officials in our government had some evidence of Nazi intentions toward the Jews at least six months earlier than had been known previously. This sort of information is critically important to our understanding of not only the past, but of the future. As you know, the late Dr. Jacob Rader Marcus understood that well, and that is why he founded the American Jewish Archives in the aftermath of the Holocaust. Dr. Marcus knew that we have an obligation to preserve history for the next generation - he understood that to look toward the future, we must learn from our past. 
   With that in mind, a few weeks ago, on May 12th, I gave a speech on the Senate Floor commemorating the 57th anniversary of the birth of Israel, and took the opportunity to look back at the end of World War II. My father, Richard DeWine, served in World War II in K Company, which was part of the Army's 103rd Infantry Division. He, and other members of K Company, shared stories with me - their own history - about what they saw at the end of the War, when they visited the Dachau concentration camp shortly after it was liberated. When my father was at Dachau, a camp where over 28,000 people had perished, the prisoners had already left the camp. He has a vivid recollection, though, of seeing the ovens that the Nazis used to burn the bodies of so many of the prisoners. He can still picture in his mind the devices they used to slide the bodies into the ovens and the many urns that contained the prisoners' ashes. 
   He remembers going into a room next to the ovens and seeing fixtures on the walls that looked like showerheads. Those at the camp told him the prisoners were taken into these rooms and the prisoners were told they were going to take showers, but instead of water coming out of the nozzles, poisonous gas was emitted, killing them within minutes. 
   My dad remembers walking down the road near the camp and encountering a very weak, emaciated man who had, a short time before that, been a prisoner. My dad and his buddies talked to the man and gave him food and cigarettes. They asked him if they could take his picture. He said, yes, as long as it was with an American soldier. So they did. My dad still has that picture. Carl Greene, who was also a member of K Company, remembers their visit to Dachau. He says that some of the former prisoners in the camp, still wearing those unforgettable stripped uniforms, actually served as their guides to show them around the camp, taking them to the gas chambers and the crematorium and the area in the camp where the Nazis would shoot prisoners in the back of their heads. 
   K Company member Al Eucare, Sr., who was just 18 years old at the time, remembers what he describes as one-man pillboxes that stood outside the gates of Dachau. These were cylindrical pipes that stood upright, just big enough for a man to fit inside. They were something of a sentry post. Each of these concrete tubes contained an open slat at the top and the bottom, where guns were placed to shoot at prisoners if there was disorder as the prisoners went in and out of the gates. Like my dad, Al also remembers the ovens at Dachau. He said when he was there, even though it was after the camp was liberated and the war had ended, there were still ashes and skeletal remains inside those horrible ovens. 
   Though these recollections are difficult to hear and even more difficult to imagine, we must, as President Eisenhower said 60 years ago, tell these stories and always remember the atrocities that occurred - because, in spite of this nightmare, in spite of the murder of millions of Jews, and in spite of what seemed to be a bleak future, the Jewish community survived. And today, Israel has become a stable ally and friend. The people of Israel have forested the desert, revived their language, built cities, and established a vigorous and ever-growing community. The North American Jewish community has rebounded, as well. With links to their past, the community has moved forward. One such example of that is the family of one of my Judiciary Committee staffers, Robert Steinbuch. His late father's cousins, the Hershenfis family, were forced into labor in the Pionki ghetto in Poland. In 1941, the family was shipped off to Auschwitz. Hanna and her brother Harry were separated from each other and from their parents Fay and Harvey. Fay and Harvey never made it out of the death camp. Hanna, tattooed with the number A14699, was shipped to an intermediate camp and then to Bergen-Belsen. Harry - B416 to the Nazis - worked hard labor in Auschwitz for four years, and then, in 1944, was sent to another camp called Mauthausen. 
   On May 3, 1945, the Nazis fled the camp. That night, the skies opened and sent down a rainfall as if the world were being cleansed from the horrors it had seen. The next morning, the Americans arrived and the 11th Armored Division liberated the camp. Three days later, Harry turned 26. 
   After five weeks in an American hospital, Harry spent the next three years in a displaced persons camp in Austria. In 1949, Harry's wishes were answered, and he set off for America. Four years later, when Hanna also came to the United States, the siblings were reunited for the first time since they were shipped off to Auschwitz 13 years prior. Harry is 86 now and Hanna is a few years younger. Both are alive and well. Harry's sense of humor is strong, and he plays down the difficulties he faced. But, we all know better. 
   Like so many members of the American Jewish community, Harry and Hanna overcame hardships many of us cannot begin to imagine. They came to America at a time when our Nation's Jewish community was adapting to the world scene - and adapting well. This community is now the largest and best educated Jewish community in history. And so, as we celebrate the dedication of this building on this, the 350th anniversary of Jewish communal life in North America, may we remember the history of the great Jewish people - the history that the American Jewish Archives has done so well to preserve. 
   In conclusion, let me just take a moment to recognize three individuals who made this day possible: Dr. David Ellenson, President of the Jewish Institute of Religion; Dr Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus of Hebrew Union College; and Dr. Gary Zola, Executive Director of the Jacob Rader Marcus Center. Thank you all for your hard work and dedication to this project. May you continue your good work for many, many years to come.
 
 