SEN. DEWINE HONORS SGT. CHARLES KISER
  Let me begin by first extending my heartfelt sympathy to the Kiser family: Sergeant Kiser's mother, Glenda; his wife, Debbie and their two children, Alicia and Mark; his five sisters, Chris, Denise, Patty, Theresa, and Joy; and his countless friends. My wife, Fran, and I continue to pray for all of you. We also continue to pray for the safety of Specialist Matt Maupin. Mr. and Mrs. Maupin - my heart goes out to you and your family.  
   Today, it is so heartening to see this incredible display of community support for the Kiser family, as well as the Maupin family. Ohioans always come together as a family in times of joy and in times of grief. 
   I come here today both as a United States Senator and as a parent - a parent who also has lost a child. As a Senator, in preparing my remarks today, I realized just how inadequate words are at a time like this. They are inadequate to express our sorrow, and they are inadequate to express our pride and respect for a man such as Charles Kiser. 
   Since the start of the war on terrorism in Afghanistan and the war in Iraq, I have often been reminded of something that President Ronald Reagan said at a Veteran's Day celebration almost 20 years ago. He said this: 
   "There is a special sadness that accompanies the death of a serviceman, for we're never quite good enough to them - not really; we can't be, because what they gave us is beyond our powers to repay. And so, when a serviceman dies, it's a tear in the fabric, a break in the whole, and all we can do is remember." 
   So today, we remember Sergeant Charles Kiser. We honor him. And, we remember him. 
   I didn't know Charles Kiser personally. But, what I do know is that over the last year and a half, I have gotten to know the families of over 30 Ohioans, like Charles, who have given the last true measure of devotion - 30 Ohioans who gave their lives for us and for our children, so that we could be safe - so that we could be free. 
   Our Nation is proud of Sergeant Charles Kiser. He died doing what he believed in. 
   I am here today also as a parent. Nearly 11 years ago, Fran and I lost our 22 year old daughter Becky in a car accident. Mrs. Kiser - all I can say is that I understand. 
   Charles was a good son. He was a good father - a good husband, a good brother, a good friend, and a good soldier. 
   We will never forget Sergeant Charles Kiser. We will always remember. We will always be proud.
 
 