SEN. DEWINE'S LAW REQUIRING DECLASSIFICATION OF NAZI WAR CRIMES RECORDS REVELS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT POST-WORLD WAR II ERA
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today joined Archivist of the United States Allen Weinstein and CIA representative Stan Moskowitz, as well as Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), to announce approximately 27,000 pages of additional CIA documents have recently been declassified. This comes as a result of the 2005 DeWine legislation that extended the life of the Nazi War Crimes and Imperial Japanese Government Records Interagency Working Group (IWG), for an additional two years. The IWG, created in 1998, works with U.S. Government agencies to locate, identify, and recommend declassification of records of Nazi war criminals held by the United States. Today's release is the first under the 2005 IWG extension. 
   "I hope the release of these new documents will help bring closure to families whose relatives suffered at the hands of the Nazis. I want to commend the Interagency Working Group for their hard work in securing the declassification of more than 8 million pages of government records since this project began," said Senator DeWine. "I am pleased we've been able to allow the IWG to continue its work to permit these once-secret documents to be made public. The documents help bring the truth to light and allow us to better understand one of the darkest periods in human existence - the Nazi era."
   The newly declassified documents contain CIA reports, correspondence, memoranda, and translations and are now available for public viewing at the National Archives at College Park, Maryland.
   The IWG was created as a part of Senator DeWine's Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act and is composed of representatives from eight federal agencies and three public members. Under this law, federal agencies in possession of records of individuals alleged to have committed Nazi war crimes are required to make these records public. The IWG identifies and locates this information and works to declassify it. Declassification is permitted only if declassification does not compromise privacy or national security interests. Agency heads determining there is privacy or national security concern with the declassification of a document must justify their decision to Congress.
 
 