SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH, REP. HOBSON SECURE BARRIER THAT WOULD PREVENT ASIAN CARP FROM INFILTRATING GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH), George V. Voinovich (R-OH) and Rep. Dave Hobson (R-Springfield) today announced that the Great Lakes will now receive new protections against a destructive fish species thanks to $6.825 million in federal funds. The funds will complete a second layer of protection to the electrified barrier in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal. The funds were authorized through the Fiscal Year 2005 District of Columbia Appropriations bill. The language in the D.C. Appropriations bill allows an additional $1.825 million in federal funds to supplement the previously allocated $5 million in federal funds to be spent, along with state and local contributions, on construction of the barrier. 
   Senator DeWine, Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the District of Columbia, worked with Hobson and Voinovich to include an additional $1.825 million in funding in his bill to supplement $5 million in federal funds and contributions from Great Lakes states to complete work on the barrier.
   The protective barrier is an Army Corps of Engineers project, which is typically funded through the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. However, due to unrelated issues, the energy and water bills in the House and Senate have been stalled. Hobson, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, worked with DeWine, Chairman of the Great Lakes Task Force, and Voinovich to authorize the additional funding for the barrier through the D.C. Appropriations bill because of its readiness to become law.
   The barrier in the Chicago Ship and Sanitary Canal was authorized in 1996 under the National Invasive Species Act to prevent non-native species from moving between the Mississippi River and the Great Lakes. The original barrier was designed to be temporary, and it is close to the end of its expected service life. The barrier is the only thing that is preventing Asian carp from entering the Great Lakes system. Asian carp, which are not native to the region, are traveling up the Mississippi River and threaten to cause ecological damage to the Great Lakes region because of their voracious eating and their tendency to rapidly reproduce. A second barrier is needed before the first barrier fails to ensure that Asian carp are not able to move freely from the Mississippi River into the Great Lakes.
   "The barrier is an innovative solution to the on-going invasive species problem that is an imminent threat the health of one of the largest surface freshwater systems in the world," said DeWine, Chairman of the District of Columbia Appropriations Committee. "Invasive species have cost millions of dollars worth of damage to Great Lakes fishermen, boaters, manufacturers and shippers. As Chairman of the District of Columbia Appropriations Committee, I am pleased that I was able to help secure this remedy in my bill."
   "Just as we've fought hard against zebra mussels-and are still fighting-we're going to fight hard against Asian carp. Getting a jump on this menace before it's in the Lakes is key and this barrier allows us to do that. I appreciate Sen. DeWine's help in this fight and I look forward to this new barrier being up quickly to help strengthen our defenses," said Voinovich
   "An important part of responsible natural resource management is protecting one of our country's most precious resources - the Great Lakes - from an invasive species like the Asian carp. This barrier will help us is in that mission. I'm pleased that we were able to come to an agreement where this worthwhile project could be funded through Senator DeWine's bill," said Hobson.
   After the District of Columbia Appropriations bill Conference Report passes Congress, it will be sent to the President for his signature.
 
 