SEN. DEWINE COSPONSORED BILL STRENGTHENS TOOLS TO FIGHT TERRORISM
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) signed on as an original cosponsor of the Terrorism Prevention Act of 2006, a bill introduced today by Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ). The Terrorism Prevention Act would enhance and improve the statutes governing material support for terrorism, protection of classified information, terrorist hoaxes, and terrorist murders and assaults. 
   "Our first priority must be protecting Americans from terrorism and punishing those that harm us. Our laws must appropriately punish terrorists and their supporters," said Senator DeWine. "This bill would plug a number of gaps in current law and improve the investigation and prosecution of terrorism cases. It would also stiffen penalties for those found guilty of heinous acts of terrorism."
   Most significantly, the bill creates a new offense for those who give material benefits to the family of a suicide bomber, if the benefits were given with the intent to reward, encourage, or facilitate terrorism. This crime would be punishable by 10 years in prison.
   The bill would also make some necessary changes to the terrorist hoax statute. Current law does not punish hoaxes related to the taking of hostages, blowing up an energy facility, terrorist attacks on military bases, or attacks on railways and mass transportation facilities. This bill would add these crimes to the terrorist hoax statute. It would also increase the penalty for hoaxes about the death, injury, or capture of a U.S. soldier during wartime, punishing such offenders with 2 to 10 years in prison.
   Finally, the bill would increase penalties for those found guilty of committing acts of terrorism, so that a terrorist murder of a U.S. national overseas would be punishable by imprisonment of at least 30 years, and a terrorist assault resulting in serious bodily injury would be punishable by 10 years to life. The bill would also make a number of terrorism-related offenses eligible for the death penalty, including offenses involving the use of nuclear weapons, anti-aircraft missiles, radiological bombs, and the smallpox virus.
   "Time and again, we have said that terrorism is a deadly problem that affects the very survival of our nation and our way of life," said Senator DeWine. "This bill will strengthen our ability to fight terrorism both at home and abroad. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation."
 
 