REP. OXLEY-SEN. DEWINE PRIVACY BILL TO GO TO PRESIDENT'S DESK FOR SIGNATURE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and Rep. Michael Oxley (R-Findlay) commended the Senate passage Tuesday of S. 1301, the Video Voyeurism Prevention Act of 2004, a privacy law that would make "video voyeurism" a crime. The bill will now be sent to President Bush to be signed into law.  
   Senator DeWine sponsored the Senate bill that would establish a federal law criminalizing the secret videotaping or "cyber-peeping" of anyone who has a reasonable expectation of privacy. Representative Oxley sponsored the legislation in the House of Representatives, where it passed on September 21, 2004. Currently, there is no federal law protecting citizens from secret and intrusive videotaping. 
   "Updating our 'peeping tom' laws is long overdue," Senator DeWine said. "This act will help safeguard the privacy we all value as well as ensure that our criminal law reflects the realities of our rapidly changing technology. The Act will prohibit both filming and taking compromising pictures of people in places where they expect privacy the most." 
   "The proliferation of camera cell phones has drawn a lot of attention to this legislation," said Oxley, a former FBI agent. "There is a need to use new technology responsibly, and to make sure that precious privacy rights are protected." 
   The Video Voyeurism Prevention Act of 2004 would prohibit the videotaping, photographing, filming, or recording by electronic means of any non-consenting person in circumstances where that person would have a reasonable expectation of privacy. The new law would be applicable on federal property including national parks, federal buildings and military bases. For example, the law would make it illegal for a person to videotape or photograph in the changing room of a federal park or film down the blouse of a woman on a military base. Any person found guilty of video voyeurism could be fined or imprisoned for up to one year, or both. 
   30 states have laws on peeping that include crimes of cyber-peeping. The current law in the State of Ohio prohibits "up skirt" and "down blouse" videotaping. This is a third-degree misdemeanor punishable by up to 60 days imprisonment, a $500 fine, or both. 
   Senator DeWine, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, first introduced this legislation in the Senate in the 107th Congress (S. 2661). Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) is the Senate cosponsor. U.S Representatives Oxley and Charles Gonzalez (D-TX) sponsored the bill in the House of Representatives.
 
 