SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON UPDATE ON SITUATION IN DARFUR, SUDAN
  Mr. President, during Fourth of July recess, the crisis in Darfur, Sudan, made headlines with the visit of Secretary of State Powell and UN Secretary General Kofi Annan. I applaud them both for bringing much-needed attention to the genocide and humanitarian crisis in Darfur. Senator Brownback and Representative Frank Wolf also visited Darfur. Representative Wolf told me that what he saw defies imagination. And, I think we all know that if it were happening in Europe, we would act, and we did when it was Yugoslavia and Kosovo.  
   The imperative to act in Sudan is clear. There are several steps we need to take immediately. Many of these steps, such as sending in a UN authorized peacekeeping force and planning on tribunals to punish the guilty, are steps I called for back in May - yet we are still waiting for the international community to act. Their delay is costing lives. The U.S. government and the Senate have already taken other steps, such as providing more humanitarian aid funding, but so much more remains to be done. 
   First, the United Nations should authorize peacekeeping forces and monitors to guard the region of Darfur, and in particular, the displaced persons camps. I know the Sudanese government has already promised to protect the people of Darfur, but they have made the same promises for months. I want to show everyone this picture of Darfur to show why the Government of Sudan has been stalling. 
   Satellite photos available from USAID confirm the destruction of nearly 400 villages and 56,000 houses. But, here is a picture from the ground. The stories are terrible. A villager described it best. She said this: 
   "The Janjawid arrived and asked me to leave the place. They beat women and small children. They killed a little girl, Sara. She was two years old. She was knifed in her back." 
   We need to send peacekeepers in for Sara, and for the tens of thousands, like her, who have been killed because they were black. These people have no reason to trust a government who has done this to them, and neither do we. I would trust African Union monitors and peacekeepers with our logistical planning and support, and I hope we will help them as they prepare their troops. I have been calling for this since May, and maybe now people will start to realize that it is the only step. The wolf cannot be expected to guard the sheep, and the Sudanese military, which includes former militia members in its ranks, cannot be expected to guard the people of Darfur. 
   Furthermore, 300 peacekeepers is just a start. There are too many camps, and too many people, all in a region the size of Texas, for 300 people to be the answer. 300 is the first step, and I expect other countries to follow the African Union's lead. 
   Second, we need to classify what is going on in Darfur as genocide. I know with the use of that term comes a legal obligation under the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, but we should not refrain from using the term to avoid acting. It is my understanding that the litmus test for using the term genocide is a matter of intent - an intent to commit genocide. When men on horseback and camel kill men, women, and children - going 50 miles into Chad to complete the task when they fail - I do not know what other term to use, but that is a decision for Secretary Powell to make, and I hope he makes his determination soon. 
   Third, we need to name names. The U.S. Government knows who is responsible for orchestrating these atrocities both within the militias and within the Government of Sudan. We should be publicly identifying these people so that the world knows that those who aid in genocide will not be able to hide in the shadows. 
   Fourth, we should impose targeted sanctions on those officials in the Government of Sudan who are responsible for aiding the militias. It is not enough to target the militia members, who are little more than thugs on camels. We need to target sanctions at the government officials, including travel bans. We need to go after their assets and deny them the freedom and rights that they have denied to those in Darfur. 
   Fifth, we need to prosecute the war crimes in competent international tribunals. Dog and pony show trials are no substitute for justice, and a lasting peace in Darfur will require that justice is served. This is particularly important for the militia members who are counting on slipping into the Sudanese military or back into their villages after this is done. The only future for those guilty of war crimes should be the inside of a court room and then the inside of a jail cell. 
   Sixth, we will need peace talks in order to address the deep roots of this conflict. This is not just about skin color. This is about a systematic policy of the Government of Sudan to deprive outlying regions the resources they need to develop. There are other regions of Sudan that also are suffering from neglect, and unless the Government of Sudan changes its attitude and starts to treat its people with respect, it will face more insurgencies in the future. 
   Finally, I would like to close with a word about the humanitarian situation in Darfur. According to the World Health Organization, 10,000 people will die this month in Darfur if nothing is done. Today 100 to 200 people will die, and by the end of the week, an additional 1,000 people will have died not just from disease, but from inaction. The crisis will require more than just contributing money. According to the World Health Organization, military logistics are needed immediately to distribute the aid. According to the United Nations, at least 50 camps are currently receiving no aid, and that is only going to get worse as the rainy season intensifies, washing out all the roads. 
   I know the Government of Sudan likes to deny that this is a crisis, but we all know this is the worst humanitarian crisis in the world today. 
   People are counting on us and our action. Tens of thousands of lives hang in the balance. I encourage my colleagues to join the growing chorus of voices demanding action in Darfur - and I thank those have supported our efforts already. I know we will not rest upon our past laurels, but instead will continue to move forward, pushing the international community to do more. After Rwanda, when we said never again - we meant it.
 
 