SEN. DEWINE APPLAUDS PROGRESS BEING MADE BY GREAT LAKES REGIONAL COLLABORATION
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH), co-chairman of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, today applauds the release of the draft strategic plan from the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration (GLRC). For many years, Sen. DeWine has been calling for a vision for the Great Lakes. In 2002, he and other members of the Great Lakes Task Force asked the governors of the Great Lakes states for their recommendations for Great Lakes restoration, and those recommendations served as the starting point for organizing the draft strategy plan.  
   "The Great Lakes are a unique natural resource, a resource that must be protected for future generations," noted Senator DeWine. "I am pleased that so many different interests have come together to draft a plan for the future of the Lakes." 
   In December 2004, the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration (GLRC) began a unique partnership of members from federal, state, and local governments, tribes, and other stakeholders for the purpose of developing a strategic action plan. An Executive Committee made up of senior elected and appointed officials from different levels of government has helped guide the GLRC as the strategic plan has been developed. Eight Strategy Teams, each focusing on a different issue affecting the Great Lakes basin, began work in January 2005 through a collaborative process, to develop recommendations for action. The plan is in its early stages, and it has not yet been officially endorsed by any GLRC member agencies or partners. The draft plan is now being released for a 60-day public comment period. "Hundreds of people have put a lot of hard work into this collaborative process, and they have outlined solutions for the largest threats facing the Great Lakes. More importantly, we're starting to see how these problems are interrelated and why it's important to take action now," added Senator DeWine. 
   Senator DeWine, with Senator Carl Levin (D-MI), is the sponsor of S.509, the Great Lakes Environmental Restoration Act, which authorized $6 billion for Great Lakes restoration. As co-chairs of the Senate Great Lakes Task Force, Senators DeWine and Levin have worked on legislation and other initiatives to protect this great natural resource. In recent years, they have secured funding for water level gauges, the electric dispersal barrier in the Chicago Sanitary & Ship Canal, and sea lamprey control through the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. In addition, they have worked to prevent water from the Lakes being diverted abroad and to address harmful algal blooms.
 
 