SEN. DEWINE BACKS RESOLUTION FOR BOLD ENERGY INITIATIVE
  Today Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) applauds Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Sen. Ken Salazar (D-CO) for introducing a concurrent resolution in the Senate that calls for the U.S. to consume 25 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2025. Sen. DeWine is an original cosponsor of the resolution. 
   "The only way we can move away from traditional fuels is to set clear goals and create national energy initiatives so that this country can be self-reliant when it comes to our energy needs and this resolution is a step in the right direction," said Senator DeWine. "This comes down to national security; we shouldn't have to depend on the whims of other nations to get our necessary fuel, especially if those nations are not our friends. If we develop our own alternative fuels, we can be self-reliant while strengthening our economy as we develop these new energy resources."
   The goal of the resolution, known commonly as "25x'25", was developed by a group of volunteer farm and forestry leaders and organizations. Numerous state legislators and several governors have endorsed the plan, as have over 140 farm, forestry and environmental organizations and companies, including the Ohio Corn Growers Association, the American Farm Bureau Federation, the National Association of Counties, the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, Environmental Defense, the National Wildlife Federation, and Deere & Co. In addition to providing an important path forward for every American concerned about high energy prices, 25x'25 will enhance national security, create new job opportunities in rural America, and improve the environment.
   "Supporting this initiative means supporting farmers, ranchers and foresters in Ohio and across America," Senator DeWine added.
   Representative Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) introduced the concurrent resolution in the House.
   Please email Andrew_Langworthy@dewine.senate.gov for a picture of Senator DeWine at the 25x'25 Press Conference.
 
 