SEN. DEWINE ANNOUNCES MIAMI VALLEY TO IMPROVE DC WATERFRONT
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today announced the National Composite Center in Kettering was awarded a $1 million project to build composite bridges along the Anacostia River waterfront in Washington, D.C. 
   "I am proud that an Ohio corporation can provide the technology needed to ensure visitors to our nation's capital can enjoy the city's waterfront for years to come," said Senator DeWine. "Not only will Washington, D.C. visitors and residents benefit, but Ohio designers, engineers, manufacturers, and producers will participate in this project."
   Composite bridges are made of polymer resin composites, instead of the traditional concrete. The bridges can be built away from the bridge site and then be transported before being installed. This process creates a shorter construction period and reduces traffic tie-ups.
   The National Composite Center, a not-for-profit corporation, develops composite manufacturing processes and products, in this case, bridges, that provide significant commercial advantages for customers. Replacing bridges creates traffic-routing problems that are virtually continual because of the short lifespan of bridges - normally 20 years. For a city like Washington D.C., that has 216 bridges, construction is costly, averaging $500,000 per a 2000 square foot bridge. However, composite bridges, like the ones the National Composite Center will design, can be installed quickly, minimizing traffic-diversion and have a life-span of more than 100 years.
   This project gives the National Composite Center the opportunity to install composite bridges in Washington, D.C. for pedestrian and bicycle traffic. This plan should reduce the lifetime cost of the bridges by 30 percent.
   While the actual installation of the bridges will be done by Washington, D.C. construction companies, contracts for materials will be awarded to companies through a competitive process. In the past, The National Composite Center uses Ohio companies for many of their supplies. Lockwood, Jones & Beals of Kettering works with the National Composite Center on civil engineering issues.
 
 