SEN. DEWINE BILL WOULD FIGHT AGAINST LONG-TERM HOMELESSNESS
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today introduced a bill that would provide support services to the homeless. The Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act would provide mental health and substance abuse treatment, general health referrals, life skills training including money management, family support, and other supportive services to individuals and families who are chronically homeless. 
   "Providing affordable housing alone is not enough for many chronically homeless people to achieve stability," Senator DeWine said. "They need flexible, individualized support services to sustain housing. By providing these services to the long-term homeless, we can help end the cycle between homelessness, jails, and hospitals and give them a chance to lead the rewarding, fulfilling lives they deserve."
   Nationally, there are approximately 200,000 to 250,000 people who experience chronic homelessness, including children and families. The President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health recommended the development of a comprehensive plan to facilitate access to permanent supportive housing for the chronically homeless. The Services for Ending Long-Term Homeless Act recognizes that it is not enough to just provide affordable housing. Permanent supportive housing, which includes support services, is a proven and cost-effective solution to long-term homelessness. Accordingly, this bill would provide authorization for funding of supportive services in a manner that can be closely coordinated with funding for housing out of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   The Services for Ending Long-Term Homelessness Act would also encourage Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to coordinate their efforts, not only with the Department of Housing and Urban Development, but with other Federal departments and agencies in order to develop and provide more effective strategies to combat chronic homelessness.
   The bipartisan bill is co-sponsored by Senator Jack Reed (D-RI). A similar bill was introduced in the House of Representatives by Representative Richard Burr (R-NC) and currently has 22 cosponsors.
 
 