SEN. DEWINE 'STARS ON CARS' MEASURE ENACTED AS NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION ADMINISTRATOR SIGNS RULE, UNVEILS NEW WINDOW STICKER
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today joined National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) Administrator Nicole Nason as she signed the rule enacting Sen. DeWine's Stars on Cars measure. Sen. DeWine's Stars on Cars bill was included in the SAFETEA-LU bill that was signed into law in August 2005. The rule enacts Stars on Cars which mandates that government-issued star safety ratings be placed on window stickers of new cars making the ratings more easily available to consumers as they make their car-buying decision. 
   "This measure just makes sense. By placing safety ratings directly on new car window stickers, consumers will have the ability to make more informed decisions right there on the car sales lot," said Senator DeWine. "I am pleased my colleagues agreed that Stars on Cars is a common sense approach that gives consumers easier access to important safety information to consider before they buy a car. I also thank Administrator Nason for joining me today to enact Stars on Cars and unveil the window stickers."
   NHTSA regularly conducts tests measuring the safety performance of vehicles in frontal and side impact crashes, as well as rollover resistance, and assigns star ratings based on those tests. The star ratings, although available on the NHTSA website, are not easily accessible to car shoppers when they need the information most-on the dealership car lot. Senator DeWine's point of sale labeling, Stars on Cars, takes the common sense step of adding star ratings to the other information on car pricing stickers already required by law, such as cost, fuel economy, and vehicle features.
   "When Consumers have ready access to crash test data they can make more informed decisions choosing cars that better protect their families when they're out on the road," Senator DeWine added.
   The Stars on Cars rule mandates the safety ratings be placed on the stickers no later than September 1, 2007 (for the '08 model year).
   To access the text of the rule, please visit http://www.safercar.gov/StarsOnCars/finalrule.pdf.
 
 