SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON NOMINATION OF JUDGE MICHAEL WATSON TO BE FEDERAL DISTRICT JUDGE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO ON SENATE FLOOR
  Mr. President, I'd like to take a few minutes to speak about Judge Michael H. Watson, who is from my home state of Ohio. He's from Columbus. As my colleagues are aware, President Bush nominated Judge Watson to serve as a federal judge in the Southern District of Ohio.  
   I'd like to take a moment to tell my Senate colleagues why I believe so strongly in his nomination. Judge Watson is exactly the sort of person we ought to have serving on the federal bench. He has had a long and distinguished career as a public servant. He has been a judge on the Tenth District Court of Appeals in Franklin County since Governor Bob Taft appointed him in May 2003. 
   From 1996 to 2003, Judge Watson served on the Franklin County Common Pleas Court, a position he was appointed to by then Governor George Voinovich and to which he was re-elected twice. In Ohio, the Common Pleas Court is the highest trial bench. It is the court that tries all the major civil and criminal cases. During his last three years on the trial court, Judge Watson served as Administrative Judge with responsibility of the administrative management of the 16-member court and its staff. He dealt with, literally, thousands of cases during his time as a state trial court judge. 
   Before serving on the bench, Judge Watson worked for the office of then Governor George Voinovich - first as Deputy Chief Legal Counsel and then, from 1994 to 1995, as Chief Legal Counsel. Prior to that, he was Chief Legal Counsel to the Director of the Ohio Department of Commerce. Judge Watson also spent several years in private practice, focusing primarily on personal injury litigation, employment disputes, workers' compensation, and criminal defense. 
   Without question, Judge Watson has had an impressive legal career. But, what really impresses me about him is how hard he has worked throughout his life. Judge Watson has genuinely lived the American dream by working hard and overcoming the odds. I asked Judge Watson about his humble beginnings at his hearing back in June. Judge Watson described how his mother and stepfather raised him. His stepfather managed auto parts stores; his mother was a middle manager at Riverside Hospital in Columbus. There were five children in this family and all the kids knew that if they wanted to go to college, they'd have to pay their own way. Judge Watson's parents simply could not afford it. 
   Judge Watson chose to take advantage of the GI bill, as many working-class young men and women do. Not long after high school, the Judge enlisted in the Air Force and served for over three years. When he was discharged, he enrolled at The Ohio State University and continued his service in the military in the Air National Guard. While in college, he married his high school sweetheart, Lori, and they had their first son when Judge Watson was a junior in college. During all this time, Judge Watson was working full-time in the Franklin County prosecuting attorney's office. That's right, Mr. President, Judge Watson was enrolled at OSU full-time, raising a family, serving in the Air National Guard, and working full-time. 
   After a few years at that pace, you would think that Judge Watson would take a bit of a break. But, that was not the case for this man with an incredible work ethic. When Judge Watson finished college, he enrolled in a law school night program at Capital University Law School. During the day, Judge Watson worked full-time as a court bailiff for a well-known Franklin County judge. That job evolved into a law clerk position, in which Judge Watson remained for his entire four years of law school. 
   Mr. President, I know that if someone in my family or I ended up in a federal court, I'd want a judge who could relate to me. I'd want a judge who knows what the real world is like for most Americans. I'd want a judge who knows what it's like to struggle and what its like to be faced with no-win decisions. Judge Watson is that kind of judge. 
   Of course, I'd also want a judge who knows what he is doing and who will enforce the law - and Judge Watson has clearly proven he is qualified for the job in that respect. But, what Judge Watson has that makes him really outstanding, in my view, is his ability to make decisions with compassion and with a true understanding of what it's like in the real world. 
   Mr. President, I'll close by saying that Judge Watson will be a fine addition to the District Court. I believe he has life-experience that would serve all of our federal judges. Furthermore, in his time on the Ohio Court of Common Pleas and on the Ohio Court of Appeals, Judge Watson has distinguished himself through his thoughtful legal reasoning and his great integrity. This experience and his temperament make Judge Watson highly-qualified for the Federal District Court.
 
 