SEN. DEWINE RECEIVES ADVOCACY AWARD FROM LAKE ERIE COMMISSION
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today received the "Lake Erie Ambassador Award" from the Lake Erie Commission. The Ambassador Award recognizes Sen. DeWine for his outstanding contribution to Lake Erie. "I am honored to receive this award from the Lake Erie Commission and I thank the Commission for their tremendous efforts on behalf of the thousands of people who use Lake Erie for swimming, fishing and drinking," said Sen. DeWine. "Lake Erie and the other Great Lakes are threatened by pollution, habitat loss, and the continued introduction of invasive species which negatively impact the natural food chain and habitat. I applaud the Commission for their efforts in drafting 'Ohio's Lake Erie Action List', being released today. We will continue to work together to preserve and protect this unique national treasure for future generations to enjoy." 
   As co-chair of the U.S. Senate Great Lakes Task Force, Senator DeWine has a long history of working to protect and restore the Great Lakes. He was lead sponsor of the Great Lakes Legacy Act, a program to clean up contaminated sediments in Great Lakes tributaries. The largest project in the history of the program ($50 million) is currently underway in the Ashtabula River. He secured $5 million to purchase and preserve Lake Erie Shoreline and Canal Basin, $2 million to expand Marblehead Lighthouse State Park, and $1 million for East Sandusky Bay Preserve, an important migratory bird stopover. Overall, he has helped provide $15 million to preserve sensitive ecological areas in the Lake Erie basin, including Mentor Marsh and Old Woman Creek National Estuarine Research Reserve.
   The Ohio Lake Erie Commission is comprised of the directors of the Ohio Department of Natural Resources and Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, as well as the departments of Transportation, Development, Health and Agriculture. It was established for the purpose of preserving Lake Erie's natural resources, protecting the quality of its waters and ecosystem, and promoting economic development in the region.
 
 