SEN. DEWINE SPEAKS ON GARRETT LEE SMITH MEMORIAL ACT ON SENATE FLOOR
  Mr. President, let me first congratulate my colleagues from Nevada and Oklahoma for their very moving statements in regard to their dads. Let me also say to my colleague from Oregon that his statement was certainly one of the most moving statements I think any of us have ever heard in this Senate Chamber. Our hearts, collectively as Senators, continue to go out to our colleague and Sharon for the loss of Garrett.  
   Senator Smith and Sharon have taken their tragedy, the pain of this tragedy, the loss of Garrett and there is nothing in the world worse than the loss of a child - and focused it on trying to do good. We see it today with this legislation for which Senator Smith has been such a strong advocate. We are on the Senate floor, frankly, because of him. We would not have been to this point without him, without his advocacy. We saw it in the testimony when Senator Smith and Sharon came to our committee hearing that Senator Dodd and I held several months ago. They publicly talked about Garrett's death; they talked about him and talked about the issue. Senator Smith described earlier the community teen screening with sixth graders in Pendleton that they have established. So they are courageous. They have taken this immense pain and, in spite of that, in the face of that, they are doing something very positive. 
   Those of us in the Senate are blessed and we are burdened with the opportunity to use the bully pulpit of the Senate to focus public attention on issues. I say to my colleague that there are many parents, tragically, as he knows, who have suffered as he and Sharon have this year. 
   He has the unique opportunity - and has taken that, as he is in a public spotlight; it is a burden he has, but he has taken that burden and done something with it. What he has done with it is he has taken that spotlight and used the bully pulpit of the Senate to talk to the American people about this issue. Many people today will watch this and many more will read about it tomorrow. There are many people who read about the committee hearing we held, and they heard when Senator Smith and his wife talked about this issue. Many people they will never know have been impacted, or maybe they were alerted to a problem they might have with their child, and maybe parents were given inspiration and encouragement to seek help. These are things that individuals don't ever know about. But I know, and we all know, that what they have done has truly made a difference. This bill will truly make a difference. 
   I thank Senator Dodd and Senator Jack Reid for their work. This bill we are introducing today is a combination of two bills. One was introduced by Senator Reed as the lead sponsor. It was his idea; he took the lead. I was the Republican cosponsor. We introduced a bill. The other bill was Senator Dodd's bill. He was the lead on that, and I was the cosponsor. We worked on that bill together. This is a combination of those two bills that we bring to the floor today. 
   I also thank Senator Harry Reid for his great support and his work. I thank the majority leader. I thank Senator Daschle and I thank Senator Gregg. They all have been very supportive. We thank them for allowing us to bring this bill to the floor today. 
   We have held hearings on the mental health concerns of youth and children. As chairman of the Subcommittee on Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services, I have been able to do this. The one hearing we talked about, Senator Dodd cochaired with me. At the hearing on youth suicide, it became clear that thorough and actionable plans are needed to deal with this issue affecting our children and young adults. 
   At that hearing, as I indicated, Senator Smith, supported by his wife Sharon, courageously shared the story of their son Garrett. They told of his struggle, their family's brave struggle with his depression, and Garrett's struggle with that depression, a battle that he tragically lost this past September. In honor of their son, Gordon and Sharon are dedicated to helping other youth and their families who are struggling with mental illness. 
   At that same hearing in March, the Reverend Dr. Paul Tunkle courageously spoke of the loss of his daughter. Reverend Tunkle is an Episcopal priest now serving in Baltimore. His wife Judy is a psychotherapist. Their daughter Althea, or Lea to those close to her, began to exhibit symptoms of psychological problems when she was in grade school. She began to experience additional problems as she began her university studies. Her grades began to suffer. Exacerbating her mental health problems, Lea was raped while away at school. After attempting suicide twice, Lea killed herself on her third attempt at the age of 22. 
   Tragically, these stories that we have heard are not uncommon. Statistics tell us that approximately every 2 hours a person under the age of 25 commits suicide. We also know that from 1952 to 1995 the rate of suicide in children and young adults in this country tripled, and that between 1980 and 1997 the rate of suicide in 15- to 19-year-olds increased by 11 percent. 
   According to the National Institute of Mental Health, suicide was the 11th leading overall cause of death in the United States in the year 2001; however, it was the third leading cause of death for youths aged 15 to 24. Shockingly, we also know that suicides outnumber homicides 3 to 2 for the overall population. These alarming numbers emphasize the need for early intervention or prevention efforts. Too often, the signs may be subtle or hidden until it is too late. While research has created improved medications and methods for helping those with mental health problems to recover, there is still much work to be done in identifying those who need help. 
   Study has been done in identifying and categorizing the risk factors related to suicide. In children and youth, these are known to include depression, alcohol or drug use, physical or sexual abuse, and disruptive behavior. Of people who die from and who attempt suicide, many suffer from co-occurring mental health and substance abuse disorders. Children with these risk factors, as well as children who are known to be in situations at risk for acquiring them, should be included in comprehensive State plans. 
   Children and youth specifically addressed in State plans should include those who attend school, including colleges and universities, those already receiving substance abuse and mental health services, and those involved in the juvenile justice system, as well as those in foster care. 
   We also learned at our hearing that our colleges and universities are suffering under an ever-growing caseload and they need additional resources to help students in these critical years. We know that suicide is the second leading cause of death in college students today, and reports indicate there has been a dramatic increase in college students seeking care at campus counseling centers. 
   From 1992 to the year 2002, Big Ten Schools, for example, noticed a 42-percent increase in the number of students seen at these counseling centers. Surveys conducted over the past decade suggest the prevalence of depression among college students is growing and eclipses the rate of the general public. Many public and private schools have been dealing with budget crises recently which do not allow them to respond adequately for this growth in need. In fact, last year 27 percent of counseling centers reported cuts to their budgets. 
   The accreditation standards for university and college counseling centers recommend that the counselor-to-student ratio be 1 counselor per 1,000 to 1,500 students; however, alarmingly, the 2003 ratio in schools with over 15,000 students is instead 1 counselor per 2,500 students, and that is a problem. Due to these numbers, schools are reporting that students are forced to wait, sometimes days, to see a counselor. In the year 2002, 116 college students committed suicide; however, only 20 of these students had been seen by a college counselor before the suicide. 
   As a result of the need for increased attention to the problem of suicide and the need for increased access to help, Senators Dodd, Smith, Jack Reed, Harry Reid, and I are introducing the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act. This bill will provide grants to States, tribes, and State-designated nonprofit organizations to create statewide plans for early intervention and prevention efforts in schools, juvenile justice systems, substance abuse programs, mental health programs, foster care systems, and other child and youth support organizations. These plans will seek to serve the children where the children are. This bill will help ensure that States with youth suicide rates that are higher than the national average are given preference so they are better equipped to combat this tragic problem. 
   This act also will authorize a suicide prevention resource center. This center will provide information, training, and technical assistance to States, tribes, and nonprofit organizations involved in suicide prevention and intervention for a number of purposes, including the development of suicide prevention strategies, studying the costs, effectiveness of statewide strategies, analyzing how well new and existing suicide intervention techniques and technologies work, and promoting the sharing of data. 
   Further, the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act would provide competitive grants to institutions of higher education to create or expand mental and behavioral health services to students. These grants will help financially strapped college and university mental health centers obtain the necessary resources to serve the mental and behavioral health needs of the students. 
   Let me again thank my colleagues for their support of this very important legislation. Our children are simply too important to not properly address their mental health needs. This is a good bill, and it is the right thing to do. 
   I add one final comment. I think this bill will be signed into law. This bill will save lives. This bill will make a difference. I thank everyone who has worked so hard on it. I thank my colleague again for being the spark behind this. He has been the person who has been talking to Members, getting their support, making the plea. I thank him so very much for doing it. 
   We are going to pass this bill and it is going to make a difference, but there is something else we should be doing, and that is the Mental Health Parity Act. This Senate, this Congress, must get around to this bill. That bill also will save lives. It will make a difference. It will make mental health services available to people. 
   I see my colleague from New Mexico, who just walked into the Chamber. He has been an advocate for this bill. The time is ripe for the Mental Health Parity Act to come to the Senate floor, to be voted on, and to be passed. I thank my colleagues. I thank the Chair. I yield the floor.
 
 