SEN. DEWINE ISSUES STATEMENT ON FIRE ACT REAUTHORIZATION MARKUP
  Committee Statement: Fire Act Reauthorization Markup - Senate Commerce Commitee
   "Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to speak briefly in support of S. 2411, the Assistance to Firefighters Act of 2004. This legislation focuses on four central themes. First, it increases the emphasis within the program on life-saving Emergency Medical Services and technologies. Second, it codifies changes made to the program since its transfer to the recently created Department of Homeland Security. Third, it take steps to make the grant program more accessible for fire departments serving small, rural communities and to eliminate barriers to participation faced by departments serving heavily populated jurisdictions. And fourth, it evaluates the program through a series of reports to ensure that resources are targeted to the areas of greatest need.  
   I would like to focus on the first theme in particular - and that is finding ways to improve safety to save lives. We do this in a number of ways. 
   First, we've teamed up with national fire service organizations to incorporate firefighter safety research into the fire prevention and safety set-aside program. This new research, supported by a 20% funding increase, would help reduce the number of firefighter fatalities each year and would dramatically improve the health and welfare of firefighters nationwide. 
   Second, we place an increased emphasis on Emergency Medical Services. In most communities, the fire department is the chief provider for all emergency services, including EMS. To illustrate this point, a 2002 National Fire Protection Association study states that departments received over seven times as many calls for EMS assistance as they did for fires. 
   Despite the overwhelming ratio of EMS calls to fire calls, the FIRE grant program has not adequately reflected the importance of EMS over the past few years, with about one percent of all grants going specifically for EMS purposes. While there is no question that a number of other grants have indirectly benefited EMS and that departments do invest their own money into EMS, more can and should be done through the FIRE Act to boost our EMS capabilities. To accomplish this goal, we specifically include fire-based EMS professionals in the peer review process and also allow EMS grant requests to be combined with those for equipment and training. We've already seen evidence that this new, combined grant eligibility structure is making excellent progress this year in shifting a greater emphasis to EMS within the program. 
   Additionally, we include language to incorporate independent, non-profit EMS squads into the FIRE grant program for the first time. While our work with national fire service organizations on this particular provision has been productive and is ongoing, its intent is clear - to try to bring the emphasis within the FIRE grant program on EMS closer to the level of demand in the field for this life-saving service. 
   Third, we create a new incentive program within the FIRE Act that encourages departments to invest in life-saving Automated External Defibrillator ("AED") devices. These devices are capable of dramatically reducing the number one cause of firefighter death in the line of duty - heart attacks. Our incentive program essentially says to fire departments that if you equip each of your firefighting vehicles with a defibrillator unit, we'll give you a one-time discount on your matching requirement. 
   And finally, we eliminate a burdensome and unintended matching requirement for fire prevention grants. These grants generally go to non-profit organizations, such as National SAFE KIDS, to provide for fire safety awareness campaigns, such as smoke detector installations in low-income housing. This 10% matching requirement, has had a debilitating effect on the prevention program, given the limited capital of many non-profits, and our bill simply ends it. 
   I appreciate the support each of the national fire service organizations have given throughout the process of drafting and introducing this legislation; the understanding of Chairman McCain and Ranking Member Hollings in allowing us to move the bill through the Defense Authorization; and the support of so many other Senators who have joined as co-sponsors to the bill. I am proud to author this bill with my friend and colleague from Connecticut and look forward to working to ensure that the federal government increases its commitment to the men and women who make up our local fire departments. We owe them nothing less than our full support."
 
 