SEN. DEWINE APPLAUDS TALBERT HOUSE FOR GRANT TO HELP NON-VIOLENT OFFENDERS REENTER WORKFORCE
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today applauds Talbert House in Cincinnati for receiving a grant from the United States Department of Labor's Prisoner Reentry Initiative. In June of this year, Sen. DeWine wrote to officials at the Department of Labor supporting the grant request and explaining that the $660,000 grant would help 200 adult ex-prisoners in the Greater Cincinnati urban area successfully return to the community. By receiving this grant, Talbert House has qualified for an additional $1 million in matching funds from local community partners.  
   "Our prisons must not be revolving doors," said Senator DeWine. "We must extend a hand to non-violent offenders so that they can successfully return to society as productive and law-abiding citizens. For nearly 40 years, Talbert House has provided reentry services to ex-offenders in the Cincinnati area. This grant will help them provide training, resources and hope to even more people. Through work like this, we can reduce recidivism and help recently released offenders overcome the many challenges they face. I applaud the efforts of the administrators at Talbert House and thank the Department of Labor for recognizing and funding such a deserving project." 
   Founded as an experiment in bringing ex-offenders back into the community, Talbert House has grown into one of the largest social service agencies in Ohio, serving a broad population and developing quality mental health, community corrections, substance abuse and welfare-to-work services. As a Prisoner Reentry Initiative Grant recipient, Talbert House plans to collaborate with several prominent community-based nonprofits and faith-based organizations to coordinate the reentry program. They will offer ex-offenders a full array of services including case management, mentoring, job training and other comprehensive transitional services. Participants will be selected for recruitment prior to release through existing partnerships with the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction and the state's parole staff. 
   In addition to his support of the Talbert House's grant proposal, Senator DeWine is an original cosponsor of the Second Chance Act of 2005 (S.1934). The Second Chance Act seeks to tackle the high rate of recidivism in the U.S. by improving the process by which individuals exit prison and reenter society.
 
 