SENS. DEWINE, VOINOVICH SECURE $70,000 FOR PRESERVE AMERICA PROGRAM
  Sens. Mike DeWine (R-OH) and George V. Voinovich (R-OH) secured a $70,000 grant from the National Park Service for the Wright-Dunbar Business Village in Dayton. Wright-Dunbar Business Village, located in the heart of Dayton's most dynamic mix of residential, commercial and tourism resources, is a Preserve America Community, and listed as a historic district on the National Register of Historic Places. This is the neighborhood where Orville and Wilbur Wright, developers of the airplane, and Paul Laurence Dunbar, the first African American to gain international acclaim as a writer and poet, lived and worked. The Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historical Park is headquartered within the village, and the Paul Laurence Dunbar State Historic Site is in a nearby residential neighborhood. 
   "I am proud to have helped secure this grant. The Dayton area is truly the birthplace of flight and creative thinking," said Senator DeWine. "This grant will help draw the thousands of people who flock to the Miami Valley every year to the Wright-Dunbar Business Village where they will enjoy the area's attractions and see first hand these important sites. It has been my honor to be involved in maintaining this historic area for years. Ohio's rich heritage is something we need to preserve and share for generations to come."
   "The Wright-Dunbar Business Village is a unique historical district where new residential and commercial developments can be found alongside buildings restored to their original splendor," said Voinovich. "The Preserve America Program will aid in preserving this historic neighborhood and the rich heritage of the Dayton area for future generations. This area will be an attraction to residents and visitors in the Miami Valley."
   The Village requested funding to study the need for regional heritage tourism by establishing connectivity among Dayton's cultural heritage sites. The study would include recommendations for marketing outlets, materials, signage, programming, and media. Funding will help ensure that the maximum amount of economic value is derived by creating connectivity among all the key Dayton heritage sites.
 
 