SEN. DEWINE SEEKS JUSTICE THROUGH DNA TECHNOLOGY
  Sen. Mike DeWine (R-OH) today joined a bipartisan group of Senators to unanimously pass comprehensive legislation that will advance the ability of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to solve crimes using DNA technology. The Justice for All Act (H.R.5107) will provide more than $1 billion over five years to extend federal funding to states and localities to fight crime with DNA technology, expand the national database of DNA profiles from criminals, train criminal justice and medical personnel in the use of DNA evidence, and promote the use of DNA technology to identify missing persons. 
   According to the Ohio Attorney General's office, crime labs across Ohio have a backlog of more than 3,000 cases in which DNA analysis has not been performed. For instance, in 2002, a Hamilton, Ohio, man was convicted and sentenced to 25 years in prison for an April 1998 attack on a woman in a grocery store parking lot. Although a DNA sample from this rape was sent to the state crime lab three days after the attack, it took until November 2001 - nearly three and a half years later - for scientists to analyze the sample and add it to the state's DNA database. Once this sample was added, a positive match was made and this rapist was finally prosecuted and put behind bars.
   "Throughout my career in public service, I've worked to make people safer and to deter crime and punish criminals. Since the advent of the use of DNA in the criminal justice system, I have pushed to have this and other cutting edge technologies applied to law enforcement," said Senator DeWine. "This system works, and it catches criminals. We owe it to rape victims, as well as to our society as a whole, to do all we can to apprehend and prosecute sex offenders and other violent criminals."
   Senator DeWine's Rape Kits and DNA Evidence Backlog Elimination Act of 2003-the first bill he introduced in the 108th Congress-became large parts of Titles One and Two of the Advancing Justice Through DNA Technology Act of 2003 (S. 1700). The Advancing Justice Through DNA Technology Act was introduced with some agreed-upon modifications as the Justice for All Act in the House of Representatives. Senator DeWine is a long-time advocate for DNA crime-fighting capability and wrote or contributed to all titles of the bill. DeWine initiatives in the bill include:
   Grants to Help Eliminate the Backlog of DNA Evidence: This section will expand the FBI's national DNA database, known as the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), and increase the authorized funding levels for the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination program. The database contains more than a million DNA samples and has secured thousands of DNA matches for law enforcement. By utilizing the FBI's CODIS system, investigators can catch criminals and trace repeat offenders from one crime to another.
   Specifically, the bill will extend funding to help states and localities reduce the backlog of unanalyzed DNA samples and submit them into CODIS. Senator DeWine was the Senate sponsor of the original bill that began this program in 2001.
   Extended Statute of Limitation: The bill will better protect victims by tolling the statute of limitation for certain offenses in which DNA evidence is available. The statute of limitations would not begin in cases in which DNA evidence is collected at the crime scene until a DNA match is made.
   DNA Training and Education: The bill will also authorize federal resources to support training programs for sexual assault examiners and to train prosecutors in the use of DNA evidence in a criminal investigation or a trial.
   Crime Victims' Bill of Rights: The Crime Victims' Bill of Rights, which Senator DeWine co-sponsored, was also included in the Justice for All Act. The bill grants rights to crime victims so that their input is heard and considered during criminal prosecutions.
   The House has also passed the Justice For All Act and now it is being sent to the President for his signature. The Justice For All Act is similar to the President's DNA initiative that was announced on March 11, 2003.
 
 