SEN. DEWINE PAYS TRIBUTE TO ARMY SPC. ODUMS KILLED IN IRAQ
  Mr. President, I rise today to pay tribute to Army Specialist Charles Odums, II who lost his life in the service of our country in Iraq. At times like this, I am reminded of a speech President Ronald Reagan gave on Veterans Day many years ago. He said:  
   "It is, in a way, an odd thing to honor those who died in defense of our country, in defense of us, in wars far away. The imagination plays a trick. We see these soldiers in our mind as old and wise ... But most of them were boys when they died." Specialist Charles Odums was 22 years old when he died after an improvised explosive device detonated near his patrol in Baghdad, Iraq. Today, I rise to remember this brave young man, who was taken from us much too soon. 
   Charles, or "Chuck" as he was known by family and friends, was an ambitious kid who always tried to do the right thing. Friends lovingly remembered him as the "sweet and quiet boy who would do anything that was asked of him." He came from a close-knit family and developed an especially strong bond with his younger brother, Robert. The two loved to ride their motorcycles and talk of their big plans for the future. They were going to be millionaires. 
   Chuck went to Sandusky High School and graduated in 1999. While there, he played football and participated in track. He was the likable guy everyone wanted to be around. Chuck's coach, Brett Fuqua, remembered him as a hardworking young man who would run a marathon if asked. Chuck was always willing to do whatever needed to be done. 
   After high school, Chuck enrolled at the University of Toledo. While there, he met the love of his life, Melanie, and the two married in December 2001. Chuck remained in college for more than one year, but found that it wasn't for him. After much consideration and much time talking it out with his parents, he decided to enlist in the Army. 
   Though this would be a difficult decision for anyone to make, Chuck knew it was the right one for him. Brett Fuqua described Chuck's reasons for enlisting this way: 
   "He didn't do it because it was glamorous. He didn't do it because he would be a hero. He did it because he believed it was his duty to defend the freedoms that define America: the freedom to worship, to speak freely, to be safe." 
   Chuck was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 8th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division, where he worked as a medic and driver. His comrades called him "Odie" or "Doc," and they knew they could trust him with their lives. In fact, during his time in Iraq, Chuck was credited for saving three lives and helping countless others. His commanding officer recalled that Chuck would steer his Humvee in such a way that suspicious bumps in the road would pass under the driver's side, putting Chuck in danger rather than his passenger. 
   While overseas, Chuck made sure to keep in touch with his family by phone or email, and his parents made sure they held onto everything he sent them. In the binder they now cherish, Annie and Charles Odums have pictures of their son serving in Iraq. In one, Chuck, in full gear, is waiting on a helicopter landing pad for his transport to arrive. In another, he stands guarding an Iraqi man while other soldiers search for a weapons cache. Chuck's email read: "Well, I'm doing good out here." 
   While Chuck was in Iraq, he was careful of what he told his mother. He knew she would worry. Chuck missed his parents, his brother and sisters, and especially his wife Melanie. They were already planning what they would do when Chuck's enlistment ended. They both wanted to start a family. Chuck had dreams of becoming a police officer. No matter what they decided to do, Chuck and Melanie were looking forward to just being together again. 
   After Chuck was killed, in his hometown of Sandusky, Ohio, thousands of people gathered to show their support to the Odums family. They lined the street for the funeral procession and placed flags in their yards. One woman held a sign that read, "Thank you Charles, God Bless America." Veterans groups saluted their fallen comrade and many held their hands over their hearts. 
   One Sandusky native, Debra Churchwell, took her grandchildren, nieces, and nephews to watch the funeral procession. When asked why she brought her family, she replied: "I want them to see a part of history because they'll never see this again. I pray to God they never see this again." Mr. President, no one wants to see this again. 
   Mr. President, I know that Chuck will live on in the hearts of his many friends and his family, especially his wife Melanie, his mother Annie, father Charles, brother Robert, and sisters Janel, Sophia, Candie, and Tashica. Chuck is an American hero who will live on in all our hearts. 
   I thank the Chair and yield the Floor.
 
 