SEN. DEWINE COMMENTS ON FINAL PASSAGE OF GARRETT LEE SMITH MEMORIAL ACT
  FLOOR STATEMENT: FINAL PASSAGE OF THE GARRETT LEE SMITH MEMORIAL ACT
   Mr. President, today I join my colleagues Sen. Smith, Sen. Dodd, Sen. Jack Reed, and Sen. Harry Reid to talk once again about the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act. Today, we are looking to pass the final version of this bill and send it to the President for his signature. I would like to thank Majority Leader Frist and many others, including Sen. Santorum, Chairman Gregg, and Chairman Barton and Speaker Hastert in the House. Their support and assistance with this legislation has been crucial in moving this important bill forward.  
   Of course, without the tireless work of Senator Smith and his wife Sharon, we would not be here today. The courage that they have displayed over the course of the last year has been nothing short of astounding. They have, time and again this year, brought great honor to the memory of their son, Garrett. And again, I thank them for their support and leadership on this tragic problem. 
   We know that suicide is a widespread problem among children. Statistics tell us that approximately every two hours, a person under the age of 25 commits suicide. We also know that from 1952 to 1995, the rate of suicide in children and young adults tripled and that between 1980 and 1997, and the rate of suicide in 15 to19 year olds increased by 11 percent. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, suicide was the 11th leading overall cause of death in the United States in 2001. However, it was the 3rd leading cause for youth ages 15 to 24. Shockingly, we also know that suicides outnumber homicides three to two for the overall population. 
   These alarming numbers emphasize the need for early intervention and prevention efforts. Too often, the signs may be subtle or hidden until it is too late. Of people who die from suicide and of those who attempt it, many suffer from co-occurring mental health and substance abuse disorders. Children who are at risk, as well as children who are known to be in situations at risk for acquiring them, should be included in comprehensive state health plans. Children and youth specifically addressed in state plans should include those who attend school, including college and universities, those already receiving substance abuse or mental health services, those involved in the juvenile justice system, and those in foster children. 
   I have also learned that our colleges and universities are suffering under an ever-growing caseload, and they need additional resources to help students in these critical years. We know that suicide is the second leading cause of death in college students. And, reports indicate that there has been a dramatic increase in college students seeking care at campus counseling centers. From 1992-2002, Big Ten schools noticed a 42 percent increase in the number of students seen at these counseling centers. Surveys conducted over the past decade suggest the prevalence of depression among college students is growing and eclipses the rate of the general public. 
   Many public and private schools have been dealing with budget crises recently, which do not allow them to respond adequately for this growth in need. In fact, last year, 27 percent of counseling centers reported cuts to their budgets. The accreditation standards for university and college counseling centers recommend that the counselor to student ration be one counselor per 1000 to 1500 students. However, alarmingly, the 2003 ratio in schools with over 15,000 students is one counselor per 2426 students. Due to these numbers, schools are reporting that students are forced to wait - sometimes days - to see a counselor. In 2002, 116 college students committed suicide. However, only 20 of these students had been seen by a college counselor before the suicide. 
   The Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act will provide grants to states, tribes, and state-designated non-profit organizations to create statewide plans and fund direct services for early intervention and prevention efforts in schools, colleges and universities, juvenile justice systems, substance abuse programs, mental health programs, foster care systems, and other child and youth support organizations. These plans will seek to serve the children and young adults where they are. 
   This act will also authorize a research, training, and technical assistance center on the problem of youth suicide. This center will provide information, training, and technical assistance to states, tribes, non-profit organizations, and colleges and universities involved in suicide prevention and intervention. Further, the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act will provide competitive grants to institutions of higher education to create or expend mental and behavioral health services to students. These grants will help financially strapped college and university mental health centers to have additional resources to better serve the mental and behavioral health needs of their students. 
   These important provisions will provide $82 million over the next three years to help serve our Nation's youth where they are and when they need help. I, again, thank my colleagues for their help and leadership in passing this important legislation. It is long over-due.
 
 