SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON URGE SENATE TO MOVE QUICKLY TO CONFIRM LISA GODBEY WOOD TO SERVE AS FEDERAL JUDGE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today praised the President's nomination of United States Attorney Lisa Godbey Wood to serve as the next United States District Court Judge for the Southern District of Georgia.  
   The President was required to re-nominate Wood for the 110 th Congress because the Senate failed to bring her confirmation to a vote in the 109 th Congress. Ms. Wood's nomination was reported favorably by the Senate Judiciary Committee in September 2006. Both Chambliss and Isakson have voiced concern to Senate leadership over this delay and are urging Senate Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., to expedite consideration of Wood's nomination because of the strain the vacancy has placed on Georgia's Southern District. 
   "Ms. Wood is an outstanding candidate with exceptional qualifications and experience and I am extremely disappointed that her confirmation did not receive the attention it deserved before the 109 th Congress adjourned in December," said Chambliss. "This delay has placed an unwarranted strain on the judicial system in the Southern District and I will continue to advocate for a swift hearing and confirmation so that Ms. Wood can assume the duties of this critical post in the U.S. judicial system."
   "Lisa Godbey Wood has served the people of Georgia honorably as U.S. Attorney, and I know she will continue to serve us well on the U.S. District Court," Isakson said. "Senator Chambliss and I are united in support of her nomination and we urge the Senate to confirm her as soon as possible."
   Once confirmed, Wood will fill the judicial vacancy created by the Honorable Dudley H. Bowen, Jr., who chose to take senior status effective June 26, 2006. Both Chambliss and Isakson recommended Wood for the post and if confirmed she will serve in Augusta, Georgia. 
   Wood currently serves as United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia. She was sworn in as interim U.S. Attorney in July 2004 and then unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate in November 2004.
   Ms. Wood is a summa cum laude graduate of the University of Georgia as well as, the University of Georgia School of Law. Following gradation from law school, Ms. Wood served as a law clerk to the Honorable Anthony A. Alaimo of the District Court for the Southern District of Georgia before joining the Brunswick law firm of Gilbert, Harrell, Sumerford & Martin where she was quickly elevated to litigating partner. She also served as a Magistrate Judge of the Glynn County Magistrate Court from 1998 to 2000 before accepting the appointment to United States Attorney.
 
 