SEN. ISAKSON HAILS PASSAGE OF IMMIGRATION REFORMS ALONG WITH ADDITIONAL FUNDS FOR IRAQ
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) today praised the Senate's unanimous passage of several immigration reform measures - including national driver's license standards - that are critical to national security. The immigration reforms were included in a House-Senate conference report on legislation to provide additional funding for our troops in Iraq. 
   "This sends a clear signal to the American people that we get it when it comes to the dire need for immigration reform," said Isakson, who pushed for the immigration reforms to be included in the bill. "This is the first step of a bigger debate on immigration reform that we need to have sooner rather than later."
   The legislation, which passed the Senate by a 100-0 vote today, includes funding for defense-related activities, the global war on terrorism, tsunami relief, and the REAL ID Act. The House of Representatives passed the conference report last week. It now goes to President Bush for his signature.
   The REAL ID provision would establish national standards for driver's licenses and identification cards. It would also stiffen asylum requirements to prevent terrorists from abusing the asylum laws of the U.S. and allow for the completion of a security fence along the U.S.-Mexico border near San Diego. Isakson said the driver's license provision is a key national security issue, because the 19 terrorists who attacked the United States on 9-11 had obtained drivers' licenses from several states.
   "REAL ID is not an immigration issue; it's a national security issue," Isakson said. "These provisions are a good first step indealing with the single largest domestic issue to the people of the United States of America and that's comprehensive immigration reform and getting our arms around illegal immigration." 
   In December, Isakson, as a member of the House, expressed disappointment when the immigration provisions were not included as part of the intelligence reform legislation passed by Congress. He has pushed for passage of the reforms since beginning his Senate term in January.
 
 