SEN. ISAKSON AGAIN URGES SUPPORT FOR CLEAR SKIES LEGISLATION
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today again voiced his support for the Bush Administration's proposal to rewrite the Clean Air Act during a Senate hearing to discuss implementation of current air quality standards. 
   Isakson, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, reiterated his support for the Clear Skies Act, which has been stalled this year in the Committee. Isakson believes the legislation would be an improvement over the current law and would fix the many of the problems discussed in the hearing.
   "Currently, 60 percent of Georgia's citizens live in areas that do not meet federal air quality standards," Isakson said. "Air quality is a significant issue in our state, and this legislation would bea meaningful positive step for many of us in the South to address what has clearly been a problem."
   Isakson also introduced Atlanta Regional Commission Chairman Sam Olens, who told the Subcommittee that local communities need support from their federal partners in providing effective guidance and the means by which to meet clean air standards in a manner suitable to each region. Olens is also chairman of the Cobb County Board of Commissioners.
   In introducing Olens, Isakson said, " Atlanta has been a poster child for the Clean Air Act for many years, and I believe Chairman Olens brings a great perspective and great experience to this hearing. It's a real pleasure to have the opportunity to introduce a great leader and a great citizen of the State of Georgia."
   Olens testified: "This is a classic example of a well-intended federal standard being implemented uniformly, without consideration or flexibility given to state and local governments to meet their unique conditions." 
   Isakson also questioned the Acting Assistant Administrator of EPA's Office of Air and Radiation about the status of Walker and Catoosa counties to meet federal air quality standards. The EPA official said they are considering the counties' appeal of their nonattainment status. 
   "There is nothing these counties can do currently to get out from under nonattainment because of circumstances beyond their control." Isakson said.
 
 