SEN. ISAKSON PRAISES PASSAGE OF AMENDMENT TO ENHANCE CARE OF WOUNDED WARRIORS
  U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today praised passage of an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 defense authorization bill that is designed to enhance the care of wounded warriors. 
   The amendment provides for the establishment of a comprehensive policy on the care and management of wounded warriors and seeks to address the shortcomings in the government process that facilitates the transfer of wounded soldiers from active duty to veteran status. 
   "This amendment addresses what we have learned regarding the injuries that result from the type of warfare our troops are facing in Iraq," Isakson said. "We are saving many more of our wounded warriors on the battlefield, and as a result, we need to make sure we have a structure in place to address their long-term needs here at home."
   During his speech on the Senate floor in support of the amendment, Isakson also praised the collaboration between the Augusta VA Medical Center and the Eisenhower Army Medical Center to care for service members who have sustained combat injuries. He described the relationship between the two facilities as the model for cooperation between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans' Affairs to meet the health care needs of returning service members. 
   "The Augusta VA Medical Center and Eisenhower Army Medical Centerhave created a seamless transfer that is recognized as second to none," Isakson said.
   The Augusta VA Medical Center operates the nation's only medical rehabilitation unit within the VA system for active duty military personnel. Dr. Dennis Hollins, who works for the VA, heads the unit, and active duty medical personnel are stationed in the unit working alongside VA doctors and nurses. 
   As of January 2007, 431 soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines have received rehabilitation services at the unit, and 26 percent of those treated have been able to return to active duty.
   The medical staff from Augusta VA Medical Center and the Eisenhower Army Medical Center meets weekly to discuss future patient cases for the Active Duty Rehabilitation Unit.
 
 