SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON APPLAUD NOMINATION OF LISA GODBEY WOOD TO SERVE AS FEDERAL JUDGE FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today praised the President's nomination of United States Attorney Lisa Godbey Wood to serve as the next United States District Court Judge for the Southern District of Georgia. 
   President Bush tapped Wood to fill the judicial vacancy created by the Honorable Dudley H. Bowen, Jr., who elected to take senior status effective June 26, 2006. Both Chambliss and Isakson recommended Wood for the post and if confirmed she will serve in Augusta, Georgia.
   Wood currently serves as United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia. She was sworn in as interim U.S. Attorney in July 2004 and then unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate in November 2004.
   "President Bush has selected an outstanding candidate with exceptional qualifications and experience," said Chambliss. "I look forward to a swift confirmation so that Ms. Wood can join this distinguished federal bench as soon as possible. I am confident that Ms. Wood will make an exceptional federal judge and will serve the people of Georgia well."
   "Lisa Godbey Wood has served Georgia so ably through her dedicated public service and as U.S. Attorney, and I know she will continue to serve us well on the U.S. District Court," Isakson said. "Once again the President has made an outstanding nomination, and it is with great pride that I lend my strong endorsement to Lisa Godbey Wood as she begins the confirmation process in the Senate."
   Ms. Wood is a summa cum laude graduate of the University of Georgia as well as, the University of Georgia School of Law. Following gradation from law school, Ms. Wood served as a law clerk to the Honorable Anthony A. Alaimo of the District Court for the Southern District of Georgia before joining the Brunswick law firm of Gilbert, Harrell, Sumerford & Martin where she was quickly elevated to litigating partner. She also served as a Magistrate Judge of the Glynn County Magistrate Court from 1998 to 2000 before accepting the appointment to United States Attorney.
 
 