GEORGIA LAWMAKERS MEET WITH UAE OFFICIALS TO DISCUSS PORTS ISSUE, PARTNERSHIP IN WAR ON TERROR
  A Georgia congressional delegation composed of Sen. Saxby Chambliss, Sen. Johnny Isakson, Rep. Phil Gingrey and Rep. John Linder visited the UAE March 12, 2006. In Dubai, they met with Director of Dubai Customs Ahmed Butti, saw a demonstration of the Container Security Initiative operation at Port Rashid, and met with Executive Chairman Ports, Customs and Free Zone Corporation Sultan bin Suleyem. After meeting Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid, Ruler of Dubai, UAE Vice President and Prime Minister, they spoke to the press. 
   Senator Saxby Chambliss said: "We had very positive meetings in the UAE with the government leadership as well as management of Dubai Ports World. We value the relationship between the UAE and the United States, and we have worked very closely together in fighting the global war on terror. It is critically important that we continue our partnership and work side by side in fighting terrorism and on the upcoming trade agreement. On the particular transaction on the port situation, the Prime Minister showed tremendous leadership in urging Dubai Ports World to transfer the operation of the ports to a United States' owned entity. We now have the opportunity to move forward in our relationship and continue to work together as partners on our priorities."
   Senator Johnny Isakson said: "We thanked the leadership for understanding the sensitivity of the situation, and in one day, we received a college education about the UAE. The UAE is our partners in the war on terrorism, and we have a mutually beneficial and multi-faceted relationship. Because there was a firestorm of controversy concerning the ports deal, we decided to come to Dubai to learn the facts for ourselves."
   Congressman John Linder said: "This project was publicized in November and no one responded. In March, it became a political issue; the Democrats trying to show they are strong on national security and the Republicans trying to respond. In the future, these things should be measured on facts, not on emotions."
   Congressman Phil Gingrey said: "The process certainly would have been better had Congress been informed. People are still fearful, but it important for the American people to better understand the UAE. The UAE has been very helpful in the war on terror. This country is not part of the problem, rather it is part of the solution."
 
 