CHIP, DELIVERING HEALTH CARE TO CHILDREN
  Late last month, I voted for legislation that is critically important to more than 6 million children in the United States who benefit from the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, each year. The bipartisan legislation passed both the House and the Senate by wide margins, and the President's veto simply does not reflect the values of American parents struggling to provide quality health coverage for their children. 
   I voted for this program when Congress created it 10 years ago and I have watched with great satisfaction as the number of uninsured children in our country has dropped. More children have health insurance coverage today, which ensures that they have every chance to do their best in school and live long, healthy, productive lives. 
   In ten years, CHIP has delivered impressive results: while the number of uninsured adults has steadily risen since CHIP was enacted, the number of uninsured low-income children has dropped by nearly one-third. 
   We have made great progress in providing health coverage to all children, but there is much more to do. In an average month, 11,000 children in South Dakota are enrolled in CHIP. Another 18,000 South Dakota children are uninsured with as many as 12,000 of them eligible for CHIP but unable to access the program because of a lack of funds. These uninsured children don't receive their vaccinations, miss screenings and other preventive measures. 
   My top priority for the reauthorization of CHIP was ensuring that all South Dakota children currently covered under CHIP continue to receive these critical services. I'm so pleased that this bipartisan legislation achieves that goal and more, providing South Dakota with sufficient funds to cover an additional 8,000 uninsured children under CHIP.
   Unfortunately, the President has vetoed this bill, which he called "an incremental step toward the goal of government-run health care for every American." Nothing could be further from the truth. If the President's plan of providing private health insurance worked, we wouldn't have 9 million uninsured children in the United States today, including 18,000 South Dakota children. But the bottom line is that uninsured children and their parents aren't interested in a theoretical debate on government-run health care or the need for personal responsibility; they are interested in getting the coverage this bill would provide.
   The Senate passed this bipartisan, compromise legislation with enough votes to override the President's veto. The House also passed the bill overwhelmingly and is close to the magic number to override the President's veto. But more work is needed to ensure that our children get the care they need and deserve. 
   During the past nine months, I've received a personal lesson in the great value of health insurance. Our nation's children shouldn't have to learn this lesson the hard way. Kids across the country and across our state are counting on this carefully crafted, bipartisan legislation becoming law.
 
 