SENS. STABENOW, ISAKSON INTRODUCE BILL TO COMBAT NUMBER ONE GENETIC KILLER OF CHILDREN
  U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) today introduced the Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Treatment Acceleration Act of 2007, which would provide federal support to non-profit organizations dedicated to discovering a treatment for SMA. SMA is the number one genetic killer of children under the age of two. 
   "Protecting our youngest children from this lethal disease must be a national priority," said Stabenow. "Medical research suggests that a treatment for Spinal Muscular Atrophy is close to breakthrough. This funding will allow clinicians and researchers get one step closer to finding a cure for SMA." 
   "Spinal Muscular Atrophy is a terrible disease, and it is important we take the steps necessary to prevent it," Isakson said. "It is my hope that this valuable medical research will lead researchers to soon find a cure, providing hope for the many families raising a child with Spinal Muscular Atrophy."
   Spinal Muscular Atrophy is a hereditary disorder that destroys the nerves controlling voluntary muscle movement. Estimates show that SMA occurs in about 1 in every 6,000 births, though approximately 1 in 40 individuals (7.5 million Americans) carry the gene that causes SMA. It is estimated that Michigan has 1,500 people with SMA.
   Currently there is no cure for SMA, though there have been significant medical research breakthroughs over the past decade. The National Institute of Health has stated that among more than 600 neurological disorders, SMA is the disease closest to treatment.
   This legislation will provide non-profit organizations with the necessary funding to conduct extensive clinical trials on a national level- the next step to discovering a treatment for SMA. With this support, SMA research can be conducted within a sophisticated framework which will include a data coordinating center providing expert advice and assistance to SMA clinical trial sites. This funding will also help establish an SMA coordinating committee comprised of a diverse team of relevant government agencies and public representatives to identify research barriers and report findings to Congress. Finally, this bill will help establish an education program targeted at health professionals and the general public to offer information on the diagnosis and treatment of SMA.
   The Spinal Muscular Acceleration Act is also co-sponsored by U.S. Senators John Warner (R-VA) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). The act is supported by Fight SMA, Families of SMA, and the SMA Foundation.
 
 