SEN. ISAKSON SEEKS TO ATTACH IMMIGRATION PROVISIONS TO IRAQ SPENDING BILL
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) today announced that he has offered an amendment to the Iraq supplemental spending bill that incorporates several immigration reform measures - including national driver's license standards - that are critical to national security. 
   Yesterday on the Senate floor, Isakson expressed his extreme disappointment over the Senate's failure this week to hold a debate on immigration reform, saying that the American people are losing patience with Congress' procrastination on the issue.
   "Regardless of whether we agree on the specifics, let us no longer delay in dealing with the single largest domestic issue to the people of the United States," Isakson said. "That issue is comprehensive immigration reform, rewarding legal immigration and getting our arms around illegal immigration."
   Specifically, Isakson's amendment would establish national standards for driver's licenses and identification cards. It would also stiffen asylum requirements in order to prevent terrorists from abusing the asylum laws of the U.S. and allow for the completion of a security fence along the U.S.-Mexico border near San Diego. The House passed identical provisions, referred to as the REAL ID Act, on Feb. 10 as a separate bill that was then attached to the Iraq supplemental spending bill and sent to the Senate. The Senate has stripped the immigration reform measures from the bill. 
   "REAL ID is not an immigration issue; it's a national security issue," Isakson said. "In my State of Georgia, there is an old saying: If you want to get the mud out of the stream, get the hog out of the spring. Procrastination on dealing with the delicate and difficult issues of comprehensive immigration reform have muddied the water in America and will do great harm if we don't hurry up and take the years of work that has been done in committees and move forward with comprehensive reform. 
   In December, Isakson expressed disappointment when the immigration provisions were not included as part of the intelligence reform legislation passed by Congress. Specifically, Isakson said the driver's license provision is a key national security issue, because the 19 terrorists who attacked the United States on 9-11 had obtained more than 60 drivers' licenses from several states.
 
 