SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS DELIVER SWEET VIDALIA ONIONS TO SENATE COLLEAGUES
  Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today climbed onto the back of a truck to help unload over 2,000 pounds of Vidalia onions driven from Georgia to Washington. Isakson and Chambliss presented 10-pound boxes of the famous Georgia-grown onions to all 100 Senate offices. 
   "Georgia's Vidalia onions are second to none, and Senator Chambliss and I wanted to treat the folks on Capitol Hill to the best-tasting, sweetest onions in the world," Isakson said.
   "Bland Farms produces some of the finest sweet Vidalia onions grown in Georgia," said Chambliss. "It's a treat to share and enjoy this one-of-a-kind Georgia delicacy with my Senate colleagues."
   Attached to each bag of onions was Senator and Mrs. Isakson's recipe for Corn, Tomato and Vidalia Sweet Onion Salad as well as Stockbridge, Ga. resident Doris Wallace's recipe for Vidalia onion sausage casserole. Mrs. Wallace is the mother of Toni Brown, Isakson's state liaison. Also included were recipes for Vidalia Onion Dip and Vidalia Onion Pie from Senator and Mrs. Chambliss. 
   The onions came from Bland Farms in Reidsville, Ga., where Raymond and Delbert Bland have been in the business of growing Vidalia onions for three decades. The Bland family is one of the largest growers, packers and shippers of Vidalia onions in the nation. 
   Delbert Bland and Reidsville resident John Conley, Secretary-Treasurer of the Georgia Peace Officers Association, drove the onions from Georgia to Washington. Accompanying Bland and Conley were Conley's grandchildren, Dustin and Kristen Cromer.
   The history of Vidalia Sweet Onions dates back to 1931, when Vidalia farmer Moses Coleman planted onions that proved to be unexpectedly sweet. For many in the southeast Georgia area, this discovery was a major boost that helped sustain their farms during the Depression. Today, Vidalia Sweet Onions are grown on more than 12,000 acres in the fertile soil of 20 southeast Georgia counties. They're naturally delicious "as is," or as the secret ingredient in many dishes - from salads, omelets and casseroles to soups, stews and stir-fries.
 
 