SEN. ISAKSON ANNOUNCES START OF ACADEMY SEASON
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) today announced that he is accepting applications for nominations to the nation's service academies from now through October 21, 2005. Sen. Isakson's office is sending more than 600 letters statewide to public and private schools notifying counselors of the application process. 
   "It is a pleasure and an honor to nominate students who will be our nation's next top leaders to our service academies. I encourage all interested, qualified students to apply for the academy or academies of their choice," said Isakson.
   Applications can be obtained via Isakson's website: http://www.isakson.senate.gov. Applicants interested in attending the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Naval, U.S. Military, or U.S. Merchant Marine Academies should obtain an application and apply as soon as possible. All applications must be received in Isakson's office by 5 p.m. on October 21, 2005. No exceptions will be made.
   Students interested in applying for nominations to a service academy should excel in academic achievement, physical fitness, leadership qualities and personal motivation. They must also be U.S. citizens, legal residents of Georgia, at least 17 years old but not beyond their 22nd birthday on July 1, 2005, must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents.
   Upon meeting an academy's entrance requirements, the top applicants will then be invited to a personal interview in November, conducted by Senator Isakson's Service Academy Advisory Board. 
   The academies make the final appointments, but candidates cannot be accepted to the academies without a nomination from their senator, congressman or the Vice President or the President. 
   As competition for nominations and appointments are very competitive, all interested persons should apply through all sources for which they are eligible. An individual may be nominated by more than one nominating authority and/or to more than one academy. Students are also encouraged to begin the application process with the academies themselves.
   Nancy Brooks serves as the service academy liaison for Senator Isakson's office. Please mail all applications for nomination to: U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson: Attn.: Nancy Brooks, Academy Director, One Overton Park, 3625 Cumberland Boulevard, Suite 970, Atlanta, GA 30339.
 
 