SENATE APPROVES SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON RESOLUTION HONORING 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF ABRAHAM BALDWIN AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today applauded passage of a Senate Resolution they introduced recognizing February 20, 2008, as the 100th anniversary of Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College, also known as ABAC, in Tifton, Ga. The Senate unanimously approved the resolution Wednesday evening. 
   "I have been to ABAC numerous times, and every time I visit I'm truly impressed by the ingenuity and ability of the students, faculty and staff," said Chambliss. "ABAC's contributions to the agriculture industry in Georgia, and the nation, for the past 100 years cannot go unrecognized. I'm pleased my Senate colleagues join me in recognizing ABAC's milestone." 
   "I want to congratulate Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College on its success and developing thousands of young men and women into leaders of the agriculture industry in Georgia over the past 100 years," Isakson said. "It is both an honor and privilege for me to commend the student body, the faculty and the founders on behalf of the state of Georgia and the United States Senate."
   Text of the resolution is below: 
   Whereas the Second District Agricultural and Mechanical School opened its doors for classes on February 20, 1908, with 3 instructors and 27 students;
   Whereas the school became a senior college for men, the first in south Georgia, in 1929; 
   Whereas the school changed its name in 1933 to Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College in honor of a Georgia signer of the Constitution of the United States and the first president of the University of Georgia; 
   Whereas the college recorded its all-time highest enrollment during the 2007 fall semester with 3,665 students from 154 Georgia counties, 12 other states, and 9 countries;
   Whereas the college has expanded its curriculum to include 57 programs of study;
   Whereas the college bears strong witness to its roots, with the Division of Agriculture and Forest Resources remaining the largest division of study on the 421 acre campus with over 800 students;
   Whereas Washington Monthly Magazine named the college as one of the 10 best community colleges in America in 2007; 
   Whereas Turfnet Magazine selected the college's 2-year turfgrass program as the 7th best program of its kind in the United States and Canada in 2007; 
   Whereas the college celebrates among its alumni the Honorable George T. Smith, the only man in the history of Georgia to serve in elected positions in all 3 branches of State government, having served as Lieutenant Governor, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and as a justice on the Supreme Court of Georgia; and
   Whereas February 20, 2008, marks the 100th anniversary of Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College: Now, therefore, be it
   Resolved, That the Senate-
   (1) recognizes the 100th anniversary of Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College for its great contributions to the community and to higher education in Georgia; and
   (2) recognizes the achievements of the administration, faculty, students, and staff of Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College.
 
 