SEN. ISAKSON PRAISES GEORGIA OFFICER AWARDED PUBLIC SAFETY MEDAL OF VALOR
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today announced that Agent Andrew J. Phillips of the Marietta Police Department has been awarded the Public Safety Medal of Valor by President Bush.  
   Agent Phillips is one of 10 public safety officers selected nationwide to receive the Medal, which is awarded for extraordinary valor above and beyond the call of duty. Recipients of the award represent fire, law enforcement and emergency medical service providers from across the nation. The Medal of Valor is the highest national award for valor by a public safety officer. 
   "Through his actions, Agent Andrew Phillips has demonstrated anunwavering devotion to duty," Isakson said. "Andrew Phillips is a true hero, and I am extremely pleased the President has chosen to honor this remarkable Georgian."
   On March 11, 2004, during a warrant search of a drug house, an entry team including Agent Phillips encountered four individuals. While securing the individuals, the team began taking fire from an unknown suspect. One agent was shot in the lower part of the body, and another was hit in his helmet. 
   Agent Phillips witnessed the two agents going down and pursued the suspect through a blind hallway. Upon reaching the room where the suspect was hiding armed with a rifle, Agent Phillips fired, causing the suspect to drop his weapon and surrender. Agent Phillips apprehended the suspect and protected his fellow agents from further harm. Both agents later recovered from their injuries. 
   The Medal, authorized by the Public Safety Medal of Valor Act of 2001, is awarded by the President of the United States to public safety officers cited by the attorney general. Public safety officers are nominated by the chiefs or directors of their employing agencies and recommended by the Medal of Valor Review Board. The Review Board includes representatives from the public safety community and the general public who are appointed by the President, the Majority and Minority Leaders of the U.S. Senate and the Speaker and the Minority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives.
 
 