SEN. ISAKSON WARNS TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION TO REDUCE DELAYS, IMPROVE EFFICIENCY AT HARTSFIELD-JACKSON SECURITY CHECKPOINTS
  Warning that federal security at Atlanta's airport is ill-prepared for the upcoming holiday travel season, U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today sent a letter to the secretary of the Transportation Security Administration asking him to personally intervene with TSA management at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport to see what can be done to improve efficiency at the security checkpoints. 
   "Hartsfield-Jackson is the busiest airport in the world, and it is absolutely essential for the TSA to provide security that is vigilant but that also allows passengers to get through the checkpoints in a timely manner," Isakson said. "I have received repeated complaints about the significant wait times at the checkpoints and something needs to be done to improve the situation." 
   The text of the letter to Secretary Kip Hawley of the Transportation Security Administration is below:
   Dear Secretary Hawley:
   I am writing in regards to delays at the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) checkpoint at the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. I remain concerned that TSA's management at Hartsfield-Jackson is not staffing the security checkpoint sufficiently and is not prepared to meet passenger demand during the upcoming holiday travel season. 
   I have received repeated calls from constituents, airport officials, and airline officials complaining of significant wait times at the checkpoint. Chief amongst their complaints is that during peak travel times the checkpoint is not fully staffed, and a number of lanes remain closed to travelers even though there are long passenger lines with delays sometimes in excess of 45 minutes. The airlines and airport are providing the TSA in Atlanta with projected passenger counts days in advance, however the TSA is not responding by staffing the checkpoint accordingly. 
   I ask that you personally intervene with TSA management at Hartsfield-Jackson to see what can be done to improve efficiency at the checkpoints at Hartsfield-Jackson. Thank you for the work you are doing and for your attention to this matter. I look forward to hearing the steps you are taking to mitigate this problem. Should you or your staff have any questions please do not hesitate to call me. 
   Sincerely,
  Johnny Isakson
  United States Senator.
 
 