SEN. ISAKSON: ECONOMIC PROSPERITY IS RESULT OF STRONG ECONOMY, NOT FEDERAL REGULATIONS
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today voiced concerns over calls for greater governmental control of the economy during a Senate hearing on economic opportunity and security for working families. Isakson is a member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, which held the hearing, and is the senior Republican on the Employment and Workplace Safety Subcommittee.  
   "We should be honest about what government can and cannot do. The economic prosperity we all crave flows from the entrepreneurial inspiration of the American people, not from their representatives in Washington," Isakson said. "Mandates, protectionism, isolationism, high taxes are all bad for America and bad for Americans." 
   The hearing dealt with issues such as leave expansion, minimum wage, labor standards enforcement, and other employer-mandates and workplace regulation. Isakson believes free people making free decisions in the marketplace is preferable to government mandates that dictate who should work, where they should work and how much money they should be allowed to keep. 
   "This debate is a classic contrast between two very different philosophies. Ours believes in the marketplace, the competitive system that has brought the United States of America so much prosperity," Isakson said. "The other argument says government and Washington know better."
   Anna Cablik of Marietta, Ga., testified before the committee about the difficulty excessive government mandates place on a small business owner. Cablik was born and raised in the Republic of Panama. In 1982 Cablik started her own contracting company, ANATEK, Inc. in Atlanta. Cablik's second company, ANASTEEL & Supply Company, LLC was created in 1994 and is the only Hispanic and female owned reinforcing steel fabricator in the Southeast.
   "I am so honored that my dear friend, Anna Cablik, is here with us today," Isakson said. "Anna came to this country from Panama and started her first business with just $500. Today, she employs over 100 workers. She represents the promise of this great land. I am pleased to know her and welcome this fine American to Washington."
 
 