SEN. ISAKSON RECEIVES 'TAXPAYER HERO' AWARD FOR COMMITMENT TO REDUCING WASTEFUL SPENDING
  U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today was honored as a "Taxpayer Hero" by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste for his voting record in 2006. The award is given to members of Congress who consistently vote to cut wasteful spending, reduce the tax burden and make government more accountable to taxpayers.  
   "I am very proud to receive this honor from the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste , because I agree with them that we must take large and immediate steps to stop out-of-control federal spending," Isakson said. "It is simply irresponsible for politicians to spend taxpayers' dollars in such reckless fashion. It is threatening our economy, and it is threatening the future of our nation." 
   The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste is the lobbying arm of Citizens Against Government Waste, the nation's largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement in government.
   Since 1991, the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste has tracked roll call votes to separate the taxpayer advocates in Congress from those who favor wasteful programs and pork-barrel spending. The 2006 Congressional Ratings cover the voting year 2006, the second session of the 109 th Congress. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste rated 21 key votes in the Senate.
   During 2006, Isakson was one of only 19 senators with a score of 80 percent or higher, who were eligible for the "Taxpayer Hero" honor. Isakson received a score of 90 percent on the 2006 Congressional Ratings
   "Sen. Isakson puts the interests of taxpayers ahead of politics by recognizing the long-term consequences of excessive spending and working to reduce the enormous debt being left to future generations," Council for Citizens Against Government Waste President Tom Schatz said.
   Isakson has received the "Taxpayer Hero" honor every year he has served in the Senate.
 
 