SEN. ISAKSON WORKS WITH SENATE BUDGET CHAIRMAN TO IMPROVE BORDER SECURITY
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today praised Senate Budget Chairman Judd Gregg (R-N.H.) for beefing up funding for border security and for agreeing to "take a hard look" at Isakson's proposal for authorizing additional unmanned aerial vehicles as a key component to securing America's borders and improving national security.  
   Gregg is Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee as well as Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the Department of Homeland Security, including border security programs. In a statement entered today in the Congressional Record, Gregg pledged to take a hard look at the unmanned aerial vehicle program during the upcoming appropriations process. The budget resolution, which creates a blueprint for federal spending priorities and is currently being debated on the Senate floor, includes an additional $4 billion for border security focused on improving infrastructure and giving our men and women on the front lines the tools to do the job. 
   Senator Gregg said in today's statement, "The distinguished Senator from Georgia is known as a real leader in this area, and we appreciate his counsel. I also believe these unmanned aerial vehicles can enhance our capabilities, as they have for our military as demonstrated in Afghanistan and Iraq. I can assure the Senator, we will take a hard look at the UAV program as a component of a border security infrastructure program." 
   Senator Isakson said, "I want to thank Senator Gregg for his leadership on this issue. I have traveled to the U.S.-Mexican border and have observed firsthand the progress we're making in securing our borders. And one of the keys to this progress is the eyes in the sky that the unmanned aerial vehicles provide. We must put more unmanned aerial vehicles in the sky as soon as possible."
   On Feb. 22, Isakson led a Congressional delegation to the U.S.-Mexico border, which included stops in San Diego, Fort Huachuca, Ariz., and Manzanillo, Mexico. In Arizona, Isakson viewed the one and only unmanned aerial vehicle operated by Customs and Border Protection. This one vehicle is flown along the border and can detect individuals trying to come across the border illegally. The border protection agents then use the signals from this detection system to catch these illegal immigrants and to stop them from entering the U.S.
   Last week, Isakson introduced legislation to provide increased manpower, equipment and technology to secure the U.S. border and stop the influx of illegal immigration. Isakson believes Congress must act to secure the border first before addressing other issues related to illegal immigration. His legislation includes more than $450 million to acquire and maintain a squadron of at least 25 unmanned aerial vehicles with high-tech sensors and satellite communication. This would allow coverage on the border by an unmanned vehicle 24 hours a day. Currently, there is only one unmanned aerial vehicle operating along the U.S.-Mexico border.
   "Our states, our school systems, our hospitals, our farm workers and our citizens no longer have the luxury or the patience for us to delay this issue any longer," Isakson said. "We must take the necessary steps now to secure our borders, enforce legal immigration and see to it there are consequences for bad behavior."
   The Senate is scheduled to take up immigration legislation on March 27.
 
 