SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON APPLAUD NOMINATION OF EDMUND BOOTH TO SERVE AS U S. ATTORNEY FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today praised President Bush's nomination of Edmund A. Booth to serve as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia.  
   On February 8, 2007, Booth was appointed as the Interim United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia, replacing Lisa Godbey Wood, who resigned to assume a judicial appointment as U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Georgia. Booth has been in the United States Attorney's Office in Augusta, Ga., for 36 years, and he has served as the First Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia since 1986. Both Chambliss and Isakson recommended Booth for the post.
   "I applaud President Bush for his nomination of Edmund Booth to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia," said Chambliss. "Mr. Booth is a formidable attorney with exceptional experience, and I am confident that he will serve the people of Georgia well. I look forward to a swift confirmation."
   "It is with great pride that I lend my strong endorsement to Edmund Booth as he begins the confirmation process in the Senate," Isakson said. "Mr. Booth is an individual of high intellect with an established record of professional competence, reliability and integrity. The President has nominated an exceptionally qualified individual."
   Booth is a native of Athens, Ga., and obtained a B.B.A. from the University of Georgia in 1967 and earned his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Georgia School of Law in 1970. Booth received the Director's Award for Superior Performance as an Assistant United States Attorney from the Director of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys in 1994 and in 2003. He also served as a member of the Civil Justice Reform Act Committee for the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia from 1991 to 1994. He is a member of the State Bar of Georgia and the Augusta Bar Association. He is also President of the Rotary Club of Augusta.
 
 