SEN. ISAKSON VOTES AGAINST FINAL BUDGET RESOLUTION, VOICES DISMAY AT REFUSAL TO CONTROL FEDERAL SPENDING
  Expressing dismay over Congress' plan to increase spending and raise taxes, Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today voted against final passage of the Budget Resolution. The resolution passed by a vote of 52 to 40.  
   This year's Budget Resolution, which serves as a blueprint for Congress when it decides how to appropriate federal dollars later in the year, is packed with heavy spending and the largest tax increase in U.S. history. The House and Senate passed different versions of the Budget Resolution earlier this year. The resolution passed today is the result of work by a conference committee to reconcile the differences between the two bills. 
   "We must take large and immediate steps to end the reckless spending that is threatening the future of our nation. Congress must become better stewards of the taxpayers' money, and this legislation sends exactly the wrong message," Isakson said. "We also simply cannot raise taxes on America's families and businesses. In doing so, we abandon the very strategy that has created jobs, allowed businesses to expand, left more money in the pockets of our families and spurred unprecedented economic prosperity for the entire nation." 
   The Budget Resolution increases non-defense discretionary spending by almost $205 billion over the next five years. It also contains no provisions for reducing entitlement spending. 
   During debate in March, the Senate rejected a number of amendments to extend existing tax relief past 2010. Isakson voted in favor of those amendments, including a vote to permanently repeal the estate tax. If Congress fails to extend tax relief past 2010, this Budget Resolution will raise taxes by $736 billion beginning in 2011. 
   "The tax cuts in 2001 and 2003 lowered tax rates for individuals, businesses, dividends and capital gains, eliminated the marriage penalty and scaled back the alternative minimum tax and the death tax," Isakson said. "Critics said we were giving a handout to the rich, but the facts are these tax cuts created jobs, allowed businesses to expand and left more money in the pockets of our families.We must continue our nation's unprecedented economic prosperity by making these tax cuts permanent."
 
 