SEN. ISAKSON REJECTS TIMELINES FOR WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS FROM IRAQ
  U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today voted against an amendment to the fiscal year 2008 defense authorization bill that would require President Bush to begin the drawdown of U.S. forces from Iraq within 120 days and to complete the withdrawal of most units by April 30, 2008. The amendment, which needed 60 votes to pass under Senate rules, failed by a vote of 52 to 47.  
   "A precipitous and final withdrawal that is notwithstanding whatever action may be taking place on the ground or what progress may have been made is wrong," Isakson said. "While the situation in Iraq is grave, it would turn dire if we prematurely withdraw our forces." 
   Isakson believes withdrawing troops before Iraq is fully secure or revealing timelines for the withdrawal of troops would send a message of hope to the terrorists and insurgents that America has lost its will. Isakson noted that during more than 20 hours of Foreign Relations hearings on Iraq, every witness - even those who opposed the President's strategy - testified that withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq would result in thousands of lives lost and an increase in the sectarian violence across the region.
    "If we have objectives and benchmarks for victory, we should give ourselves the chance for that to take place," Isakson said. "We owe it to the legacy of the sacrifice made by the countless men and women who are in Iraq and those who have served before them."
   President Bush recently sent nearly 30,000 additional troops to Iraq as part of a strategy to help the Iraqi government assume more control and more accountability for securing the country. General David Petraeus, who leads the Multinational Forces-Iraq Command, is expected to deliver a progress report to Congress on the president's new strategy in mid-September. Isakson believes it is critical for Congress to give the recent increases in troops a chance to work before advocating a change in strategy in Iraq.
 
 