SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON ANNOUNCE FINAL APPROVAL OF MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FUNDING FOR GEORGIA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga,., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today praised final passage of the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill, which provides important funds for military construction at Georgia's military bases and for the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
   "Georgia's military installations play a major role in the national security of the United States," said Chambliss, who serves on the Senate Armed Services Committee and helped draft the authorization bill associated with this appropriations bill. "As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I am pleased to help secure many of these important construction projects that will benefit our bases, our troops and their families."
   "This investment in Georgia's military installations is very good news for Georgia," Isakson said. "Our facilities play a key role in the security of our nation, and I am very pleased to see such a strong commitment to them from Washington."
   The bill provides $6.2 billion in total military construction funding, $5.1 billion for active duty construction and $1.1 billion for the reserve components, as well as $4.0 billion for family housing construction and operations, $223 million above the President's request to continue the goal of providing adequate housing for our service members and their families. 
   Highlights for Georgia in the bill include: 
   Fort Benning 
   $20.9 million for the combined arms collective training facility 
  $4.3 million for the Infantry platoon battle course 
  $2 million for the Squad Defense Range 
  $1.7 million for the U.S. Army Special Operations Command shoot house
  $1.25 million for the base shoot house
   Fort Gillem 
   $3.9 million for the forensic lab 
   Fort Gordon 
   $49 million for the Gordon Regional Security Operations Center 
  $4.5 million for the Military Police Complex 
   Fort Stewart 
   $37.5 million for the barracks complex
  $17.8 million for the vehicle maintenance shop
  $16 million for a new DoD Dependent Education school 
  $10 million for the Special Operations Command SOCOM equipment maintenance complex
  $1.3 million for the urban assault training course 
  $1.2 million for the U.S. Army Special Operations Command Shoot House
   Kings Bay 
   $3.9 million for the Armored Fighting Vehicle Support Facility 
  $3 million for the waterfront security emergency generator and additional utility and site improvements 
   MCLB Albany 
   $4 million for the Combat Vehicle Maintenance Facility 
  $1.8 million for construction of a new fire station 
   Robins AFB 
   $5.6 million for the Combat Communications Facility 
  $2 million for an approach lighting system 
   Georgia Air National Guard - Savannah
   $7.2 million to replace the current Combat Readiness Training Center and Medical Training Complex in Savannah
   Additionally, the bill includes over $70.7 billion in funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs, including key funds for the health care needs for America's Veterans. The bill provides $22.5 billion for Veterans Medical Services, $575 million above the budget request and $1.7 billion above FY05. Over the last two years, funding for Veterans medical care has increased by 18%. The bill does not contain additional fees and co-pays as proposed by the President. The bill also fences $2.2 billion for Veterans Mental Health Services, doubles funding for mental health research, and requires a comprehensive study on Post Traumatic Stress Disorder focusing on improving mental health research, care, and access to information. Overall, Veteran's Benefits are increased $1.9 billion over last year. 
   "I can think of no higher priority than caring for our nation's Veterans who were wounded in their service to our Nation," said Chambliss. "America's Veterans have made great sacrifices to ensure that we call live in a safe and secure America and for the Freedom we all enjoy. It's only right that we do all we can for our Veterans." 
   "As a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs, one of my top priorities is to make sure we take care of the veterans who have dedicated their lives to serving our country. This VA funding reflects the strong commitment we must make to the men and women who have served so ably," Isakson said.
 
 