SENS. CHAMBLISS-ISAKSON-REP. KINGSTON SUPPORT REQUEST FOR DISASTER DECLARATION FOR DROUGHT-STRICKEN COUNTIES
  U.S. Senators Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Ranking Republican Member on the Senate Agriculture Committee, and Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and U.S. Congressman Jack Kingston (GA-07) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Mike Johanns requesting swift approval and support of the Georgia State Emergency Board's request for a disaster declaration for all 159 counties in Georgia affected by extreme drought conditions.  
   "We need to do everything we can to help Georgia farmers recover from one of the driest growing seasons in recent memory," said Sen. Chambliss. "Our agricultural community has had a number of weather-related disasters already this year, including the devastating freeze this spring and the wild fires that continue to burn in Southern Georgia as a result of no or little rainfall. I urge Secretary Johanns to swiftly approve the request so that our farmers and ranchers can get the help they desperately need."
   "As the leading industry in Georgia's vibrant economy, agriculture is critical to our state. Our producers in Georgia are facing tough times due to recent conditions, including the extreme drought that threatens to devastate many crops," said Sen. Isakson. "This declaration would allow producers who need assistance the opportunity to take advantage of low-interest emergency loans immediately."
   "The drought has really made this growing season difficult for our farmers. Those who were able to get their crops planted have seen their production costs go through the roof with the need to irrigate so frequently. These farmers are the lifeblood of our rural communities and when they are hurting so is the rest of the local economy. I commend Governor Perdue for requesting the disaster declaration and hope that USDA will approve it as soon as possible. I look forward to working with Senator Chambliss and Senator Isakson and the rest of the congressional delegation," Congressman Jack Kingston said.
   The agriculture industry supports one in six jobs in Georgia and the drought threatens to do considerable damage to the state's economy. Despite recent rainfall, nearly 50 percent of Georgia was designated as suffering from Extreme Drought conditions by the U.S. Drought Monitor on June 26, 2007. The lack of rainfall has prevented many Georgia producers from planting a crop or has left them without adequate feedstocks for their animals.
 
 