SEN. ISAKSON CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO IMPROVE WORKER SAFETY
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today announced his support for a package of legislation to ensure the safety of our nation's workers. 
   The package includes three bills to reform the Occupation Safety and Health Act and was introduced by Senator Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), who is chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP). Isakson, who co-sponsored the three bills, is a member of the HELP committee and he chairs the subcommittee that has jurisdiction over employment and workplace safety issues.
   "Yesterday, the Labor Department announced that the rate of injuries and illnesses in private businesses has declined to the lowest level in OSHA's 32-year history," Isakson said. "These bills are critical to continuing and improving that trend. I look forward to working with Chairman Enzi and all the members of the HELP Committee to assure expedient passage of this legislation that is vital to ensuring the safety of American workers." 
   The first bill will create a set of new creative initiatives that allow for increased consultation between employers and safety experts, expanded use of voluntary prevention programs and additional assistance with regulatory compliance. 
   The second bill will ensure procedural fairness for small businessmen and women when dealing with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). It includes the provisions of four bills introduced by U.S. Representative Charlie Norwood (R-Ga.) and passed by the House earlier this year. The Norwood bills were the subject of a hearing in May of the Senate Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety that Isakson chairs. 
   "Congressman Norwood, my good friend and colleague from Georgia, has long been a leader on this important issue." Isakson said. "I appreciate his continued efforts to make sure the voices of our nation's small businesses are heard."
   The third bill will assist employers in their efforts to communicate the proper procedures for the handing of hazardous substances.
 
 