SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON SCREENING PANEL NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR SOUTHERN DISTRICT COURT VACANCY
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced that their judicial screening panel is now accepting applications for the expected vacancy on the federal bench in the Southern District of Georgia. The panel will review applications for recommendations they will make to the White House for Federal judicial appointments in Georgia.  
   Chambliss and Isakson have been asked by the White House counsel's office to make recommendations to fill the expected vacancy in the Southern District of Georgia when the Honorable Dudley H. Bowen, Jr. takes senior status on June 25, 2006. 
   Chambliss said it is customary for the President to seek recommendations from the "home state" U.S. Senators of the President's party to fill judicial vacancies. However, the President submits the final nomination to the Senate for its "advice and consent." 
   Applications will be reviewed by a screening panel previously established by Senators Chambliss and Isakson which will make recommendations to the Senators. The panel is composed of: Frank C. Jones, a retired partner of King & Spalding in Atlanta, who now resides in Macon; the Honorable H. Arthur (Mac) McLane of Valdosta, Chief Judge of the Superior Courts for the Southern Judicial Circuit of Georgia; William U. Norwood, III with Pope, McGlamry, Kilpatrick, Morrison and Norwood, of Atlanta and Columbus, Georgia; Robert D. Ingram, with the Marietta law firm of Moore, Ingram, Johnson & Steele and current President of the Georgia State Bar; James B. Franklin with the Statesboro law firm of Franklin, Taulbee, Rushing, Snipes & Marsh; and Ronald L. Carlson, Professor of Law at the University of Georgia. 
   "I have great confidence in all members of the screening panel to help us with this important task," said Chambliss. "Helping the President fill judicial vacancies is an important responsibility. As Federal district judges are appointed for life, it is critical that we find the most qualified attorneys for the President to consider." 
   "Filling vacancies on the federal bench with qualified, respected and principled individuals is an extremely important job. I am confident these Georgians we are appointing today will do an excellent job evaluating each judicial nominee's application," Isakson said. 
   Applicants who are interested in the expected vacancy in the Southern District of Georgia should request a questionnaire from Frank C. Jones c/o Dianne Smith, 191 Peachtree St., N.E. Atlanta, GA 30303-1763, before December 30, 2005. Only written correspondence from the applicants will be accepted. Letter writing campaigns and telephone calls to Senator Chambliss, Senator Isakson, and/or to the members of the screening panel are strongly discouraged. The panel may wish to interview applicants. 
   "As was the case in the last Congress, our charge is to look for and recommend only those potential nominees who have established a record of professional competence, integrity, and the proper temperament for judicial service," said Frank Jones who leads the panel.
 
 