SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON PRAISE PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION NAMING ARABIA MOUNTAIN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., announced that legislation to designate Arabia Mountain in DeKalb County as a National Heritage Area passed the Senate today by a voice vote. Chambliss and Isakson introduced the bill earlier this year.  
   "Arabia Mountain is a true Georgia treasure and I am pleased to see Congress recognize this important designation for the people of Goergia," said Chambliss, who introduced a similar bill in the previous Congress. "With increased development around Arabia Mountain, it's only right we protect and preserve this special place from urban sprawl for future generations to enjoy." 
   "Designating Arabia Mountain as a National Heritage Area is a wise investment in the future of our great state," said Isakson. "We are proud to try to help preserve this wonderful natural resource from urban sprawl." 
   According to the National Park Service, a National Heritage Area is a place "designated by the United States Congress, where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally distinctive landscape arising from patterns of human activity shaped by geography." The designation would include a large portion of eastern DeKalb, western Rockdale and northern Henry counties. In DeKalb, the area includes Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve, Miners Creek Preserve, and Arabia Lake and Stephenson Creek. 
   The designation has broad support from key community leaders, including Vernon Jones, DeKalb County Chief Executive Officer, Kelly Jordan, Chair of the Arabia Mountain Heritage Area Alliance, Mayor Marcia Glenn, of Lithonia, the Rockdale County Commission, and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources. 
   "I appreciate Senators Chambliss and Isakson support to designate Arabia Mountain as a National Heritage Area ," said DeKalb Chief Executive Officer Vernon Jones. "This important legislation not only benefits Georgia, but the entire Southeast."
 
 