SENATE APPROVES MEASURE IMPROVING MILITARY POLICY REGARDING FALLEN SOLDIERS
  The U.S. Senate today approved a measure introduced by Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., that would require the U.S. Department of Defense to improve the way fallen soldiers are cared for and how their survivors are notified and kept informed.
   The measure requires the Secretary of Defense to conduct and submit to Congress a comprehensive review regarding its current mortuary affairs policies, specifically to review how it utilizes refrigeration in combat theaters in order to enhance preservation of remains, timelines for transferring remains from their combat units back to the United States, and the feasibility of locating autopsy and embalming operations in theater as opposed to in the U.S. 
   Additionally, it ensures that the most qualified Department personnel brief survivors, that the briefings are done as soon as possible, that those briefings include the most complete and accurate information possible, and would include procedures for survivors to receive updates or supplemental information upon their request.
   The Chambliss and Isakson measure was offered as an amendment to the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, a bill currently being considered by the U.S. Senate that funds continued operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other areas of the ongoing global war on terrorism.
   The Georgia Senators were inspired by the story of Sgt. Paul Saylor of Bremen, Georgia, who served as a member of the Georgia National Guard's 48 th Brigade Combat Team and was killed in Iraq in 2005. Because Sgt. Saylor's body was in an advanced state of decomposition, his family was not able to have an open casket funeral, which would have helped provide closure to the Saylor family at a very sorrowful time.
   "I applaud the Senate for approving this amendment," said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "The unimaginable grief and sorrow that a family experiences when their soldier makes the ultimate sacrifice should not be made even more distressing by not allowing the family an opportunity to say their final goodbye. Our heroes deserve nothing less than a respectable and appropriate farewell. I commend the Saylor family for their courage and strength in sharing their family's experience with us, and it has been a privilege to work on their behalf to ensure that other military families do not go through the same thing."
   "Our servicemen and women and their families have made immeasurable sacrifices for our nation and the chance for freedom to take root abroad," Isakson said. "All of our fallen heroes must be given the highest honors and respect for their great sacrifice. I am grateful to the Saylor family for bringing this to our attention, and I hope this measure will help ensure the treatment of a fallen soldier is the absolute best our nation can provide."
   Albert Spears, State Junior Vice Commander and Legislative Chairman for the Department of Georgia, Veterans of Foreign Wars of the U.S., said, "As the premier organization made up solely of combat veterans, members of the VFW know what it is to lose a buddy on the field of battle. The Department of Defense must always do the right thing to preserve the dignity of the fallen warriors. We understand that the tactical and strategic situation may at times prevent mortuary and graves registration units from operating 'far forward,' but they must locate there as soon as the battle permits. The fallen warrior and the family deserve no less. All the citizens of Georgia should thank our great Senators of Georgia - Chambliss and Isakson - for their strong leadership on this and similar issues."
   Commander Robert A. Pollard of the American Legion Department of Georgia, which supports the effort, said, "The members of our organization know the importance of a family's opportunity to view the deceased. All means possible should be taken to ensure the proper care of our deceased personnel and their timely return to their families. The Department of Defense must ensure each survivor is notified and is given the most accurate information as soon as possible."
   The National Military Family Association (NMFA) said, "Families tell NMFA that they want accurate information about the circumstances surrounding their service member's death. NMFA believes this process is improving but thanks the sponsors of this amendment for recognizing that more may need to be done to ensure that surviving families' needs are addressed."
   The National Military Family Association is the only national organization whose sole focus is the military family and whose goal is to influence the development and implementation of policies that will improve the lives of our military families.
 
 