SEN. ISAKSON CHIEF OF STAFF GARRETT TO BECOME CHAIRMAN OF SEN. ISAKSON'S CAMPAIGN, JOIN NATIONAL CONSULTING, COMMUNICATIONS FIRM
  U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced that his longtime Chief of Staff Heath Garrett will move from the Senate office to become Chairman of Isakson's campaign, serving as Isakson's chief political strategist in association with the political consulting firm SSG, The Stevens & Schriefer Group. 
   Garrett is an attorney and political strategist who has worked with Isakson for the past 12 years, starting in 1995 as manager of Isakson's U.S. Senate campaign. Garrett then served as policy advisor when Isakson was chairman of the Georgia Board of Education, and later oversaw Isakson's successful U.S. House races in 1999, 2000 and 2002, as well as his successful U.S. Senate bid in 2004. Garrett also served as Chief of Staff to Isakson in the U.S. House and U.S. Senate.
   Garrett will be based in Georgia for The Stevens & Schriefer Group, which is a Washington, D.C.-based political consulting and strategic communications firm whose clients include Isakson, President Bush, Florida Governor Charlie Crist, Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour, Alabama Governor Bob Riley, as well as corporate clients such as the National Association of Realtors.
   "I would not be where I am without Heath's political skills," Isakson said. "I am glad he will devote himself full time to our campaign committee, and I am very grateful for his leadership and the team he has built as Chief of Staff."
   Isakson also announced today that Chris Carr will become his Chief of Staff and Joan Kirchner will become his Deputy Chief of Staff. Tricia Chastain will continue to serve as Isakson's State Director.
   Carr has served as Isakson's Deputy Chief of Staff since the senator took office in 2005. Carr was Isakson's campaign manager during his 2004 U.S. Senate race and previously was Vice President of the Georgia Public Policy Foundation and an attorney with Alston & Bird in Atlanta.
   Kirchner has served as Isakson's Senior Policy Advisor and Communications Director since Isakson took office in 2005. Kirchner previously served as Chief of Staff to former U.S. Senator Zell Miller, and prior to that was a reporter for the Associated Press and for Morris News Service for 14 years in Georgia. She will continue to serve as Communications Director in her new role.
   "Chris and Joan have been key members of our leadership team from day one.They have built a great, responsive team for which I am very grateful," Isakson said. "Their leadership in Washington and Tricia Chastain's leadership in Georgia has been exceptional."
 
 