SENATE APPROVES SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON C-130J MEASURE
  By voice vote, the United States Senate approved today an amendment authored by Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., that would prohibit the Pentagon from spending fiscal year 2005 supplemental funds included in the Iraq funding bill to terminate the C-130J program. The measure was attached to the Senate version of the Iraq spending bill that President Bush is expected to sign into law. Chambliss said the efforts of Sen. Mark Pryor, D-AK, were also instrumental in securing the unanimous support within the Senate.   
   "I am pleased the United States Senate overwhelmingly approved our measure prohibiting the Pentagon from spending funds in this bill to terminate the C-130J program," said Chambliss. "Not only is the C-130J a valuable aircraft to our men and women fighting in the war on terror right now, but the C-130 program has long been the workhorse of our air tactical fleet and vital to the United States Air Force. Until the Pentagon submits a revised budget to Congress that includes keeping the C-130J program, we intend to keep the pressure on and do all we can to ensure this valuable aircraft is available to the men and women in our armed forces." 
   "This is great news for Georgia and the country as a whole. This vote further reaffirms our position that the Air Force should not cancel the multi-year contract for the C-130J," Isakson said. "This program is vitally important to the national security of the United States, and spending up to $1.6 billion of taxpayer money to terminate it in the middle of the contract just doesn't make sense."
   Over the past several months the C-130J, KC-130J, as well as C-130J's operated by our coalition partners in Iraq have performed superbly throughout USCENTCOM. To date, C-130J's in Iraq have flown over 400 missions with a mission capable rate of 93 percent and have performed all missions successfully. KC-130J's have flown 789 hours in Iraq with mission capable rates in excess of 95 percent.   
   The amendment was necessary because the Department of Defense has not yet submitted the amended budget request for this program that they discussed during previous congressional hearings.
   Specifically, the measure will ensure that the C-130J program - which meets validated Air Force and Marine Corps requirements - is not cancelled in fiscal year 2005 and that the Department of Defense follows through with completing the multi-year procurement contract.
 
 