SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS EXPRESS CONCERN REGARDING FUNDING FOR CAMPBELL CENTER
  U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., sent a letter to the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture on Feb. 19 expressing their concerns about funding for the J. Phil Campbell, Sr. Natural Resource Conservation Center in Watkinsville, Ga.  
   The Campbell Center works in partnership with farmers, environmental leaders, commodity groups, agri-business leaders and state and federal agencies to transfer improved agricultural systems to landowners and managers that protect and sustain the natural resource base, build accord with non-agricultural sectors and support healthy rural economies. The facility may face closure because the President's Fiscal Year 2009 budget will reduce or terminate funding for some U.S. Department of Agriculture research facilities. 
   The text of the letter to Secretary of Agriculture Ed Schafer is below:
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   We are writing you today regarding the J. Phil Campbell, Sr. Natural Resource Conservation Center in Watkinsville, Georgia. 
   It has come to our attention that this facility may face closure because the President's Fiscal Year 2009 budget will reduce or terminate funding for some USDA research facilities including the Campbell Center. We are concerned about the implications this closure will have for the local economy if the nearly 30 employees of the Center lose their jobs. In addition, we are concerned about the critical agriculture research that would be lost as a result of this action.
   As you may know, the Center has been conducting valuable research in conservation of our natural resources since it was founded in 1937. Our farmers and ranchers have benefited tremendously from the Center's research and its partnerships to implement practical natural resource conservation practices on the farm. Since the Center was founded, Georgia producers and landowners have made significant strides in conservation adoption. We do not want to see these efforts regress because of insufficient research and application. 
   We thank you for taking the time to review this letter and look forward to working with you throughout the Congressional budget and appropriations process to maintain sufficient funding for this vital research facility. 
   Chambliss is the Ranking Republican Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee.
 
 