SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR CITY OF MOULTRIE
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced that the Senate has approved $200,000 in funding for the City of Moultrie which will be used to construct a community multi-purpose and intermodal facility which would serve as a centralized hub for various means of transportation in and out of the downtown area including the bus station, county transit system, taxi service, bike trail, and parking system for cyclists and motorists.  
   Chambliss and Isakson worked with Senate appropriators to secure these important funds for Georgia as part of the fiscal year 2006 Transportation, Treasury, the Judiciary, Housing and Urban Development, and D.C. Appropriations Act. The bill now goes to a House-Senate conference committee to work out a final version of the bill.
   "My hometown of Moultrie is one of south Georgia's finest and fasting growing communities," said Chambliss. "As a result of this continued growth, I am pleased to help city officials secure the resources needed to provide infrastructural improvements relative to public transportation."
   "The funds for the City of Moultrie will go a long way toward helping city officials develop the city's transportation infrastructure and attract economic development," said Isakson. 
   The City of Moultrie is at a critical strategic point in planning the future development of its downtown district, having increased its commercial space occupancy to over 95% within the last five years, and transportation and parking in the downtown district will become an issue for Moultrie in the very near future. Additionally, Abraham Baldwin College currently has over 500 commuter students at the school's satellite campus in downtown Moultrie. The school estimates student enrollment at the Moultrie campus will increase to 1000 students in the coming years. This project will enable the City of Moultrie to meet the needs of the community, particularly as it relates to the downtown district.
 
 