SEN. ISAKSON PRAISES PASSAGE OF IRAQ SPENDING BILL WITHOUT TIMELINE FOR WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today praised the Senate's passage of legislation to provide funds for American troops without timelines for U.S. troop withdrawals in Iraq. The bill passed by a vote of 80 to 14.  
   Isakson previously has voted against a military spending bill that contained such withdrawal mandates, and that bill was later vetoed by President Bush.
   "It was absolutely wrong to tie the money to support our troops to arbitrary timetables that have nothing to do with success or failure," Isakson said. "I'm pleased this bill supports our men and women, who are deployed in defense of freedom, and gives them everything they deserve and everything they need without tying their hands through arbitrary deadlines."
   The military spending bill, which provides nearly $103 billion in funding for the war against Islamist terrorists, also includes political and legislative benchmarks for the Iraqi government. The Iraqis must meet the benchmarks outlined in the legislation in order to continue receiving non-military U.S. reconstruction aid. However, President Bush can waive the restriction by providing a detailed explanation for the waiver that describes the actions being taken by the United States to bring the Iraqi government into compliance with the benchmarks.
   Isakson stressed how critical it is for America to remain committed to Iraq and to the War on Terror. Isakson said withdrawing troops before Iraq is fully secure or revealing timelines for the withdrawal of troops would have sent a message of hope to the terrorists and insurgents that America has lost its will.
   "While the situation in Iraq is grave, it would turn dire if we prematurely withdraw our forces and withdraw the funding that is necessary to move Iraq forward," Isakson said. "Our brave men and women in uniform and the people of Iraq deserve to see a successful outcome. I remain committed to ensuring that the future holds this promise." 
   The bill also included $650 million dollars to fix the current funding shortfall for the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Georgia is one of several states experiencing a funding shortfall in Fiscal Year 2007.
   "Senator Chambliss and I have been working for months and exploring every opportunity to find a solution to the shortfall that Georgia and many other states face under the State Children's Health Insurance Program. I'm pleased this legislation includes funds to ensure that Georgia's children do not lose their health insurance," Isakson said. "We also must re-authorize the program this year and permanently fix a funding formula that penalizes states such as Georgia that do such a good job providing health insurance for underprivileged children."
 
 