SEN. ISAKSON PRAISES STUDENT IMPROVEMENTS IN READING, MATH
  U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today praised the news that elementary and middle school students in Georgia and across the United States have made improvements in reading and math and credited the No Child Left Behind Act with helping to make those gains possible.  
   Two reports issued this week by The Nation's Report Card offer new data on the achievement of America's fourth- and eighth-graders on the National Assessment of Educational Progress in reading and math. The reports are published by the National Center for Education Statistics of the U.S. Department of Education. 
   "These results indicate that No Child Left Behind has demonstrated improvements in the children it set out to help the most. Our lowest-performing students are making the greatest gains, and their ability to do well in all subject areas increases as their skills in reading and math improve," Isakson said. "I believe our commitment to the principles in No Child Left Behind will continue to improve educational achievement around the country in all subject areas." 
   Nationwide, the reports found the percentage of fourth-grade students performing at or above basic level has increased from 65 to 82 percent since 2000 in mathematics and from 59 to 67 percent since 2000 in reading. The number of eighth-graders at or above basic in mathematics also increased from 63 percent in 2000 to 71 percent in 2007. 
   In Georgia, the reports found that fourth- and eighth-grade students made gains in both reading and math from 2005 to 2007, and that some of the biggest gains were among African-American and Hispanic students. Overall in Georgia, 66 percent of fourth-grade students scored at or above basic level in reading and 79 percent of fourth-grade students in Georgia scored at or above basic level in mathematics in 2007. The reports also found 70 percent of eighth-grade students in Georgia scored at or above basic level in reading and 64 percent of eighth-grade students in Georgia scored at or above basic level in mathematics in 2007. 
   When Isakson served in the U.S. House, he was one of a handful of lawmakers invited by President Bush in 2000 to help write the No Child Left Behind Act, the landmark legislation that is providing schools with the necessary resources to give all children a quality education. Isakson is now a member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, which has jurisdiction over education issues including the No Child Left Behind reauthorization. 
   "As one of the authors of President Bush's No Child Left Behind law, I have a vested interest in this legislation and its impact on our nation's education system," Isakson said. "Overall, our school systems are improving and our students are receiving more of the educational tools they need to compete in the 21st Century. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that we re-authorize and improve this valuable legislation."
 
 