SEN. ISAKSON REJECTS TIMELINES FOR WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS FROM IRAQ
  Expressing dismay over the Senate's approval of specific timelines for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq, Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today voted against final passage of the emergency supplemental spending bill. In addition, the President has stated he will veto the bill because it includes timelines for withdrawal, and Isakson said he would support the President by voting to sustain such a veto.  
   "There are a number of reasons to vote against this bill - 140,000 reasons are the men and women deployed, right now, on behalf of the United States of America and the civilized world. Almost 3,300 reasons I vote 'no' are the sacrifices already made on behalf of the United States of America - those troops who have fought and made the ultimate sacrifice," Isakson said on the Senate floor. "It is right for the United States Senate to debate this war. It is right for us to ask questions. But it is wrong to hold hostage the money that supports those troops."
   Isakson again stressed how critical it is for America to remain committed to Iraq and to the War on Terror. Isakson said withdrawing troops before Iraq is fully secure or revealing timelines for the withdrawal of troops sends a message of hope to the terrorists and insurgents that America has lost its will.
   "This is the ultimate war between good and evil. This is but one battle in a war that will determine the future security of the world. Terrorists want us to cower in fear and want to run the world based on that principle," Isakson said. "And to pass a supplemental appropriations bill that couches the support of our troops based on arbitrary deadlines that only serve to benefit the very people we fight, that is just plain wrong."
   The bill, which was passed by the Senate today by a vote of 51 to 46, provides a date certain of no later than October 1, 2007, for beginning the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq. The bill now goes to President Bush for his signature.
   President Bush has said he intends to veto the emergency supplemental spending bill because it includes an artificial timeline for removing U.S. troops from Iraq. If the President vetoes the bill, it would come back to the Senate for a vote on whether the veto should be sustained.
   "I will vote to sustain a veto if the President issues one because we cannot as a nation lose our resolve while our men and women are in harm's way," Isakson said.
 
 