SEN. ISAKSON CRITICIZES MEXICAN OFFICIALS FOR ENCOURAGING ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) has sent a letter to Mexico's ambassador to the United States strongly criticizing recent comments by Mexican officials on U.S. efforts to secure its borders and urging Mexico to stop encouraging the flow of illegal immigrants into America.  
   President Vicente Fox was quoted on Dec. 14 as saying the United States' attempt to secure our southern border by building a wall was "shameful and disgraceful." Fox also said the U.S. action was an "increasing violation of human rights." Media reports on Dec. 21 quote Foreign Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez as saying, " Mexico is not going to bear, it is not going to permit, and it will not allow a stupid thing like this wall." 
   "I would remind you, Secretary Derbez and President Fox, that our border security plan is a direct result of the Mexican government's failure to commit to securing its side of the border," Isakson wrote in the Dec. 21 letter to Ambassador Carlos Alberto de Icaza Gonzalez. "I would suggest that Secretary Derbez and President Fox focus their energies on taking steps to address your government's failures in this area, rather than criticize our nation for working to protect its citizens."
   The U.S. Congress is reviewing proposals to secure the nation's borders and to stem the tide of illegal immigrants into the country. One of these proposals is to build a high-tech wall along the border between the U.S. and Mexico.
   "Immigration to the United States is a privilege, not a right," Isakson wrote. "We are a nation of laws, and the Mexican government has an obligation to respect those laws, encourage its citizens to do the same, commit to securing its side of the border and address inadequacies in its own policies that have contributed to this situation."
   Isakson has called illegal immigration the number one domestic policy issue facing our nation. In July, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed an amendment by Isakson acknowledging that terrorists and other illegal immigrants are taking advantage of inadequate security along the U.S.-Mexico border and calling on both nations to address the urgent need for increased protection and enforcement on the border.
   The full text of Isakson's letter to the Ambassador, which was sent via fax and mail, is below:
   Dear Ambassador de Icaza:
   I am writing to express in the strongest terms possible my displeasure with recent comments by President Vicente Fox and Foreign Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez regarding efforts by the United States to secure its borders, and with your nation's policy encouraging the flow of illegal immigrants across the border into the United States.
   President Fox was quoted on December 14th as saying the United States' attempt to secure our southern border by building a wall was "shameful and disgraceful." He also said such an effort was an "increasing violation of human rights." Today's media reports quote Secretary Derbez as saying, " Mexico is not going to bear, it is not going to permit, and it will not allow a stupid thing like this wall." Comments such as these demonstrate your government's disregard for our nation's immigration laws.
   As I am sure you are aware it is estimated that one million undocumented people enter the U.S. from Mexico each year, and that they constitute the bulk of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States. Consequently, the United States is reviewing proposals to secure our borders and to stem the tide of illegal immigrants into the United States across from Mexico. One of these proposals is to build a high tech wall along the border between the United States and Mexico. These are steps that we wish we did not have to take but are necessary in part because of the Mexican government's refusal to commit to secure its side of the border. As a result we are forced to take unilateral action to protect our citizens.
   I would remind you, Secretary Derbez , and President Fox, that our border security plan is a direct result of the Mexican government's failure to commit to securing its side of the border, and also as a result of the Mexican government's failure to address inadequacies in its own domestic and border security policies thus contributing to the present dilemma. I would suggest that Secretary Derbez and President Fox focus their energies on taking steps to address your government's failures in this area, rather then criticize our nation for working to protect its citizens.
   Immigration to the United States is a privilege, not a right. We are a nation of laws, and the Mexican government has an obligation to respect those laws, encourage its citizens to do the same, commit to securing its side of the border, and address inadequacies in its own policies that have contributed to this situation. It is in the best interest of the United States and Mexico that our laws be respected, legal immigration be encouraged, and illegal immigration be stopped.
   I look forward to your response.
   Sincerely, 
  Johnny Isakson 
  United States Senator
 
 