SEN. ISAKSON PRAISES NOMINATION OF JUDGE ALITO, URGES SENATE CONFIRMATION
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today praised the nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito to be Associate Justice of the Supreme Court and strongly urged the Senate to confirm his nomination during a speech on the Senate floor. Here are excerpts from Isakson's speech: 
   "I am very pleased that in the next few days I will have a chance to cast my vote to confirm Judge Alito as a Justice of the United States Supreme Court and reaffirm the promise that is the American dream of those who have come here from backgrounds that are diverse and far away to be a part of a great nation and pledge their allegiance to all it stands for.
   "There have been some issues made of the fact that he is replacing Sandra Day O'Connor, and I want to talk about that for just a minute. Sandra Day O'Connor is one of my favorite justices because I'm not a lawyer. I came to this Senate from the House, but prior to my years in the House, for 22 years I ran a small business. I'm a businessman and that's the interest I know and that which I know the best. Judge O'Connor was without question during her period on the bench the very best judge in dealing with the complex issues of business that came before the United States Supreme Court. When I had the chance to meet with Judge Alito, I made that point to him and I asked him questions about American business and free enterprise and the law, and in every case I became convinced that he had the same commitment that Sandra Day O'Connor had.
   "The criticisms of Justice Alito of being narrow and restrictive may, in fact, be, the greatest compliment to his ability and that which all of us seek and that is a jurist who will rule based on the law, not legislate based on the position; a jurist that understands the value and the strength and the power of the constitution of the United States of America. Mr. President, I look forward to casting my vote in favor of the nomination of Sam Alito Jr. to the United States Supreme Court."
 
 