SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON INTRODUCE LEGISLATION NAMING ARABIA MOUNTAIN A NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., have introduced legislation to designate Arabia Mountain in DeKalb County as a National Heritage Area.  
   "Arabia Mountain is a true Georgia treasure," said Chambliss, who introduced a similar bill in the previous Congress. "With increased development around Arabia Mountain, it's only right we protect and preserve this special place from urban sprawl for future generations to enjoy." 
   "Designating Arabia Mountain as a National Heritage Area is a wise investment in the future of our great state," said Isakson. "We are proud to try to help preserve this wonderful natural resource from urban sprawl."
   According to the National Park Service, a National Heritage Area is a place "designated by the United States Congress, where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally distinctive landscape arising from patterns of human activity shaped by geography." The designation would include a large portion of eastern DeKalb, western Rockdale and northern Henry counties. In DeKalb, the area includes Davidson-Arabia Mountain Nature Preserve, Miners Creek Preserve, and Arabia Lake and Stephenson Creek.
   The designation has deep support from key community leaders, including Vernon Jones, DeKalb County Chief Executive Officer, Kelly Jordan, Chair of the Arabia Mountain Heritage Area Alliance, Mayor Darold Honore, of Lithonia, the Rockdale County Commission, and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
   "I appreciate the support of Senators Chambliss and Isakson to designate Arabia Mountain as a National Heritage Area," said DeKalb Chief Executive Officer Vernon Jones. "This important legislation not only benefits Georgia, but the entire Southeast."
   While the legislation, known as S. 200, was not signed into law in the previous Congress, Chambliss and Isakson have vowed to redouble their efforts to secure this important designation for the people of Georgia.
 
 