SEN. ISAKSON URGES SUPPORT FOR TROOPS, CALLS FOR RESOLVE IN WAR ON TERROR
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today spoke on the Senate floor in support of U.S. efforts in the War on Terror, stressing how critical it is for America to keep its resolve in this global fight and to provide American troops with the resources necessary for success.  
   The Senate plans to debate this week a bill that would implement several recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission that investigated the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The war in Iraq is expected to be a key part of that debate. 
   "As we go to the debate on the 9/11 bill, I consider it a wonderful opportunity to make a simple statement," Isakson said on the Senate floor. "A statement that while we may differ, there's one thing we don't differ on. We don't differ on the fact that we'll give our troops the support and the finances and everything they need to carry out the mission to which they are assigned." 
   President Bush recently proposed sending more than 20,000 additional troops to Iraq as part of a strategy to help the Iraqi government assume more control and more accountability for securing the country. Isakson supports the President's strategy as the best hope of giving the Iraqi government an opportunity to secure the country and achieve political reconciliation. Isakson also praised the Iraqi government for taking the first steps this week toward approving a critical oil law that would allow oil revenues to be shared among the Iraqi people.
   "The people of Iraq are about to be on the doorstep of having equity in their country for the first time in all of time. So, yes, there are disappointing things that have happened. Yes, we wish we were home with victory already. But we have accomplished a lot," Isakson said. "And we're this close to accomplishing the ultimate goal, which is a peaceful democracy in Iraq, terrorism without a sanctuary and a statement that people are more important than power and dictators and terror. And the United States is the country that has in history led and today needs to lead as well." 
   Isakson stressed how critical it is for America to remain proactive in the War on Terror.
   "After 9/11 happened, within days the United States of America changed and the President announced to the Congress that we would no longer, as a nation, have a defense policy based on reaction. We would have a defense policy based on preemption," Isakson said. "Because we learned on 9/11 you can't wait to find the smoking gun in terrorism to react. Because if you do, it's too late."
 
 