SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS ANNOUNCE GRANT FOR UGA WATERSHED STUDY
  Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today announced that the University of Georgia will receive a $650,000 grant to evaluate past and present conservation practices in the Little River Experimental Watershed in the headwaters of the Suwannee River. 
   The grant will be distributed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as one of four grants to universities that will study conservation practices and programs to make sure they are effective and practical to use. As part of the Conservation Effects Assessment Project (CEAP), researchers will study the environmental and economic impacts of conservation practices at the watershed level. The study will also be used to evaluate factors influencing practice implementation and maintenance and inform stakeholders about issues and effects of land use activities on water quality.
   "This USDA grant will allow the University of Georgia to study all areas of the Little River Experimental watershed, including drinking water quality, fish and wildlife habitability and recreational suitability," said Isakson. 
   "As Chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, I know how important these research funds are for the state of Georgia and our nation," said Chambliss. "The University of Georgia plays an integral role in the advancement of research in conservation practices and our environment." 
   "America's farmers and ranchers are the best stewards of the land and our environment," said Dr. Joseph Jen, USDA under secretary for Research, Education and Economics. "This research will provide farmers, ranchers and other natural resource managers with the information and tools needed to make informed decisions regarding their conservation practices." 
   CEAP is composed of two components. The national assessment will track environmental benefits that will allow for a direct comparison between benefits obtained and program expenditures. The watershed-level assessments will conduct more detailed evaluations of environmental benefits than is possible at the national scale, providing a framework for improving modeling capabilities and providing more research in assessing physical benefits of conservation practices at the watershed scale.
   Additional information on conservation planning and technical assistance is available at http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/technical/nri/ceap.
 
 