SEN. ISAKSON CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO ADDRESS CHALLENGES OF ENERGY SUPPLY
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today announced that he is co-sponsoring legislation to help expand U.S. oil refining capacity and create job opportunities in the wake of the damage to U.S. refineries from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
   "Encouraging the creation of new refineries is one crucial step to addressing the challenges of our nation's energy supply and to creating jobs," said Isakson, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. "With skyrocketing gas prices and the damage to our refineries from these two hurricanes, we must seek every way possible to increase U.S. refining capacity."
   Specifically, the Gas Petroleum Refiner Improvement and Community Empowerment Act will provide incentives to build oil refineries at Base Closure and Realignment Commission sites through the Economic Development Administration. This will expand our nation's refining capacity while creating job opportunities in areas where a military facility has been closed or designated for closure. The legislation was introduced by Environment and Public Works Chairman James Inhofe (R-Okla.) along with Sens. George Voinovich (R-Ohio), Jim DeMint (R-S.C.), John Thune (R-S.D.) and Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska).
   The Economic Development Administration, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Environment and Public Works Committee, is the civilian agency that assists BRAC communities with the transition of the military base to private use.
   The supply disruptions caused by Hurricane Katrina required EPA to issue fuel waivers to allow the use of conventional fuel in special or boutique fuel areas. The bill also allows for states to be held harmless under the law if they are acting pursuant to an emergency. 
   In addition, the legislation improves efficiency by requiring the EPA's Natural Gas Star Program to provide grants to identify and use methane emission reduction technologies and will also provide for the development of future fuels.
 
 