SEN. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS ANNOUNCE $18 MILLION IN KATRINA REIMBURSEMENTS FOR GEORGIA
  Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services will reimburse the state of Georgia in the amount of $18,087,000 to help offset the medical costs of caring for thousands of Hurricane Katrina evacuees who sought refuge after the storm. 
   To help states care for these evacuees, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) granted special, emergency Medicaid eligibility to hurricane victims in 32 states. While the bulk of the funds will go to state Medicaid programs, several states that took in the largest number of evacuees will receive special grants to reimburse providers who cared for those ineligible for Medicaid.
   The special Katrina Medicaid waivers allowed states to immediately enroll qualifying evacuees into their own state Medicaid programs for five months of eligibility. Benefits were given to low-income children, parents, pregnant women, the elderly, individuals with disabilities and those in need of long-term care.
   "I am so pleased to announce these important funds for Georgia as we continue to realize the many costs of this terrible storm," said Isakson. "The evacuees of Hurricane Katrina need all the support we can give them, and the state of Georgia cannot handle this burden without federal assistance."
   "In the tragic wake of Hurricane Katrina, the state of Georgia performed an amazing job in helping thousands of evacuees," said Chambliss. "These important funds will go a long way to helping our state with the financial impact of this assistance."
   Congress set aside $2 billion for this purpose in the Deficit Reduction Act (DRA) signed into law by President Bush on February 8, 2006. The balance of the funds will be used to cover future costs for the states. In turn, this funding will allow states to claim approximately $4.5 billion in federal matching funds.
   "Last year, when disaster struck, President Bush promised to make states whole for the cost of caring for their neighbors," said HHS Secretary Mike Leavitt. "Through the DRA, the President and Congress made good on that commitment."
   States receiving Katrina relief funds from HHS include: Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Florida, Idaho, Arkansas, District of Columbia, Georgia, Tennessee, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Indiana, Maryland, Nevada, California, Ohio, Rhode Island, North Carolina, Wyoming, Arizona, Massachusetts, North Dakota, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Oregon, Iowa, Virginia, Minnesota, Montana, Utah and Wisconsin.
 
 