SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS PRAISE FUNDS FOR FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING CENTER
  Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) announced that they have successfully secured $275 million for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, known as FLETC, which is headquartered in Glynco, Ga. The funding is included in the annual funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security, which was approved by the Senate today.  
   "Senator Chambliss and I have worked extensively with Connie Patrick and all the folks at FLETC to ensure it has the resources it needs to train all levels of law enforcement and that its mission continues to grow in Georgia," Isakson said. "FLETC has done an outstanding job to ensure our officers are trained and ready to meet potential terrorist threats, and we will continue to work to ensure that FLETC has the resources necessary for its critical role in homeland security and the war on terrorism."
   "Senator Isakson and I have worked closely to ensure that FLETC receives the appropriate tools and resources to perform the basic and advanced training of our federal law enforcement personnel," said Chambliss. "There is no question that the folks at FLETC deserve the most advanced, state-of-the-art training to equip those who provide for our national security. We will continue working to ensure that FLETC remains the premiere law enforcement training facility in the country." 
   Isakson and Chambliss worked with Senator Judd Gregg (R-N.H.), Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, to restore $2 million in counter terrorism training funds for FLETC that had been taken out of the bill. The senators also fought successfully to include a provision in the bill to prevent the outsourcing of training for law enforcement functions, ensuring that federal government employees with the most knowledge and experience provide instruction at FLETC. Isakson and Chambliss also worked with Chairman Gregg to include a provision in the bill prohibiting duplicate activities at any of the federal training sites.
   The fiscal year 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Conference Report reconciles the Senate version of the bill with the House version. It now goes to President Bush for his signature.
 
 