SHOULD CONGRESS TRY TO BLOCK PRESIDENT BUSH'S ABILITY TO SEND ADDITIONAL TROOPS TO IRAQ? NO
  President Bush has proposed increasing the number of American troops to serve with Iraqi security forces in securing, holding and building in those areas of Bagdad engulfed in sectarian violence. The President has laid out a clear and precise plan that absolutely requires the cooperation and support of the Iraqi people and the Iraqi military. I believe that the President's plan is the best opportunity - and quite frankly the last opportunity - for the Iraqi government to create a foundation for political reconciliation.  
   As the President said in his State of the Union address "This is not the fight we entered in Iraq, but it is the fight we're in." The President also told Congress that, regardless of what mistakes may have been made, "Whatever you voted for, you did not vote for failure." While the ultimate success of the President's plan depends on the Iraqis and their government living up to their responsibilities, the opportunity for them to do so depends on our help in securing Bagdad. 
   Our enemies and the enemies of the Iraqi people watch our actions and listen to our words. Our Commander in Chief has committed our Armed Forces to a plan, and the Iraqi government has committed to be a full partner. At such a critical time, when our country is committed to this major battle in the overall Global War on Terror, the words of Congress should not send a mixed message to our troops, the Iraqi people or our enemies.
   While the situation in Iraq is grave, it would turn dire if we prematurely withdraw our forces and withdraw funding that is necessary to move Iraq forward. During two weeks of hearings, every expert witness - without exception - testified that if the United States retreats or redeploys our troops, there would be catastrophic loss of life and the potential for a regional conflict in the Middle East would increase exponentially. 
   As I see it, we have two options: We can choose an opportunity for success or we can choose a recipe for disaster. Our brave men and women in uniform and the people of Iraq deserve to see a successful outcome, and our national security depends on it. I remain committed to ensuring that the future holds this promise.
 
 