SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS ANNOUNCE OVER $44 MILLION IN HOMELAND SECURITY GRANTS FOR GEORGIA
  Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) will award the state of Georgia with $44,406,375 in Fiscal Year 2006 grants to build a wide range of homeland security capabilities. 
   Funds will be awarded under the categories of the State Homeland Security Program, the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program, the Urban Areas Security Initiative, the Metropolitan Medical Response System and the Citizen Corps Program.
   "I am so pleased to announce these important funds for the Georgia as we continue to confront the realities of terrorism," said Isakson. "These funds will aid Georgia in the prevention and preparation of acts of terrorism or any other natural disasters." 
   "This funding is extremely important to the welfare of all Georgians in the event of terrorism or natural disasters," said Senator Chambliss. "While we all hope we will never have to encounter these circumstances, these grants will go a long way toward ensuring greater preparedness in Georgia."
   The State Homeland Security Program will receive $13,360,000 and is designed to fund State Homeland Security Strategy implementation activities to build capability to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events.
   The Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program will receive $11,430,000 and focuses on law enforcement and public safety activities to prevent terrorist attacks through such activities as intelligence gathering, information sharing, and target hardening.
   The Urban Area Security Initiative will receive $18,660,000 and is designed to fund designated high-threat, high-density Urban Areas against acts of terrorism and catastrophic events.
   The Metropolitan Medical Response System will receive $464,660 and plans and prepares for large-scale medical response for any catastrophic event.
   The Citizen Corps Program will receive $491,715 and promotes citizen preparedness and engages citizens in all-hazards prevention, protection, response and recovery.
   In FY06, incorporating and building on state and local partner feedback DHS introduced a new funding approach that aligns Homeland Security Grant Program resources with the National Priorities established by the National Preparedness Goal. Grant allocations are based, in part, on 1) an analysis of relative riskat the State and Urban Area level, and 2) an assessment of the anticipated effectivenessof grant applicants' proposed solutions to meet identified needs, as determined by peer reviewers. By focusing on risk as well as national priorities, DHS is able to prioritize resources to address which needs are greatest.
 
 