SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO HELP JEKYLL ISLAND RESIDENTS
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today introduced legislation that would make it easier for the hundreds of residents and businesses on Jekyll Island to improve their property. 
   The Jekyll Island legislation would allow residents and businesses - including businesses of Jekyll Island that have operated for more than 40 years - to make needed infrastructure improvements without the fear of losing their ability to receive federal flood insurance. Despite the fact that 65% of Jekyll Island has been protected by state law since 1950, current federal law places an undue hardship on the citizens of Jekyll Island who live on the developed part of the island by denying them access to federal flood insurance if they renovate their homes or businesses or even try to rebuild after a fire or other damage. The Senate bill mirrors legislation introduced in the House by Congressman Jack Kingston.
   Senator Chambliss said: "We must do all we can to protect our true Georgia treasures, especially places like Jekyll Island. Our legislation provides a sensible solution that would protect these treasures, and allow the citizens of Jekyll Island to make needed infrastructure improvements without being penalized. Congressman Kingston and the Jekyll Island Authority have worked tremendously hard on behalf of the people of Jekyll, and we are pleased to do our part by introducing this legislation in the United States Senate."
   Senator Isakson said: "This is a common-sense solution for the homeowners and businesses on Jekyll Island and I am pleased to join with Senator Chambliss and Congressman Kingston to get this done. This legislation will protect the undeveloped portions of Jekyll Island while allowing the portions of the island that were developed decades ago to be improved without penalty. It is a win-win proposition."
   Congressman Jack Kingston said: "We have been working together on this since we found out about the problem. With the help of Senator Chambliss and Senator Isakson, and the Governor's office, hopefully we can have this resolved soon. We have a hearing set on the House Bill for April 6 and the residents of Jekyll Island will finally have their story heard. Jekyll is already limited on development by state law; lumping them into CBRA just causes an unnecessary hardship on the residents so they have to pay outrageous sums for flood insurance."
   Bill Donohue the Executive Director of the Jekyll Island Authority said: "This is the number one legislative priority for Jekyll Island and critical to the homeowners and small businesses on the island. We appreciate the support and leadership of Senator Chambliss and Senator Isakson. Jekyll Island and the State of Georgia have been working on resolving this important issue for three years. We appreciate the support of our delegation and look forward to a resolution to this issue that impacts over 600 homeowners and 75 small businesses on Jekyll Island."
 
 