SEN. ISAKSON SELLS HOME TAX CREDIT
  The year was 1975, and for Johnny Isakson - the manager of a local branch of a residential real estate company in Georgia - things were looking dour. Easy credit had led to a boom in new-home construction that had outpaced demand and busted the market.
   "Lenders were just giving money away, literally - not only giving the principal but giving the interest - so [borrowers] really had no skin in the game," recalled Isakson. The Democratic Congress stepped into the market, and a Republican president signed off on a $2,000 tax credit that could be claimed for one year by folks who would buy one of these newly built homes. 
   "The day before the tax credit became effective, we'd maybe get two or three phone calls a day. The day it became effective, we had customers lined up at the door," said Isakson. "Two thousand dollars was a lot of money."
   Thanks to Isakson - the Republican junior senator from Georgia - that giveaway could be reincarnated.
   The nation is facing a new housing crisis, but it looks awfully familiar to him.
   "When this foreclosure stuff started," he said Wednesday, "it just occurred to me: This is not any different than the problem we had in '74."
   Isakson pushed for a $15,000 tax credit, ladled out over three years, for people who buy homes that have been foreclosed or are nearing that point. Several key Democrats, including Sens. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.) and Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), spoke favorably about it.
   The final version of the tax credit, proposed as part of a compromise bill announced Wednesday by Dodd and Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), came in at $7,000 over two years, at a cost of about $2 billion.
   Isakson worked closely on the proposal with Dodd and Shelby. "What they offered me was a billion and a half," he said. "And I rewrote some provisions so that it got close to 2 billion."
   It was a heady experience for someone who's been in the Senate for just three years. "I heard my name being mentioned by Schumer when I was walking by the TV stand, and I did a double take," Isakson said.
   The tax credit won't be passed by acclamation.
   House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.) suggested in a statement Wednesday that he would prefer a tax credit aimed solely at first-time homebuyers.
   Critics, such as Desmond Lachman, an economist with the conservative American Enterprise Institute, said the Isakson credit will be popular with the "home industry" that is already "oversubsidized" but won't be big enough to prop up the market. Dean Baker, a liberal economist with the Center for Economic and Policy Research, noted that there was no bubble to contend with in 1974, which makes the public policy calculus different. "If the Nasdaq were starting to collapse and we gave tax credits to people to buy up Pets.com and those crazy Internet companies, for a period of time it would give some support to the market, but it wouldn't keep the Nasdaq from collapsing," he said. "We're not going to be able to sustain a bubble market."
   Isakson's 33 years in the real estate industry leave him well-equipped to handle these assaults. "When you sell houses, you don't do it by dividing people," he said. "If the buyer doesn't feel like they're getting a good deal and the seller doesn't feel like they're being well-represented, you're not going to make a deal."
   Nearly two decades in the minority of the Georgia legislature, he said, has ingrained in him the notion that the other side is often right. He deflects the economists' skepticism by giving some ground. "I understand what they're saying in the abstract," Isakson said. "I guess if you carry that thought on, then the time to offer that incentive is when the market is at the bottom. OK, well, I'm not smart enough - and neither are they, I don't think - to know just where the bottom is."
   Isakson, who replaced Newt Gingrich in the House in 1999, doesn't want the housing package to be seen as a bailout, either. "The person who gets the benefit is the person moving into the house and living in it, and that's not the person who had the problem [paying the mortgage] or the lender that caused the problem," he said.
   Schumer spokesman Brian Fallon offered a similar argument, saying the spending is aimed at preventing foreclosed properties from dragging down values of neighboring homes.
   The economists counter that it's the infusion of capital into the market that is the salient factor. The market, they say, is still overpriced, and any money sent into it will artificially keep prices high. "I just can't believe you'd be giving people $15,000 to buy houses at bubble-inflated prices," Baker said. "That you'd want to make housing more unaffordable for people is close to crazy."
   Crazy or not, the package is the product of Isakson's quick ability to earn his colleagues' trust since arriving in the Senate. His real estate background was key. "There have been a number of people from both parties who talk with me either at the prayer breakfast or steering committee, or just at a reception," he said. His colleagues want to know what impact different kinds of legislation could have on the real estate market, for example, or simply are curious about how a foreclosure actually takes place.
   Isakson has enjoyed being part of the action. "I've been working night and day on this thing," he said.
   That's not to say that he pulled an all-nighter as the legislation was written Tuesday. "I got plenty [of sleep]. In fact, if you ask the Finance Committee, I got too much, because I went to sleep and still had three e-mails at 11:30 last night," he said. "I was gone by then. I had to get up early and catch up this morning."
 
 