SEN. ISAKSON SPEAKS ON ISRAEL AT AMERICAN-ISRAELI PUBLIC AFFAIRS COMMITTEE ATLANTA COMMUNITY EVENT
  Thank you. It is an honor to be here tonight with the other members of Congress and member of the state legislature. It is particularly an honor to be with Ann Davis anytime that I can have that privilege. She is a great, hard worker for the people of Israel.  
   And I am proud to be here to testify and celebrate the great partnership between the people of the United States of America and the people and government of the state of Israel. Our partnership is one that is a tough fight, close bond. My ten years in Congress have been permeated with efforts that I have made to try and support the best of our partnership whether it be foreign aide, whether it be technology transfer or whether it be mutual assured defense in the interest of people of both of our countries. What you do here tonight to support AIPAC, and what AIPAC does everyday is critically important. On September 11th 2001, the people of the United States of America learned first-hand what the people of Israel have known for a long, long, long time and that is the sinister hate that can weld itself up in the hearts of mankind when it's misguided or it's mislead. I have such a great respect for the people of Israel and the state of Israel and for the great victory that was obtained sixty years ago when the partitioning of West Bridge went through the United Nations. To see to it that I am a part of the continuation of that partnership until terrorism and hatred are eradicated from the face of this earth, and a sacred Israel lives free and at peace with its fellow man without threat from radical Islam, Hamas or any other element that may come its way.
   Any time the world has a terror like Ahmadinejad on a daily basis, stalwart on his hatred of the state of Israel, knowing that the IAEA and all those trying to control nuclear power and see to it that they do not obtain nuclear weapons, makes us understand how important it is for the world community to come together not only to denounce it but to do whatever it takes to sanction it and see it doesn't happen. And I am delighted to say that the United Nations Security Counsel again for the third time raised sanctions against Ahmadinejad and the people of Iran. 
   I am equally proud to say that China and Russia have voted firmly-only Indonesia abstained. That is tremendous progress to see to it that we have the unanimity in the world community to let Iran know that we will not stand nor will we accept a nuclear nation of Iran to threaten the people of Israel or the people of the Middle East. 
   I had the most unbelievable trip of a lifetime when I went to Israel at the end of November and the beginning of December. And for those of you that lend your financial support to AIPAC and to the other educational programs put on by the people of Israel, I want to tell you thank you. You know I've taught Methodist Sunday School to sixth graders for thirty years. I've taught from the Old Testament. I've taught from the New Testament-From Proverbs and Psalms and I've taught from the second book of Chronicles, Chapter 34 when Nebakanezer running down into the Hebrews and destroyed the temple and enslaved the Jewish people. I taught all those things but to have never seen it-to go to Israel and see what is the most marvelous, miraculous experience in the world was the greatest thing I have ever done in my life and I'm not just saying that because I'm here tonight-to see the spirit, the ingenuity and the dynamics of the state of Israel on the anniversary of the partitioning and passage sixty years ago when the United Nations and on the same two days that the Annapolis conference was going on in America. It was a historic moment for me. I got to see first-hand from the out-post overlooking Gaza the threat of Hamas. I got to talk to a mother whose special-needs child every morning, including the morning that I was there has to dive underneath the breakfast room table because of the warning of an incoming rocket coming into their settlement. 
   I saw first-hand the threat that at that time was predicted with goods and materials coming through the Philadelphia corridor from Egypt into Gaza, which finally the Egyptian government-although too late- recognized something needed to be done about it, but the particular conflict that goes on right now in Gaza, in large measure, in my judgment probably got the material through that port during that period of time. I got to fly to the Golan Heights. I got to see the Sea of Galilee. I got to see the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. I got to talk with the members of the Knesset, meet with Mr. Netanyahu and so many other people in government. And I came away a person who had gone through the experience of Israel. It is the most magnificent experience I have ever experienced in anything I have done as a member of the United States Senate or the United States House. And it arms me with what I need. It arms me with the knowledge and the ability to go to the floor of the United States Senate and express to my colleagues why our partnership with Israel is the most essential partnership that the people of the United States of America have anywhere in the world.
   It is my fervent hope that the by-products of the Annapolis conference will bear fruit. It is my fervent hope that peace can come and that people can finally understand the importance of mutual assured recognition of peace and security for the people of Israel and the people of Palestine. But I will tell you this, I expect, I respect, and I support Israel's right to see to it that it retaliates with force anytime it and its citizens are threatened by isolated terrorism or by rockets flying from Gaza to inside Israel.
   I've made this speech about 9/11, and I've made it many times. We are in the ultimate war between good and evil. The terrorists of radical Islam don't want what we have. They don't want us to have what we have as Jews or as Americans. They don't want me to have the right to stand before you and express myself without any fear of intimidation. They don't want you to be able to go to church on Friday or Saturday or Sunday or any other time-they want you to go when they say, and worship the way they say. If you're a law-abiding citizen, they don't want you to be able to own a firearm to protect yourself. They don't want you lawfully to be able to assemble, to combine your resources together, to stand up for that which you believe and represent. Radical Islam and terrorism want one thing: to be able to control our fear. Either America or Israel will never allow that to happen.
   As an American politician-and I think Lincoln [Davis] and Tom [Price] and John [Barrow] would agree with this statement-you cannot imagine how important your voice to each and every one of us is in terms of sending the message and lobbying interests that you think is in the best interest of you, the best interest of Israel and the best interest for our relationship. So as I leave this stage and repeat my thanks for giving me the greatest education I've ever had on my trip to Israel, let me remind you as a constant vision; there are five-hundred and forty-five members of Congress, one-hundred in the Senate and four-hundred thirty-five in the House. Every one of us needs the same education that I was fortunate enough to have. And as people learn the wonder and miracle that is Israel, there is no question that we will prevail and peace and recognition will be known in our time.
   God bless you and thank you very much.
 
 