SEN. ISAKSON NAMED CHAIRMAN OF EMPLOYMENT AND WORKPLACE SAFETY SUBCOMMITTEE
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) was chosen this week to chair the Senate subcommittee that has jurisdiction over employment issues such as minimum wage, workplace safety, child labor and preventing discrimination in the workplace. 
   Isakson was elected chairman of the newly established Employment and Workplace Safety Subcommittee by members of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, known as the HELP Committee.
   "I am grateful for the opportunity to chair this important panel," Isakson said. "I look forward to working with all of the subcommittee members, both Republican and Democrat, in seeking to provide our workers with the tools and training necessary to succeed in the workplace."
   The chairman of the HELP Committee, Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), also named Isakson as a member of the Committee's Education and Early Childhood Development Subcommittee as well as the Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee.
   The Education and Early Childhood Development Subcommittee has jurisdiction over initiatives such as Head Start and No Child Left Behind. The panel also handles issues such as welfare reform and child support enforcement.
   The Retirement Security and Aging Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the private pension system and aging issues such as nursing home quality.
   "I am honored to serve on these two subcommittees that will be handling issues critical to Americans young and old," Isakson said. "One of my biggest priorities as a new member of the Education Subcommittee will be to make sure No Child Left Behind stays its course."
   Isakson, who was sworn in to the Senate on Jan. 4 after serving three terms in the House, serves on four Senate committees that have jurisdiction over education, healthcare, transportation, environment, ports, veterans' affairs, jobs and small businesses. His committee assignments are:Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP)
   * Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works 
  * Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
  * Senate Committee on Small Businesses and Entrepreneurship.
 
 