SEN. ISAKSON VOICES DISMAY AT SENATE'S REFUSAL TO CONTROL FEDERAL SPENDING
  Expressing dismay over the Senate's decision to add an estimated $15 billion in unrelated spending to the emergency supplemental spending bill, Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today voted against final passage of the bill. In addition, the President has threatened to veto the bill because of the additional spending, and Isakson said he would support the President by voting to sustain such a veto. 
   "We must end the reckless spending that is threatening the future of our nation. This bill, which was meant to provide funds for our troops and the victims of Hurricane Katrina, has become a spending spree for special interests," said Isakson. "It is vital that we pass a bill that includes the necessary for funds for our men and women in uniform to do their job, but Congress must also become better stewards of the taxpayers' money."
   During debate on the bill, Isakson consistently voted to strike non-emergency spending from the bill, including a $700 million railroad relocation project in Mississippi that was dubbed the "Railroad to Nowhere." Isakson also voted two times to reduce the amount of the bill back down to the President's original spending request, but the majority of the Senate rejected each of those attempts.
   President Bush has threatened to veto the emergency supplemental spending bill if it exceeds $94.5 billion. The bill, which was passed by the Senate today by a vote of 78 to 20, will cost taxpayers over $109 billion. Last week, Isakson was one of 35 senators who signed a letter assuring President Bush that they will back his veto of the bill if the final version exceeds his requested budget amount.
   If the President vetoes the bill, it would come back to the Senate for a vote on whether the veto should be sustained.
   "I will vote to sustain a veto if the President issues one because we must send the message that we will no longer continue these spending sprees," Isakson said.
 
 