SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON CO-SPONSOR LEGISLATION TO HELP DISABLED VETERANS MODIFY HOMES
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., yesterday joined with Sen. John E. Sununu, R-N.H., to introduce an amendment to the S. 1932, the Budget Reconciliation bill, that would help disabled veterans move home from medical facilities by expanding eligibility guidelines for specially adaptive housing assistance grants. The amendment was accepted and attached to the final bill that passed the Senate Thursday by a vote of 52-47.  
   The "Specially Adapted Housing Grants Improvement Act" would create a five-year pilot program that would allow disabled veterans who live with their families to qualify for up to $10,000 in home adaptation assistance. Currently, the Department of Veterans Affairs program only allows assistance for disabled veterans who are at least part owners of their residences. 
   "I am pleased to cosponsor this amendment which will allow the VA to take better care of our young disabled veterans returning from the Global War on Terrorism," said Chambliss. "This program will allow our younger veterans who do not own a home to modify a relative's home to accommodate their disability rather than needlessly staying in a VA medical facility." 
   "I recently visited with a number of wounded Georgia soldiers at Walter Reed Hospital in Washington, and I saw firsthand how young some of these men and women are," Isakson said. "This amendment will help those returning disabled veterans who live with relatives to make the necessary modifications to their relatives' homes to accommodate their needs. It is the least we can do for their sacrifice." 
   The amendment would change the program to accommodate those disabled veterans, some as young as 18 years old, who do not own their own home and return to the home of a relative after their military service. Qualifying veterans would be able to use grant funds to perform necessary residence modifications, such as installing wheelchair ramps, widening hallways and entryways, and other essential home upgrades. 
   Albert Spears, the State Junior Vice-Commander and State Legislative Officer, with the Department of Georgia Veterans of Foreign Wars endorsed the amendment saying: "This legislation - properly implemented - would be a godsend for these veterans. Most of them are married and many have children. It is a real hardship on them and their families to remain in the military or VA medical centers. This amendment would permit them to be home with all the love and support of their families and communities that is also vital to their return to good physical and mental health. Love and caring is tremendous therapy." 
   "This proposed legislation makes good sense. Many times we forget the veteran's family is a critical component to a speedy recovery and rehabilitation for physical injuries," said the Department of Georgia American Legionnaire, Roger Tingler. "Home is where you always come back too - whether your own or your parents. This nation's commitment to those that serve in the armed forces must be demonstrated in traditional and not-so-traditional ways. Clearly, this is the right thing to do." 
   This measure is also supported by the Paralyzed Veterans of America.
 
 