SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON APPLAUD APPOINTMENT OF SUSAN DYKES HOLMES TO SERVE AS FSA STATE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR GEORGIA
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Ranking Member on the Senate Agriculture Committee, and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today applauded the appointment of Monticello, Ga. Mayor Susan Dykes Holmes to serve as the state of Georgia's executive director for Farm Service Agency.  
   The announcement came Friday afternoon from U.S. Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency Administrator Teresa Lasseter. Both senators recommended Holmes for the post
   "I have known Susan personally for a number of years and believe her knowledge and leadership abilities will serve Georgia's agriculture community well," said Chambliss. "Susan's service to her city, county, and the entire state in various leadership capacities made her a strong candidate for this post. I look forward to working with her as we continue to represent the interests of rural America."
   "Through her dedication and tireless efforts, Susan has been a tremendous public servant to the city of Monticello, Jasper County and the entire state of Georgia," Isakson said. "I know her knowledge and experience will serve her and Georgia's agriculture community well in her new post."
   Holmes, the first female elected mayor of Monticello is serving her third term. Under her leadership, Monticello became one of the first 10 Better Hometown Cities in the state, one of the first five Cities of Excellence and a City of Ethics. Monticello's downtown underwent extensive restoration and was placed on the National Register of Historic Places. Furthermore, the city's tax base increased by 99 percent in the last 10 years.
   Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue appointed Holmes as vice chair of the Rural Development Council, and she previously served as president of the Georgia Municipal Association, which represents more than 600 Georgia cities. She is on the board of the Northeast Georgia Regional Development Center, the Georgia Academy of Economic Development, the Carl Vinson Institute of Government Training Board, Leadership Jasper, Griffin Technical College Foundation and Monticello Downtown Development Authority. She is chair of the Jasper County Board of Health and recently became a member of the steering committee for Georgia Perimeter College Newton County campus.
   The Farm Service Agency ensures the well-being of American agriculture, the environment and the American public through efficient and equitable administration of numerous farm programs. Its farm programs include commodity programs; farm ownership, operating and emergency loans; conservation and environmental programs; emergency and disaster assistance; domestic and international food assistance and international export credit programs.
 
 