SEN. ISAKSON VOICES DISMAY AT SENATE'S REFUSAL TO PUT BORDER SECURITY FIRST
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) expressed dismay over the Senate's refusal to commit to secure the U.S. borders as the first step of any immigration reform. Senate Democrats this week blocked a vote on Isakson's amendment prohibiting the implementation of any new guest worker program until significant border security enhancements have been made. 
   "The Democrats are stalling debate on the most important domestic issue facing this country. The people of Georgia and the people of this nation want us to secure the borders before we tackle any guest worker program. I will continue to push for an up-or-down vote on my amendment," Isakson said.
   Isakson also criticized the latest compromise bill on immigration reform because it offers legalized status to millions of people who entered this country illegally and it fails to make border security the top priority.
   "This is a mini-compromise that was agreed to by only a few people in the Senate. New programs that attract people to come here illegally will only compound the problem. If we do not secure our borders first, we will only accelerate the volume of illegals entering our nation," Isakson said.
   The Senate began a two-week Easter recess on Friday and is expected to resume the immigration debate on April 24.
   Isakson said it is critical to secure the borders before implementing a new guest worker program because otherwise the United States will face a repeat of 1986, when amnesty was granted to 3 million illegal immigrants without enhancing border security first. The result, Isakson said, was that millions more immigrants have flooded into the United States illegally and now are straining our schools, our hospitals and our local jails.
   "I am insisting on an up-or-down vote on my amendment," Isakson said. "If we do not incorporate measures that will secure and seal our borders, we'll have recreated the problem we created in 1986. Only this time, we will deal not with just 3 million illegals coming, but millions and millions and millions more - all because we looked the other way."
   On Feb. 22, Isakson led a Congressional delegation to the U.S.-Mexico border, which included stops in San Diego, Fort Huachuca, Ariz., and Manzanillo, Mexico. In Arizona, Isakson viewed the one and only unmanned aerial vehicle operated by Customs and Border Protection. This one vehicle is flown along the border and can detect individuals trying to come across the border illegally. The border protection agents then use the signals from this detection system to catch these illegal immigrants and to stop them from entering the U.S. On the border at San Diego, Isakson was present when scanners detected a pickup truck with a false bed concealing 13 illegals.
 
 