SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS PRAISE SENATE APPROVAL OF LEGISLATION TO RENAME THOMASTON POST OFFICE IN HONOR OF FALLEN SOLDIER
Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today praised Senate approval of a bill to rename the U.S. Post Office located at 103 East Thompson Street in Thomaston, Ga., as the "Sergeant First Class Robert Lee 'Bobby' Hollar Jr. Post Office Building."  
 "Sgt. Hollar was the type of soldier in Iraq today who serves without desire for credit, but on behalf of his country and everything that we stand for," Isakson said. "Naming this post office after him is one small way to honor the sacrifices he made to make the United States and Georgia a better place."
 "Sgt. Hollar made his community and nation better through selfless dedication to his career in public service as a postal carrier with the U.S. Postal Service and as a member of the Georgia National Guard," said Chambliss. "I have been contacted by many members of his community, and I am proud to play a role in their efforts to name the Thomaston Post Office in his honor of his memory. This is such a special way to recognize Sgt. Hollar's service and sacrifice to our country and I am so pleased we were able to get this accomplished." 
 Hollar served in E Troop, 108 th Cavalry, 48 th Brigade of the Georgia National Guard, and was deployed to Iraq in May 2005 in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. On September 1, 2005, an improvised explosive device struck Hollar's vehicle while he was on patrol outside of Baghdad, and he died of severe injuries later that day. Hollar was posthumously awarded the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star. 
 Hollar's duties in Iraq went beyond the daily routine of a soldier. Hollar was a pen pal with the fourth grade class at Crescent Middle School in Griffin, Ga. To these students, Hollar was a real-life "G.I. Joe" and his letters and visits with them have forever touched their lives. Prior to his service in Iraq, Hollar served as a U.S. postal carrier in Jonesboro, Ga.
 Hollar is survived by his wife, Amanda, and two sons, who live in Thomaston. 
 The bill was originally introduced in the Senate by Isakson and Chambliss in November. U.S. Rep. Lynn Westmoreland (R-Ga.) is leading the effort to pass the legislation in the House of Representatives.
 "Sgt. Hollar spent his life serving his community and he touched many lives," said Westmoreland. "Before he served his nation in Iraq, Sgt. Hollar served his community as a postal carrier and renaming the Thomaston Post Office gives the city and the Postal Service a chance to honor one of their own. Before deployment, Sgt. Hollar visited a 4 th grade class in Griffin and sent letters home to the class while he was in Iraq. Those students got a chance to know a true American hero who gave his all for his country. I will continue to work in coordination with Sens. Chambliss and Isakson to move this legislation through the U.S. House as soon as the legislative process allows."
 
 