SENS. CHAMBLISS, ISAKSON PRAISE LEGISLATION TO EXPAND PROTEST LIMITATIONS AT MILITARY FUNERALS
  Sens. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., and Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., today announced that the Senate has approved S.4042, "The Respect for the Funerals of Fallen Heroes Act," that will further protect and preserve the dignity of military funerals. The Senators signed on as cosponsors of the legislation after being disgusted by the scores of protests that have occurred at military funerals nationwide.  
   Current law bans demonstrations only at federal cemeteries. "The Respect for the Funerals of Fallen Heroes Act" amends the law to include private cemeteries, funeral homes and houses of worship. 
   "Our military men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice deserve to have a funeral with honor and dignity," said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "It's only right that the family members of our fallen military men and women have peace and respect at this very difficult time." 
   "Our servicemen and women and their families have made immeasurable sacrifices for our nation and the chance for freedom to take root abroad," said Isakson, a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. "All of our fallen heroes must be given the highest honors and respect for their great sacrifice."
   In May 2006, Congress passed and the President signed into law "The Respect for America's Fallen Heroes Act," which prohibits demonstrations at and around federal cemeteries. However, there are only 121 federal cemeteries in the United States. Approximately 90,000 veterans are buried each year at federal cemeteries, which are covered by the law passed in May. The legislation would expand coverage of the demonstration ban to the funerals of the 650,000 to 700,000 veterans who die each year in the United States.
   The legislation passed by the Senate today makes it a criminal misdemeanor, punishable by a fine or up to one year in jail, for any person who makes any noise or diversion within the boundary of or within 150 feet of a military funeral location that intentionally disturbs the peace and good order of the funeral, or intentionally impedes access to or from the funeral within 300 feet of the funeral location.
   The National Military Family Association and the Military Officers Association of America have both endorsed this legislation.
 
 