SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS ANNOUNCE GEORGIA RECRUITMENT EVENTS FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
  Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) today announced that the National Security Agency (NSA) will hold two recruitment events in Georgia. They are scheduled for Wednesday, March 16, in Atlanta and Thursday, March 17, in Augusta. 
   These events are part of nationwide effort by the NSA to reach out to the best and brightest citizens across the country. These events are the first round of a series of career expositions that NSA plans to hold. The events will feature keynote presentations throughout the day, a job fair and a NSA employee's exhibit. Participants will learn about the NSA, its mission and how to join. 
   NSA is America's cryptologic organization. It coordinates, directs and performs highly specialized activities to protect sensitive U.S. information systems and produce foreign signal intelligence information. Integral to that effort is recruitment of the best personnel possible. 
   NSA is hiring the following professionals: Intelligence Analysts; Language Analysts; Computer Scientists; Computer/Electrical Engineers; Mathematicians; Signals Analysts; Cryptanalysts; Accountants; Budget/Financial; Investigators; and Police Officers.
   "I am pleased that the NSA is planning two events in Georgia to reach out to our intelligent and gifted citizens," Isakson said. "I encourage those with an interest in advancing our nation's intelligence capabilities to attend the events." 
   "America is winning the war on terror thanks to the hard work and dedication of our men and women working in our nation's intelligence community, like the NSA," said Chambliss. "The NSA employs many of the best and brightest in the world and I hope all those interested Georgians attend one of these important recruitment events to learn more."
   For more information or to register in advance, visit http://www.nsa.gov/careers/expo. Please bring a copy of your resume. Students should bring an unofficial transcript.
   March 16th
  Georgia Tech NSA Career Exposition
  Bill Moore Student Success Center 
  President's Suites A-D and Pressrooms A & B
  225 North Avenue
  Atlanta, GA 30233
  9 a.m. - 2 p.m.
   March 17th
  Radisson Riverfront Hotel
  Estes Ballroom
  Two Tenth Street
  Augusta, GA 30901
  11 a.m. - 6 p.m.
 
 