SEN. ISAKSON URGES SENIORS TO SIGN UP FOR MEDICARE'S NEW PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today urged all senior citizens and those eligible to receive disability benefits to sign up for Medicare's new Prescription Drug Plan, or a Medicare Advantage Plan, which Isakson believes will help lower healthcare costs by helping to prevent serious illness or disease. The deadline to enroll to receive coverage for 2006 is May 15, 2006.  
   "The May 15 th deadline is quickly approaching, and I encourage Georgia's Medicare beneficiaries to choose a plan by the deadline that fits their needs," Isakson said. "Giving seniors a choice encourages healthy competition and provides the best services for each person."
   According to Medicare, more than 30 million Medicare beneficiaries had prescription drug coverage as of April, including more than 8 million beneficiaries who have gotten new, individual prescription drug coverage since the program began. In addition, 5.8 million people with Medicare are receiving drug coverage from the Veterans Administration and other sources with prescription drug coverage equal to Medicare. In Georgia, there are now 758,824 Medicare beneficiaries with prescription drug coverage.
   In addition to providing a prescription drug benefit, the new law also provides for a one-time initial wellness exam within six months of enrolling in Medicare. Screenings include early detection of breast cancer, prostate cancer, colon cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
   "Previously, Medicare would pay for major surgery, but would not help pay for the medicine that would have prevented the surgery in the first place," Isakson said. " Medicare is joining the 21st century of medicine and now allows doctors and patients to practice more affordable preventative measures."
   In October 2005, Medicare recipients were mailed a handbook called "Medicare and You" that included detailed information about choosing the proper prescription plan. New coverage began on January 1, 2006, for Medicare beneficiaries who signed up for the plan by December 31, 2005. 
   Additional information can be found on the Internet at www.medicare.gov or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227).
 
 