SEN. ISAKSON URGES NATION TO STAY THE COURSE IN WAR ON TERROR
  Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) today spoke on the Senate floor in support of the War on Terror and stressed how important it is that America stay the course in Iraq. 
   "We must remember today we are not in a war like past wars. We are in the ultimate war between good and evil. The terrorists don't want to beat us. They want us to lose our resolve so they can rule the world through intimidation. 
   "Terrorists don't want what America has. They don't want America to have what it has: the First Amendment, freedom of speech, the right to worship as we see fit, the right to bear arms, all the things that would stand in the way of the tyranny they would like to employ around the world. 
   "It is no coincidence that Al Qaeda operates today as the head of the insurgency that fights our troops in Iraq because this is their war, their war against what America stands for and what the future of the world can be if we are successful. 
   "In one year we have caused the Iraqi people to have an interim election, draft a constitution, ratify it and seek a permanent election to elect permanent representatives, something that would have been unthinkable just two or three years ago. 
   "Yes, we have battles to fight. Yes, there will be more terrorist attacks. And, yes, there will be tragic losses that all of us grieve. But we cannot as a nation lose our resolve or have politicians quibble on the edges while our men and women are in harm's way. 
   "The children of Iraq now understand that there is a future that has the potential for success and good times and no fear. And they do so because a brave nation when attacked by tyranny and the evil of terrorism decided it would follow it wherever it took us and we would preempt it so it did not stand and it did not exist. 
   "On behalf of our men and women in harm's way, the children they protect, and the dreams and aspirations of Americans for a bright future, I will stay the course as a member of the Senate to support them in the war on terror."
 
 