SENS. ISAKSON, CHAMBLISS ANNOUNCE $13.5 MILLION FOR GEORGIA EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY FOR KATRINA HOUSING RELIEF
  Sens. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) today announced that the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency will reimburse the Georgia Emergency Management Agency in the amount of $13,564,880 for costs related to housing Hurricane Katrina evacuees in Georgia. 
   Under an emergency disaster declaration for Georgia announced by the President on September 5, GEMA will be reimbursed 100 percent for all eligible costs related to evacuee housing incurred by the state, local governments and some eligible non-profit organizations. Local governments and non-profits apply to and receive their monies from the state. 
   Eligible costs cover two to three bedroom units leased at the fair market rate. The estimates include all related costs, such as utility deposits, utilities, essential furnishings and administrative expenses.
   "I am so pleased to announce these important funds for the Georgia Emergency Management Agency as we continue to realize the many costs of this terrible storm," said Isakson. "The evacuees of Hurricane Katrina need all the support we can give them, and the state of Georgia cannot handle this burden without federal assistance."
    "Johnny and I have worked closely with FEMA and many other agencies to make sure our Georgia communities, who are generously caring for numerous evacuees, have the resources they need to continue with their relief efforts," said Chambliss. "I would also like to commend the folks all across our great state who are helping with relief efforts. I am very proud of the way Georgians have so graciously opened their communities to help our neighbors along the Gulf Coast." 
   The City of Atlanta, one of four agencies or local governments included in this round of awards, is earmarked to receive $5,778,000 in reimbursements from GEMA for work they have done toward sheltering and housing evacuees. 
   The following cities, counties and agencies of the state of Georgia are including in the GEMA award:
   Georgia Department of Community Affairs, 1,000 families, $3,852,000
  City of Atlanta, 1,500 families, $5,778,000
  Fulton County, 600 families, $2,311,200
  Muscogee County, 550 families, $1,623,600
 
 