SEN. REID HIGHLIGHTS TRANSPORTATION, AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUNDING FOR NEVADA
  This week the Senate is expected to pass a bill that includes nearly $20 million for Nevada transportation and housing projects secured by U.S. Senator Harry Reid. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill will improve Nevada's airports and roads while investing in the state's workforce and create more affordable housing.
   "The funding in this bill will help our state meet the challenges that come along with the tremendous growth we continue to see," said Reid. "In addition to improving our roads, this bill will make Nevada's airports safer, increase access to affordable housing, invest in our state's workforce and create jobs." 
   The Appropriations bill is expected to pass on Wednesday. Below is a list of projects expected to receive funding.
   SOUTHERN NEVADA 
   1. Wind Tracer, Wind Hazard Detection Equipment-Las Vegas: $1.1M. Wind Tracer is a laser driven equipment that measures winds, wind hazards and turbulence in dry and clear air. The funding will be used to purchase, transport, and install equipment, at McCarran International Airport. Funding will also be used to train FAA staff on its use and maintenance. 
   2. I 15/ I 215 North to Apex Interchange-Las Vegas: $1.3M. Widening of I 15 from the I 15/I 215 interchange to Apex, 15 miles north.
   3. SR 160 (Blue Diamond Highway) Las Vegas to Pahrump: $3.0M. Widen SR 160 from Rainbow Blvd to Mountain Springs from 2 lanes to 4 lanes and from the Nye County line to 0.27 miles south of Coconino Lane in Pahrump from 2 lanes to 4 lanes.
   4. Southern Nevada Beltway Interchanges-Las Vegas: $1.5M. Construction of four Beltway Interchanges on the LV Beltway - Beltway/Airport Connector Interchange. The project will complete the Beltway facility between Durango Drive and Tenaya Way, and provide directional ramps connecting the Beltway to the 4-lane US Highway 95 freeway facility.
   5. Mountain Edge Parkway Environmental Assessment-Las Vegas: $1.0M. Study potential environmental and cultural impacts that may be caused by the Mountain Edge Parkway: a model corridor that would provide transportation access in the northern city limits of Las Vegas and North Las Vegas. This area contains some sensitive environmental and cultural resources that were identified in the 2004 Las Vegas Valley Disposal Boundary Environmental Impact Statement and other sources. 
   6. Henderson Lake Mead Parkway: $200,000. Design, engineering, and construction of improvements to Lake Mead Drive, which will improve access to the area and will help spur redevelopment and private investment. The improved bicycle and pedestrian facilities will increase access to downtown Henderson, employment centers, commercial centers, recreational facilities, public facilities and Lake Mead Recreation Area.
   7. Sunset Maintenance Facility-Las Vegas: $1.0M. Purchase land, preliminary engineering, final engineering, design, site preparation, and construction of a Citizens Area Transit (CAT) maintenance facility.
   8. Post Office Museum-Las Vegas: $200,000. Assist in exhibit content and design work to present and interpret Las Vegas' history, focusing on the era from the 1930s to 1960s.
   9. Convention Trade Training Center-Las Vegas: $400,000. To construct a Convention Trade Training Center in Las Vegas to provide trade training for the convention industry.
   10. Employment & Training Center-Las Vegas: $300,000. Funding will be used to help pay down the $24.25 million bond that Opportunity Village issued to build the Employment and Training Center.
   NORTHERN NEVADA
   11. Carson City Airport, Carson City: $3.0M. Replace the aging pavement and slightly realign the single runway to improve safety. The project will specifically remove hill obstruction and reconstruct the runway and taxiway; pavement maintenance; construct a parallel taxiway; automated Weather Observation System (AWOS); reconstruct aprons; and replace automatic gates.
   12. Meadowood Interchange Complex - Reno: $500,000. Construct the Meadowood Interchange in Washoe County. This project will mitigate severe current and future traffic congestion occurring on I-580/US 395 and the adjacent surface arterials in the primary commercial retail district for the Reno/Sparks metropolitan area. 
   13. Reno and Sparks Intermodal Transportation Centers, Reno, Nevada: $1.0M. Complete the replacement intermodal transportation facilities in downtown Sparks and Reno.
   14. Reno Rail Access Corridor Enhancements: $500,000. Construction of cover for selected portions of the ReTRAC project. While separate from the completed ReTRAC project, this enhancement is a vital component of the overall rail corridor and Reno's commitment to downtown urban renewal.
   15. I-80 at Vista Blvd and McCarran Blvd - Sparks: $1.0M. Scope project development, environmental studies and design of improvements to increase capacity and reduce congestion within the corridor.
   16. Larry D. Johnson Community Center - Sparks: $0.3M. Complete construction of this multi-purpose community center in Ardmore Park. These neighborhoods host some of the lowest income households and at-risk children in the city. The center will provide a location for English as a Second Language classes for all ages and include programs for the local boys and girls club youth organizations. 
   17. Oliver-Montello Affordable Housing Project - Reno: $600,000. The project would remove existing vacant or low value commercial offerings, and provide a mix of affordable and market-rate first-time home buyer opportunities.
   18. Storey County Youth and Community Resource Center: Virginia City: $200,000. Complete construction of a multi-purpose community resource center that will serve low and moderate income individuals in the county. This is the culmination of a 12-year, volunteer effort. Storey County has dedicated land for the facility and appropriated funds for the planning process. 
   STATEWIDE
  19. Nevada Statewide Bus: $1.0M. Funding will help the metropolitan planning organizations in Las Vegas, Reno/Sparks, Carson City, Lake Tahoe and rural transit operators provide service to seniors and the handicapped, increase operations capital and improve mobility for the citizens of the State of Nevada. Funds will be used for transit vehicle expansion and replacement, bus maintenance facilities, Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS), intermodal terminals and park and ride lots.
 
 