DEMOCRATIC LEADERS CALL ON PRESIDENT TO SHOW GREATER LEADERSHIP ON IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Senate Democratic leaders sent the following letter to President Bush today, calling on him to show greater leadership and persuade Senate Republicans to not block efforts to pass tough, fair and practical immigration reform. Democrats are working to strengthen border security, reunite families, create tough and smart workplace enforcement, and bring 12 million people out of the shadows of our society.  
   The text of the letter is below. 
   June 11, 2007
   President George W. Bush
  The White House
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear President Bush:
   Democrats are committed to comprehensive immigration reform. Although we do not agree with every part of the compromise bill before the Senate, we remain committed to Senate passage of an immigration bill this year. 
   A strong spirit of bipartisanship has held together the coalition of Democrats and Republicans who negotiated the compromise and has sustained the Senate through two full weeks of debate on the bill. Unfortunately, that bipartisanship was largely absent in a crucial vote last Thursday. Only seven Republicans joined 37 Democrats and one Independent in voting to bring debate on the bill to a close in a timely manner. Put another way, almost 80% of the Democratic caucus voted to move the bill forward, while only 14% of the Republican caucus did so.
   We appreciate the efforts of you and other Republicans who have worked with us to get the bill this far. But it will take stronger leadership by you to ensure that opponents of the bill do not block its path forward. Simply put, we need many more than seven Republicans to vote for cloture and final passage of this bill.
   We pledge to work with you to move this bill forward. Our immigration system is in desperate need of repair, and we owe it to the American people to find a workable solution.
   Respectfully,
   Harry Reid
  Richard Durbin
  Charles Schumer
  Patty Murray.
 
 