SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT ON VETERANS DAY
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada released the following statement to mark Veterans Day. 
   "Veterans Day is the day that our great nation pays tribute to those who have served our country in uniform. We give thanks for their contributions and their sacrifice, which have made America the world's beacon for freedom and democracy for more than 200 years. Today, all Americans must keep these brave men and women in our thoughts and prayers, and thank them for everything they have done for our country.  
   "America's Veterans have served in far off places, from the battlefields of Europe to the deserts of Iraq to the mountains of Afghanistan. But no matter where they served, our Veterans risked their lives for us and to spread the causes of liberty and freedom. For that, every Veteran deserves our deepest respect and thanks. Their courage, dedication and their selfless sacrifices are what we honor today. 
   "This Veterans Day, I am especially proud of the Nevadans who wore our country's uniform. Nevada's soldiers have always done their share to protect this country, and we have the finest troops in the world. They make us proud each and every day. 
   "Let us always remember that to truly pay tribute to all of our nation's Veterans, we must honor their sacrifice not just one day a year, but every day. We must never forget their service, and we must do everything we can to make sure they get the benefits, health care and support they deserve and have earned. That is a charge I have kept all my years in the United States Senate, and it is one I will continue to keep in the years to come. 
   "Finally, while today is the day we honor our Veterans, let us not forget those members of the armed forces who are currently serving. Hundreds of thousands of troops are overseas, including many Nevadans, and are in harm's way. They and their families remain in our thoughts and prayers. Their heroism and valor are unequaled, and they deserve our deepest gratitude."
 
 