SEN. REID WINS $250,000 FOR NEVADA CHILD SEEKERS
  Children of Nevada will be better protected as a result of funding secured in the federal budget by Sen. Harry Reid. The money will go to Nevada Child Seekers, a non-profit group that helps locate missing, abducted, or runaway children.  
   "As Nevada continues growing rapidly there is a critical need to help locate missing children in our state," said Reid. "I can only imagine how scared a young child must be when they are separated from their parents. It is important that we invest in programs that help keep our children safe. I'm glade to know Nevada Child Seekers will be able to continue helping young people and saving families as a result of this grant."
   "Protecting children is what we do," said Stephanie Parker, Executive Director of Nevada Child Seekers. "Providing hope, help and support for the safe return of missing and abducted children. This funding has given us the ability to safely recover more children and reunite them with their families throughout Nevada."
   Nevada Child Seekers, founded in 1985, provides a networking system for identifying and locating missing or abducted children. They also conduct crisis intervention for parents and children, sponsor education and prevention programs, and hold weekly family support groups. 
   Reid has been a long-time supporter of Nevada Child Seekers. This is the fourth consecutive year that he has secured money for their operational expenses. 
   "Nevada Child Seekers is exactly the kind of organization that should be getting this funding," said Reid. "These are dedicated workers and volunteers with a proven track record of serving their community. They've helped thousands of Nevada families through crises, and keeping those families intact makes our entire state stronger. This money will allow Nevada Child Seekers to continue its good work." 
   The money will be used to assist law enforcement and parents in locating missing, abducted and runaway children. The funding will also cover the operational cost of the 24 hour hotline for parents of missing children, troubled youth and runaways.
 
 