SEN. REID LEGISLATION TO EXPAND POPULAR PARK EARNS FINAL PASSAGE IN SENATE
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada announced today that the U.S. Senate has passed the Ed Fountain Park Expansion Act.  
   The Act, which Reid sponsored, will transfer approximately eight acres of federal land to the City of Las Vegas for the expansion of the popular park. Nevada Representative Shelly Berkley has introduced a companion bill in the House of Representatives.
   "The passage of the Ed Fountain Park Expansion Act will ensure access to recreational opportunities for all Las Vegans," said Reid. "Many residents in the Las Vegas community use the Ed Fountain Park for family-oriented and athletic activities. I am pleased that this legislation will allow that to continue." 
   Ed Fountain Park is one of the best known and well-used parks in the City of Las Vegas. Located in a mature part of the City, adjacent to the City's oldest golf course, Ed Fountain Park has provided recreational opportunities for generations of local residents. For many years it has been home to Pop Warner football practices, youth soccer games, and family picnics and reunions. On any given day or night, a multitude of activities are taking place at the park, many of which are associated with numerous nonprofit organizations that utilize the park's resources. 
   U.S. Senator John Ensign was a co-sponsor of this legislation. 
   "Parks, including Ed Fountain Park, are an important part of Nevada's communities and create opportunities for families to spend time together," Ensign said. "I want to commend Senator Reid for helping push this project through and I hope Ed Fountain Park provides family-oriented recreational activities for generations to come." 
   The City of Las Vegas contacted Reid in the fall of 2005 to express their interest in expanding Fountain Park by acquiring land next to the park. The City intends to use the space for additional athletic fields, and for a recreation center that could also house office space for non-profit groups. 
   Las Vegas City Councilman Lawrence Weekly is thankful that the Senate was able to get this done. "I am grateful to Senator Reid for his continued leadership to Nevada and what this type of support from the U.S. Senate means to the constituents of Ward 5, especially in mature areas," said Weekly. "We're extremely blessed for his support and we appreciate having someone like Senator Reid as our spokesman for the State of Nevada." 
   The land to be transferred to the city previously served as the headquarters for the Desert National Wildlife Refuge, which has now moved to the joint Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Forest Service office in North Las Vegas. 
   The Fish and Wildlife Service is not authorized to transfer parcels administratively, so this legislation was needed to facilitate the transfer.
 
 