SEN. REID SECURES $750K IN GRANTS TO IMPROVE CLARK COUNTY WATER SYSTEMS
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada has secured $750,000 for Clark County water system projects in the FY 2007 Senate Interior Appropriations bill.  
   "I am pleased that funding for sewer and water system upgrades in Clark County and Moapa Valley has been included in this bill." said Reid. "As the population in these areas grow so does the need for clean water and reliable sewer systems. I will continue to make it a priority to secure funding for these vital infrastructure projects." 
   Now that the bill has been passed out of the Appropriations Committee, it will head to the U.S. Senate floor for a vote by the full Senate. 
   The following Clark County water projects and funding levels are expected to be included in the final Senate bill: 
   Clark County Sewer System Upgrades $375,000 
   These funds will be used for the design and construction of wastewater treatment facilities. 
   Moapa Valley Arsenic Treatment Facility $375,000 
   This funding will be used for a water treatment facility in the Moapa Valley. The Moapa Valley Water District supplies drinking water to approximately 8000 customers in Southern Nevada. Arsenic levels in the groundwater in this area are above the Environmental Protection Agency's attainment level and this facility will help improve the quality of the local water supply. 
   Other Clark County specific projects included by Senator Reid in this year's Interior Appropriations bill: 
   Walking Box Ranch / Mojave Desert Education and Research Center $200,000 
   These funds are in addition to the $16 million that Senator Reid procured through Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act to rehabilitate the Ranch and to build a science center. UNLV is developing this center as a premier Mojave Desert-based education and research facility. 
   Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
   The bill includes language which amends the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area Act to allow the Bureau Land Management (BLM) to directly purchase in holdings in the NCA. This will allow for the BLM to be more effective in managing the extremely popular Red Rock area.
 
 