SEN. REID COMMENDS SPONSORS OF COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM BILL
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid praised today the efforts of Sens. Edward Kennedy (D-MA) and John McCain (R-AZ) as well as those of Reps. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Jim Kolbe (R-AZ) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) for their efforts in introducing a comprehensive immigration reform bill. If enacted, this bipartisan and bicameral legislation will help us to get control of our borders, strengthen our national security and create and even playing field for employers, and ensure full labor rights for all our workers. Sen. Reid issued the following statement:  
   "I commend Senators McCain and Kennedy, as well as Representatives Kolbe, Flake, and Gutierrez, for introducing this long-awaited bill on comprehensive immigration reform. I know that they and their staffs have worked countless hours over many months to produce a compromise, bipartisan bill that they believe can win the support of a majority of both houses of Congress and the White House. I am hopeful that their efforts will lead to the enactment of comprehensive immigration reform this year. 
   "As many members of both parties repeatedly emphasized during our discussions about immigration in the debate over the supplemental appropriations bill, there is a broad, bipartisan consensus that our immigration system is broken and that reform is long overdue. 
   "Unlike so many issues on which Democrats and Republicans remain deeply divided, we are united on the need for immigration reform and on many of the principles we believe such reform should embody. Immigration reform has traditionally been an issue on which our parties have worked closely together. I am confident that we will be able to do so again now, as we begin our first critical examination of the state of our immigration system in many years. 
   "At this time of heightened concern about our national security, the federal government needs to know who is living in our country and who is crossing our borders. We must address the gap between our immigration laws and reality. I strongly believe in effective enforcement of our immigration laws, but first we must ensure that these laws are realistic, humane, and fair. 
   "Senator Frist has also emphasized the importance of addressing immigration reform this year, and I look forward to working with him to establish a time when we can bring these issues to the Senate floor."
 
 