SEN. REID'S LEGISLATION WILL LEAD AMERICA TO ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  Working to reduce the United States' dependence on Middle East oil, Sen. Harry Reid introduced legislation today offering permanent tax credits for renewable energy resources. The production tax incentives will help spur development of solar, geothermal, wind and other renewable sources.  
   "Our dependence on imported oil poses a risk to our national security and our economic well-being," Senator Reid said. "Faced with uncertainties in electricity energy markets and turmoil in the Middle East, it is imperative that we change our energy equation. We can make America more independent and more secure by developing the energy resources we have here at home." 
   Reid's legislation offers a 1.8 cent tax credit for every kilowatt hour of energy produced from geothermal, solar, wind, biomass hydropower and other renewable sources. 
   The tax credit is already available for wind energy and has resulted in a boon for that industry. In 1990, the cost of wind energy was 22.5 cents per kilowatt hour and, today, with the help of a production tax credit, wind is a competitive energy source at approximately 5.5 cents per kilowatt hour. In the last 5 years, wind energy has experienced a 30% growth rate. 
   "Not only will we reduce our dependence on foreign oil, but this tax credit will mean immediate economic development and new jobs," Reid added. "Nevada is rich in solar, wind and geothermal resources. These tax credits will help pave the way for companies to make renewable energy a reality." 
   Reid introduced his bill to coincide with the Senate's debate of a sweeping energy bill. The Senate will debate the bill over the next two weeks. At a press conference earlier today, Reid was joined by his Senate colleagues and former CIA director James Woolsey to put forth a new goal of reducing our dependence on foreign oil by 40 percent in 20 years. Reid wants renewable energy production to play a major role in accomplishing that goal.
 
 