DEMOCRATS FIGHT FOR PERSONAL, GOVERNMENT DATA SECURITY
  With a full year having passed since Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff created the Assistant Secretary for Cyber Security post and the position still unfilled, Democratic Senators Patrick Leahy, Charles Schumer, and Bill Nelson today joined Paul Kurtz of the Cyber Security Industry Alliance, and Jay Foley of the Identity Theft Resource Center to demand the Bush Administration and the Republican Congress finally take action to protect this vital part of our homeland security. 
   Recent disastrous failures at the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Agriculture, Energy, State, Defense, Health and Human Services, the Federal Trade Commission, and Federal Bureau of Investigation have put the personal information of millions of Americans at risk, and the electronic security of our nation in doubt. The personal information of veterans, soldiers, nuclear weapons workers at the Department of Energy, and employees across the government has been disclosed, as has the medical records of ordinary Americans and the vital military secrets of the U.S. military. Unfortunately, despite the clear evidence of the cost of such inattention and incompetence, the Bush Administration has shown itself unable to fix the problem and the Republican Congress unwilling to try.
   "The escalating reports of the breaches of sensitive, personal information are becoming an unwanted new worry for every American, and many of these cases are occurring within the federal government," said Senator Leahy. "Because of this Administration's recklessness and incompetence when it comes to data security and its refusal to admit and learn from its mistakes, millions of Americans - including our veterans and our active-duty service members who are risking their lives on battlefields around the world - now have to worry about whether their personal information and the personal information of their loved ones is safe. That is not something they should have to worry about."
   "We can't ask the private sector to put safeguards in place while our own government is asleep at the switch," Senator Schumer said. "These incidents show a pattern of complacency at the highest levels of government and an inability to tackle one of the greatest privacy and economic issues of our time. The bottom line is, what bank robbery was to the Depression Era, ID theft is to the Information Age."
   "The longer Congress waits to take action on identity theft legislation, the more harm to American consumers, businesses and national security," Senator Nelson said. "If we don't act now, none of us will have any privacy left."
   After five years of Bush Republican incompetence, the American people have had enough. Democrats are ready to give the American people a new direction, with the tough AND smart policies they expect to ensure their security and the security of their personal information.
 
 