SEN. REID CALLS FOR FUNDING FOR COURTHOUSE SECURITY
  Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) paid tribute to Reno family court judge Chuck Weller tonight in a speech on the Senate floor, and promised to work for passage of a Senate bill that would provide funding for security measures at courthouses around the country. 
   "Judges like Chuck Weller, their clerks, jurors and others who are serving their country and upholding the law must be free to do so without threats to their lives," said Reid. "My prayers go out to Judge Weller and his family."  
   Reid called for passage of a Senate measure that would provide federal grants to improve security at courthouses. The grant money could be used to make capital improvements like adding bullet-proof windows to courthouses, or it could be used to hire additional security personnel. 
   Reid said he would push for passage of the measure as fast as possible. 
   "Congress should take immediate steps to try to prevent a recurrence of the Reno tragedy in Nevada courthouses and in courthouses elsewhere in the United States," said Reid. "A good place for us to start would be passing the court security bill, S. 1968, which was introduced late last year by Senators Specter and Leahy. I intend to offer the text of that bill as an amendment to the next amendable bill on the Senate floor." 
   The text of Reid's speech is below 
   STATEMENT OF SENATOR HARRY REID 
   Mr. President, I rise today to speak about a horrible courthouse shooting that took place in Reno on Monday. For those who don't know about this terrible tragedy, one of our family court judges - Chuck Weller - was shot by a sniper's bullet while standing at his office window. The latest reports have him in good condition. His shooter remains at-large. 
   Judge Weller is someone I know. Not well, but well enough to know he is a good man. 
   My prayers go out to his wife, Rosa Maria, and their two daughters. They face difficult days ahead, but they do not face them alone. The people of Nevada are grateful for the judge's service, and we stand with his family during these difficult days. 
   My prayers also go out to the men and women of Nevada law enforcement. They are the finest in the country. I'm confident they will bring Judge Weller's shooter to justice and in the process, restore peace to the Reno community. 
   Judge Weller moved to Nevada in the early 1980s. A graduate of Georgetown Law School, he was elected to the Reno family court in 2004. During his election, he said he wanted to be a judge because "you can help a lot of people." 
   Judge Weller was right. Judges do help a lot of people. But as all of us in Nevada and across the country were reminded yesterday, sometimes judges need our help, particularly when it comes to protecting them from violence. 
   It's an unfortunate fact that violence against judges like that we saw in Reno is not unique. Nationwide, it happens far too much. Federal judges receive on average 700 inappropriate communications or threats each year. 
   The issue of judicial security is no less of a compelling problem for State and local courts, where approximately 32,000 State and local court judges sit compared to approximately 2,400 Federal judges.
   There is no room in our country for violence at our courthouses. These are some of the most heinous crimes we experience.
   But for the bravery of the men and women who serve on our bench and in our courthouses, this violence would undermine our entire judicial system. We can and must do everything we can to prevent these tragedies. 
   Judges like Chuck Weller, their clerks, jurors and others who are serving their country and upholding the law must be free to do so without threats to their lives. 
   In Reno, the City and County are in the process of determining what actions are required to prevent such an incident from occurring again at the courthouse. These steps may include installing tinted or bullet-proof glass. 
   I have contacted both to offer my support in doing whatever it takes to prevent another tragedy. 
   Meanwhile, I look forward to providing the federal assistance necessary to ensure judicial members and buildings in Nevada and across the nation receive appropriate safeguards.
   A good place for us to start would be passing the court security bill, S. 1968, which was introduced late last year by Senators Specter and Leahy, the Chairman and Ranking Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee. I intend to offer the text of that bill as an amendment to the next amendable bill on the Senate floor. 
   S. 1968, was introduced following a wave of violence against judges and their families. A state court judge in Atlanta was killed by a criminal defendant, and family members of a federal court judge in Chicago were killed by a deranged litigant. In the last 25 years, three federal judges have been killed. Now Judge Weller, a state judge, has fallen victim, although fortunately he has not been fatally injured. 
   The Specter/Leahy Court Security Improvement Act would improve protections for both federal and state judges. For state courts like the Reno Family Court, the bill would authorize federal grants to improve security. These federal grants might be used to strengthen courthouse infrastructure, such as adding bullet-proof windows, or it might be used to hire additional security personnel in the courthouse.
   The federal government already plays a significant role in educating state court judges. I am proud of the role I played in helping to fund the National Judicial College, which is based in Reno. It is now entirely appropriate for the federal government to bolster its support for protecting state court judges from physical harm. Of course states will take the lead in protecting their own judicial officers, but the federal government can and should help develop best practices and replicate successful security models. 
   Congress should take immediate steps to try to prevent a recurrence of the Reno tragedy in Nevada courthouses and in courthouses elsewhere in the United States. 
   Mr. President, in closing, I want to once again offer my prayers to the Weller family.
   This is a difficult time for them and the entire Reno community.
   I ask everyone here to keep the Wellers in their thoughts in the days ahead, and to join me in doing everything we can to protect our Courthouses and our judges.
 
 