SEN. REID CALLS FOR BIPARTISANSHIP, OPEN GOVERNMENT, RESULTS IN LAME DUCK SESSION
  Following an election where Americans made it clear they want a new direction, U.S. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada took to the U.S. Senate Floor to speak about his priorities in the lame duck session which include bipartisanship, open government and achieving results. Reid called on both parties to work together on real solutions to challenges in health care, energy, the economy and education. 
   "For too long, Americans have watched as Washington has ignored their needs, and concentrated on special interests instead," said Reid. "Families have struggled with high health care costs? only to see big drug companies get billions from Congress. Ranchers in Nevada have struggled to fill their tanks with gas? only to see Big Oil companies get tax breaks. In the weeks and months ahead, Democrats will focus our energies on the real challenges facing America, and take concrete steps to protect the country and help working families get ahead."  
   In his statement, Reid called for the passage of tax breaks for middle-class families and businesses as well as appropriations bills that include funding for veterans' health care, education and energy programs. Reid also called on Congress to pass the U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Cooperation bill, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, and the Gulf of Mexico Security Act conference report, all three of which will enhance U.S. security and enjoy bipartisan support. 
   Remarks on the U.S. Senate Floor, as prepared for delivery. 
   Mr. President, the elections are over. It is time for all of us to work together and move America forward. 
   Last week, the American people spoke for change, and in the months ahead, Democrats will fight for change. We will focus on three priorities: bipartisanship, open government and results. 
   Bipartisanship. We intend to reach out to the White House and Congressional Republicans as we seek solutions to challenges in health care, energy, the economy and education. 
   Open government. Democrats will restore checks and balances, conduct real oversight and fight for important reforms. 
   This is a top priority for Democrats. 
   Last year, we proposed a series of sweeping lobbying and ethics reforms, which were eventually passed by the Senate. These measures included provision to: 
   * Slow the revolving door between government jobs and lucrative private sector employment
   * Eliminate gifts paid for by lobbyists 
   * Substantially expand disclosure by lobbyists and increase penalties for lobbyist abuses 
   * Limit privately-funded travel and require more disclosure 
   * And stop dead of night legislating by opening meetings to the public and making Conference Reports available on the Internet 
   As I said, the Senate - led by Democrats and in a bipartisan manner - did its job, and passed this legislation. 
   But months later, it's still not the law of the land because of delays in the House. 
   The House needs to act in the next few weeks. There is no reason to wait until January and the new Congress to send this legislation to the President's desk. It is a top priority of the people and it should be a top priority here. 
   Finally, results. In months ahead, Democrats will focus our energies on the challenges facing America, and take concrete steps to protect the country and help working families get ahead. 
   For too long, families have struggled with high health care costs? only to see big drug companies get billions from Congress. 
   For too long, ranchers in Nevada and farmers across America have struggled to fill their tanks with gas? only to see Big Oil companies get tax breaks. 
   For too long, all Americans have worried about the direction of the war in Iraq? only to see Congress refuse to have a real debate. 
   I am encouraged that President Bush is meeting today with the Baker-Hamilton Commission. It's an important body, which has assumed a difficult challenge. 
   If we're going to have a new direction in Iraq, the President must listen to new ideas. 
   That is why - - last week - - I asked the President to convene a bipartisan summit with the Congressional leadership and relevant Committee Chairs, so we can have a dialogue about Iraq, Baker-Hamilton and the way forward. 
   Democrats have a number of ideas to bring to the table. 
   First, we believe it is time to follow the law. The law of the land - - passed by a bipartisan group of Senators and like number of members of the House - - says that the year 2006 will be a year of significant transition. 
   Second, the President needs to work within the "Reed-Levin" framework to begin to change course. We believe it is time to: 
   * Responsibly redeploy our troops and transform the mission to training, counter-terror, logistics and force protection. 
   * Reconcile the sectarian differences plaguing the country, continuing to push for changes to the Constitution and power/resource sharing. 
   * Regionalize our strategy, involving the key nations in the region. 
   * Revitalize the failed reconstruction effort. 
   * And rebuild our military - we must do this in conjunction with our efforts in Iraq. We are facing serious readiness issues that must be addressed. 
   Mr. President - - from Iraq to the economy - - there will be much to do in the next two years when Democrats will control 51 Senate seats, and Republicans 49. 
   But first, we must take full advantage of the next few weeks. There is still important, bipartisan legislation we can consider while the Senate is still 55 Republicans, 44 Democrats. 
   This week, the Majority Leader has indicated the Senate will focus on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill? the U.S.-India nuclear deal? and Bio-terrorism legislation. 
   It's a good start, but there will be more to do in December. 
   I've already talked about the need to pass Honest Leadership legislation. 
   In addition to that important priority, we will - - after this week - - still have 9 appropriations bills to complete, and critical middle-class and business tax relief to extend. 
   Remember: Congress has let critical tax relief for American families and businesses expire, including 
   * Deductions for college tuition 
   * Deductions for state and local sales taxes 
   * Deductions for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by teachers 
   * And for business, the Research and Development, Work Opportunity, and Welfare-to-Work tax credits 
   Unless we act to extend this relief in the next few weeks, families will be facing a tax INCREASE next year. That is unacceptable. We need to act. 
   Mr. President, it's a new day in the Senate. 
   Let's work together, and move America forward.
 
 