SEN. REID MEETS WITH L.A. MAYOR VILLARAIGOSA TO DISCUSS PRESSING ISSUES FACING NATION
  Today, Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid of Nevada met with Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa to discuss issues of importance for Los Angeles, Nevada, and the nation, including port security, education, immigration, and transportation. In addition, on the week kicking off Hispanic Heritage Month, they also discussed the importance of Latinos to register and vote this November, as well as the status of key Latino priorities in the final months of the 109th Congress.  
   "I appreciate the opportunity to once again welcome Mayor Villaraigosa to Washington and I thank him for his leadership on so many issues that are critical to his city and all Americans," Senator Reid said. "Hispanic Heritage Month recognizes and celebrates the important contributions that Latinos make to Nevada and our nation's cultural, economic, and political life. This Republican Congress had the opportunity to show it values the Latino community and it failed. They should have passed comprehensive immigration reform, increased the minimum wage, and worked to lower the dropout rate for Hispanics, which is the highest in the country. Furthermore, it is unacceptable that one out of three Latinos is living without medical insurance. Instead of confronting these challenges, this do-nothing Congress focused on wasting taxpayer dollars on sham immigration hearings and the politics of distract, distort and divide." 
   Senator Reid and Mayor Villaraigosa also discussed the importance for the Latino electorate to engage in the political process as a means to restore the government back to the core principles of opportunity and equality. 
   "Senator Reid and I spoke about a wide range of important issues facing Los Angeles, Nevada and the country," Mayor Villaraigosa said. "As we kick off Hispanic Heritage Month this week, we look at the dismal failure of this Republican Congress in addressing the key priorities of education, immigration, healthcare and others. Senator Reid and I are extremely disappointed that the Republican leaders in Congress decided not to move forward with the type of comprehensive immigration reform that would secure our borders, be fair to taxpayers and bring over 12 million undocumented workers out of the shadows. It is time for a new direction in Washington and that is why it is so crucial for the Latino community to go out and register to vote and make their voices heard this November."
 
 