SEN. REID INTRODUCES TWO BILLS TO IMPROVE HEALTH CARE IN NEVADA
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada today introduced two bills that will help improve health care for Nevadans by ensuring there are enough doctors to serve the growing population and by funding critical research that will study the links between the environment and breast cancer.  
   Resident Physician Shortage Reduction Act of 2007- This bill will expand the number of Medicare-supported physician residency training positions in resident physician shortage states' teaching hospitals. A state is considered to have a shortage of resident physicians if its ratio of resident physicians per 100,000 people is below the national median level. 
   Nevada currently has 199 physicians in training, and would be eligible for an additional 93 positions under the bill. As a result of this legislation, teaching hospitals in approximately 24 states would be eligible for increases in their resident caps. 
   "Nevada has a serious shortage of physicians and we know that doctors tend to stay in the cities where they are trained," said Reid. "This legislation will bring more doctors to Nevada to be trained and they will hopefully stay. As Nevada's population continues to grow, so should our health care infrastructure. I will continue to do all I can to ensure that the number of Nevada's qualified doctors increases in accordance with the population boom." 
   Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act of 2007- This bill will authorize $40 million per year over five years to promote research on the links between the environment and breast cancer and also establish a national research strategy. 
   Each research center, who conducts multi-disciplinary research on environmental factors that may be related to breast cancer, would be required to establish and maintain collaborations with community organizations in the area, including those that represent women with breast cancer. 
   "Since 2000 I have been working to pass bipartisan legislation to ensure scientists have the resources needed to investigate the relationship between the environment and breast cancer," said Reid. "Reintroducing my bill brings the potential to identify the causes of breast cancer one step closer to becoming a reality. This bill will ensure promising research opportunities aren't overlooked."
 
 