SEN. REID: COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF FUNDING BILL TO MAKE SOUTHERN NEVADA SAFER AND SMARTER
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada praised Committee passage of a spending bill that will provide funding for law enforcement operations, domestic assistance programs, FBI, the Small Business Administration, NASA, and the National Weather Service. The Senate Appropriations Committee approved the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill yesterday. 
   "This bill will help Southern Nevada reduce crime, protect communities and increase economic development," said Reid. "This is a great first step toward ultimately getting funding for these important projects for Nevada. I will continue to work with the Committee through the approval process to ensure these important projects get funded."
   Reid, a Senior Member of the Appropriations Committee, is dedicated to increasing court security. In addition to the projects listed below for the Las Vegas area, he added the Mills B. Lane Justice Complex to the bill for special priority funding for improvements. 
   The Appropriations Committee will specify dollar amounts for each of these projects when the bill goes to conference. The CJS Appropriations bill will now go to the Senate floor for a full Senate vote. 
   Reid was successful in securing priority funding in the CJS Appropriations bill for the following Southern Nevada projects: 
   Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department to purchase new radio equipment and a new Mobile Command Center enabling coordination of response efforts from a central on-location control point. 
   City of Las Vegas EVOLVE Program to assist ex-offenders in obtaining viable employment. 
   University of Nevada, Las Vegas' Identity Theft and Financial Fraud Research and Operations Center is a partnership with the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and funds will be used to combat these crimes. 
   North Las Vegas Police Department for updated Dispatch/Records Management System. 
   Nye County Nevada Sheriff's Office for the purchase of a vehicle license plates scanning device.
 
 