NON-PARTISAN REPORT FINDS THAT CONTRACEPTIVE COVERAGE HAS TRIPLED OVER LAST DECADE
  According to a major report that will be released tomorrow, the number of insurance plans offering contraceptive coverage has increased dramatically over the last 10 years. The report from the Alan Guttmacher Institute found that contraceptive coverage has tripled since 1993, due in great part to federal and state laws requiring coverage.  
   For years, Senator Harry Reid (D-NV) and Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME) have championed bipartisan legislation that would require insurance plans that provide coverage for prescription drugs to provide the same coverage for prescription contraceptives. Reid's legislation, known as EPICC, Equity in Prescription Insurance and Contraceptive Coverage Act, has been the model that many states have followed. 
   Senator Reid was instrumental in passing a scaled-down version of the EPICC legislation that has required contraceptive coverage in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program since 1999. The report notes this as a key factor in the dramatic expansion of coverage. 
   The report notes that about half of all Americans with employer-based insurance coverage obtain that coverage from employers who choose to self-insure. By law, self-insured plans are exempt from state coverage requirements and the extent of contraceptive coverage in self-insured plans nationally in unknown. 
   Sen. Harry Reid released the following statement in response to the study: 
   "We have come a long way since our EPICC bill first put the issue of contraceptive coverage on the map. At that time, less than one-third of employer-purchased plans covered the five leading prescription contraceptives. 
   "Now, 20 states, including Nevada, have laws in effect that are modeled on EPICC. This study shows that coverage is much better in states that have contraceptive coverage laws than in those states that do not. These state laws are making a difference. 
   "While this progress is encouraging, we still have work to do. Half of all privately insured women live in the 30 states that do not have contraceptive coverage laws. Also, state laws do not reach the half of all Americans whose employers self-insure. Only a federal law can reach these women. 
   "We need to act now to pass EPICC to ensure that all privately insured women have the contraceptive coverage they need to reduce rates of unintended pregnancy and the number of abortions." 
   The Alan Guttmacher Institute is a nonprofit organization focused on sexual and reproductive health research analysis and public education. It integrates nonpartisan social science research, policy analysis and public education to provide a factual basis for the development of sound governmental policies and for public consideration of the sensitive issues involved in the promotion of reproductive health rights.
 
 