SEN. REID PUSHES FOR PASSAGE OF COURTHOUSE SECURITY AMENDMENT
  Following up on his speech yesterday, U.S. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada is renewing his efforts to improve courthouse security by introducing the Court Security Bill as an amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill.
   Reid offered the Court Security Amendment tonight in effort to move the process forward, one day after he paid tribute to Washoe County District Court Judge Chuck Weller in a speech on the Senate floor. In that speech, he called for passage of a Senate measure that would provide federal grants for security improvements at courthouses - such as adding bullet-proof windows or hiring additional security personnel.  
   Reid continues to do all that he can to ensure the measure will move as fast as possible. Today he submitted the following statement in the Congressional Record: 
   Introduction of Court Security Amendment to S. 2766 Defense Authorization Bill Wednesday, June 14, 2006
   MR. REID. Mr. President, I spoke yesterday about the terrible Courthouse shooting that took place in Reno on Monday, and what we can do in the Senate to help prevent such incidents. Today, in order to move that process forward, I rise to offer the text of Court Security Improvement Act of 2005 as an amendment to the Defense Authorization bill. 
   First, however, I would like to take a moment to update everyone on Judge Chuck Weller's condition. Judge Weller, if you remember, was hit by a sniper's bullet while standing in the window of his Reno office. 
   According to the latest reports, the judge is in "good spirits" and "out of the woods." The bullet seems to have missed his vital organs, and for that, we all thank God. 
   Now that Judge Weller seems to be stabilizing, it is incumbent on all of us to do whatever it takes to prevent similar violence? whether in Reno or any other city. Judges like Chuck Weller, their clerks and jurors must be free to serve without threats to their lives. 
   The amendment I'm introducing today would improve protections for both federal and state judges. I want to thank Senators Specter and Leahy for all the work they've done in putting this legislation together, and for co-sponsoring it today. 
   On the federal level, the amendment allows for better cooperation between the judiciary and the U.S. Marshall Service. It also puts in place strong measures to protect the personal information of those who sit on the federal bench. 
   At the state level, the amendment would authorize federal grants to improve security at state courts, like the Reno Family Court where Judge Weller works. 
   These federal grants might be used by states to strengthen courthouse infrastructure, such as adding bullet-proof windows, or it might be used to hire additional security personnel in the courthouse. In the wake of Monday's shooting, I know the City of Reno and the Washoe County Commission are looking into both of these steps, and I also know they could use our help. 
   States like Nevada should always take the lead in protecting their own judicial officers, but we can and should make the federal government a better, stronger partner. 
   Mr. President, in our country, we have 32,000 State and local court judges and approximately 2,400 Federal judges. Our democracy depends on these men and women. They must be able to do their jobs and uphold the law without fearing for their safety. 
   The time for us to act is now, not after another wake-up call. 
   The shooting of Chuck Weller is a terrible tragedy, but by passing this legislation, we can ensure at least some small measure of good results.
 
 