SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT ON CONFIRMATION OF EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS
  Nevada Senator Harry Reid made the following statement today on executive appointments after he, the Administration and Senate Republicans came to an agreement early this morning on confirming several dozen nominations. Below is a list of executive nominations by party affiliation, and attached is the complete list of confirmed nominees, including military nominations:
   "I am pleased we were able to reach an agreement to confirm nominees early this morning. Democrats were confirmed to important posts such as the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, and AMTRAK, among others. 
   "I also offered to confirm over 40 Republican nominees. While Republicans blocked some of the President's own nominees, a large number were confirmed, including the new Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, several Department of Justice and State Department officials, Ambassadors and the Chair of the Chemical Safety Board.
   "The Senate will nonetheless be in pro forma sessions during this break to block controversial recess appointments. I am hopeful that we will continue to make progress on nominations in April."
   Executive Nominations Confirmed by the Senate: Thursday, March 13, 2008
   REPUBLICANS
   Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
   John S. Bresland, to be Member and Chairperson of the board for 5 years
   Tennessee Valley Authority
   Thomas C. Gilliland, to be Member of Board of Directors through May 18, 2011
   Nuclear Regulatory Commission
   Kristine L. Svinicki, to be Member for 5 years
   Amtrak Reform Board
   Nancy A. Naples, to be Member for 5 years
   United States Advisory Commission of Public Diplomacy
   John E. Osborn, to be Member through July 1, 2009
   William J. Hybl, to be Member through July 1, 2009
   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
   Ana M. Guevara, to be Member for 2 years
   Department of State
   Goli Ameri, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Educational and Cultural Affairs)
   United States Trade and Development Agency
   Larry Woodrow Walther, to be Director of the Trade and Development Agency
   Department of State
   David J. Kramer, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor
   United States Agency for International Development
   Jeffrey J. Greico, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development
   Department of State
   James Francis Moriarty, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of Bangladesh
   Margaret Scobey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Arab Republic of Egypt
   Department of Treasury
   Douglas H. Shulman, to be Commissioner of Internal Revenue
   Department of Labor
   Neil Romano, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor
   Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
   Michael F. Duffy, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission through August 30, 2012
   National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities
   Jamsheed K. Choksy, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities through January 26, 2014
   Dawn Ho Delbanco, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities through January 26, 2014
   Gary D. Glenn, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities through January 26, 2014
   David Hertz, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities through January 26, 2014
   Marvin Bailey Scott, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities through January 26, 2014
   Carol M. Swain, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities through January 26, 2014
   Department of Health and Human Services
   Joxel Garcia, to be Medical Director of the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service and Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services
   Institute of Museum and Library Services
   Jan Cellucci, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board through December 6, 2012
   William J. Hagenah, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board through December 6, 2012
   Mark Y. Herring, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board through December 6, 2012
   Julia W. Bland, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board through December 6, 2012
   National Board for Education Sciences
   Sally Epstein Shaywitz, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences through November 28, 2011
   Frank Philip Handy, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences through November 28, 2011
   Jonathan Baron, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences through November 28, 2011
   Department of Commerce
   John J. Sullivan, to be Deputy Secretary of Commerce
   Department of Justice
   Ondray T. Harris, to be Director, Community Relations Services
   David W. Hagy, to be Director of the National Institute of Justice
   William Joseph Hawe, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Washington
   Democrats
   Nuclear Regulatory Commission
   Gregory B. Jaczko, to be Member for 5 years
   Amtrak Reform Board
   Thomas C. Carper, to be Member for 5 years
   Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
   Robert F. Cohen, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission through August 30, 2012
   Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation
   Javaid Anwar, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation through December 10, 2007
   United States Advisory Commission of Public Diplomacy
   Elizabeth F. Bagley, to be Member through July 1, 2009.
 
 