SEN. REID EXPRESSES DISAPPOINTMENT WITH TREATMENT OF OUR RETURNING VETERANS
  Walter Reed has been considered the crown jewel of America's military hospital system, treating more than 5,000 veterans of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq since 2001. That image has been tarnished, however, as recent reports have raised grave concerns about substandard living facilities at the hospital. Specifically, their reports noted rodent infestation, mold problems, crumbling ceilings, and other problems at Walter Reed. Even more troubling, The Washington Post noted that the staff of the hospital was neglecting veterans and ignoring severe treatment needs, such as brain injuries.  
   The conditions at Walter Reed are deplorable and unacceptable. I am particularly concerned that some of the highest ranking officials in the Bush Administration were aware of the problem for almost two years, but took no action to correct the situation. While we have seen some positive signs from the fallout over the scandal, such as the firing of the head of Walter Reed and the establishment of a bipartisan commission, more must be done. 
   Our nation can do better to ensure that our veterans receive the care they were promised, and Congress will lead the way. Already, the House and Senate have held oversight hearings on this important issue, hearing testimony from top military members and veterans who received treatment at Walter Reed. In addition, Senators Barack Obama (D-IL) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO) introduced the Dignity for Wounded Warriors Act (S.713) to provide for greater inspections at our military hospitals, reduce red tape and bureaucracy, and offer improved counseling services for veterans, among other things. This bill is one of many proposals that could offer immediate assistance to our veterans. 
   Our soldiers receive first class care in combat, and they should receive the same level of care in our own country. As the Senate Majority Leader, you may be certain that I will do everything I can to improve the treatment of our veterans. I will also continue to ensure that the Senate conducts proper oversight of our entire military hospital system to ensure that the problems at Walter Reed do not extend to other military hospitals across our nation.
 
 