NEVADA CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION WORKS TO DIVERSIFY HENDERSON'S ECONOMY, CREATE JOBS
  Nevada's congressional delegation is working together to create more jobs and a vital new business core for Henderson. Legislation, introduced today by Senators Harry Reid and John Ensign, Congressman Dean Heller, Congresswoman Shelley Berkley, and Congressman Jon Porter will help Henderson diversify its economy and expand its tax base.  
   The Southern Nevada Limited Transition Area Act would convey 502 acres from Bureau of Land Management to the City of Henderson for economic development adjacent to the Henderson Executive Airport. Once conveyed, Henderson would sell, lease or otherwise convey smaller parcels at fair market value or retain them for public purposes. Proceeds from the land sales or leases would be deposited and spent in accordance with the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act. 
   "I'm very pleased the delegation came together on this legislation, which will be so good for the City of Henderson," said Reid. "Because this land is so close to the Henderson Executive Airport, aircraft noise makes the property unsuitable for residential use, but that doesn't mean the land should sit empty. This legislation would allow the City to expand its economic base and help small businesses compete for prime land in Henderson's urban core." 
   "This bill will contribute to the growth of Nevada's economy while helping attract more businesses and quality jobs to the Henderson community," said Ensign. "This bill promotes orderly commercial development around Henderson's airport which is becoming increasingly important. I look forward to continuing to work with the Nevada delegation on legislation beneficial to our state." 
   "It is one of my top priorities to assist Nevada's communities with economic development," said Heller. "Allowing the City of Henderson to acquire the land near the Henderson Executive Airport will bring in new businesses to that area, provide jobs, and will be a great benefit to the community. As a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, I will work to help move this legislation through the committee as quickly as possible." 
   "This is a win-win for our community - with Henderson gaining new land for economic expansion and all proceeds going to fund local parks and trails and to protect Nevada's natural treasures," said Berkley. 
   "I applaud the hard work of the Nevada delegation for their commitment to the Henderson Community," said Porter. "This legislation supports the efforts of Henderson to effectively manage growth in areas of the valley that are unsuitable for residential development while creating a competitive climate for small businesses."
 
 