SEN. REID FIGHTS TO PROTECT NEVADA JOBS, ECONOMY
  A new study by two respected economists today echoed Sen. Harry Reid's warning that Nevada's economy will suffer unless the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA) is extended.  
   TRIA, a successful program to make terrorism insurance affordable for American businesses, is scheduled to expire at the end of 2005. Reid has urged the Administration to extend TRIA, which helped Nevada's economy recover after the September 11th terrorist attacks. 
   Reid was a principal author of TRIA. In July, Senator Reid joined several of his Senate colleagues on a bill to (S. 2764) to extend the 2002 program. Today, he called on the Administration to support passage of the extension bill 
   "The Administration strongly supported my original TRIA legislation, but the silence on extending this important measure has been deafening," Reid commented. "The study released today shows that extending TRIA is absolutely critical to not only Nevada's economy, but the nation's economy. The President should support our extension bill." 
   A new study, "The Economic Importance of Federal Participation in Terrorism Risk," by Professor R. Glenn Hubbard and Bruce Deal, concludes that a two-year extension of TRIA would enhance U.S. economic performance, strengthen the nation's overall economy, and allow time to evaluate alternative approaches to terrorism risk. 
   "The threat of terrorism still looms over the country," said Reid. "TRIA has worked well, has helped stabilized the business world in uncertain times, and has helped calm fears about investing in big projects." 
   According to the report, if TRIA is not renewed, gaps in insurance coverage would provide a very real drag on the U.S. economy even before TRIA's expiration date. 
   "Because of TRIA, terrorism risk insurance is available and businesses have meaningful access to this coverage. TRIA has provided a limited federal backstop, which has helped stabilize the market prior to a terrorist attack, at virtually no cost to the federal government. By enabling commercial property and casualty policyholders to obtain terrorism insurance, TRIA has provided an important boost to construction and job creation, and it has strengthened economic growth and security in Nevada and around the country," said Reid. 
   The report was commissioned by the American Insurance Association, Financial Services Roundtable, National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies, National Council on Compensation Insurance, Property Casualty Insurers Association of America and the Reinsurance Association on America.
 
 