DEMOCRATIC LEADERS CALL FOR MORE AMBITIOUS ENERGY INDEPENDENCE GOALS
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, Assistant Democratic Leader Dick Durbin, Sen. Chuck Schumer, and Sen. Maria Cantwell held a press conference today to lay out the ambitious Democratic agenda for energy independence. By encouraging innovation and American know-how, Democrats want to put America on the path towards independence from Middle East oil.  
   "We were happy to see a bipartisan energy bill come out of committee, but this bill doesn't go far enough in strengthening our national security, spurring our economy and protecting our environment," Senator Reid said. "That is why - over the next two weeks - Democrats are going to fight to improve this bill. Democrats have set a goal of reducing imports of foreign oil by 40 percent over the next 20 years. We'll never be as secure as we can be as long as our country is held hostage to our dependence on foreign oil." 
   "The Bush Administration is 'running on empty' when it comes to our nation's energy security. The Democrats believe a dramatic reduction in dependence on foreign oil is crucial to our nation's future," Senator Durbin said. "We have set a national priority that will make America more secure and more energy independent. Our energy security amendment establishes the goal of reducing our projected foreign imports for 2025 by 40%. This equates to a savings of 7.64 million barrels per day." 
   Democrats are determined to put America squarely on the path towards energy independence and to keep America secure now and in the future. Democrats are fighting for you by enhancing our national energy security. 
   "American families have been pick-pocketed by OPEC and big oil for years," said Senator Schumer. "The President needs to work bipartisanly to make sure big oil and OPEC get the message that we are not playing games anymore. Independence from foreign sources of energy is both a consumer and national security issue." 
   "America's dependence on foreign oil has more than doubled since the 1970s, and with great economic and national security costs," Senator Cantwell said. "Setting a goal to lessen our dependence is the least we can do for our men and women in harm's way and America's working families."
 
 