SENS. REID, ENSIGN MEET WITH LAS VEGAS METROPOLITAN POLICE HONOR GUARD
  Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign of Nevada met today with nearly 50 members of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department to honor fallen officers including Sergeant Henry Prendes. Prendes was one of 145 law enforcement officers nationwide who died in the line of duty in 2006.  
   "This year's memorial ceremonies in Washington, D.C., are particularly meaningful for Nevada, following the death of Sergeant Henry Prendes," said Reid. "He was a good man who paid the ultimate price when he was the first to respond to a domestic violence call. I was honored to have the privilege to meet with these officers and friends of Sergeant Prendes."
   "The entire southern Nevada community mourned the loss of Sergeant Henry Prendes last year," Ensign said. "It was a testament to the respect we have for the brave men and women who protect our families, and I was proud to meet with many of those officers today to tell them just how proud we are of the work they do."
   During the meeting Reid and Ensign answered questions about legislative issues and thanked the officers for their hard work and dedication. Reid also shared fond memories of a police officer he came to know as a child growing up in Searchlight.
   Sgt. Prendes' name will be inscribed on the wall of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C. His name was read during the Roll Call of Honor today.
   Senators Reid and Ensign have been instrumental in working with Metro to ensure the Department has the resources it needs, including funding for a Mobile Command Center.
   Reid has also helped secure funding for the Hispanic Interpreters Service Program, which focuses on aiding police officers on the scene with Spanish language services. Additionally, Reid secured $700,000 for Metro for equipment and technology to equip a SWAT vehicle and mobile Booking Trailer, and $150,000 for communications equipment.
   Members of the Metro are in Washington, D.C., to attend memorial ceremonies part of National Police Week which is observed May 13-19.
 
 