SEN. REID: REPUBLICANS FAILED TO MAKE REAL INVESTMENTS FOR AMERICAN FAMILIES
Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid released the following statement today on Senate Republicans failing to make real investments for American families:  
 "Once again, Senate Republicans failed to make the real and needed investments to protect Americans and to make middle-class life more affordable. Accounting gimmicks that claim to provide resources but don't will not meet the real needs of American families. Democrats know that America can do better and that is why we offered a series of initiatives to provide new investments to protect Americans and make middle-class life more affordable." 
 SENATE REPUBLICANS REJECT REAL INVESTMENTS IN THE AMERICAN PEOPLE'S PRIORITIES 
 Republicans Rejected an Investment in Community Development. Senate Republicans rejected Senator Murray's amendment to restore the $1 billion cut to the Community Development Block Grant program by eliminating tax loopholes. [RC 43, S.Amdt. 3063 to S.Con.Res. 83, 45-53, 3/15/06] 
 Republicans Rejected Protecting Americans by Investing in First Responders. Senate Republicans rejected Senator Stabenow's amendment to provide $5 billion for our emergency responders so that they can field effective and reliable interoperable communications equipment to respond to natural disasters, terrorist attacks and the public safety needs of America's communities. [RC 45, S.Amdt. 3056 to S.Con.Res. 83, 43-55, 3/15/06] 
 Republicans Rejected Securing Our Ports. Senate Republicans rejected Senator Menendez's amendment to provide nearly $1 billion in new investments to protect our ports. The amendment would have added new staff to increase inspenctions of high-risk containers, improve existing programs, increase funding for research and development and help developing countries improve their ability to scan and inspect containers. [RC 47, S.Amdt. 3054 to S.Con.Res. 83, 43-53, 3/15/06] 
 Republicans Rejected Providing Relief for Seniors by Improving the Medicare Drug Benefit. Senate Republicans rejected Senator Bill Nelson's amendment to provide relief to seniors by allowing for the extension of the of the annual open enrollment period under the Medicare drug program through all of 2006 without a late penalty and giving seniors the opportunity a one-time chance to change programs in 2006. [RC 49, S.Amdt. 3009 to S.Con.Res.83, 49-49, 3/15/06].
 
 