SEN. REID: SENATE REPUBLICANS VOTE AGAINST MIDDLE-CLASS AFFORDABILITY, SECURITY
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid released the following statement today on Senate Republicans rejecting efforts to improve the budget by protecting Americans and making middle-class life more affordable:  
   "When given the choice to make America more secure and to make middle-class life more affordable, Senate Republicans today said 'no'. These were the wrong choices for American families and Democrats know that we can do better. Democrats will continue to fight to pass a budget that puts us on the path to balance the budget, make middle-class life more affordable and protect Americans." 
   THE WRONG CHOICES OF SENATE REPUBLICANS 
   Republicans Rejected Balancing the Budget. Senate Republicans rejected Senator Kent Conrad's amendment to reinstate pay as you go budgeting rules that would help to balance the budget and end the record deficits and debt that make our country less secure. [RC 38, S.Amdt. 3013 to S.Con.Res. 83, 50-50, 3/14/06] 
   Republicans Rejected Making College More Affordable and Accessible. Senate Republicans rejected a Democratic effort to make college more affordable and more accessible. The Kennedy/Menendez amendment would have increased the maximum Pell Grant to $4,500, secured resources for student aid programs cut by the Bush budget, restored cuts to job training and restored the Perkins Vocational Education program. [RC 39, S.Amdt. 3028 to S.Con.Res. 83, 50-50, 3/14/06] 
   Republicans Rejected Supporting Our Veterans. Senate Republicans rejected a Democratic effort to improve health care for our veterans. The Akaka/Murray amendment would have added $1.5 billion for VA health care and rejected increased fees and copayments for veterans. It also would have provided for increases for meant health care, readjustment counseling and rehabilitative care. [RC 41, S.Amdt. 3007 to S.Con.Res. 83, 46-54, 3/14/06] 
   Republicans Rejected Increasing America's Security Through Energy Independence. Senate Republicans rejected a Democratic effort to make America more secure through increasing our independence from foreign oil. The Bingaman/Cantwell/Salazar/Kerry amendment would have raised this year's energy funding significantly to make energy more affordable and sustainable by increasing our national security through increased use of biofuels and alternative fuels and advanced/hybrid vehicle use, to accelerate production and market penetration of clean and renewable energy technologies and generation, and to more fully utilize energy efficiency and conservation technologies and practices. The amendment would also have increased funding for the LIHEAP program. [RC 42, S.Amdt. 3039 to S.Con.Res. 83, 46-54, 3/14/06]
 
 