SEN. REID CALLS ON REPUBLICANS TO TAKE PRIVATIZATION OFF THE TABLE
  Democratic Leader Harry Reid released the following statement: 
   "Today's vote on Social Security privatization provides even stronger evidence that it is time for the president and Republicans in Congress to give up their plan to privatize Social Security. With 50 votes, a united Democratic caucus was joined by five Republican Senators in opposing any plan that causes deep cuts in benefits and massive new debt. We look forward to working together with our Republican colleagues in finding bipartisan solutions to the long term challenge facing Social Security."  
   Privatization Will Not Make It Out of the Senate. The Senate voted today on an amendment that called on the Senate to "reject any Social Security plan that requires deep benefit cuts or a massive increase in debt, and a failure to act by 2042 would result in deep benefit cuts; therefore Congress should take action to address Social Security solvency." The amendment failed 50-50. [RC 49, 3/15/05] 
   Republican Plan Will Cut Guaranteed Social Security Benefits. The GOP plan will cut benefits by tying benefits to the rise of inflation instead of to wages, meaning that seniors would not share in our nation's rising standard of living. Bush advisor Peter Wehner writes, "We simply cannot solve the Social Security problem with Personal Retirement Accounts alone....to wholly ignore the matter of the current system's benefit formula - would be irresponsible." [Memo on Social Security, Peter H. Wehner, Published in the Wall Street Journal, 1/5/05] 
   Republican Privatization Plan Will Add At Least $5 Trillion in New Debt For Future Generations. A Senior Administration Official stated in a briefing that the president's plan would cost $754 billion over ten years. "These figures are misleadingly low. They are generated by using a ten-year budget window (2006- 2015) that includes only five years of the fully phased-in plan. The plan would not be launched until 2009 and not be in full effect until 2011. Over the first ten years that the plan actually was in effect (2009-18), it would add about $1.4 trillion to the debt. Over the next ten years (2019- 28), it would add about $3.5 trillion more to the debt. All told, the plan would add $4.9 trillion (14 percent of GDP in 2028) to the debt over its first 20 years." [Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, "An Overview of Issues Raised by the Administration's Social Security Plan," 2/7/05]
 
 