SEN. REID WINS ANSEL ADAMS AWARD FOR COMMITMENT TO PRESERVING NATION'S LANDS
  Senior Sen. from Nevada Harry Reid received the Ansel Adams Award from The Wilderness Society today for lasting contributions to the stewardship of America's natural treasures.  
   "Senator Reid has demonstrated outstanding legislative skills on several key environmental issues," said Wilderness Society President William H. Meadows. "He has proven to be a true wilderness champion, especially in his efforts to protect the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge from drilling and to promote sensible energy legislation. As Minority Whip, Senator Reid has applied his knowledge, floor skills, and strong leadership role in the Senate to protect our natural legacy." 
   Reid has also authored significant measures preserving the natural heritage of his home state. "He has led in the protection of some of Nevada's wildest places, including Mt. Rose, the Ruby Mountains, Mt. Charleston, and the Muddy Mountains," Meadows explained. "He has worked diligently to save Lake Tahoe, one of the clearest alpine lakes in the world and a national treasure, by securing millions of dollars in federal funds for its restoration." 
   Sara Barth, The Wilderness Society's California/Nevada regional director, saluted Reid for his role in establishing the first national park in Nevada. "He authored the legislation that created Great Basin National Park, which spans 76,000 acres and includes notable examples of Nevada's diverse geography, including streams, lakes, mountain ranges, alpine plants, and a variety of forest types." 
   "Growing up in a small town outside of Las Vegas, I spent a lot of my childhood outdoors, and I loved every minute of it," said Reid. "Since then, many factors have been affecting our environment, and usually not in a good way. I am committed to protecting our natural resources for my 15 grandchildren and for all future generations to enjoy. I am honored that The Wilderness Society finds my efforts worthy of their Ansel Adams Award." 
   The award is named for the celebrated photographer who, until his death, was an outspoken advocate for safeguarding the nation's natural heritage. Prior winners of the Ansel Adams Award include President Jimmy Carter, former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D-ME), Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), former Idaho Governor Cecil D. Andrus, former Senator John Chafee (R-RI), and former Interior Secretary Stewart Udall. 
   Often, The Wilderness Society presents this award to two individuals, and this year Congressman Nick Rahall (D-WV) also received the Ansel Adams Award. 
   Founded in 1935, The Wilderness Society is a nonprofit conservation organization with a quarter-million members and supporters. The group is dedicated to the creation of a nationwide network of wild lands through public education, scientific analysis, and advocacy. Its goal is to ensure that future generations can enjoy the clean air and water, beauty, wildlife, and opportunity for spiritual renewal provided by the pristine forests, rivers, deserts, and mountains owned by all Americans.
 
 