SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATIONS TO FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid released the following statement today on the president's nomination of Steven T. Walther and Robert D. Lenhard to the Federal Election Commission: 
   "I am very pleased the president acted today upon my two recommendations for Commissioners on the Federal Election Commission (FEC), Steven T. Walther and Robert D. Lenhard. 
   "In addition to building a successful law practice in Nevada, Mr. Walther has been a leader in the American Bar Association and in the Nevada legal community. He has served not only on the ABA's Board of Governors, but has been an active member on a number of its committees. For example, he has served on the Executive Board of the ABA Central European and Eurasian Law Initiative which oversees the ABA's democracy building programs in over 21 countries - programs which promote development of fair and open election laws. Mr. Walther has also been a member of the Board of Trustees and lecturer for the National Judicial College. Mr. Walther serves on the National Council of Human Rights First (formerly Lawyers Committee for Human Rights), the American Law Institute, the Nevada State Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, along with a number of other civic and conservation organizations. Mr. Walther received his B.A. in Russian from the University of Notre Dame and his law degree from Boalt Hall School of Law, University of California, Berkeley, where he recently served as the President of the Alumni Association. He has worked on both Democratic and Republican campaigns and is a registered Independent. 
   "Robert Lenhard has an extensive background in campaign finance matters and currently serves as Associate General Counsel of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME). There Mr. Lenhard is active in state and federal campaign finance law, constitutional law and labor law, among other issues. Prior to his over fifteen-year tenure at AFSCME, Mr. Lenhard practiced law at Kirschner, Weinberg & Dempsey, at the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, and with Grace, Neumeyer & Otto. Mr. Lenhard received his law degree from UCLA School of Law and his B.A. from Johns Hopkins University. 
   "I would like to thank the two Commissioners who will be replaced by Mr. Walther and Mr. Lenhard - Commissioners Scott Thomas and Danny McDonald. Commissioner Thomas and Commissioner McDonald have served on the FEC for roughly 18 and 20 years respectively. Both men have devoted much of their professional lives to the work of the FEC. 
   "I hope the Senate will act quickly on both of these nominees as I know they will serve our country well."
 
 