DEMOCRATS CALL FOR A NEW DIRECTION FOR AMERICA
  Responding to the pressing needs of working families across the country, House and Senate Democrats today joined to call for a New Direction for America. Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Assistant Senate Democratic Leader Dick Durbin, and House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer discussed six Democratic priorities to provide opportunity, security, and prosperity for all Americans. 
   Five years of failed Bush Republican leadership has taken America in the wrong direction, and the country is ready for a change. Under President Bush and his Rubber Stamp Republican Congress, working families are facing sky-high gas prices, a health care system in crisis, and rising costs that increasingly put a college education and secure retirement out of reach. Meanwhile, American jobs are being outsourced and the minimum wage remains woefully inadequate.  
   Democrats are ready with a New Direction, with policies to address the real challenges Americans face every day. It will make health care more affordable; lower gas prices and achieve energy independence; help working families; cut college costs; ensure a dignified retirement, and make our government fiscally responsible again. The Democratic proposals are below.
   "If you want to know what someone stands for, look at who they stand with," said Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid. "Do they stand with Big Oil, Big Drug Companies and a wealthy few? Or do they stand with the hardworking families of Nevada and every other state? Democrats stand for increasing the minimum wage, for making college more affordable, for bringing down the cost of health care, and for finding meaningful solutions to our energy crisis. Democrats stand for a new direction"
   "Our new direction will advance a common agenda, seek common ground, and apply common sense in the service of the common good," said House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. "We know that with a new direction, we can meet our national challenges in a way that makes our nation stronger, our economy more vibrant, and our families more secure. Instead of record deficits, we will go in this new direction in a fiscally sound way. We will make America more competitive and not heap mountains of debt on future generations."
   Americans face serious challenges, but in Washington, Republicans don't seem to be paying attention. Instead, they are focusing on a divisive agenda and partisan politics, leaving millions of hard-working Americans behind. Democrats believe America can and must do better, and are ready to take this country in a new direction.
   A NEW DIRECTION FOR AMERICA
   Democrats offer a New Direction, putting the common good of all Americans first for a change and will: 
   Make Health Care More Affordable: Fix the prescription drug program by putting people ahead of drug companies and HMO's, eliminating wasteful subsidies, negotiating lower drug prices and ensuring the program works for all seniors; invest in stem cell and other medical research. 
   Lower Gas Prices and Achieve Energy Independence: Crack down on price gouging; eliminate billions in subsidies for oil and gas companies and use the savings to provide consumer relief and develop American alternatives, including biofuels; promote energy efficient technology.
   Help Working Families: Raise the minimum wage; repeal tax giveaways that encourage companies to move jobs overseas.
   Cut College Costs: Make college tuition deductible from taxes; expand Pell grants and slash student loan costs.
   Ensure Dignified Retirement: Prevent the privatization of Social Security; expand savings incentives; and ensure pension fairness.
   Require Fiscal Responsibility: Restore the budget discipline of the 1990s that helped eliminate deficits and spur record economic growth.
 
 