SENS. REID, ENSIGN ANNOUNCE FUNDING FOR LANDER COUNTY AIRPORTS
Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign today announced almost $1.3 million in federal funding that will improve the infrastructure of two Lander County airports, and make it easier to travel to central and northern Nevada.  
 The $1,299,390 grant will go towards the restoration of airfield pavements for the Austin Airport and Battle Mountain Airport, both in Lander County. 
 "Our rural airports must be given the attention they deserve. Nevada is a big state and it's essential that we have good airfields and airports to serve our rural communities," said Reid. "The people of Lander County need safe and well maintained airport facilities. This funding will help us provide the best possible air travel service for the people of Battle Mountain and Austin." 
 Austin Airport will receive $199,390 to rehabilitate an aircraft runway, taxiways, and tie-down aprons and to install the second phase of perimeter fencing at the principal airport access gate. The fencing will secure access to the airport and pavement reconstruction will reduce the potential hazard of debris. 
 Battle Mountain Airport will receive $1,100,000 to rehabilitate a runway and to construct a taxiway turnaround. The project will improve the airport's efficiency and security. 
 "Throughout Nevada, we have tremendous infrastructure needs. Improvements at rural Nevada airports contribute greatly to the growth and access of those areas, and we must never forget the importance of these communities to our state," said Ensign. "This funding is essential for Lander County airports and ensures that Battle Mountain and Austin can promote economic development." 
 In a thank you letter to Senator Reid, Lander County Commissioner Mickey Yarbro said, "Lander County expresses appreciation to the Senator for these efforts to secure federal funding for the enhancement of the airport facilities in Austin and Battle Mountain. The citizens of Lander County rely upon the airport facilities?for enhanced fire protective services?as well as for access to air ambulance services during medical emergencies." 
 Senator Reid is a member of the Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee. Over the years, he has secured millions from Transportation Appropriations bills to fund Nevada's transportation systems. 
 The grants are awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
 
 