NEVADA CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION RELEASES DETAILS OF LAND MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR LINCOLN COUNTY
  Building on the success of the Clark County public lands bill that will shape growth and promote conservation for generations to come, the Nevada Congressional delegation today released details of a similar balanced land management plan for Lincoln County. 
   The Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2004 is comprehensive legislation that will enhance infrastructure development, recreation opportunities, and conservation of our natural resources and public lands in Lincoln County, Nevada.  
   The bill is a broad-based compromise. It creates utility corridors, resolves wilderness study area issues, provides for competitive federal land sales, designates a back country off-highway vehicle trail and provides for the conveyance of federal land to the State of Nevada and Lincoln County for use as public parks. 
   The legislation consists of six parts, including one provision to set aside public land for the Lincoln County Water District and the Southern Nevada Water Authority to build water pipelines in Lincoln and Clark counties. Prior to construction of any pipelines, the water company would have to successfully complete all applicable environmental and cultural resource reviews. 
   "This bill represents a Nevada solution to a number of tough land and water challenges," Senator Harry Reid said. "It is a comprehensive compromise - yet it never loses sight of the fact that these public lands must be used for the public good. And it gives local communities a strong voice in decisions that will affect future growth. I look forward to working with the other members of our Nevada delegation to pass this bill this year." 
   "When the Southern Nevada Public Lands Management Act was signed into law, it was my hope that it would serve as a blueprint for other bills beneficial to Nevada's environment," Senator John Ensign said. "The Lincoln County Lands Bill is an example of that hope becoming reality. With the federal government owning virtually all the land in Lincoln County, this bill will provide a much-needed economic boost to the people who live there." 
   "A product of compromise, this bill will expand the tax base by allowing for more private development in Lincoln County where the federal government controls over 98 percent of the land now. At the same time, we will protect thousands of acres of wilderness while also promoting public access to public lands through the creation of a designated off-highway vehicle trail for residents and visitors to enjoy. This is a good bill for Lincoln County, and I look forward to its passage." - Congressman Jim Gibbons 
   "This bipartisan legislative package strikes a careful balance between the need for additional resources to meet the demands of southern Nevada and a desire to spur economic development and expand the tax base in Lincoln County," said U.S. Representative Shelley Berkley (D-NV). "I am also pleased that this bill designates important wilderness areas that will be protected as open space for future generations and provides funding and thousands of acres of BLM land to create more parks and trails in Lincoln County." 
   "As a small state, we need to work together for the benefit of all Nevadans," said U.S. Representative Jon Porter. "This bipartisan legislation will help the development and economy of both Lincoln and Clark Counties while continuing to preserve and protect our pristine areas and balancing the proper management and enjoyment of these lands. In Clark County, we have enjoyed the benefits of improved parks, trails, and recreational areas using the proceeds from federal land sales, and this legislation would provide similar opportunities for Lincoln County. I appreciate the openness and communication of the entire Nevada Delegation in an effort to improve the quality of lives for all Nevadans," he said.
 
 