SEN. REID TO BRING SEARCHLIGHT VALUES TO LEADERSHIP JOB
  Senate Democratic Leader-elect Harry Reid (D-NV) today said he is deeply grateful to his colleagues for choosing him to lead the party, and he will bring his Searchlight, NV, common-sense values to his new position to forge change and unity for Democrats and the country.  
   "Earlier this month in Nevada, I was fortunate to receive overwhelming support in my re-election," Reid said. "I ran a campaign based on the values of hard work, respect and responsibility I learned growing up. Today, I am deeply appreciative to my colleagues for giving me the opportunity to employ these values as Democratic leader." 
   Reid outlined national security, fiscal responsibility, Social Security, affordable health care and education reform as leadership priorities. 
   "We need a strategy to win the war in Iraq, and we must continuing fighting terrorism throughout the world to ensure our nation's security," Reid said. "At home, we need to restore fiscal discipline. We need to keep our promise on Social Security. And we must confront other serious challenges such as affordable health care and real access to a quality education." 
   Reid said he looks forward to productive working relationships with President Bush and his Republican colleagues. 
   "I have a true friendship with my colleague Senator John Ensign, a friendship based on mutual respect and our shared goal of getting things done for Nevada," Reid said. "I hope for similar relationships with President Bush and my Republican colleagues to deliver results for the country." 
   Reid added that his leadership operation will not be a one man show. 
   "We are a team," Reid said. "Senators Durbin, Stabenow and others will be at my side. I will draw on the incredible talent within the Democratic caucus to bring about results for our party and our country." 
   Reid, the son of a hard-rock miner, was born in the small desert town of Searchlight, NV. He said he is living proof that in America, anyone has an opportunity to succeed through hard work and determination. 
   "I want every American - from Searchlight to the big cities - to have the same opportunities I had, and more," Reid said. "This is a responsibility I take very seriously. Today, I am honored to be called Leader but in my heart, I am just Harry Reid from Searchlight. And that's who I'll always to be." 
   Reid said his soft-spoken style and strong principles will speak to the heart and soul of the country. 
   "You don't have to shout to prove you love America," Reid said.
 
 