SEN. REID TESTIFIES ON WHITE PINE COUNTY LAND BILL
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada delivered the following remarks while testifying at today's Public Lands and Forests Subcommittee hearing about the White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2006. 
   "Our citizens and visitors benefit greatly from open access to? vast public lands, but at the same time our towns are frequently boxed in by federal land and our counties are severely limited in the tax revenues available to them because of the large federal holdings," said Reid. "This situation requires that the Nevada congressional delegation play an active role in helping our communities meet their changing needs and provides an important opportunity to protect and improve our most sensitive public lands." 
    The full remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below: 
   Testimony of U.S. Senator Harry Reid  
   White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2006 (S.3772) 
   November 16, 2006 
   MR. REID. Mr. Chairman, thank you for taking the time to consider our legislation today. As you know, the White Pine County bill is the third in a line of major public lands bills that Senator Ensign and I have crafted together. We greatly appreciated your support for the Clark County bill in 2002 and the Lincoln County bill in 2004. Each of these pieces of legislation has ensured protection for some of Nevada's most incredible and untouched wild areas while also making economic development possible in our urban and rural communities. 
   The White Pine County bill, like those before it, is the product of a lengthy and inclusive process. Meetings and ground tours focused on improving public land management in eastern Nevada have been taking place for over 5 years. County Commissioners, ranchers, environmentalists, tribal officials, off-highway vehicle advocates, federal land managers, city officials, hunters and many others have contributed to this legislation during that time. 
   There is no doubt that this bill is ambitious. In addition to protecting more than 544,000 acres of backcountry as wilderness, it initiates a 3-year study of possible off-highway vehicle routes, provides for the reasonable expansions of the Ely Shoshone Indian Reservation, Cave Lake State Park, Charcoal Ovens State Park, and the Steptoe Valley Wildlife Management Area. It also creates a process for gradually increasing the amount of private land in White Pine County, provides essential funding for landscape-scale habitat restoration work, and adds important protections to the lands surrounding Great Basin National Park. 
   The legislation also contains important improvements to the Southern Nevada Public Lands Management Act (SNPLMA). Passed into law in 1998, SNPLMA has brought essential resources to Nevada for the acquisition of environmentally sensitive lands and the enhancement of key public lands like the Desert National Wildlife Refuge, the Red Rock National Conservation Area and the Lake Tahoe Basin. Today we are proposing alterations that will help adjust SNPLMA to the changing dynamics of the country's fastest growing area. 
   Some will point out that this type of comprehensive public lands legislation is unusual - and it is. There's a good reason for that. Unlike any other state in the union, 87 percent of the land in Nevada is controlled or managed by the federal government. In White Pine County the number is closer to 94 percent and encompasses some 5.7 million acres under federal management by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), the Forest Service, the National Park Service and the Fish and Wildlife Service. 
   To put these numbers into perspective for people who have never visited Nevada or the wide open spaces of the West, this one county is bigger than the entire state of New Jersey. It is also larger than Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Delaware or Hawaii. And in almost all of those states the percentage of federal land is in the single digits. 
   Our citizens and visitors benefit greatly from open access to these vast public lands, but at the same time our towns are frequently boxed in by federal land and our counties are severely limited in the tax revenues available to them because of the large federal holdings. This situation requires that the Nevada congressional delegation play an active role in helping our communities meet their changing needs and provides an important opportunity to protect and improve our most sensitive public lands. By addressing these issues on a county-by-county basis we feel that we are better able to strike a fair balance between conservation, growth and other competing interests. 
   Like similar legislation that we have worked on in recent years, we do not expect anyone to endorse every title in this bill. When it comes to the topics of growth, conservation and stewardship in rural Nevada there are many strong and often opposing views. We believe that this legislation offers a solid middle ground and a path forward for the people of White Pine County. 
   Again, thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing this opportunity today. We believe this legislation is a tough compromise that deserves your support. Below I will provide some background on each of the titles in our bill: 
   Title I - Land Sales 
   The first title in this bill creates a mechanism to increase the amount of privately held land in White Pine County. Currently, 94 percent of the land in the county is managed by federal agencies. By increasing the total amount of private land in White Pine County, we create opportunities for growth and economic development that will also allow the county to provide greater support to its residents through an expanded tax base. 
   Our bill calls for up to 45,000 acres of land currently managed by the BLM to be made available for sale in reasonable increments. Each year a minor portion of the total acreage will be made available for public auction after a joint selection is made by the county and the BLM. As part of the land sale authority, the county has the power to halt the annual disposal of land if it deems that action to be appropriate or necessary. 
   There have been some concerns raised that the number of acres authorized for sale in this legislation is higher than the total number of acres listed as suitable for disposal in the forthcoming Resource Management Plan (RMP) for this area. I want to be clear that the 45,000 acre figure in our legislation is not, as some fear, a directive to the BLM to find additional lands to be sold above and beyond what is already deemed to be suitable for disposal in the RMP. This higher number simply creates a framework for land sales under the existing RMP and any acreage, up to the designated number, that the BLM might identify for disposal through regular order in future plans. 
   Similar to the Lincoln County bill, the funds raised from land sales under this authority are directed towards essential conservation efforts and for the implementation of various mandates in this bill, including an off-highway vehicle trail study, designation of new wilderness areas, and the conveyance of lands into trust for tribal use. A minor portion is also made available to the county for essential uses. 
   Title II - Wilderness 
   I am very proud of the work we've done on the wilderness portion of this legislation. Working closely with ranchers, hunters, the federal agencies and the White Pine County Commission, we've been able to identify over 544,000 acres that are suitable for protection as wilderness. At the same time, 67,000 acres of BLM wilderness study areas are set to be released. 
   Twenty years ago I started work on another wilderness bill that included lands in White Pine County. Two wilderness areas in White Pine County came out of that process - Mount Moriah and Currant Mountain. At that time, the very idea of wilderness was still unfamiliar to many Nevadans and was seen by some as cause for alarm. I'm proud to say that today the situation is quite different. A great number of people in White Pine County have now embraced wilderness and the ways in which wilderness designation can compliment, and even improve, the land on which they have hunted, hiked and grazed for generations. 
   Since the introduction of this bill we have heard from many hunters, ranchers, miners and other concerned citizens about various minor boundary adjustments. We take this input seriously and are working to ensure that everyone's voice is heard. For instance, based on feedback we've received, boundaries along the west side of the proposed Schell Creek Range Wilderness Area were placed one-tenth of a mile uphill of the Ranger Trail and 30 feet from the boundary of private land that runs north of Cave Lake over to Success Summit. These are small points when we discuss them here, but they can make a world of difference on the ground. 
   Title III - Transfers of Jurisdiction 
   The third title of this bill makes two transfers of land between Federal agencies that will improve public land management in White Pine County. The first is a transfer of approximately 645 acres from the BLM to the Fish and Wildlife Service, to be managed as part of the Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge. The land became an inholding after the Fish and Wildlife Service purchased land surrounding the BLM parcel. 
   The second transfer of roughly 117,000 acres from the Forest Service to the BLM is land that currently surrounds the Great Basin National Park in a donut shape. Under the present arrangement, the National Park Service, the Forest Service and the BLM manage an awkward patchwork of land. In some areas all three agencies have holdings within the span of a single mile. This division of management and labor makes proper stewardship complicated and inefficient. Of the land proposed to be transferred from the Forest Service to the BLM, roughly 50,000 acres will be withdrawn from mineral and land laws and 70,000 acres will be designated as the Highland Ridge Wilderness Area. 
   Title IV - Land Conveyances 
   Title IV provides for the conveyance of land to two existing state parks and a state wildlife management area. The Charcoal Ovens State Park will receive approximately 640 acres of BLM land to expand its current holdings. This land is already managed by the state through a Recreation and Public Purposes lease. Cave Lake State Park will also receive a conveyance of Forest Service land to help improve management of this popular area. More than 100,000 visitors travel to this park each year. Our conveyance is designed to expand the park boundaries to encompass areas on Forest Service land that have become popular camping and overflow areas, but which the state park's full-time rangers do not have the authority to patrol and manage. Because of serious budget and staff constraints, the Forest Service has also proved unable to properly manage this area. We have worked closely with the state to address their management needs while keeping the conveyance of Forest Service land to a minimal size. In August I toured this site and the proposed boundaries and believe them to be sound. 
   This title also directs the conveyance of roughly 6,200 acres of BLM land to the State of Nevada for an expansion of the Steptoe Valley Wildlife Management Area. These additions will maximize management options for this area while also creating a safety buffer between hunters and future residential and commercial development. 
   In addition to these conveyances of land to the State, the bill also provides for two small but important conveyances that will provide expanded economic opportunity for White Pine County. These include up to 200 acres for the expansion of the White Pine County Industrial Park and up to 1,500 acres for the planned expansion of the White Pine County Airport. Any funds collected from the lease, sale or conveyance of either the industrial park or airport lands will be directed for public uses. 
   Title V - OHV Trail Study 
   The fifth title builds on the designation of the Silver State Off-Highway Vehicle Trail in Lincoln County by authorizing a 3-year study for a possible extension of the trial into and through White Pine County. If the Secretary of the Interior, working with local citizens and other stakeholders, is able to identify a route for the trail that would not significantly impact wildlife, natural or cultural resources, an extension of the Silver State Trail will be designated at the conclusion of the study. We believe that this proposal carefully balances the interests of the off-road community, those concerned with conservation values, and those who currently use the land for grazing and similar uses. 
   Title VI - Tribal Conveyance 
   Perhaps no issue addressed by this legislation has been more discussed and debated than the conveyance of BLM land to be held in trust by the United States for the Ely Shoshone Tribe. Currently, the tribe holds 100 acres in two separate parcels within Ely city limits. For 3 years meetings have taken place in White Pine County to discuss possible configurations and areas for a tribal expansion. Local residents and interested parties have expressed strong feelings on all sides of this issue, and our proposal is stronger as a result of this dialogue. 
   The Ely Shoshone Tribe - one of many Western Shoshone tribal communities in Nevada, Utah, Idaho, and California - has about 500 members, most of whom live in the city of Ely. Like many tribes, the Ely have a number of modest commercial enterprises and provide a range of governmental, health and educational services to its members, including a language preservation program that brings youth, members and tribal elders together. 
   This bill transfers roughly 3,500 acres in four separate parcels into trust for the benefit of the Ely Shoshone Tribe. Over half of this acreage is contained in one parcel to the west of Ward Mountain. This larger area is designated exclusively for traditional tribal uses, such as ceremonial celebrations and gatherings and pine nut picking. 
   The conveyance also includes two parcels to the south of Ely and one approximately 10 miles north of McGill on highway 93. These lands are available to be used by the tribe for residential and commercial purposes. Importantly, the tribe and the county have both pledged their intention to work together to overcome any outstanding concerns related to zoning, infrastructure and other issues related to the development of these lands. 
   The placement of these conveyances will allow the tribe to be a partner in the growth and economic development of White Pine County while also ensuring that the city of Ely has sufficient room to grow south along highway 93. We have taken special care to ensure that existing developments, like the KOA, have room to expand. 
   This conveyance represents a tough compromise between many important interests. Some have proposed that the tribe should receive in excess of 20,000 acres of land in and around Ely. Others have fought to block the tribe from receiving a single acre. We do not expect that the conveyance in this bill will please anyone completely, but we do believe it is a fair compromise that addresses the main concerns of all the concerned parties. 
   Title VII - Rangeland Restoration 
   Title VII of the bill addresses the invasion of non-native species and the unnatural encroachment of pinon and juniper pine in eastern Nevada by making funds from the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act special account available for the implementation of the Eastern Nevada Landscape Restoration Project in White Pine and Lincoln Counties. In addition to funding this vital program we have authorized the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture to work with the Eastern Nevada Landscape Coalition and the Great Basin Institute in carrying out landscape-scale restoration efforts necessary to restore the health of eastern Nevada's rangelands. 
   In the interest of understanding and fully addressing the ecosystem changes that are taking place all across the Great Basin, this title also authorizes a feasibility study for an interagency research facility and experimental rangeland in eastern Nevada. 
   Title VIII - Amendments to the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act 
   Since the passage of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act (SNPLMA) in 1998, thousands of acres of BLM land have been auctioned in southern Nevada. These sales have produced significant funding for conservation efforts, enhancements to our most prized public lands, and the acquisition of sensitive lands throughout our State. 
   Now, 8 years after its passage, we are seeking to update this legislation so that it continues to serve the full interests of the people of Nevada, our public lands, and the federal agencies that administer the programs funded by the original legislation. Here I highlight some of the key changes. 
   In this bill we provide funding for two separate 10-year hazardous fuels reduction programs, one for the Spring Mountains and one for the Lake Tahoe Basin including the adjacent lands in the Carson Range in Washoe and Douglas Counties and Carson City. The federal government has made a major investment to restoring Lake Tahoe and the surrounding basin in recent years. The hazardous fuels reduction program we propose is necessary to protect that ongoing investment and to protect the lake. A major fire in the basin would set back water clarity and other conservation efforts many years, and perhaps decades. 
   We also provide funding for the implementation of the Clark County Multispecies Habitat Conservation Plan, make Washoe County eligible for the acquisition of a popular open space area, and make funding available to help improve the water quality in Lake Mead and to provide a sustainable future for the Las Vegas Wash. 
   In order to make SNPLMA more manageable for the agencies and municipalities that administer the special account and its many programs, we have included authority that allows all federal agencies that carry out SNPLMA projects to get reimbursed for their direct costs. We have also provided an important authority for the BLM to use SNPLMA funds to properly clear and protect vacant parcels in the Las Vegas Valley from dumping. 
   One of the key provisions in this title calls for the Department of Interior to distribute funds for approved SNPLMA projects no later than 60 days after a transfer of funds is requested by the recipient. Currently, after a SNPLMA project has been awarded by the Secretary of Interior, the recipient is not able to access the funds except as a reimbursement. What this means is that a recipient must raise sufficient funds to cover the cost of the approved project, spend those funds, and then seek a reimbursement. This system creates unnecessary delays and results in increased construction costs. It also causes confusion in the annual federal budgeting process by creating the false appearance of substantial funds on the federal books when those funds have, in fact, already been obligated. 
   Another important change that we make to SNPLMA is a complete rewrite of the legislation's affordable housing title. While language was included in the original legislation that allows for land to be acquired at less than fair market value for the development of affordable housing, it took the BLM over 4 years to promulgate the guidelines for implementing this provision. Since that time no eligible party has successfully used these guidelines to secure land and build affordable housing anywhere in Nevada. 
   With an estimated 170,000 housing units needed in southern Nevada for affordable and workforce housing in the next 10 years, immediate action is needed. As a result, we have struck the largely unworkable language from the original legislation. We have replaced it with an authority allowing all legitimate interested parties to work with the BLM to pursue land for the development of affordable and workforce housing. We also take a further step and require that any parcel of Federal land over 200 acres in size that is auctioned in the Las Vegas Valley a minimum of 5 percent of the housing units be designated for affordable and workforce housing. 
   We feel that there is a unique opportunity within the framework of SNPLMA to address affordable housing needs in southern Nevada and we stand ready to work through any outstanding issues with this provision. 
   Title IX - Great Basin Heritage Route 
   Title IX calls for the creation of the Great Basin Heritage Route. I am pleased to report that in the time since the introduction of this bill, another legislative vehicle containing this language reached the president's desk and it has been signed into law. 
   Conclusion 
   In sum, Mr. Chairman, the White Pine County Conservation, Recreation and Development Act of 2006 is a far-reaching and complex piece of legislation. By making forward looking improvements to public land management and the stewardship of our shared natural resources, we believe we have crafted a bill that will serve the best interests of the people of White Pine County, eastern Nevada and our entire State. 
   I thank the Chairman for allowing us to appear before his committee today. I look forward to working with the committee to move this legislation forward.
 
 