SEN. REID COMMENDS PASSAGE OF FUNDING BILL TO MAKE NEVADA SAFER
  Today, U.S. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada commended the passage of the 2008 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. As a result of this important legislation, the Silver State will receive more than $11 million in funding for several important law enforcement and crime prevention programs that will reduce crime and protect Nevadans. Included in the legislation is $1 million for courthouse security improvements at the Mills B. Lane Justice Complex in Reno and $650,000 for an Identity Theft and Financial Fraud Research Center in Las Vegas.
   "This bill is an important step forward to protect the safety of our communities," said Reid. "As a former police officer, I have a first-hand appreciation of the importance of providing our law enforcement officers with the tools they need to keep us safe. The shooting of Judge Weller in Reno also emphasizes the need to strengthen courtroom security. This bill does that by providing $1 million for additional resources to make our courtrooms safer." 
   The bill also includes a measure, cosponsored by Senator Reid, to increase the funding of the Community Oriented Policing Service (COPS) program. This program provides grants to state and local governments that aid in cracking down on problems specific to the community. In Nevada, the COPS program has already provided more than $700,000 to aid law enforcement in cracking down on Meth, and with this increased funding, the COPS program will be able to fund additional similar programs in our state.
  Listed below are more than $11 million in projects that Senator Reid has secured to aid Nevada law enforcement in combating crime.
  Southern Nevada:
   Las Vegas Metro Police Department (LVMPD) Mobile Command Center - $500,000 
  These funds will allow the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department to equip and outfit a mobile communications command vehicle. In a crisis, such a vehicle could help coordinate first responder efforts to help protect Nevadans.
  LVMPD Gun Range Improvements - $100,000 
   This funding will allow the Metropolitan Police Department to upgrade their equipment at the gun range facility. This new equipment will allow our law enforcement officers to train more efficiently and effectively.
   Henderson Police Department Crime Lab Equipment - $460,000 
   The Henderson Police Dept. is facing a serious backlog of DNA and other evidence processing. The City of Henderson has secured a 4,500 sq ft building, and provided funding to hire three forensic DNA analysts to staff it. Funding will be used to equip the facility.
   Identity Theft and Financial Fraud Research Center - $650,000 
   LVMPD and UNLV have embarked on a unique partnership to develop new secure credentialing technology to prevent identity theft. With millions of visitors each year, Las Vegas has some of the highest incidents of identity theft in the country.
  North Las Vegas Police Department Computer Aided Dispatch System - $250,000 
   The North Las Vegas Police Department will replace their outdated dispatch equipment with a state-of-the-art system to allow them to respond and track incidents more quickly.
  Remote Surveillance System for Nye County - $200,000 
   This system will detect wanted or stolen vehicles, and also be used in conjunction with the Amber Alert system.
   Nevada Immigrant Resource Project (NIRP) - $300,000 
   NIRP is a project of the Immigration clinic at the Boyd Law School, and helps to train law students in the area of immigration law.
  H.O.P.E. Center of Shade Tree - $400,000 
   Shade Tree provides shelter to homeless women and victims of domestic abuse. This funding will be used to equip an infirmary, an arts and crafts room, and a job development/life skills center for women.
  Northern Nevada:
   Mills B. Lane Justice Complex Security Upgrades - $1,000,000 
   The shooting of Judge Chuck Weller shows the need to increase the security of our nation's court buildings. This important funding will improve courthouse security in Reno by installing 8mm window laminate, security cameras, biometric thumbprint readers, and other security measures.
  National Judicial College - $1,000,000
   The National Judicial College on the campus of the University of Nevada Reno specializes in providing continuing education to judges. This funding will support the Master of Justice Management Degree at the National Judicial College.
  National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges - $5,000,000 
   The National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges on the campus of the University of Nevada Reno conducts training and research assistance to court personnel across our nation. NCJFCJ works in conjunction with the National Judicial College to provide opportunities for continuing education for judicial personnel.
   Carson City Anti-Meth Coalition - $350,000 
   In conjunction with law enforcement and community leaders, Carson City has established several task forces to combat methamphetamine. The Carson City Anti-Meth Coalition will help train law enforcement officials, educate the community about this dangerous drug, and conduct treatment and counseling programs for adults and juvenile offenders.
   Reno Interoperability Project - $250,000 
   The City of Reno is leading an effort to create an interoperable communications network between first responders in the event of an emergency. In addition to the City of Reno, the project is supported by the City of Sparks, Washoe County, and Sierra Pacific.
  University of Nevada, Reno Grant Sawyer Center - $200,000 
   The Grant Sawyer Center will use these funds for operating costs and scholarships for the Judicial Studies degree program to allow continuing education opportunities for judicial personnel.
  Washoe County Jail Diversion Initiative - $100,000 
   Creates a program through the Washoe County Sheriff's Office and Detention Facility specifically designed to help non-violent, mentally-ill offenders. Funding will be used to train case managers and parole and probation officers to implement their new program.
  Carson and Rural Elderly Program (CARE) Law - $50,000 
   CARE LAW is the only law program in rural Nevada counties that makes house calls and provides low-income seniors access to legal services and representation, including those residing in convalescent homes, assisted living facilities and visiting senior centers. 
  Department of Corrections Tribal Study - $100,000 
   This funding will enable the NIC to consult with tribal leaders on a regional tribal detention facility serving Nevada's 27 tribes and 15 tribal police departments. 
   Statewide:
   Meth360 Campaign - $500,000 
   Meth360, created by the Partnership for a Drug Free America, is an innovative anti-meth education campaign that has been piloted in NY, OK, VA, and WA. Meth360 expects to expand this campaign into ten additional states, including Nevada.
 
 