NEVADA'S CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION CALLS FOR RESTORATION OF FUNDS CRITICAL TO LOCAL YUCCA OVERSIGHT
  The five members of Nevada's Congressional Delegation today called on Secretary of Energy Spencer Abraham to restore federal funding guaranteed to counties in Nevada for oversight activities relating to Yucca Mountain.   
   The letter asks Abraham to justify the denial of funding that has been made available for years to Affected Units of Local Government in Nevada as part of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA). The 1982 law provides that county and city governments be given funding for oversight of dump related activities that may have public health, economic, social or environmental impacts.         
   The full text of the letter is as follows:  
   Dear Secretary Abraham:
   We are writing to express our concern regarding recent actions by the Department of Energy's Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management (OCRWM). OCRWM has recently determined that affected units of local government (AULGs) can no longer use oversight funds for "transportation planning" or other transportation activities, including the preparation of scoping comments for the proposed Caliente Rail Route Environmental Impact Statement. The Department has also established that oversight funds may no longer be used for preparation of documents for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's Licensing Support Network (LSN).
   The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA) requires the Secretary to make grants to any AULG to review the Department's activities "for the purpose of determining any potential economic, social, public health and safety, and environmental impacts of the repository." Transportation activities have been recognized by the Department as meeting this criterion for more than twenty years.    
   Furthermore, for almost fifteen years, LSN-related activities have also met aforementioned criterion for oversight funding. The Department's new guidelines restrict the ability of the affected counties in Nevada to include pertinent research on the LSN.  
   In the past, neither transportation nor LSN expenditures have been disallowed by the DOE Inspector General in audits of county programs. These activities have been considered legitimate areas of study under the NWPA since 1982, and nothing in the letter or intent of the law has changed in this regard.  
   With this in mind, the Nevada Delegation requests a justification for OCRWM's recent changes to oversight funding guidelines. Additionally, we request that the Department reconsider its funding guidance and continue to provide local governments with the necessary oversight resources.
 
 