SEN. REID'S STATEMENT AT UNVEILING OF REPORT-'PRIVATIZING SOCIAL SECURITY: BENEFIT CUTS AND DEBT FOR OUR FAMILIAS'
  As prepared for delivery: 
   "Thank you. I'd like to thank all of our participants for joining this discussion today. 
   "Every day, the news is filled with reports about the Social Security debate happening here in Washington. Articles focus on the latest numbers and the newest estimates from this think tank or that.  
   "But what often gets lost in this debate is the human face of Social Security. 
   "The program, after all, is about people. 
   "About how we, as a country, band together to ensure our neighbors are protected from poverty when they retire or when something happens to a loved one. 
   "With that in mind, Senate Democrats - over the next few months - will hold a series of roundtables with various groups to remind us all just what this debate is about. We begin today with a focus on the Hispanic community. 
   "Social Security may well be the most successful social program in the history of our country. I remember as a young boy my own grandmother getting her "old age pension check" and the self-respect and pride she felt at not having to rely on her children to care for her. 
   "The program allows millions of seniors and people with disabilities to live independently and with dignity. It has reduced the poverty rate among seniors from about 50 percent to about 10 percent. 
   "And in the event of an injury or death to a worker, Social Security provides a family safety net. At the time of greatest need, Social Security ensures that a husband or a wife does not have to cope with the prospect of poverty at the same time they cope with the loss of a loved one. 
   "We're coming up on the 70th anniversary of President Roosevelt signing the Social Security Act. Since the time he signed that important piece of legislation, Social Security has come to play an increasingly important role in the Hispanic community. 
   "Hispanics benefit greatly from the system's "progressive" benefits. 
   "Hispanics are less likely to have additional sources of retirement income, and therefore rely on Social Security to a greater extent. 
   "Hispanic have a higher disability rate and rely on disability benefits more. 
   "Without Social Security, 56 percent of Hispanics would live in poverty. 
   "With Republicans threatening to weaken the current Social Security system, that statistic right there represents how critical this debate is. 
   "President Bush and Congressional Republicans would break the promise offered by Social Security and put retirees at risk with a privatization plan. But younger families who might face the tragedy of losing the head of the family or having a mother or a father suffer from disability would suffer too. 
   "They would take a program that works for Hispanics - a program that has kept 56 percent of Hispanics out of poverty - and instead, offer a privatization plan that would cut benefits and drive up the debt - weakening the safety net for workers and their families. 
   "The Republican plan would cut benefits by one-third or more - even for those who choose not to risk their benefits in a privatized account. It also would force us to borrow nearly $5 trillion, much of which from foreign countries like China and Japan. 
   "That is not good policy for Hispanics. Or any group of Americans. 
   "Let me be clear: Democrats want to work with the President to address Social Security's long term challenges. We also want to find ways to help Americans save. But we will never agree to Republican privatization plans that make Social Security's financial problems worse, while making deep cuts in benefits and forcing massive increases in debt. 
   "We understand Social Security is America's promise to those who work hard and play by the rules. We know - as will be talked about here today - how important Social Security is to families and retirees across the country. We will work to strengthen the system, but we believe it must be done right."
 
 