SEN. REID UNVEILS ONLINE SOCIAL SECURITY CALCULATOR
  Nevada's Sen. Harry Reid unveiled an online Social Security Calculator so Nevadans can see how President Bush's Privatization Plan would affect their retirement security.  
   The calculator can be found on Sen. Reid's website at reid.senate.gov. It allows users to enter an average annual income and year of birth to see a side-by-side comparison between the Bush Privatization Plan and the current Social Security system. 
   "Social Security is a remarkably successful program," Senator Reid said. "It's a promise of retirement safety for seniors and financial security for all our families in case of death or disability. Nevadans should have all the facts on the President's plan to privatize Social Security and how it would affect their personal retirement future." 
   Sen. Reid noted that there are some long term challenges with Social Security that need to be addressed. But the privatization plan the President has proposed so far will destroy Social Security. 
   "For the next 50 years, the government will be able to keep its promise and pay full Social Security benefits. Eventually, the baby boom generation will put pressure on the program and I want to find solutions. The right solutions that will not cut benefits or add trillions and trillions of dollars in debt as the President has suggested." 
   The Social Security calculator assumes the following: all workers will retire at age 65; average income is wage indexed to 2005 dollars; Initially, the maximum contribution to the individual accounts would be set at $1,000, but this limit increases annually by $100 a year until workers could contribute up to 4 percent of their taxable earnings into the account. 
   The benefit reductions calculated on this website are in 2005 dollars and are based on the Congressional Budget Office's economic assumptions. This assumes price indexing of the initial benefit, plus a risk-adjusted rate of return of 3.0 percent above inflation on the private account This is the risk-adjusted real rate of return used by CBO in their analysis of Model 2 of the President Bush's Commission to Strengthen Social Security. Several recent studies, including one by the investment firm Goldman Sachs, have confirmed that differences in returns between personal accounts and the current system disappear once transition costs and increased risk are taken into account. 
   "Addressing the long term challenges of Social Security will take tough choices and prioritizing our budget, but it can be done," Reid added. "And, we should consider modernizing our complex system of retirement savings and developing new tax-free ways to help and encourage middle class families to save, outside of Social Security."
 
 