SEN. REID FOCUSES SENATE ON ENERGY POLICY
  Standing alongside the new Committee Chairs who will be key in transforming the nation's energy policies and moving legislation through the United States Senate, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada today announced the new Senate Democratic majority is moving forward to bring dramatic change to America's energy policy.  
   "Nevadans and Americans alike are ready to confront the enormous challenge of energy independence," said Reid. "I am making better energy policy a top priority of the Senate to make our country safer, lower energy rates, create domestic jobs, and protect the environment. In Nevada, more than 3,300 jobs would be created-primarily in rural areas-if we invested more in renewable energy solutions." 
   Reid, Commerce Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye, Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, Energy Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman, Agriculture Committee Chairman Tom Harkin, Homeland and Government Affairs Committee Chairman Joe Lieberman, and Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman Barbara Boxer announced that their Committees will begin working right away on new legislation to begin to deliver results for the American people. 
   America's national security and economic prosperity, not to mention the future health of the planet, demand a radically new course. The Senators today made clear their commitment represented a paradigm shift for how Congress will address America's energy future. From now on, energy legislation will not be a means to prolong the failed policies of the past. Instead, Congress will direct its attention to investing new strategies and new alternative energy technologies to bring about the change the American people expect and demand. 
   This new commitment represents the first-and critical-step toward freeing America from its dependence on foreign oil and the national security threat it represents, tackling the growing problem of global climate change, and developing the new and job creating technologies that will power America's economy in the 21st Century. A recent study by the nonpartisan Apollo Alliance suggests that a major investment in alternative energy technologies could add more than 3.3 million new jobs to America's economy, stimulate $1.4 trillion dollars in new Gross Domestic Product, and pay for itself within 10 years. 
   For the past six years, despite mounting evidence of the threat of global warming, growing evidence of the threat posed by our dependence on foreign oil, and massive profit growth by OPEC and Big Oil on the backs of American consumers, little has been accomplished in Washington to address our nation's energy security. The new Democratic Congress is committed to changing course, delivering results, and taking America in a new direction.
 
 