SEN. REID PRESSES FOR SWIFT EVACUATION OF AMERICANS WISHING TO LEAVE LEBANON
  Concerned by the number of Americans, including a number of Nevadans, unable to be evacuated from Lebanon, U.S. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada joined his colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice pressing them to ensure swift evacuations and urging that all necessary Defense Department assets are made available to secure these Americans' transport out of harm's way. Nevadans and Americans alike have been disturbed by reports that Americans registering with the State Department and wishing to leave Lebanon are not being evacuated immediately. 
   Senator Reid has also put up a special page on his website to provide Nevadans with information regarding Americans in Lebanon and the U.S. government's efforts to evacuate American citizens from Lebanon. The website can be accessed at http://reid.senate.gov/info/lebanon_evacuation.cfm. 
   The text of the letter is attached below. 
   The Honorable Condoleezza Rice Secretary of State Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, D.C. 20520
   The Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld Secretary of Defense 3E9880 The Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301 
   Dear Secretaries Rice and Rumsfeld, 
   We are writing to urge the Departments of State and Defense to ensure that all American citizens wishing to leave Lebanon are evacuated as soon as possible and that necessary military assets are made available to facilitate the evacuation. 
   Reports that American citizens who have been registered with the State Department are not being evacuated immediately are enormously troubling. 
   As you know, there are approximately 25,000 American citizens in Lebanon. While we appreciate that some DoD assets have been made available, it is imperative that as many DoD assets as are necessary be made available to address this unfolding crisis. 
   Given the intensity of the conflict and the need to ensure the safety of American citizens, we would ask that the decision to evacuate Americans be made at once and that sufficient resources to expedite the evacuation be made available. Ensuring the safety of these Americans must be our top priority. 
   With respect, 
   Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid 
   Senator Carl Levin, Ranking Member, Armed Services Committee 
   Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Member, Armed Services Committee
 
 