SEN. REID WORKS TO SECURE FUNDING FOR COURT SECURITY, LAW ENFORCEMENT
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada announces Senate Appropriations Committee passage of legislation which will increase courthouse security and improve the ability for first responders to communicate with each other in an emergency. 
   A senior member of this committee, Reid hailed last week's passage of the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill as a step forward in providing Nevada agencies with the tools they need to prevent and respond to emergencies. 
   "This bill funds programs that make a big difference in Nevada. The recent shooting of Judge Chuck Weller serves as a wake up call. We need to do all we can to protect our judges and help our first responders," said Reid. "Nevada needs this funding to make our communities safer and stronger. Nevada needs this funding to update out-of-date communications devices. I will continue to work through the approval process to ensure this and other important Nevada projects get funded."
   In addition to the projects listed below, Reid added the Mills B. Lane Justice Complex - the courthouse where Judge Chuck Weller was shot in a sniper style shooting - for special priority funding for security improvements.
   The Appropriations Committee will specify dollar amounts for each of these projects when the bill goes to conference. The CJS Appropriations bill will now go to the Senate floor for a full Senate vote. 
   Reid was successful in securing priority funding in the CJS Appropriations bill for the following Northern Nevada projects: 
   Washoe County for the Mentally Ill Offender Program will receive funding to convert an unused wing of the Northern Nevada Mental Health Hospital into a secure therapy housing unit for mentally ill offenders. 
   City of Reno's Truckee Meadows Interoperability Project will receive funding for communications equipment that will create Nevada's first multi-agency, broadband wireless public safety network. Vehicles and fixed sites will act as routers/repeaters for all devices in the network, which creates a highly distributed, robust and reliable communications system. High speed communications will be enabled between all devices in the network, including mobile devices. 
   University of Nevada, Reno will receive funding for the Small Business Regional Studies Initiative being implemented by the Nevada Small Business Development Center and the College of Business Administration to aid rural economic development efforts, enhance Hispanic business development, and expand assistance to Nevada manufacturers. 
   Northern Area Communications Consortium (NNACC) will receive funding for their Public Safety Communications Interoperability project. NNACC is an alliance of six Nevada county regions consisting of Elko, Eureka, Humboldt, Lander, Pershing and White Pine Counties. The counties in this region are mountainous and without upgrades and replacement of existing communication systems, the counties law enforcement cannot communicate. 
   Carson City Western Nevada Regional Communications System will receive funding to develop a regional communications system for law enforcement to communicate. A consortium of six Nevada counties: Carson, Douglas, Storey, Churchill, Lyon and Mineral have begun efforts to develop a regional communications system to improve interoperability across the region. Current radio systems across the region were designed and built in the 1960s and 1970s. 
   Additionally, Reid helped restore $555 million for the Edwards Byrne Justice Assistance Grants, a popular program for local crime fighting initiatives, and $537 million for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program for cities to hire local police. The administration proposed eliminating $900 million in funding for these programs.
 
 