OUTRAGED BY AUDIOTAPE, SEN. REID RENEWS FIGHT TO PROTECT NEVADANS FROM ENRON GOUGING
  Outraged by an Enron trader's statement that he wants to "screw with people" in Nevada, Sen. Harry Reid repeated his demand during a speech from the Senate floor today that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission protect Nevada ratepayers from paying for power that Enron never delivered.  
   CBS played excerpts from audiotapes of Enron energy traders on its Wednesday evening news program, including the following conversation between two traders: 
   "I want to see what pain and heartache this is going to cause Nevada Power Company," says one Enron trader on the tapes. "I want to f--k with Nevada for a while." 
   "What do you mean?" a second trader asks. 
   "I just, I'm still in the mood to screw with people, OK?" the first trader answers. 
   "This is reprehensible," Senator Reid said. "Enron employees, from their own mouths and in their own words, are maliciously planning to rob Nevadans." 
   Despite market manipulation, illegal activities and ultimate collapse of the company, Enron is suing Nevada Power Company for more than $300 million dollars because of certain contract provisions agreed to before Enron was exposed. FERC has the power to void the contract, but has refused to hear the case. 
   "FERC has had these incriminating audiotapes for at least a couple of years," Senator Reid said. "But they probably would have never come to light if CBS had not obtained them. According to CBS, FERC officials fought to keep the tapes secret. I wonder why?" 
   Earlier this year, Senator Reid and Senator Ensign sent a harshly worded letter to FERC demanding that the agency set a hearing. 
   "It is unclear to me whom exactly FERC is working to protect, but it certainly isn't Nevada rate payers," Reid added. 
   This week, Western senators, including Reid and Ensign have requested that FERC do two things: vacate the exorbitant contracts that were signed during the manipulated energy crisis, and let ratepayers off the hook for hundreds of millions of dollars that Enron wants to be paid for power it couldn't even deliver. 
   "FERC is the agency of government that is entrusted with the primary responsibility of making sure the Enron's of the world are in compliance with the law. They should take this responsibility seriously and start working on behalf of the public and not corporate crooks like Enron," said Reid. 
   A copy of Senator Reid's speech follows: 
   We have all experienced the feeling called d?j? vu. 
   I am feeling it myself these days, since gas prices have soared to record levels. 
   The big oil companies say these price increases are simply a matter of supply and demand. 
   Now, where have I heard that before? 
   I remember now - that is the same excuse we heard four years ago during the Western electricity crisis, when Nevada consumers were being ripped off by one of the most ravenous corporate swindlers in history - Enron. 
   While Enron was reaping windfall profits, it told consumers that record high prices were a result of "supply and demand." 
   But it turned out that Enron was manipulating the supply of electricity to drive up the price. 
   Over the last few weeks, audiotape recordings of Enron traders have come to light on CBS News. 
   These tapes prove that Enron rigged the market to rob consumers of billions of dollars. 
   Here is what one Enron trader said on an audiotape that CBS played last night: (POINT TO CHART) 
   "I want to see what pain and heartache this is going to cause Nevada Power Company," says one Enron trader on the tapes. "I want to f--k with Nevada for a while." 
   "What do you mean?" a second trader asks. 
   "I just, I'm still in the mood to screw with people, OK?" the first trader answers. 
   Enron traders had all kinds of ways to cheat consumers. 
   They shipped power from California to Oregon, masked the original source of the power, and then sold it back to California at inflated rates. 
   This little scheme made Enron a profit of $222,678 in three hours. 
   Enron traders also confidently boast that Enron CEO Ken Lay will wield a lot of influence in the Bush Administration. 
   They were right about that. 
   A few weeks ago the Washington Post reported on the influence of the people who raised large amounts of money for President Bush's campaign. 
   One of those big fundraisers was Ken Lay, who served on the Administration's Energy Department transition team and recommended two of the appointees to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 
   After Enron gouged Western consumers, utilities in Nevada and other states turned to FERC for help. 
   But FERC ruled last June in favor of Enron, and against providing relief to Nevada utilities and ratepayers. 
   Adding insult to injury, last fall a bankruptcy court ruled that Nevada ratepayers owe Enron an additional $330 million for power that Enron never even delivered. 
   Our utilities have asked FERC to hear that case. Senator Ensign and I have submitted a brief in support of their complaint. 
   I am also joining with Western Senators in requesting that FERC vacate the exhorbitant contracts that were signed during the manipulated energy crisis. 
   Mr. President, the parallel between the Western electricity crisis and today's gasoline market is troubling. 
   The big oil companies are making record profits, which come out of the pockets of working families. 
   I am afraid I'm not the only one who is feeling d?j? vu these days. 
   Nevada consumers know they're getting gouged again. 
   And it's not a good feeling.
 
 