SEN. REID FIGHTS FOR HISTORIC STEM CELL BILL
  Today in a historic vote, Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada fought for passage of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810), the only bill that would clear the way for research that could lead to treatments and cures for a wide range of debilitating illnesses and conditions. 
   "The majority of Nevadans and Americans support embryonic stem cell research," said Reid. "I'm fighting to provide Nevadans with the hope of new cures and treatments that stem cell research provides. I certainly hope that the President will understand why this is so important to so many people. They want - and rightfully deserve - a new direction, where their health and the health of their families are put first." 
   There is no alternative to H.R. 810. It is the only bill that could help thousands of Nevadans who suffer from illnesses including Lou Gehrig's Disease, diabetes, Parkinson's, cancer, and spinal cord injuries, by using stem cell research to find cures to these conditions. 
   Mollie and Jackie Singer, 17 year old twins from Las Vegas, who Reid has known since they were small children, support embryonic stem cell research. 
   Mollie, who has juvenile diabetes, said, "We believe that nothing is more precious than life, and that everything that can be done to save lives, must be done. This is why it is imperative that the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, HR 810, be passed." 
   Jackie added, "Stem Cell Research has the potential to save millions of lives." 
   Despite the overwhelming support this bill has in Nevada and across the country, the President is expected to use his first veto since taking office to prevent this bill from becoming law. Doing so would be a tremendous blow to countless Nevadans for whom stem cell research offers hope for a healthier life. 
   Reid is focusing his efforts on overcoming the veto threat. 
   The vote passed the U.S. Senate 63 to 37. 
   If you're interested in booking the Singer twins for an interview, please email Jennifer L?pez at Jennifer_Lopez@reid.senate.gov.
 
 