WOMEN LEADERS CALL ON REPUBLICANS TO STOP THEIR PARTISAN POWER GRAB
  Today, Democratic women in Congress were joined by community leaders in calling on Republicans to stop their abuse of power. With the fight over one radical judge, Priscilla Owen, raging on the Senate floor, Sens. Barbara Boxer and Patty Murray were joined by Reps. Rosa DeLauro, Lois Capps and Hilda Solis, as well as Marcia Greenberger of the National Women's Law Center, Eva Patterson of the Equal Justice Society and Kate Michelman the former President of NARAL Pro-Choice America. These principled women stood together to tell the Republicans that Owen and another radical judge championed by Senator Frist, Janice Rogers Brown, are radical judges whose confirmation to the federal bench would undermine the rights of women and families.  
   "All Americans should be concerned about the nomination of Janice Rogers Brown to the DC Circuit Court," said Senator Barbara Boxer. "She is an extremist judge, having ruled against families, seniors, children, workers and consumers. On many of these decisions she stood alone. The Senate filibuster is meant for nominations like these that defy mainstream values." 
   These women stood together to call on the Republicans to stop their power grab and embrace the mainstream values of the American people. Confirming radical judges is not the agenda of the American people and should not be the agenda of the Congress. These leaders also called on the Senate to maintain the crucial checks and balances that protect minority rights in the Senate and protect the interests of women and families. 
   "On everything from parental consent to victim's rights to worker rights to bias toward campaign contributors, Justice Owen is too far out of the mainstream. Her radical views make a lifetime appointment inappropriate," said Senator Murray. "Unfortunately and amazingly, this is the type of activist judge Republicans want to hand a lifetime appointment. By stripping the Senate of its Constitutional role, they're continuing their efforts to pack the courts with radical judges, push through an extreme agenda, and leave millions of Americans behind." 
   Also today, the Democratic women of the House of Representatives sent a letter to Senator Frist calling on him to put aside his partisan pursuit of power and expressing their opposition to the nominations of both Janice Rogers Brown and Priscilla Owen. 
   "Both nominees would come to the federal bench with an agenda to roll back the rights and protections that women and all Americans have come to take for granted during the last seventy years," wrote the Democratic women. "We hope the Senate will continue its historic practice of protecting the rights of the minority party and working in a collaborative way with the executive branch to ensure that mainstream nominees are appointed to the federal courts." 
   The letter was signed by Representatives Hilda Solis, Rosa DeLauro, Nancy Pelosi, Lois Capps, Louise Slaughter, Diane Watson, Barbara Lee, Betty McCollum, Carolyn Maloney, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Debbie Wasserman Shultz, Nita Lowey, Doris Matsui, Zoe Lofgren, Tammy Baldwin, Linda Sanchez, Gwen Moore, Stephanie Tubbs-Jones, Lynn Woolsey, Janice Schakowsky, Diana Degette, Carolyn Kilpatrick, Corrine Brown and Ellen Tauscher.
 
 