SEN. REID HIRES TWO KEY LEADERSHIP AIDES
  Senate Democratic Leader-elect Harry Reid today announced two key staffing additions to his Senate leadership team. 
   Kevin Kayes will transition from being Democratic Staff Director on the Senate Commerce Committee to serving as Chief Counsel for Reid, overseeing inter-office and committee outreach and providing strategic guidance on legislative and floor action. Kayes also will spearhead an increased dialogue with national and local constituent groups, including the business community. Prior to working on the Commerce Commerce for the past five years, Kayes served as Assistant Parliamentarian for 13 years  
   Randy DeValk will join Reid's leadership team as Senior Policy Advisor after finishing out his service with current Leader Tom Daschle. DeValk has handled a broad portfolio of issues for Daschle and will be a key advisor for Reid on critical matters, including appropriations, budget, foreign policy and intelligence. Before working for Leader Daschle, DeValk worked for eight years on the Senate Budget Committee. 
   Reid said DeValk and Kayes bring invaluable skills to his organization and will be pivotal to his progress as Democratic Leader. 
   "Randy DeValk has been involved in a substantive manner in every major policy debate in the Senate for the past ten years," Reid said. "He is one of the sharpest minds on Capitol Hill, and he understands how to effectively leverage the cross-section of policy and politics. His knowledge of how the Senate works combined with his dead-on political instincts is vital to our success. I am honored that he has agreed to work with me, and I am confident his work will benefit every member of our caucus." 
   "Like Randy, Kevin Kayes is one of the truly unique people I know who grasp the complexity of Senate procedures and has the ability to effortlessly navigate that process. I will rely on his sound judgment, depth of knowledge and political skills. Kevin also is well-known throughout Washington and the business community for his ability to forge consensus. He is as smart as he is sincere in his approach. I am lucky he has agreed to join our efforts as we move forward." 
   Kayes and DeValk will join Sen Reid's Chief of Staff, Susan McCue, and recently promoted Deputy Chief of Staff Gary Myrick in formulating Senate-wide message and policy operations. 
   Reid said he will continue to recruit the best talent in the country as he builds his leadership team in the coming weeks.
 
 