STATE LEGISLATORS OPPOSE BUSH'S FAILED WAR STRATEGY
  Senate Democrats and state legislators from across the country today discussed their opposition to President Bush's escalation of the war in Iraq.  
   Resolutions and letters calling for a change of course in Iraq have been introduced in 29 states and passed in more than a dozen. These state governing bodies join the majority of Americans, bipartisan majorities in both houses of Congress, military experts and the Iraq Study Group in calling for a change of course. 
   Senators Harry Reid, Ted Kennedy and Sherrod Brown joined Hannah Pingree, Majority Leader of the Maine House of Representatives; Steve Doherty, former Minority Leader of the Montana State Senate and co-chair of the Progressive States Network; and Kansas State Senator Donald Betts. 
   "As we work to get our troops in the field the funding they need, the state legislators standing with us today have an up-close view of how this war affects communities across our country," Reid said. "They know that the President's policies have failed and want us to work together to fully provide for our troops, hold the Iraqi government accountable, and find a responsible end to the conflict." 
   Said Kennedy: "The American people know that it is time for a new plan in Iraq. That is why 29 states have introduced resolutions against the escalation of our forces in Iraq. This President couldn't be more wrong on Iraq. He was wrong to get us into this war, wrong to conduct it so poorly, wrong to ignore the views of the American people and wrong to accuse those of us who are working to change course as undermining our troops. Now the President is wrong to veto the supplemental. Doing so would delay funding for our troops and keeps them in a bloody civil war with no exit strategy in sight." 
   "The war in Iraq has cost 142 Ohioans their lives and wounded another thousand," Brown said. "The president should stop threatening to veto legislation and work with Congress to bring our troops home." 
   Said Doherty: "Nationwide, Senators, state legislators, and citizens agree: This tragic war has dragged on for too long. It is a drain on this country. It is time to put forward a plan to bring the war to an end." 
   "Our current open-ended commitment in Iraq is compromising critical domestic programs, from healthcare to development to education," Pingree said. "President Bush's failed Iraq policy has left our country worse off. Communities all over my state and around the country want America to change course and bring an end to this war." 
   The rest of the document can be viewed at: http://reid.senate.gov/newsroom/record.cfm?id=272662
 
 