SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT ON PROTECTING NEVADA'S CHILDREN AGAINST SEX OFFENDERS
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada released the following statement on news that the Adam Walsh Child Protection Law is being enforced in Clark County and that the Southern Nevada's Sex Offender Compliance, Apprehension and Prosecution (SOCAP) Initiative has been activated:  
   "Nevada has been a leader in working to protect our children against the dangers of sex offenders. Earlier this year our state made changes to improve the accuracy and reliability of the Nevada registry requirements thanks to the hard work and dedication of people like Donna Coleman, past president of the Children's Advocacy Alliance based in Henderson, Nevada. 
   "Unfortunately, other states have not been as vigilant as Nevada. For this reason, I was proud to be a co-sponsor of the 'Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act' which became law on July 27, 2006. This legislation has established a national sex offender registry which will make it easier to track sex offenders and prevent repeat offenses. It has also authorized much-needed grants to help local law enforcement agencies establish and integrate sex offender registry systems. 
   "I am pleased to welcome the Southern Nevada Sex Offender Compliance, Apprehension and Prosecution (SOCAP) Initiative to our community. The funding allocated through the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act has allowed this wonderful team of agencies including the U.S. Attorney, U.S. Marshal, Clark County District Attorney, Henderson Police Department, Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, North Las Vegas Police Department, Nevada Department of Public Safety and Nevada Child Seekers to work together to improve the safety of Nevada's children. 
   "The SOCAP Initiative has already begun to apprehend non-compliant offenders in our community further strengthening Nevada's role as a leader in ensuring the safety of America's children. On behalf of a grateful community, I thank them for their hard work and dedication. I look forward to hearing about their continued success."
 
 