SEN. REID DELIVERS ADDRESS ON THE STATE OF OUR UNION
  Senate Majority Leader Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada addressed the National Press Club this morning to deliver Democrats' national Address on the State of Our Union. The new Democratic Congress is committed to working in a bipartisan fashion to make Nevada and the rest of the country energy independent, to express the overwhelming opposition of the American people to the President's plan to escalate the war in Iraq, and to take America in a new direction. 
   Below are his remarks as prepared: 
   Thank you Speaker Pelosi for that introduction and for the leadership you provide our party and our country. You've made history, and Americans - regardless of their partisan perspective - share joy in your achievement.  
   In its first 100 hours, the new leadership in the House has shown America that Democrats and Republicans can work together to deliver results. Last night - on the issue of ethics - the Senate scored its first victory of this new year, passing perhaps the most sweeping ethics reform legislation in history. 
   Now that we've changed the way Washington does business, it's our job - and the job of every member of Congress - to keep moving America in a new direction. 
   The new Congress will confront many difficult issues in 2007, but none more important than keeping America safe. We live in a dangerous world. We face many threats. There are critical challenges around the world America must confront: 
   In Afghanistan, where the Taliban and al Qaeda are resurgent. 
   In North Korea and Iran, which continue to march forward with their nuclear programs. 
   In Darfur, where genocide rages, and elsewhere in Africa, where poverty and sickness are leading to mass human suffering and dangerous instability. 
   In Latin America, where Chavez and Castro want to put their leftist mark on young democracies. 
   And in the Middle East and here at home, where, as the Speaker indicated, we need to find a way to free ourselves from our dangerous dependence on oil. 
   These are just some of the national security challenges we face. Unfortunately, we have yet to adequately confront these or other problems, because this Administration has been all consumed and, frankly, overwhelmed by its own failed policies in Iraq. 
   The Iraq war has now lasted longer than World War II - a war that took us to far away Okinawa across North Africa and throughout the continent of Europe. 
   The costs of the war have been staggering. 
   We've lost 3,025 of our troops, and seen tens-of-thousands more wounded. The war has strained our military, and depleted our Treasury. Last year, violence claimed the lives of at least 34,000 Iraqis - a rate of almost 100 a day. 
   Yet despite these tremendous costs, despite this great sacrifice, the Iraq war has made America less safe, not more safe. Our troops in Iraq - including hundreds of fine Nevadans - have done everything asked of them. It's their political leaders at home who've failed. 
   We must change course. 
   Unfortunately, the President's new plan can be summed up in four words: "more of the same." 
   Like our military generals, the American people and a growing bipartisan chorus in Congress, I believe escalation is a serious mistake. 
   As both our top commanders in the region - Generals Abigail and Casey - have testified, Iraq is experiencing a violent civil war. Interjecting more U.S. military forces will not end the civil war, only a comprehensive political settlement by the Iraqi government will. 
   For over a year, Democrats have been proposing a better plan for Iraq: a plan based on what is in the best interest of our country now and in the long-term fight against terror and a plan embraced by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. 
   Our plan for Iraq begins by transforming the military mission. The mission of our troops should be transitioned away from combat to training, force protection, logistics and counter-terror. U.S. forces have been given an impossible mission - - policing a civil war. It's Iraqis - not our troops - who should be walking the streets of Baghdad, trying to sort friend from foe. 
   Next, we should begin the phased redeployment of U.S. forces within the next four to six months, so Iraqis understand they must lead the fight and take responsibility for their future. 
   Only Iraqis can ultimately secure Iraq. 
   A phased redeployment will allow our country to rebuild the military force here at home, and increase the number of troops available to hunt for Osama bin Laden and stabilize Afghanistan. 
   Third, we need to bring Iraq's neighbors into the process of stabilizing the country. This step will not be easy for an Administration that has failed at diplomacy. Yet, diplomacy is exactly what is needed. 
   The violence won't stop in Iraq until all factions agree to stop the violence. 
   It is true, the Iranians and the Syrians have played a destabilizing role in Iraq, but that doesn't mean we can't communicate with them as part of a regional framework. As Secretary Jim Baker of the Iraq Study Group noted, we must talk to our enemies, not just our friends. 
   Our plan for Iraq will do what this President has been incapable of doing: turning Iraq over to the Iraqi's and bringing our troops home. This is what the majority of Americans voted for last November, and this is what Congress will continue to hold the President accountable to do. 
   As Speaker Pelosi said, the President's plan will receive an up-or-down vote in both Chambers of Congress. With that vote, our hope - - our prayer - - is that this President will finally listen. Listen to the Generals. Listen to the Iraq Study Group. Listen to the American people. And listen to a bipartisan Congress. The answer in Iraq is not to "double down" - literally to do more of the same. The answer is to find a new course that brings this war to an end. 
   Let me say more about votes in Congress. When we hold the up-or-down vote - and in the many votes that follow - our troops will get everything they need. It is the President who will find he no longer has a blank check. 
   The days of a rubberstamp Congress are over. This Congress - unlike the previous Congress - will always put the needs of our troops first. We'll keep America's promises to our soldiers, our veterans and our National Guard. And after years of overuse and neglect, we'll rebuild and reinvest in the military, so it remains the finest force in the world. 
   As much as we're convinced the President has chosen the wrong direction in Iraq, we're increasingly concerned he's headed in the wrong direction in Iran and Afghanistan . 
   Five years after we defeated the Taliban, the extremists are returning. Drug production is soaring. And attacks on U.S. and NATO forces are on the rise. By all measures, the country is at risk of slipping away; yet, some reports suggest the President will be moving some U.S. troops out of Afghanistan and into Iraq. This is a terrible mistake. 
   Although time is short, there is still an opportunity to defeat our enemies in Afghanistan once and for all. The President must acknowledge what's at stake, and immediately take action to prevent the country from returning to what it was - a haven for international terrorism. 
   Much has been made about President Bush's recent saber rattling toward Iran. This morning, I'd like to be clear: The President does not have the authority to launch military action in Iran without first seeking Congressional authorization - - the current use of force resolution for Iraq does not give him such authorization. 
   Let there be no doubt, the Iranian regime poses one of the great threats of the new century, but the Iranian people - 2/3rds of which are under the age of 30 - - present a great opportunity for progress. Regrettably, this Administration has no strategy for connecting with this generation of potential reformers. 
   One of the reasons Iran is free to thumb its nose at the world community is oil. Iran sends millions of barrels of crude oil to the Western world, and gets billions of dollars in return. 
   Fortunately, we have the power to turn the tables on Iran. That power is energy independence. If the United States led the world in developing new alternative fuel technologies, we could create new jobs, export new products, slow global warming and reduce Iran's leverage on the international stage. 
   When it comes to energy, the Congress has already moved forward on a number of fronts - from reducing global warming to promoting renewable fuels to mandating ethanol from biomass. On Tuesday, we're looking forward to the President finally joining the energy debate. For our security, our economy, and our environment, we must pull together and secure America's energy future. 
   Fortunately, I know we can. 
   Like all Americans, I vividly remember September 11, 2001 and the days that followed. Democrats and Republicans stood together as Americans in doing whatever it took to keep our country safe. 
   9/11 was a terrible day, but it showed our country united and strong, with the world by our side. 
   Regrettably, bipartisanship - and the alliances that shined so bright after 9/11 - have been challenged in recent years: the President's conduct of the war in Iraq has divided our country and our allies. The White House's detainee policy and abuses at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo have damaged our moral authority. And this administration's disdain for diplomacy has hardened our enemies, and cost us opportunities in the developing world, where extremists are out-working the U.S. in the battle for hearts and minds. 
   Together this year, we must reclaim that bipartisan spirit. It shouldn't take a national tragedy to get us to work together. We should be equally inspired by our responsibility to keep America safe. 
   From Afghanistan to energy, our challenges are great, but we know America can meet them. And we know we must begin by changing course in Iraq. 
   In Congress, we'll continue working with Republicans to keep America safe, and we'll listen to President Bush Tuesday night. Together, we must move in a new direction, and build a safer, stronger nation.
 
 