SEN. REID CALLS FOR RESIGNATION OF TWO ENERGY REGULATORS RECOMMENDED BY ENRON CEO LAY
  Sen. Harry Reid Monday called for the resignation of two members of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), charging that they have failed to protect Nevada consumers from the market manipulations of Enron Corp.
   The two FERC Commissioners were appointed by President Bush after being recommended by his friend, Enron CEO Ken Lay. In a speech on the Senate floor Monday, Reid said they should resign if FERC can't meet its responsibility to protect consumers and utilities. 
   Despite market manipulation, illegal activities and ultimate collapse of the company, Enron is suing Nevada Power Company for more than $300 million dollars because of a contract signed during the Western Energy Crisis of 2000-2001, when Enron jacked up electricity prices. FERC has the power to void the contract, but has refused to hear the case. 
   "FERC was established to protect ratepayers, and the commission has failed miserably to do so," Senator Reid said. "Instead they are protecting the criminal activities of one of the worst corporate swindlers in our history. There appears to be a clear conflict of interest when two of the commissioners owe their job to the Chairman and CEO of Enron. I think they should resign."
   Sen. Reid's comments came as part of a larger speech on energy independence and specifically Nevada's potential to lead the country in renewable energy development and production, which would create thousands of jobs in the Silver State and provide a reliable source of electricity. 
   Reid's legislation to offer tax benefits to renewable energy sources such as wind, solar and geothermal were included in a larger tax bill.
   "Our nation desperately needs a new energy policy - one that protects consumers, safeguards our environment and makes us stronger by reducing our dependence on Mideast oil," Reid said. "We can't create an energy policy for the future by simply repeating the past. We need new ideas and new approaches."
   "For decades we have provided subsidies and tax breaks for the big oil companies. Today we need some incentives to help spur production of renewable energy."
   The full text of Reid's speech follows:
   Senator Harry Reid
   Renewable Energy and Energy Independence
   This is the time of year when American families take their vacations. 
   Most families drive. And this summer, although the price of gas is not quite as high as a few months ago, it is still near record levels in many parts of the country, including my home state of Nevada.
   Every time a family stops for gas ... they are reminded that our country needs reliable sources of energy that are not subject to wild price swings.
   Every time we see a scene from the Middle East on the TV news ... we are reminded that our nation depends too heavily on oil from that volatile region.
   And every time a parent tells a child with asthma that he can't play outside because the air isn't safe ... we are reminded that fossil fuels harm our environment.
   Our nation desperately needs a new energy policy - one that protects consumers, safeguards our environment and makes us stronger by reducing our dependence on Mideast oil.
   We can't create an energy policy for the future by simply repeating the past. We need new ideas and new approaches.
   We use about 25 percent of the oil that is produced, but we only have about 3 percent of the proven oil reserves. So we can't drill our way out of the problem.
   We need to remember the words of Benjamin Franklin, who said, "A penny saved is a penny earned."
   In the case of oil, a barrel saved is better than a barrel drilled and consumed ... because it doesn't pollute the air or contribute to global warming.
   After the Arab oil embargo of 1973, our nation got serious about conserving oil. By 1990, our vehicles used about 40 percent as much fuel as they did in '73.
   And we can do it again. America's talented engineers and scientists can still design vehicles that save fuel, without sacrificing safety ... if we make conserving oil a national priority.
   We have to do a better job of conserving oil ... and we have to develop new sources of energy that are clean and reliable.
   Again, we are fortunate, because America is blessed with an abundance of clean, renewable energy resources. 
   We can harness the warmth of the sun ... the power of the wind ... and the heat within the earth.
   All it takes is good old American ingenuity ... and a little bit of incentive.
   Let's be clear. For decades we have provided subsidies and tax breaks for the big oil companies.
   Today we need some incentives to help spur production of renewable energy.
   Mr. President, I have been in Congress long enough to know how things work.
   I know it takes time to get things done, and I'm a patient man.
   But when we not only fail to make any progress on an important issue, but actually move backward instead of forward ... then I must sound an alarm.
   And that is what has happened on renewable energy. Instead of making progress, we seem to be taking a step backward.
   Over the last 15 years, wind power has been the fastest-growing source of renewable energy, thanks to the Section 45 Production Tax Credit.
   This incentive spurred billions of dollars of investment and new technology. As a result, wind energy has become increasingly cost-effective.
   I have worked for several years to expand this incentive to other forms of renewable energy, especially solar power and geothermal power.
   But instead of expanding the tax credit that has been so successful in promoting wind power ... we have allowed it to expire.
   This is crazy. It is like allowing the insurance on your home to lapse ... or failing to properly maintain a vital piece of equipment that you use every day.
   The tax incentive for wind energy expired on December 31, 2003. We need to restore it as soon as possible ... and we need to extend it to solar, geothermal and biomass energy.
   I was encouraged that the FSC/ETI bill passed by the Senate last month contains these incentives. I applaud Senators Grassley, Baucus, and Domenici for that provision.
   Unfortunately the companion House bill would only extend the production tax credit for wind energy. But we now have another chance to get it right, because this bill is going into conference.
   We must not squander this opportunity. We must get back on the path toward renewable energy and energy independence. 
   Our nation is blessed with abundant renewable energy resources - especially our Western states.
   Last month, governors of nine Western states including Nevada formally signed on to a plan that commits the region to developing 30,000 megawatts of electricity - about 15 percent of current demand - from renewable sources by 2015.
   I applaud their determination and vision. They know that developing renewable energy is not only good for consumers and the environment, but that it also creates good jobs. 
   And because renewable energy is Made in the USA, it can reduce our dependence on oil from the Middle East.
   Many western states have already adopted "renewable portfolio standards" requiring that a fixed percentage of energy sold in-state come from renewable energy resources.
   At this time, 13 states have set these goals, and the number will almost certainly increase. I'm proud that Nevada has adopted one of the most aggressive "renewable portfolio standards" of any state.
   It commits our state to produce 15 percent of our electricity from renewable sources by the year 2013.
   We had set a goal of 5 percent by the end of 2003 - but unfortunately, we were unable to meet that goal.
   One reason was uncertainty about whether the tax incentive for wind power would be extended, or expanded to solar and geothermal power.
   The other reason is that utilities in Nevada and other Western states are still reeling from the Western energy crisis of 200-2001, when Enron and other traders manipulated the energy market to jack up prices.
   Because of exorbitant contracts with Enron, our utilities are almost bankrupt. As a result, companies that want to develop renewable energy and sell it to these utilities have not been able to attract the investment they need.
   The investment community evaluates renewable energy projects based on the strength of long-term purchase agreements between the proposed facility and the local utility.
   But if your utility is in trouble, investors shy away.
   To address this problem, Nevada's governor will ask our legislature to create a Temporary Renewable Energy Development Trust that would provide some protection to renewable energy power plants if our utilities file for bankruptcy. 
   But we need action at the federal level also.
   The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission must provide relief to utilities and ratepayers in Nevada and other Western states.
   FERC needs to act ... and act now ... to vacate the exorbitant contracts that were signed during the energy crisis.
   We know that two of the FERC commissioners were recommended by Ken Lay, the Enron CEO who was a major contributor to President Bush's campaign. 
   If FERC cannot clean up Enron's mess while they are on the commission, they should step down.
   Our nation must have energy markets that function properly.
   We must have incentives to develop our clean renewable energy resources.
   And we must apply our American ingenuity to do a better job of conserving energy.
   These are critical steps toward the kind of far-sighted energy policy we need.
   These steps will protect consumers ... they will safeguard our environment ... and they'll help make our nation stronger by moving us closer to energy independence.
 
 