SEN. REID CONDEMNS BUSH STEM CELL VETO
  Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.) condemned President Bush's veto of landmark stem cell legislation that would have opened the promise of new cures and treatments to thousands of Nevadans suffering from debilitating diseases.
   "This president has been in office for nearly six years and has never vetoed anything, not even billion dollar handouts for companies like Enron and Exxon. It is unconscionable that the president used his first veto to deal a devastating blow to the thousands of Nevadans who could have benefited from the hope stem cell research provides," said Reid.  
   It took five years to achieve Tuesday's bipartisan Senate passage of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810): 
   August 2001: President Bush issues an Executive Order restricting stem cell research 
   May 2005: House of Representatives passes H.R. 810 
   July 2006: After fourteen months of pushing for a Senate vote on H.R. 810, the bill receives bipartisan support and passes by a margin of 63-37. 
   "The passage of this bill was a huge victory for Nevadans who are suffering from spinal injuries and devastating illnesses including diabetes and Parkinson's. Today should be a day of celebration, but instead, it's a day of sadness because the president dashed the hopes of so many people in a matter of minutes." added Reid. 
   Reid, determined to keep hope alive for the thousands of Nevadans who could benefit from this vital research, is now calling on his colleagues who support H.R. 810 to help override President Bush's veto. Yesterday, after the Senate vote, forty one Democrats sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader and Doctor Bill Frist, urging him to immediately begin work with his Republican colleagues to organize this important effort. A copy of the letter is attached to this release. 
   July 18, 2006
   The Honorable William Frist, M.D. Majority Leader United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 
   Dear Dr. Frist: 
   Earlier today, the Senate approved the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810) - an important step toward enacting legislation that can bring hope to millions of Americans. As you know, this important legislation would end the restrictions that have kept stem cell research from fulfilling its potential to save lives and alleviate suffering. 
   We are pleased that you supported this important legislation and know that you recognize the enormous potential of this research for discovering new cures and therapies for diseases such as diabetes, Parkinson's disease and spinal cord injuries. However, we are deeply disappointed by the prospect that the President will veto this landmark legislation and ask that you urge the President to reconsider this position. If the President fails to do so, the only chance for overriding this veto rests with you and the Republican caucuses in the House and the Senate. Since the House will act first on any Presidential veto, we ask that you immediately meet with Speaker Hastert and key members of the House Republican caucus to impress upon them the importance of H.R. 810 and the need to secure the necessary votes from House Republican members to override that veto. At the same time, we hope that you will exercise your leadership to secure the necessary votes from Senate Republicans to override a veto should the Senate be given an opportunity to do so. 
   Millions of patients and their families across the nation cannot afford to wait any longer for the enactment of this urgently needed legislation. We are counting on your leadership to help ensure that this legislation becomes law so that we may finally clear the way for research that could lead to treatments and cures for so many debilitating disease and conditions. 
   Sincerely, 
   Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid 
   Assistant Democratic Leader Dick Durbin 
   Senator Charles Schumer 
   Senator Debbie Stabenow 
   Senator Tom Harkin 
   Senator Edward Kennedy 
   Senator Dianne Feinstein 
   Senator Daniel Akaka 
   Senator Max Baucus 
   Senator Evan Bayh 
   Senator Jeff Bingaman 
   Senator Barbara Boxer 
   Senator Maria Cantwell 
   Senator Thomas Carper 
   Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton 
   Senator Mark Dayton 
   Senator Christopher Dodd 
   Senator Byron Dorgan 
   Senator Russ Feingold 
   Senator Daniel Inouye 
   Senator Jim Jeffords 
   Senator Tim Johnson 
   Senator John Kerry 
   Senator Herb Kohl 
   Senator Mary Landrieu 
   Senator Frank Lautenberg 
   Senator Patrick Leahy 
   Senator Carl Levin 
   Senator Joe Lieberman 
   Senator Blanche Lincoln 
   Senator Bob Menendez 
   Senator Barbara Mikulski 
   Senator Pattie Murray 
   Senator Bill Nelson 
   Senator Barack Obama 
   Senator Mark Pryor 
   Senator Jack Reed 
   Senator John D. Rockefeller 
   Senator Ken Salazar 
   Senator Paul Sarbanes 
   Senator Ron Wyden
 
 