DEMOCRATS PUSH REPUBLICANS TO HELP OVERRIDE STEM CELL VETO
Senate Democrats sent the following letter to Senate Majority Leader Sen. Bill Frist, pushing him to show his commitment to the promise of embryonic stem cell research by helping to organize a Congressional override of President Bush's likely veto of HR 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. With millions of Americans looking to the Congress for the hope of new treatments and cures for debilitating illnesses, Democrats believe the Republican Congress will be measured in actions, not words. 
 The text of the letter, signed by 41 Senate Democrats, is below.
 July 18, 2006
 The Honorable William Frist, M.D.
 Majority Leader
 United States Senate
 Washington, DC 20510
 Dear Dr. Frist: 
 Earlier today, the Senate approved the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810) - an important step toward enacting legislation that can bring hope to millions of Americans. As you know, this important legislation would end the restrictions that have kept stem cell research from fulfilling its potential to save lives and alleviate suffering. 
 We are pleased that you supported this important legislation and know that you recognize the enormous potential of this research for discovering new cures and therapies for diseases such as diabetes, Parkinson's disease and spinal cord injuries. However, we are deeply disappointed by the prospect that the President will veto this landmark legislation and ask that you urge the President to reconsider this position. If the President fails to do so, the only chance for overriding this veto rests with you and the Republican caucuses in the House and the Senate. Since the House will act first on any Presidential veto, we ask that you immediately meet with Speaker Hastert and key members of the House Republican caucus to impress upon them the importance of H.R. 810 and the need to secure the necessary votes from House Republican members to override that veto. At the same time, we hope that you will exercise your leadership to secure the necessary votes from Senate Republicans to override a veto should the Senate be given an opportunity to do so. 
 Millions of patients and their families across the nation cannot afford to wait any longer for the enactment of this urgently needed legislation. We are counting on your leadership to help ensure that this legislation becomes law so that we may finally clear the way for research that could lead to treatments and cures for so many debilitating disease and conditions. 
  Sincerely,
 Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid
 Assistant Democratic Leader Dick Durbin
 Senator Charles Schumer
 Senator Debbie Stabenow
 Senator Tom Harkin
 Senator Edward Kennedy
 Senator Dianne Feinstein
 Senator Daniel Akaka
 Senator Max Baucus
 Senator Evan Bayh
 Senator Jeff Bingaman
 Senator Barbara Boxer
 Senator Maria Cantwell
 Senator Thomas Carper
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton
 Senator Mark Dayton
 Senator Christopher Dodd
 Senator Byron Dorgan
 Senator Russ Feingold
 Senator Daniel Inouye
 Senator Jim Jeffords
 Senator Tim Johnson
 Senator John Kerry
 Senator Herb Kohl
 Senator Mary Landrieu
 Senator Frank Lautenberg
 Senator Patrick Leahy
 Senator Carl Levin
 Senator Joe Lieberman
 Senator Blanche Lincoln
 Senator Bob Menendez
 Senator Barbara Mikulski
 Senator Pattie Murray
 Senator Bill Nelson
 Senator Barack Obama
 Senator Mark Pryor
 Senator Jack Reed
 John D. Rockefeller
 Senator Ken Salazar
 Senator Paul Sarbanes
 Senator Ron Wyden.
 
 