SEN. REID WORKS FOR NEVADA'S ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada urged leaders of the Federal agencies with significant operations in Nevada to form an inter-agency working group to promote renewable energy development in Nevada. 
 For many years, Reid has been bringing millions of Federal dollars to the State to encourage and accelerate renewable energy production and technologies. Now, more than ever, he thinks it is essential that all levels of government work in a coordinated and supportive fashion to meet the energy and environmental challenges faced by Nevada and the nation.  
 "Better communication among all parties is critical to the rapid and sensible development of Nevada's vast solar, geothermal, wind, and biomass resources," said Reid. "But it is absolutely critical that Federal agencies are constructive, cooperative and well-informed partners in this development since they influence so much of Nevada's land and resources." 
 "The nation and the West are at a cross-road on energy security, and I'm convinced that Nevada can deliver tremendous amounts of clean renewable energy. All we need is the right combination of investment and commitment to make Nevada the national center for renewable energy production, technology development and manufacturing jobs." 
 Reid sent the letter to the Nevada Test Site, Nevada Fish and Wildlife Office, Reno and Las Vegas Housing and Urban Development, United States Forest Service Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest, Nevada Rural Development Office, U.S. Airforce (NELLIS), Hawthorne Army Depot, Nevada National Guard, U.S. Navy (FALLON), Army Corps of Engineers, Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service (Great Basin Nat'l Park), and other agency's in the Department of Interior. 
 The text of the letter is below: 
 I am writing to enlist your support for and participation in the formation of a Federal agency working group to promote and increase the use and production of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies in Nevada. The Federal government has a responsibility to lead the nation in implementing a sustainable energy policy that fosters economic growth, enhances energy security and improves the environment. This responsibility applies particularly in Nevada where the Federal government is such a large land and resource manager and also energy consumer. My hope is that all Federal agencies with a significant presence in Nevada will pro-actively coordinate their investment and spending, resource planning and procurement activities to help make Nevada a successful model of and leader in implementing such a policy. As you are aware, Nevada has abundant sources of renewable energy as well as many energy supply related challenges, given the State's constant population growth, our water scarcity and the existing energy infrastructure. Accelerating development of renewable energy sources and their access to energy transmission infrastructure as well as energy conservation technology is a critical part of Nevada's efforts to meet growing energy demands and to diversify its economy. 
 Due in large part to the State's renewable portfolio standard legislation, Nevada has begun to bring these resources online and to market, but that has only begun to scratch the surface of Nevada's enormous renewable energy potential. These resources provide a great opportunity to save water, create high-paying jobs, spur economic development, and strengthen the tax base throughout every corner of Nevada. In short, the State's future, health, and economy will be more secure as renewable and efficient forms of energy are developed. 
 Specifically, as part of this effort I'd like to ask that you commit to meeting together at least biannually with the other Nevada leaders of the significant Federal agencies operating in the State, and also with that group and the Nevada Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Task Force. The purpose of such meetings would be to improve communications on energy matters, to ensure that Nevada's renewable resources are being developed as rapidly and as cost-effectively as possible, to resolve problems before they become deep-rooted, and to build a solid foundation on which the Federal agencies and the people of Nevada can build a secure and sustainable energy future. 
 I would like to be a part of the meetings as often as possible and the Senate schedule allows, but will also be directing my staff to attend regularly. Please let me know or contact Chris Miller or Ryan Mulvenon of my staff, at 202-224-3542 if you are willing to participate in this Federal interagency working group and to meet with the Task Force. 
 Thank you for your consideration. 
 Sincerely, 
 HARRY REID.
 
 