SEN. REID: WE MUST RECOMMIT OURSELVES TO FIGHT AGAINST HIV/AIDS
Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada today released the following statement to mark World AIDS Day:  
 "Today is World AIDS Day, and for all the progress we have made in combating this terrible disease--and there has been much progress--the AIDS pandemic continues to ravage communities in Nevada and around the world. According to the United Nations, 39.5 million people worldwide are infected with HIV/AIDS, 2.3 million of them under the age of 15. Last year, 4.3 million people were infected with the virus. 2.9 million died of AIDS related illnesses. In the US, rates of infection are skyrocketing in minority communities. HIV/AIDS is the leading cause of death for African American women between the ages of 25 and 34 and the fourth leading cause of death for both African American and Hispanic women between the ages of 45 and 54. 
 "In Nevada, AIDS rates are disproportionately high. Our state's urban areas have been hit the hardest, but we must not forget our rural communities have also been affected. 
 "According to the Nevada State Health Division, although Nevada has the nation's 35th largest population, it ranks 14th in the nation for the rate of adolescents and adults living with AIDS. We can--and we must--do more to address this ongoing crisis in Nevada and across the world. 
 "World AIDS Day is about hope, and looking forward to what we can all do to combat this deadly disease. In Congress, we must reauthorize the Ryan White Care Act to ensure men and women living with HIV and AIDS have support for their health needs, we need to expand support for prevention programs like the National Family Planning Program, and we must continue to support international AIDS relief programs like PEPFAR and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. 
 "There is much to be done, but fortunately so many have taken up the cause of fighting the HIV/AIDS pandemic. This World AIDS Day, let us recommit ourselves to taking action, to making a difference, and to defeating HIV/AIDS.
 
 