SENS. REID, ENSIGN INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO HELP NEVADA'S NATIVE AMERICANS
  Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign of Nevada introduced legislation today to help the Shoshone-Paiute Tribes of Duck Valley ratify a crucial water rights agreement reached between the State of Nevada, the Tribes, upstream water users and the United States federal government. 
   Reid said, "I am pleased that the parties came together, asserted their interests, made compromises, and reached an agreement. Each party had different - and frequently conflicting - water claims, water needs, and ideas on water use and conservation. I appreciate the parties' hard work and their commitment to end expensive litigation to reach an agreement that will permanently resolve the water rights matters along the East Fork of the Owyhee River." Reid added, "I will continue doing all I can to help tribal groups make progress on issues that important to them." 
   "Water is critical to Nevada's future, and I applaud all of the groups for coming together to reach an understanding on these difficult water rights issues," said Ensign. "This is the result of a great deal of compromise, and this legislation empowers the Shoshone-Paiute Tribes to become more economically self-sufficient."  
   The agreement, signed last fall, has received broad support from all parties involved and community leaders, including the Elko County Board of Commissioners. The legislation is necessary for the agreement to become effective. 
   The text of Senator Reid's speech, as prepared, is below. 
   Mr. President, I rise today to introduce legislation to resolve a Nevada water rights matter that has lasted more than a decade. 
   This bill, the Shoshone-Paiute Tribes of Duck Valley Water Rights Settlement Act, would ratify an agreement reached last fall by the State of Nevada, the Tribes, many individual water users, and the United States. I am pleased that the parties came together, asserted their interests, made compromises, and reached an agreement. Each party had different - and frequently conflicting - water claims, water needs, and ideas on water use and conservation. I appreciate the parties' hard work and their commitment to end expensive litigation to reach an agreement that will permanently resolve the water rights matters along the East Fork of the Owyhee River. This bill, if enacted, will ratify the agreement reached by the parties. 
   The primary purpose of this bill is to approve, ratify and confirm the agreement that addresses the Tribes' water rights, the rights of upstream water users, and the implementation of a plan for the parties to exercise their water rights. 
   The Agreement quantifies the Tribes' surface water rights and groundwater claims in Nevada. The Tribes will establish a water code and administer the quantified rights on the Reservation accordingly. 
   The Agreement also states that the water rights of the upstream water users who live off the Reservation will be determined and administered by the State Engineer. Under the settlement, the parties have agreed to a limitation on the number of acres that can be irrigated by the upstream water users. 
   The settlement's implementation plan describes how the rights of the respective parties will be administered and disputes will be resolved. It describes that the surface water basin will be closed, and provides that a groundwater basin will be declared a basin in need of additional administration under state law. The agreement further addresses operation of the system particularly during times of shortage. Under this part of the plan, upstream water users gain a small amount of water storage in the Wild Horse Reservoir. 
   The second purpose of this bill is to settle the Tribes' long-standing claims against the United States for damages caused by the Bureau of Reclamation's Duck Valley Irrigation Project, related Bureau of Indian Affairs projects, and the mismanagement of tribal resources, particularly the destruction of the Tribe's salmon and steelhead trout fishing stock. 
   Mr. President, the Shoshone-Paiutes have a long history in Nevada and Idaho. The Tribes roamed the region well before the Duck Valley Reservation was established by Executive Order in 1877. The Reservation today encompasses approximately 290,000 acres of land held in trust by the federal government for the Shoshone-Paiute Tribes. 
   The Reservation draws water from three primary sources: (1) the East Fork of the Owyhee River that flows through the Reservation from south to north from the Nevada side; (2) Blue Creek, a tributary to the Owyhee that flows north to south through the Reservation until it meets the Owyhee on the Idaho side of the Reservation; and (3) Mary's Creek, located in the northeastern part of the Reservation, flowing northeasterly through the Reservation and into Idaho. 
   When the Bureau of Indian Affairs' Duck Valley Indian Irrigation Project was initiated in the 1930s, the project placed over 12,000 acres of land under irrigation. Like many Indian water projects, the Project was only partially completed and never fully funded, which accounted for the Projects' disrepair, resulted in reduced storage capacity, and an inability to reach the goal of maximizing the acres in production. 
   With the construction of the Bureau of Reclamation's Owyhee Irrigation Project Dam in the 1930s, the Tribes' salmon runs were destroyed. 
   The affects of these federal projects on the Tribes' resources and culture and the federal government's failure to protect tribal water rights require places the United States in the position of compensating the Tribes for their loss. The Tribes value the loss to their resources and culture at level much higher than what Senator Ensign and I propose. While the United States can never fully compensate the Tribes for their loss, I appreciate the Tribes' willingness to accept the settlement figure and put an end to this painful part of our sovereign-to-sovereign relationship. 
   The bill, if enacted, would authorize two settlement funds - a development fund and a maintenance fund. 
   The development fund, to be authorized at $45 million over 5 fiscal years, would fund tribal water development projects. After careful research and consultation with its members and advisors, the Tribes have identified many projects to increase their economic opportunities. The Tribes are preparing to rehabilitate the dilapidated Duck Valley Irrigation Project, increase the amount of irrigable lands in agricultural production, develop a Wildlife Habitat Project, and undertake other economic development projects to enhance the Reservation economy and contribute to the permanent homeland purpose of the Duck Valley Reservation. 
   The maintenance fund, authorized at $15 million over 5 fiscal years, would fund the refurbishment and maintenance of the Reservation's water infrastructure. 
   The Shoshone-Paiute Tribes of Duck Valley Water Rights Settlement Act is important legislation. It reflects the compromises of our constituents who worked hard to reach agreement on matters that affect their livelihoods and cultures. I believe this bill benefit the Tribes, the ranchers and upstream water users, and those residents in the northern Nevada and southern Idaho region. 
   I look forward to working with the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs to ensure timely review and passage of this bill.
 
 