SEN. REID TOURS NEW UNLV SCHOOL OF DENTAL MEDICINE
  Nevada Sen. Harry Reid visited UNLV's new School of Dental Medicine today and presented a giant check representing $1 million in federal funding that he has secured for the facility. The dental school will train Nevada's future dentists, and will also provide dental health care to low-income families. Sen. Reid watched students at work during today's tour, and also saw some of the new high-tech equipment that will help dentists be more effective and patients be more comfortable.  
   "This new school is making dental care available to Nevadans who didn't have access to it before," said Reid. "It's just one more example of how UNLV is improving the quality of life in Nevada. I'm happy I was able to get this funding, and I'll keep working to help the school meet its needs." 
   The UNLV School of Dental Medicine will help ease the current shortage in dentists nationwide. The number of graduates from the nation's dental schools has declined by about one-third in the last two decades, while the population has increased. The problem is especially serious in Nevada, where the population grew 7.5 times faster than the rate of dental practitioners throughout the 1990's. Nevada also has large a large number of senior citizens who rely on Medicare for their health needs, but Medicare does not cover oral health care. 
   "Senator Reid is deeply committed to doing all that he can to enhance the University's research mission, and has repeatedly demonstrated this commitment by working to secure appropriations that directly benefit higher education across the state," said UNLV President Dr. Carol C. Harter. "This funding is another great example of how these efforts bring results." 
   "Our mission goes well beyond graduating competent dentists," said Dr. Patrick J. Ferrillo, Dean, UNLV School of Dental Medicine. "The School provides assistance to underserved populations who would otherwise have little access to care, and research aimed at improving oral health care throughout Nevada. We are extremely grateful to Senator Reid for his support of these efforts." 
   The UNLV School of Dental Medicine also hosts some innovative new programs and cutting edge equipment. They include new digital X-Ray equipment that will replace the old-fashioned "bite wing" film system, and a new mobile dental clinic that will bring oral health care to Nevada's rural areas. 
   The dental school is also running a "Crack Down on Cancer" program that has screened 24,560 high school students statewide for abnormalities that may have resulted from tobacco use. Students were given information on oral cancer prevention and the dangers of tobacco.
 
 