SEN. REID WORKS TO PROTECT ENDANGERED AND THREATENED SPECIES
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada cosponsored bipartisan legislation to create incentives for private landowners who help protect threatened or endangered wildlife.  
   "This bill is a win-win for both endangered species and landowners around the country and here in Nevada," said Reid. "Private landowners play a vital role in preserving the environment and its inhabitants, especially since their backyards are home to threatened plant, insect, and animal species. This legislation will enable individuals to take action themselves to protect our nation's endangered species." The authorization for spending under Endangered Species Act expired on October 1, 1992. The new tax bill, S.700, will provide a permanent stream of funding-$400 million in tax credits annually-plus additional deductions and exclusions to private land owners who have property where endangered species are found. 
   The habitat protection easement tax credit is available to taxpayers who develop a habitat management plan to maintain an environment that would reduce threats to the species. By placing an easement on private land, they can then enter into an agreement with a federal or state agency. A perpetual easement gives rise to the most valuable tax credit: 100 percent of the difference between the value of the property prior to entering the agreement and the value after entering the agreement. A 30-year easement gives rise to a tax credit worth 75 percent of the difference. As with the easement credits, habitat restoration tax credits are available to individuals who manage a protective habitat for a specified period of time. They also require a habitat management plan with safeguards. A perpetual agreement gives rise to a tax credit of 100 percent of restoration costs. A 30-year agreement gives rise to a tax credit worth 75 percent of those costs, and an agreement of any shorter length gives rise to a tax credit worth 50 percent the costs. In addition to tax credit, the bill offers deductions for recovery expenditures-up to 25 percent of taxable income for expenditures-incurred from carrying out activities from a recovery plan under the Endangered Species Act. A formal agreement is not required for deductions. Nevada is currently home to 25 different fish, birds, insects and plants that are listed as endangered species.
 
 