SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT FOR NATIONAL AMERICAN INDIAN HERITAGE MONTH
  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada today issued the following statement to mark National American Indian Heritage Month. 
   "Throughout the years and despite difficult odds, Native American Indians have helped to make America a greater and stronger nation. This month, we pause to recognize their important contributions. 
   "American Indians continue to influence and enrich our culture. I am proud of the contributions that Nevada's tribes have made and continue to make in all parts of the state. Because of government-to-government revenue-sharing agreements, tribal businesses in Fallon, Yerington, Reno, Ely, Las Vegas and other areas support their tribal and surrounding communities by providing services and jobs. Under the leadership of Chairman Arlan Melendez, the Reno-Sparks Indian Colony will soon complete a new 65,000 square foot health clinic to serve the Colony and many American Indians living in Reno and surrounding communities. The Summit Lake, Pyramid Lake and Walker River Paiute Tribes and the Duckwater Shoshone Tribe continue to lead efforts to preserve and protect the natural resources and environment. These are a few of the reasons to celebrate the ways the lives of every Nevadan benefits from these communities.
   "Now, more American Indians, Alaska Natives and Native Hawaiians are breaking barriers as they join the generation of "firsts" - the first in the family to graduate from college or become a doctor, dentist, lawyer, or business owner. More Native Americans are being elected to serve in tribal, local, state and federal posts. Just as American Indians have always defended our nation, more are serving in uniform around the world, in Afghanistan and in Iraq.
   "During this National American Indian Heritage Month, we are doing our best to fix the limited and grossly under funded Indian health care system. Senate Democrats know that Native American communities are in need of modern health care services, robust prevention programs, and comprehensive mental health programs. We hope to truly honor the contributions of our nation's First Peoples by ensuring their right to lead healthy lives."
 
 