SENS. REID, ENSIGN, REPS. BERKLEY, PORTER SPEAK AT RED ROCK VISITOR CENTER GROUNDBREAKING
  Southern Nevada's congressional delegation spoke today at the groundbreaking for the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area's new visitor center. The new visitor center is designed to encourage stewardship of public land by providing an outdoor experience that instills a sense of personal responsibility. 
   In 1990, Reid authored the legislation that created Red Rock. Under the leadership of Senators Reid and Ensign, along with Congresswoman Berkley and Congressman Porter, $23.1 million dollars from the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act (SNPLMA) Special Fund have been provided for this new visitor center that will be a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified green building.
   At the groundbreaking today, Secretary Dirk Kempthorne of the U.S. Department of the Interior also approved Round 8 funding of SNPLMA which provides $25.7 million to protect Lake Tahoe, the Eastern Sierra and for Washoe and Douglas counties and Carson City.
   "It's an honor to be here today at the groundbreaking for such a wonderful project," said Reid. "Red Rock is the crown jewel of our valley and is a true conservation success story. In fact, more than one million people visited this beautiful place last year alone. The new visitor center will be a welcomed addition and will help educate visitors about our fragile and beautiful desert."
   "The beauty of the vibrant colors of Red Rock Canyon and its majestic views of the Las Vegas valley have long been enjoyed by native Nevadans and visitors to our state," said Ensign. "I know this new visitor center will continue to educate us all on how best to protect and maintain this magnificent part of our Nevada landscape. It is my hope that, years from now, our children will continue to conserve and enjoy the beauty of Red Rock Canyon, just as we have done here today."
   "The breathtaking landscapes of Red Rock Canyon continue to inspire and delight all those who come to see this unique natural wonder," said Berkley. "The new visitor's center has been designed with the environment in mind, so it not only tells the story of Red Rock, but also helps to conserve energy at the same time. The Southern Nevada Public Lands Management Act was designed to help conserve and enhance Nevada's scenic treasures and this new visitor's center is a perfect example of how the Silver State benefits from the funds provided by this important law."
   "The Nevada delegation's commitment to completing the new Red Rock Canyon Conservation Area Visitor Center is an example of how we have made conservation a priority and are effectively using SNPLMA funds to maintain Southern Nevada's natural character," said Porter. "This new facility will allow Nevadans and tourists to gain an appreciation for our unique landscape and natural history and will encourage millions of visitors to be responsible stewards of our local environment."
   The new visitor center is expected to open sometime in 2010.
 
 