SENS. REID, ENSIGN DELIVER $12.8 MILLION FOR ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
  Working to better prepare our Army National Guard in case of emergency, Nevada Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign have secured $12.8 million to construct a new National Guard Readiness Center in Southwest Las Vegas, near Henderson.  
   The project will be funded through the fiscal year 2005 Military Construction Appropriations bill. 
   "Housing this state-of-the-art Army National Guard Readiness Center in Las Vegas strengthens Nevada's role as a key state in defending our homeland," said Reid, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "This Readiness Center will be vital in preparing our military to respond the national security threats facing our country and our state." 
   The Readiness Center is likely to be the headquarters for the newly established Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team for the State of Nevada. This team is responsible for assisting local first responders in investigating and combating emerging chemical, biological and other terrorist threats to the State. 
   "We have to do all we can to help our military adapt to the threats of the 21st century," said Ensign, Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "The new Readiness Center is part of this important effort and will help prepare our military as we deal with the ongoing war against terror and threats here at home." 
   The Army National Guard Readiness Center would house all elements of the 1-99th Troop Command, the 1846th Transportation Company, 777th Engineer Utility Team, 72nd Military Police Department, Medical Detachment Area Support Unit, and the 1-99 the Troop Command Headquarters. 
   Without this Center, the units would have to operate in locations spread over 25 miles, creating command and control problems. The new facility will also allow the National Guard to grow in size by about 600 soldiers. Currently, manning is limited because of a lack of facilities. A 54-acre site is available for this project. 
   "This facility will be an essential factor in Nevada National Guard's ability to house, train, equip, and deploy soldiers in support of National as well as State emergencies," said Major General Giles Vanderhoof, the Adjutant General of Nevada. "The Guard's ability to respond to an emergency in Southern Nevada will be doubled when this Readiness Center is completed," he said. 
   In the fiscal year 2003 budget, $850,000 was directed for the design of this project. The FY2005 Military Construction bill passed the Senate Appropriations Committee last week and will now go to the floor for a full Senate vote.
 
 