SENS. REID, ENSIGN ANNOUNCE FUNDING TO EXPAND HEALTH SERVICES FOR RURAL NEVADANS
Working to ensure that students and seniors have necessary health care programs and services, Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign announced today that $300,000 will fund two crucial health care programs in rural Nevada.  
 "During times of rising health care costs and concerns, it's important to remember our rural communities need health-related services and trained people to work in these fields," said Reid. "I'm pleased to know these funds will go towards establishing a program that will train future health care professionals and to help provide essential services that may not otherwise be available to Nevadans. All Nevadans should have access health care, regardless of where they live." 
 BrightPath Adult Day Services, Inc. will receive $149,994 to expand and establish long-term services to Alzheimer's patients, caregivers, and professionals involved in the diagnosis. The funds will help reduce the economic burden associated with long term care costs for patients and employers through early prevention and intervention of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias. The funding will benefit almost 400 families, primarily serving the elderly, and will include American Indian and Hispanic populations. Rural towns that will benefit from BrightPath services include Ely, Fallon, Battle Mountain, Eureka, and Austin. 
 Great Basin College will receive $150,000 to develop and implement a Human Services Certificate Program that will train and educate individuals for jobs that support the health-related services currently lacking in the college's rural service area. Services that will become available include mental health agencies, correctional agencies, and programs concerned with drug-abuse and violence. 
 "In Nevada and across the nation we are facing a healthcare crisis," said Ensign. "This funding will put more professionals in this important field and will help Nevada families who need high-quality long-term care for a loved one. I am pleased that these funds will help give healthcare patients in Nevada greater access to better care." 
 The grants are awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
 
 