SEN. REID DELIVERS KEYNOTE ADDRESS ON THE CHALLENGES FACING THE GREAT BASIN
  Nevada Senator Harry Reid delivered the keynote address at the Great Basin Environmental Program Non-Governmental Organization Workshop today. Reid has long been a leader in the effort to protect and conserve Nevada's environment and natural resources. In his address today, Reid discussed the impacts that drought, wildfires, invasive species and population growth have on the fragile ecosystem of the Great Basin.
   "The effects of human activity on our earth are real and can be found in the pollution we see every day in our water, soil, and air," said Reid. "We can no longer continue to follow an energy policy that moves us backwards. We must change, starting with a clean energy revolution that creates jobs, grows our economy, protects our planet, and strengthens our national security."
   Reid's prepared remarks are included below: 
   Remarks as prepared for delivery:
   I want to thank the University of Nevada at Reno and others for the invitation to join you today. Your work to protect the natural resources of Nevada and the Great Basin are invaluable.
   As you know, Nevada is in the heart of the Great Basin, which is North America's largest desert encompassing 135 million acres of land between the Rocky and Sierra Nevada Mountains.
   This beautiful and fragile ecosystem is being threatened by drought, wildfire, invasive species, and population growth.
   Three out of the four are exacerbated by global climate change.
   Global climate change impacts annual rainfall and changes in the snowpack, which result in lower stream flows.
   Less water impacts the habitat of fish, such as the cutthroat trout.
   Drought will make farming and ranching tougher, increase the frequency and acres burned by wildfires, and could drive many plant and animal species to extinction.
   The Nature Conservancy identified the Great Basin as the third most endangered ecosystem in the United States due in part to the dominance of invasive species, such as cheat grass.
   Several days ago I delivered a speech on the importance of growing renewable energy in the state of Nevada.
   I spoke about the effects of human activity on our earth.
   Pollution in our water, soil and air.
   Wildfires, dangerous weather patterns, and drought.
   Just last week, we learned that Lake Mead - the water source for 22 million of us - may be gone in thirteen years.
   Our way of life and our very existence is threatened.
   We must change - starting with a clean energy revolution that grows our economy, protects our planet and strengthens our national security.
   Is there a better place to start than Nevada? I don't think so.
   Southern Nevada gets more than 300 days of sunlight per year. That's not only good for vacationers - it's good for massive amounts of solar power.
   Nevada has one of our country's most ambitious renewable portfolio standards: 20% by 2015.
   Per capita, we lead America in the production of solar energy and geothermal energy.
   Nellis Air Force Base just cut the ribbon on America's largest solar array - which supplies more than 25% of the base's power for the 10,000 people who live and work there. This will save the Air Force $1 million every year.
   Some good things are happening in Nevada. But we have just begun.
   One megawatt of power can heat and cool hundreds of homes.
   With Nevada continuing to grow, we will need thousands of additional megawatts.
   Where will we find this new energy? From the wind. One study shows that Nevada could produce 6,000 megawatts of clean power every year -- enough electricity to power nearly 2 million homes.
   Where will we find this new energy? From geothermal. The Western Governors' Association says our state could generate 3,000 additional megawatts within the next twenty years - with tens of thousands more possible if we harvest across the Great Bain. Enough electricity to power nearly 1 million homes.
   Where will we find this new energy? From solar thermal. The National Renewable Energy Laboratory has said that Nevada could develop 5,000 megawatts over ten years. Enough electricity to power one and a half million homes.
   If we meet these achievable goals, we can produce enough clean power to heat and cool nearly five million homes.
   That's not bad. But it barely scratches the surface of what is possible.
   The U.S. Department of Energy says that "the solar energy resource in a 100-mile-square area of Nevada could supply the United States with all its electricity."
   That may seem like science fiction to some, but we can do it - if we throw out the old playbook and commit ourselves to innovation.
   In the same way we commit ourselves to innovation in the area of renewable energy, we can commit to innovative ways to protect the land.
   The proposed Great Basin Environmental Program that you have proposed is innovative and bold and I support your efforts.
   I support the ongoing work of the Plant Materials Center in Fallon.
   As well as the on-the-ground research being done through the Nevada Arid Rangeland Initiative.
   I support the Great Basin Restoration Initiative.
   If we want to address the environmental issues of the Great Basin as a whole, we must work together.
   States must work with states. The federal government must partner with states and organizations, like the ones represented today.
   I will continue to work on issues in Congress that address the need to protect our natural resources.
   The farm bill before Congress must prioritize conservation on private lands. It has been a priority of mine to work to see that conservation programs work for western rangeland, particularly those threatened or damaged by wildfire.
   The Lieberman-Warner carbon cap and trade bill contains important funding opportunities for wildlife protection and wild land fire suppression.
   Under the bill, the government's auction of carbon allowances would generate revenue starting in 2012 - including $1.1 billion that would be assured every year to go into emergency firefighting funds - $800 million at Forest Service and $300 million at BLM.
   That bill would also provide funding from annual allowance auctions for helping fish and wildlife, plants and ecosystems to adapt to global warming. This funding would start at about $2.75 billion in 2012 and total about $750 billion through 2050.
   A third of this money would flow to the states through the Wildlife Conservation and Restoration Account in the Pittman-Robertson Act.
   I am also working with my friends on the Energy Committee to draft mining law reform legislation that will help protect key wildlife habitats, such as fishing and hunting areas in the state.
   In late 2006, Senator Ensign and I passed the White Pine County lands bill into law.
   In that legislation, we inserted authority for monies from the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act Fund to be used for Great Basin restoration efforts in White Pine and Lincoln Counties.
   I was proud to see millions of dollars in projects for those counties moving forward in the package of SNPLMA projects that Secretary Kempthorne approved in Las Vegas yesterday.
   Senator Ensign and I have been clear that we will work with any county that wants a comprehensive lands bill. This year we are working with Mineral, Lyon and Esmeralda Counties. And I hope others will step forward so that we can continue to spread these funding opportunities to all corners of our state.
   I have also asked the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to build a major native seed warehouse here in Nevada. One of the greatest handicaps that the BLM has in rehabilitating our lands after major fires is a lack of seed.
   The work goes on.
   I will end there to take questions.
   Thank you again for your commitment and good work and for inviting me here today.
 
 