DELEGATION ANNOUNCES NEARLY $3 MILLION TO IMPROVE AMERICAN HISTORY EDUCATION IN NEVADA
  Sens. John Ensign and Harry Reid and Reps. Shelley Berkley, Jon Porter and Dean Heller secured funding that will improve the quality of American history education in Nevada by providing teachers with additional resources. The grants are designed to expand history teachers' knowledge of United States history by providing professional development courses that will increase their understanding and ability to teach our nation's history to children.  
   "Educating students about our nation's rich history is essential to helping them participate in our democracy," said Ensign. "This funding will give teachers greater ability to engage students in this important subject. Our hard-working teachers need every tool possible to make certain our children get a quality education, and this program will improve their ability to teach the critical subject of American History."
   "Too often under No Child Left Behind, important subjects like American History are being sidelined just because they aren't tested," said Reid. "Education plays a vital role in our children's success. The more we learn about our country's history the better prepared we are to build on its successes. I'm pleased to know this money will help fulfill our promise to Clark and Washoe County's teachers and students. This funding will give educators the resources they need to teach students all about America's rich history."
   "Every dollar we spend educating Nevada's students is an investment in the future of the Silver State that will reap dividends for years to come. Funding from this grant will provide Nevada teachers with enhanced skills to educate students about U.S. history, from the seeds of the American Revolution to the end of slavery and the current War in Iraq. I am extremely pleased that Nevada will receive this $3 million in grant funding which will help to ensure that we have highly qualified teachers who will share with our young men and women America's fascinating history and help them to understand how past events continue to shape our current world," said Rep. Berkley.
   "As a parent and a long-time supporter of strengthening our educational system, the needs of our teachers and children have always been a priority. I am proud that the Nevada delegation has secured funding that will improve the quality of American history education in Nevada," Porter said. "Teachers are unparalleled in the role they play in our children's lives. Providing them with additional resources to engage our children in American history will only continue to enrich their futures."
   "History teaches our children the foundation of our nation's values of freedom and democracy. As a member of the Education and Labor Committee, I believe it is critically important to the future of our country that we provide our teachers with the tools they need to educate our children. I am pleased this funding has been made available to Washoe County," said Heller. 
   Clark County will receive $1,993,687 in funding, and Washoe County will receive $954,730. The grants are provided through the No Child Left Behind Act's Teaching American History Grants Program.
 
 