SEN. REID SECURES APPOINTMENT OF TOP AIDE TO NRC POST
  After working closely with the White House, Sen. Harry Reid crafted a compromise tonight to secure the appointment of his aide, Dr. Gregory Jaczko, to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission while confirming nearly 100 additional nominees to important federal posts.  
   "Greg is eminently qualified to serve as a commissioner with this agency," Senator Reid said. "He is a scientist first and has the background and experience necessary to evaluate information objectively. Greg understands and cares deeply about nuclear safety issues, and he will put the welfare of the American public above everything else." 
   A deal on a bipartisan nominations package, that included Dr. Jaczko's name, appeared dead earlier in the day when, at the behest of the nuclear industry, Republican senators threatened to torpedo the package over Reid's aide. 
   However, in exchange for negotiating the approval of dozens of Democratic and Republican nominees to federal posts, Reid secured a commitment from the White House that President Bush will recess appoint Dr. Jaczko when the 109th congress convenes early next year. A recess appointment is used in limited circumstances and allows the President to appoint nominees without going through Congress. 
   "When Nevadans sent me back to the Senate, I pledged to find ways to work with the President," Reid said. "I am extremely pleased that we were able to reach a deal that places a strong, independent voice on the NRC, while ensuring that nearly a hundred other federal posts will be promptly filled." 
   The NRC writes policies and regulations governing nuclear reactor and materials safety, issues orders to licensees, and rules on legal matters brought before it. The agency will be responsible for a final decision on whether or not to allow Yucca Mountain to open. 
   Dr. Jaczko has an extensive background in scientific research and policy. He received his doctorate in physics from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and has conducted research at experimental facilities in Germany, Japan and Switzerland. Dr. Jaczko joined Senator Reid's staff in 2001 as his Science Policy Advisor for nuclear power, science and technology. Additionally, for the past four years, he has been an adjunct professor at Georgetown University teaching classes on science policy and nuclear power issues.
 
 