SEN. REID GETS $27 MILLION FOR NEVADA TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS
  Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) has set aside more than $27 million in this year's federal budget for transportation projects that are vital to Nevada. The funding will help provide more mass transit and improve airports around the state.  
   "This funding will make sure Nevada's airports are in great condition, and make sure we have good public transportation established around the state," said Reid. "These are important projects for everyone who lives in Nevada, and they'll make it easier for tourists to come visit our state as well." 
   The funding is in the FY 2006 Transportation Appropriations Bill, which just passed the full Senate. It follows passage earlier this year of a massive long-term transportation funding measure called the SAFETEA Bill. Nevada will get $1.3 billion over five years from SAFETEA, plus an extra $300 million from Reid's specific earmarks. That money comes from a special trust fund for large-scale and interstate transportation projects. 
   The FY 2006 Transportation Appropriations Bill provides annual funding for ongoing transportation needs in the 50 states. The bill now goes to a House/Senate Conference Committee. The Conference Committee could increase this year's funding for Nevada, because money for road and bridge projects was delayed until after the SAFETEA Bill was completed. During Conference, Reid will keep working to make sure that Nevada gets as much funding for highway construction and other road projects as possible. 
   The following list of projects was approved by the Senate under the FY 2006 Transportation Appropriations Bill. 
   Reno/Tahoe International Airport - $12.3 million
  For a terminal air-traffic control tower, a sound insulation program to protect nearby homes, and construction on the second-floor concourse
   Reno Stead Airport - $2.349 million
  For improvements including runway and taxiway reconstruction and better runway lighting
   Nevada Department of Transportation - $4 million
  For buses and bus terminals around the state
   Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada - $4 million
  For planned light rail service from Henderson to Las Vegas, and to expand clean, energy-efficient MAX bus service to Boulder Highway
   The City of Sparks - $1 million
  For new bus terminals
   The Pahrump Senior Center - $300,000
  To establish reliable bus service for seniors citizens in Pahrump
 
 