SENS. REID, ENSIGN FIGHT FOR NEVADA HOMELAND SECURITY
  Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign of Nevada continue their efforts to ensure Nevada homeland security issues are addressed. On a conference call yesterday, Reid and Ensign spoke with Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to discuss what measures can be taken to ensure Las Vegas will remain on the updated Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) funding list.  
   "I appreciate the time Secretary Chertoff spent on the phone with us to talk about this important issue," said Reid. "We spoke in great length about how critical this funding is to Nevada first responders and our state's security. He gave us a good indication that Las Vegas will remain on the list." 
   "Senator Reid and I spoke at length with Secretary Chertoff today. We again made the case that Las Vegas and southern Nevada should continue to receive special funding through the Department of Homeland Security's Urban Area Security Initiative. We made sure the Secretary had the data he needs to make an informed decision about this funding," Ensign said. "We made sure the Secretary is well informed about Las Vegas' status as a premier international tourist destination, home to the world's largest convention facility, and near Hoover Dam and Lake Mead, major national assets. Southern Nevada must continue to receive annual federal anti-terrorism funding so that residents and visitors are safe in the future." 
   Cities that attract high tourist volume have been identified by the Department of Homeland Security as potential terrorist targets. Reid and Ensign worked to ensure that Las Vegas gains more funding based on the additional risk that comes with being a world-class tourist destination. 
   At the request of both Nevada Senators, the Department of Homeland Security's Urban Area Security Initiative provided Las Vegas with an $8.5 million grant for extra protection. This program exists to provide additional resources to urban areas that have greater security needs, to fund first responders, and to support the state and local resources needed to prevent, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other disasters. 
   The Administration is expected to release FY08 UASI in the next few weeks.
 
 