SEN. REID WORKS WITH VETERANS, FOR VETERANS
  As Congress completes its work on a new Defense spending bill, Nevada Sen. Harry Reid is working with Nevada veterans to immediately end an unfair tax on disabled military retirees. 
   Reid has fought for years to end the ban on "concurrent receipt," a policy that deducts disability payments to veterans from the military retirement pay they earned. He met Monday with Nevada American Legion officials to update them on his efforts. 
   Last year Reid won a 10-year phase-in of full retirement pay to all veterans who are 50 percent to 100 percent disabled; veterans who sustained combat-related injuries; Purple Heart recipients regardless of their degree of disability; and to national guardsmen and reservists who were previously left out of the earlier compensation programs. 
   This year Reid has worked to provide full pay to severely disabled vets immediately, instead of phasing it in over 10 years. The Senate approved that proposal in June when it passed the 2005 Defense Authorization bill. The final details of that bill are now being negotiated with the House, and Reid sent a letter on Monday to the Defense Conferees urging them to keep his provision in the bill.
   Reid met on Monday with leaders of the Nevada American Legion to discuss the concurrent receipt issue and to provide an update on veterans legislation pending in the Senate. Past Nevada Legion Commander Tim Tetz credited Reid for leading the fight for disabled veterans, and was appreciative for the support of the entire Nevada Congressional delegation. 
   "Senator Reid has been a friend of the American Legion, and all veterans, since he has been in Congress. His leadership position and seniority in the Senate has been extremely important to veterans," said Tetz.
   "As our nation depends upon our military to keep us free, our brave veterans depend on us to keep our word," said Reid. "That means we must uphold our promise to take care of those who have given so much for our nation." 
   "I appreciate the advice and counsel provided by the Nevada America Legion, and all Nevada veterans as we wage this fight together on behalf of disabled veterans." 
   The cost of the amendment is estimated to be under $1 billion over 10 years.
   A copy of the letter and a photo of Reid's meeting with the American Legion are attached.
   September 21, 2004
   The Honorable John Warner, Chairman
  The Honorable Carl Levin, Ranking Member
  Senate Committee on Armed Services
  W ashington, D.C. 20510
   Dear Senator Warner and Senator Levin:
   As you complete your work on the fiscal year 2005 Defense Authorization Act, I urge you to retain my amendment to the defense authorization bill (Section 643), which ends the 10-year phase in period on concurrent receipt benefits for veterans who are 100-percent disabled. This provision was included in the Senate version of the bill, having passed the Senate unanimously.
   As you know, in last year's Defense Authorization Act, the Congress established a 10-year phase-in of full concurrent receipt benefits to disabled retired veterans who are between 50-
   HARRY REID
  United States Senator.
 
 