SEN. REID DELIVERS LIVE STATEMENT TO ATOMIC ENERGY VETERANS' ADVISORY BOARD VIA VIDEOCONFERENCE
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada delivered a live statement during a meeting of the Presidential Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health via videoconference from Washington. 
   The Presidential Advisory Board meeting, at the Las Vegas Westin Casuarina, addressed, among other issues, compensation for Nevada Test Site workers employed on site from 1951 - 1962 for less than 250 days.  
   Senator Reid discussed the urgent need to give the legal designation status of "Special Exposure Cohort" (SEC) to these atomic energy veterans to simplify and expedite the compensation process. 
   The existing requirement for compensation of 250 days or more of employment, would mean that employees who were at ground zero for all 100 above ground tests would be denied compensation. 
   "These men and women are our atomic energy veterans," said Reid. "They helped this country win the Cold War, sacrificing their personal health in the process. After decades of waiting and suffering, it is time that we honored these sacrifices. We must act now. I will continue to fight for compensation for Nevada Test Site veterans." 
   The U.S. held 100 above-ground nuclear tests and 828 underground tests at the site between 1951 an 1993. Many people at the Test Site worked with significant amounts of radioactive materials without knowledge of the risks. Some of those workers have been waiting for decades for the government to acknowledge the sacrifices they made for their country. Many have been waiting for compensation while they suffer from life-threatening cancers, and others have already died. 
   Reid's full statement as prepared is below: 
   Statement of U.S. Senator Harry Reid (D-NV) 
   The Presidential Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health 
   Thursday, June 15 2006 
   Board members, thank you for addressing the important issue of compensation for Nevada Test Site workers who contracted cancer from their work during the above-ground nuclear tests. 
   I must thank our atomic energy veterans that are here for the sacrifices you made on behalf of our country, on behalf of our way of life. It is because of your great efforts that we won the Cold War and democracy triumphed. I, and the nation, am indebted to you for your service and your true sacrifices. I am honored to be here to speak on your behalf. 
   Ladies and gentlemen, we must include within the Special Exposure Cohort Test Site workers who contracted cancer from their work during the above-ground nuclear tests even though they worked on site less than 250 days. 
   Like many of you, I watched the nuclear explosions at the Test Site. We were struck with awe and wonder at the power and strength of the explosions and at man's ingenuity. Little did we know the other side to those tests - the exposure of men and women working at the Site to cancer-causing radiation and chemicals. Now, these men and women face deadly cancers. Many have already passed away or lost their loved ones, just waiting for their country to acknowledge them. 
   That's why I worked six years ago to pass legislation to ensure that Department of Energy workers and contractors who were exposed to radiation, beryllium or silica received compensation. It was the right thing to do for those who sacrificed their health in service of their country and now face deadly diseases. 
   Yet, Test Site workers who have waited decades for acknowledgment are being told that they have to wait longer still. Many, tragically, have already died while waiting for their compensation, stuck in a bureaucratic nightmare of obstruction and delay. 
   Nevada Test Site workers, despite performing this service for their country, having worked with significant amounts of radioactive materials and having known exposures leading to cancer, have been denied compensation as a result of flawed calculations based on records that are incomplete or in error as well as the use of faulty assumptions and incorrect models. 
   NIOSH itself acknowledges that it cannot estimate the internal radiation dose received by employees at the Nevada Test Site from 1951 through 1962, yet is arguing that Test Site workers present for the atmospheric tests, yet not employed 250 days, do not deserve compensation. 
   Under this rationale, someone who was present for all 100 above-ground tests would be denied compensation, even if they were in the front lines. This is not what Congress intended. 
   And, it is absolutely unfair. 
   Congress has already designated classes of atomic energy veterans at several sites as members of the Special Exposure Cohort. Amchitka Island, Alaska, was designated because three underground nuclear tests were conducted on the Island. 
   Alaska conducted three tests, Nevada Test Site workers conducted 100 aboveground and 828 underground nuclear tests at the Nevada Test Site from 1951 - 1992. That is 88 percent of the nuclear tests conducted in the United States. Yet, these men and women have been denied the compensation they deserve for decades. This is unacceptable. 
   Ladies and gentlemen, I helped write the law that created this program. 
   I can tell you with certainty that it was the intent of Congress that exactly this type, this group, of workers be compensated under this program. 
   The men and women who worked at the Nevada Test Site helped this country win the Cold War, sacrificing their personal health in the process. After decades of waiting and suffering, it is time that we honored these sacrifices. 
   Not only must we expedite compensation for the atmospheric testing workers, but we must also include within a Special Exposure Cohort the workers at the Test Site during the more than 800 below ground tests. 
   Currently under review by workers and experts is a petition drafted by Test Site employees and my office that would add these workers to the Special Exposure Cohort. 
   I will not rest until these men and women get the respect and the acknowledgement that they deserve. Please, join with me in supporting this cohort and the men and women that fought with and for all of us. 
   I urge this Advisory Board to do the right thing and grant an SEC for all atmospheric test era workers employed at the site less than 250 days. 
   Please let me know how we can assist the board in its efforts.
 
 