SENS. REID, ENSIGN SECURE $17.5 MILLION FOR NEVADA MILITARY PROJECTS
  Nevadans will be safer thanks to $17.5 million Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign secured for construction at the Fallon Naval Air Station and the Army National Guard.  
   To construct a new Army National Guard Readiness Center in southern Nevada, the Guard received $12.8 million. The Fallon Naval Air Station will use its $4.7 million to construct two high-explosive magazines with the capacity to store 325,000 pounds of explosives. 
   This funding is included in the fiscal year 2005 Military Construction bill, which passed the Senate Monday night. 
   "It is important that we provide our military with the funding and facilities it needs to keep our nation safe," said Reid. 
   "We are committed to maintaining the highest standard of training for our men and women in uniform," said Ensign, member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of its Readiness and Management Support Subcommittee. "The new Readiness Center will greatly improve the ability of our Army National Guard to coordinate with local first responders in combating threats to Nevada and the Nation." 
   The Army National Guard Readiness Center would house all elements of the 1-99th Troop Command, the 1846th Transportation Company, 777th Engineer Utility Team, 72nd Military Police Department, Medical Detachment Area Support Unit, and the 1-99 the Troop Command Headquarters. 
   Without this Center, the units would have to operate in locations spread over 25 miles, creating command and control problems. The new facility will also allow the National Guard to grow in size by about 600 soldiers. Currently, manning is limited because of a lack of facilities. A 54-acre site is available for this project. 
   The Fallon Naval Air Station's new high-explosive magazines would include a concrete loading dock and ramp. Funding would also support electrical, water, and excavation work. With the expansion of the Fallon mission over the years, the ordinance requirements for the aircraft and training missions have also increased substantially.
 
 