SEN. REID WORKS TO FIGHT NEVADA DRUG TRADE
  Nevada Senator Harry Reid joined 32 Senate colleagues today in sending a letter to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee urging increased funding of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) Program, which faces $30 million in cuts from the Bush administration.
   The HIDTA Program, administered through the Office of National Drug Control Policy, provides major assistance in Nevada by disrupting criminal street gangs involved in the transportation and sale of drugs, seizing drug shipments, and confiscating drug money. Reid, the Senate Majority Leader, successfully fought in 2001 to have his home state added to the list of HIDTA recipients and these ill-advised cuts could harm law enforcement's ability to fight drug trafficking - especially Nevada's growing problem with methamphetamine - on our local streets. 
   Nationally in 2007, task forces funded by HIDTA seized approximately 3,855 tons of marijuana, 69 tons of cocaine, three tons of methamphetamine, and almost a ton of heroin. Additionally, they seized $566 million in drug money.
   "Our law enforcement community fights for our safety from the evils of drugs and the drug trade every day, and we are standing up today to fight for them," Reid said. "Their valiant efforts have pushed most meth production out of the United States. Now, we have to focus our efforts on strengthening our borders and catching drug runners. HIDTA funding goes along way toward breaking up the criminal organizations that want to use Nevada as a distribution point for their poisonous product."
   The text of the letter follows below:
   The Honorable Richard Durbin
   Chairman
   Committee on Appropriations, 
   Subcommittee on Financial Services
   The Honorable Sam Brownback
   Ranking Member
   Committee on Appropriations,
   Subcommittee on Financial Services
   Dear Chairmen and Ranking Members:
   We are writing to request that you include $235 million for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) Program at the Office of National Drug Control Policy. The FY 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act included $230 million for the HIDTA program. Unfortunately, funding has been reduced in the FY2009 proposed budget by $30 million, which would seriously impair a highly successful program that has made significant contributions to the disruption of the illegal drug trade in the United States. 
   The HIDTA Program is unique among federal grant programs. At the local level, HIDTAs are overseen by an Executive Board that is comprised of equal numbers of federal law enforcement officers and state/local law enforcement officers. These Executive Boards assess the drug trafficking threat in their areas, develop strategies to address that threat, and fund multi-agency initiatives to carry out the strategy. The success of this approach is shown in the results.
   In 2007, HIDTA-funded task forces were successful in disrupting or dismantling 2,660 Drug Trafficking Organizations (DTOs). In keeping with the statutory intent of the HIDTA Program, these were high value organizations that were having a significant harmful impact not only where they were based but in other areas of the country as well. Two-thirds of the disrupted and dismantled DTOs were identified as part of international or multi-state operations and almost one-fifth were part of an investigation designated as an Organized Crime and Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) case, a designation assigned to regionally significant investigations. 
   In 2007, HIDTA initiatives seized approximately 3,855 tons of marijuana, 69 tons of cocaine, three tons of methamphetamine, almost a ton of heroin, and smaller but significant amounts of a large number of other drugs. In total, the wholesale value of these drugs is conservatively valued at more than $23.7 billion. In addition, HIDTA initiatives seized $566 million in cash.
   Over the past three years, HIDTAs have disrupted or dismantled more than 7,000 DTOs. In that time, they removed almost 9,000 tons of marijuana, 260 tons of cocaine, 18 tons of methamphetamine, and four tons of heroin from the streets. The total value of the drugs, cash, and asset seizures by HIDTAs is valued at more than $50 billion.
   Remarkably, these accomplishments have been achieved against the backdrop of an expanding program and flat funding. In 2002 there were 411 HIDTA-designated counties in the United States. With addition of the 26 new counties announced in February 2008, the total number of HIDTA counties is approximately 460, an increase of 13%. As these new counties come online, the HIDTA must fund initiatives in those areas or else their addition is a hollow gesture. However, the HIDTA Program appropriation has grown only by $4 million, or less than two percent during that period, an increase that does not account for the rising costs of salaries, equipment, vehicles, and fuel. Each year, every HIDTA must reduce what it does just to make ends meet. 
   Again, we respectfully ask you to ensure the HIDTA Program receives $235 million for FY 2009. Thank you again for your consideration.
 
 