SEN. REID HIGHLIGHTS NEVADA PRIORITIES FOR 2008
  This week, Nevada Senator Harry Reid will be talking about his legislative priorities to help address the challenges facing Nevada, starting with the economy. 
   "The economy is facing some serious challenges and Nevadans are feeling the pinch. I will continue to leverage my position as the Senate Majority Leader to strengthen our state's economy and make Nevada an even better place to live and raise a family," said Reid. "During the new session I will work to help strengthen our economy, ensure that the budget addresses Nevada's needs, ensure tax fairness for those living in the Silver State, spur Nevada's renewable energy industry, create jobs, and provide tax relief for college tuition. I look forward to working with the president and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to implement solutions that revive our economy." Below are just some of the solutions Reid will push to strengthen the economy.
  Countering an Economic Slowdown
   Reid will work with President Bush and members of Congress in both parties to develop legislation to strengthen the economy, largely by putting money into the hands of the middle class and those in greatest need.
   Passing a Pro-Nevada Budget
   Reid will work for a fiscally responsible budget that addresses Nevada's needs and rejects anti-Nevada proposals, such as those relating to Yucca Mountain and the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act.
   Tax Fairness for Nevadans
   Reid will continue to push for a permanent extension of the deduction for state and local sales taxes. This deduction expired on December 31, 2007. This is a matter of fairness for taxpayers in states, like Nevada, that do not have a state income tax. 
   Investments in Nevada Clean Energy Industry
   Reid will continue to push for tax incentives to spur Nevada's growing renewable energy industry. Many of these incentives expire on December 31, 2008. 
   Yucca Mountain Layoffs
   As Nevada wins the fight against Yucca Mountain, Reid will work on solutions to put those who have lost their jobs at the proposed dump back to work by making Nevada the leader in renewable energy, which will also strengthen Nevada's rural communities.
  Tax Relief for College Tuition
   Reid will continue to push for the extension of the deduction for college tuition. This $4,000 deduction ($2,000 for couples with incomes between $130,000 and $160,000) expired on December 31, 2007. 
   Fully Fund the Payment-In-Lieu-of-Taxes Program
   This program provides critical funds to western counties for police, teachers, road construction and other essential services. Reid is committed to seeing this program fully funded.
 
 