SEN. REID FIGHTS FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN NEVADA
Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada urged Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Alphonso Jackson to look into adequately funding crucial programs that help Nevada seniors and Nevadans with disabilities find decent, safe housing that they can afford. 
 "I am concerned about the lack of affordable housing in Nevada. Housing prices have nearly doubled in the Reno and Las Vegas regions over the past five years, making it extremely difficult for low-income people to get by - especially senior citizens and those with disabilities," said Reid. "I am working hard to find a solution. I will not stop until the issue is addressed. I hope Secretary Jackson will look into this urgent matter".  
 Reid's letter to Jackson is a follow up from his first letter which addresses funding allocations for crucial housing programs. HUD responded that population growth and demographics are primary factors in determining these allocations. 
 In his latest letter, Reid noted that Nevada has not been awarded a single Section 202 grant in the last five years, despite the state's status as the fastest-growing state in nation with a large and growing senior population. 
 Section 202 grants provide very low-income elderly with options that allow them to live independently but in an environment that provides support activities such as cleaning, cooking, and transportation. 
 Nevada is the only state in HUD's region 9 with no direct allocation of Section 202 and 811 grants. Section 811 grants provide housing for households with one or more very low-income individuals, at least one of whom is at least 18 years old and has a disability. The program allows persons with disabilities to live independently in their communities by increasing the supply of rental housing with the availability of supportive services. 
 The text of the letter is below: 
 June 20, 2006 
 The Honorable Alphonso Jackson Secretary U.S Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street, SW Washington, DC 20410 
 Dear Secretary Jackson: 
 I am writing to follow up on my letter of January 12, 2006 and your response of April 5, 2006 regarding my request that HUD provide Nevada with its own allocation of Sections 202 and 811 units as well as a fair housing staff member. 
 As my letter stated, the availability of affordable housing in Nevada and in the Las Vegas-Clark County area in particular has reached a crisis level. I understand that in the past five years, Nevada has not received a single Section 202 grant. In comparison to other states in the region, Arizona has received eleven, California has received sixty, and Hawaii has received thirteen. 
 In response to my letter, you indicated that HUD considers population growth and demographics in determining allocations. Based on the number of grants awarded to Nevada and neighboring states, it appears that Nevada's status as the fastest-growing state in the nation, and its large senior population were not considered as HUD awarded Section 202 grants. As such, it would seem reasonable for HUD to reconsider the effectiveness of this formula. 
 Because of Nevada's demographic demands, I respectfully request that HUD provide Nevada with its own allocation of Sections 202 and 811 units in sufficient numbers to support appropriate and proper projects and comparable to states with similar populations. As well, I urge HUD to provide Nevada with a fair housing staff member, as it has done with other states in Region 9. 
 Thank you for your attention to this important matter. If you have any questions please contact Jason Unger of my staff at 202-224-3542. 
 I look forward to your response. 
 Sincerely, 
 HARRY REID 
 United States Senator 
 Cc: Mr. Gene Etcheverry Commission on Economic Development State of Nevada 
 Mr. Mike Pawlak Community Resources Management Division Clark County 
 Ms. Gabrielle Enfield Grants Administrator Washoe County 
 Mr. Steve Harsin Neighborhood Services Department City of Las Vegas 
 Mr. Kenny Young Housing and Neighborhood Services City of North Las Vegas 
 Mr. Skeet Fitzgerald Neighborhood Services Department City of Henderson 
 Ms. Jodi Royal-Goodwin Division of Community Resoures City of Reno 
 Ms. Tracy Wheeler Grants Administrator City of Sparks 
 Mr. Joseph McCarthy Department of Economic Development and Redevelopment City of Carson City.
 
 