SEN. REID LEGISLATION WILL HELP NEVADA'S RURAL SCHOOL DISTRICTS BUY NEW BUSES
  Responding to an urgent request for help from Nevada's school superintendents, Sen. Harry Reid introduced legislation today to help rural counties buy new school buses. Reid's legislation would provide $50 million in competitive grants to pay for a share of the new buses.  
   "I recently met with the superintendents from each of Nevada's 17 counties," Sen. Reid said. "I was astonished to learn that the school buses in some rural Nevada counties travel a combined 1 million miles in a school year and there is a desperate need for new vehicles. But our school districts are strapped for cash, and the skyrocketing cost of gas has made the situation even worse." 
   "This legislation will help our rural school children have new, safe buses." 
   The "Bus Utility and Safety in School Transportation Opportunity and Purchasing Act of 2004" - or BUS STOP - authorizes the federal government to provide $50 million in grants on a competitive basis to rural local educational agencies seeking federal help to purchase school buses. The federal share will be 75 percent 
   Each applicant must provide documentation that at least 50 percent of their school buses are in need of repair or replacement; the total mileage each bus traveled in the most recent school year; documentation that the applicant is operating with a depleted fleet; and assurance that the school system will pay the local share for the purchase of new school buses. 
   "Many years ago when I attended school in Searchlight, we had one teacher who taught grades 1 through 8. There are still schools in Nevada where this is the case," Reid said. 
   "I walked to school, and when it was time for high school I had to find a ride or hitch a ride to Henderson, 40 miles away, and stay with a family during the week." 
   "That was the transportation system in rural America back then: walk or hitchhike. Now we have school buses. But we can't continue using school buses that are outdated and unsafe. This federal funding will be a tremendous to help to our rural school districts," Reid added. 
   Reid introduced his legislation in the Senate today. He is working to gather cosponsors and is hopeful the legislation will pass later this year.
 
 