SEN. REID WORKS TO PROTECT CHILDREN, SUPPORT CUSTODIAL PARENTS
  Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) is co-sponsoring two new bills to protect children and strengthen families by cracking down on abductions by relatives. More than 200,000 children are kidnapped by family members in the United States each year. The new bills would give law officers more resources to handle those cases.  
   "Almost eighty percent of all the children kidnapped in the United States are taken by a family member - most often an estranged parent who is not supposed to have custody," said Reid. "These cases are every bit as serious as abductions by strangers. Parents who steal their children are not acting out of love. Usually they are angry and want revenge on a former spouse. About half of abducting parents have a history of domestic violence or substance abuse. The children are pawns, and we must do more to keep them safe." 
   Reid is co-sponsoring the Family Abduction Prevention Act (S. 2199) and the Bringing Our Children Home Act (S. 2202). 
   The Family Abduction Prevention Act would provide federal matching grants of up to $500,000 to help states cover the costs of family abduction cases. The money could be used for special law enforcement training, or to pay for investigations or the extradition of suspects. Funding could also be used for media campaigns, community outreach, or public school programs to teach about the dangers and warning signs of family abductions. 
   The Bringing Our Children Home Act would establish a national registry of custody orders, so law enforcement officers could easily check records and reunite children with their custodial parent. It would also give law officers the right to take children into protective custody if they're listed as missing in the FBI's database, and would require foreign countries receiving U.S. aid to provide information on their efforts to stop international child abductions. 
   Reid has always been a strong supporter of legislation to help stop child abduction. He co-authored the Mikey Kale Passport Notification Act of 1999, which helps stop international abductions buy requiring that both parents give written permission before passports can be issued to minors. He also voted to create the AMBER alert system and to increase penalties for kidnapping and child abuse, and he won a $200,000 grant for Nevada Child Seekers, a non-profit group that helps find missing, abducted, or runaway children.
 
 