SEN. REID: A NEW IRAQ MILESTONE IS A NEW CHANCE FOR BUSH LEADERSHIP
  With the formation of a partial government in Iraq over the weekend, Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid today spoke on the Floor of the U.S. Senate, calling on President Bush to use this new milestone as an opportunity to show genuine leadership in order to ensure that Iraqis take control of their country.  
   Excerpts of Senator Reid's speech and a fact check on the president's speech in today in Chicago follow below. The full text of Senator Reid's speech is available here. 
   "[W]hile we all should welcome this partially formed new government, we recall other political milestones that were achieved and quickly swallowed by more violence. For example, since the December election, more than 325 coalition troops have been killed. In order to ensure that this milestone produces a different and more lasting result, Iraqis-working with the Bush Administration-must address outstanding issues surrounding their Constitution. They must form a police force, and diffuse the sectarian conflicts which have left their country on the brink of civil war."
   "Great challenges require strong leadership. Today's speech by the president was yet another missed opportunity to provide that leadership. We heard little about his plan to engage Iraq's neighbors in finding a regional solution to Iraq's problems. We heard little about his diplomatic efforts to end the sectarian strife. We heard little about his thoughts on how to put Iraq's reconstruction back on track. And we heard little about what he's doing to counter the extreme ideology that has made such dangerous inroads into Iraq and around the world."
   "The nation should no longer have to guess what's on the President's mind, and grapple for some insight into what a 'conditions based' withdrawal actually means - a phrase the Defense Secretary apparently doesn't even understand. It's time for the Iraqi people to take control of their own country, their own affairs and long past time that this administration should come up with a plan that places the burden of securing Iraq's forces on Iraq itself. The burden of securing Iraq should be on Iraqis, not the United States. We've done a lot. So, even though the news over the weekend created parts of a new government is a step forward, we still have a long ways to go."
 
 