SEN. REID ANNOUNCES CONFIRMATION OF NOMINEE VINCE JUARISTI
Sen. Harry Reid announced that his nominee, Vince J. Juaristi, an Elko native and former Nevada resident, was confirmed last week by the Senate to be a member of the board for the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS).  
 "Vince Juaristi has an impressive career as a dedicated volunteer and hard-working businessman," said Reid. "His strong and proven record of public service and success in the business world is proof that he will serve Nevada and America well. I want to congratulate him on his past, current, and future achievements". Senator Reid recommended Juaristi for the appointment to a Democratic seat on the CNCS board, and the President formally nominated him. 
 The CNCS is an independent board that provides opportunities for Americans of all ages and backgrounds to serve their communities and country through three programs: Senior Corps, AmeriCorps, and Learn and Serve America. Together with the USA Freedom Corps, the Corporation is working to build a culture of citizenship, service, and responsibility in America. 
 A native of Elko, Vince Juaristi graduated from the University of Utah and has a Master's degree in Public Policy from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He attended South Side Elementary School and Elko Junior High and Elko High School. His parents, Joe and Rosy, still live in Elko. 
 Juaristi was formerly a policy advisor to Nevada Governor Bob Miller and advisor to the Nevada General Assembly. He also worked for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 While working for the Governor, he helped develop Nevada Check Up, a program to make health insurance available for all children. He also helped write Nevada's welfare reform legislation and overhaul the education system. 
 Juaristi helped expand the Community on Wheels programs in Nevada, which was named one of the top 25 most innovative programs in the country by Harvard University and the Ford Foundation. The Classroom on Wheels (COW) project refurbishes used school buses into pre-schools and drives them into low-income neighborhoods. The Clinic on Wheels (COWMED) uses refurbished school buses to deliver health screenings to children in low-income areas. 
 Juaristi has served as committee chair on the Governor's Workforce Investment Board, as a member of the United Way state board and on the Board of Directors for SHARE, which provides wholesome food to more than 35,000 families in return for community service and a small fee. 
 Juaristi is currently the Senior Vice President of Visionary Integration Professional, Inc. and resides in Virginia.
 
 