SEN. REID, REP. BERKLEY, NEVADA STATE ASSEMBLY SPEAKER BUCKLEY, NEVADA SENATE MINORITY LEADER TITUS RENEW COMMITMENT TO COVERING UNINSURED
  Sen. Harry Reid and Rep. Shelley Berkley joined forces with Speaker of the Nevada State Assembly Barbara Buckley and Nevada Senate Minority Leader Dina Titus to raise awareness of the number of Nevadans who do not have health insurance and renew their efforts to improve the health care system. April 23-29 is Cover the Uninsured Week.  
   "In Nevada more than 100,000 children do not have health insurance," said Reid. "If you ask me, that's 100,000 too many. Cover the Uninsured Week serves as a reminder to everyone in our country that there is much work needed to improve our nation's health care system. As the Senate Majority Leader, I will continue my efforts to bring congressional leaders together on a bipartisan basis to make sure Nevadans and Americans alike have access to affordable and dependable health care. I look forward to a strong debate in the Senate on this vital issue, including the next step of updating the State Children's Health Insurance Program, also known as Nevada Check Up in our state." 
   "Parents in Las Vegas should not have to stay awake at night worrying about a sick child because they lack access to affordable health insurance, and hard working Nevada families should not have to live in fear that a trip to the hospital or prolonged illness could leave them in bankruptcy. Our goal as a nation should be to make insurance affordable and to guarantee that all Americans have access to coverage that will help to keep them healthy and to provide peace of mind," said Berkley. "Covering the uninsured must remain a top priority for Congress and the Nevada Legislature and I join with Senator Reid, Speaker Buckley and Minority Leader Titus in pledging my support for efforts to address this growing crisis that impacts far too many families in the Silver State. In Congress, I support legislation to provide increased resources for the federal SCHIP program, which helps states to provide insurance coverage to kids. Children who have health insurance are better prepared to learn in school, healthier, and better equipped to succeed in life." 
   "A high number of uninsured adults in Nevada are full-time or part-time workers," said Buckley. "Over the past few sessions, we have worked in the state legislature to try to help employers, especially small businesses, provide health insurance for their employees. That effort is continuing this session, along with efforts to provide health care coverage for more children and uninsured pregnant women." 
   "It is unconscionable that in our society today, we have families, children and senior citizens who are going without needed health care," said Titus. "This is an issue that affects us all; it is far more expensive to treat an individual in an emergency room than in a doctor's office or clinic." 
   Nearly 46 million Americans lack coverage, including 400,000 in Nevada. More than 100,000 of these uninsured Nevadans are children. 
   Cover the Uninsured Week is a nonpartisan initiative that was created to focus the nation's attention on the growing problem of the uninsured in the United States and the impact on individuals, families and communities across the nation.
 
 