SENATE DEMOCRATS FACT SHEET ON SOCIAL SECURITY TRUST FUND
  THE SOCIAL SECURITY TRUSTEES REPORT FOR 2005 
   This year's report from the Social Security Trustees, confirms that Social Security continues to be strong and remains on solid grounds for decades to come. The system faces long term challenges and Democrats are prepared to work in a bipartisan way to fix the system. The Republican privatization plan will only make the system worse, making Social Security insolvent eleven years earlier then if we did nothing at all. Adding benefit cuts and trillions in new debts is a bad deal for all Americans.  
   Social Security is on Solid Financial Footing for Decades to Come. The Social Security program will be able to pay full benefits until 2041, almost forty years from now, according to the annual report of the Social Security Trustees released today. 
   Social Security's Solvency Is Stronger Than In Recent Years. The projected year through which full benefits can be paid is 4 years further away than in 1997, when the date was 32 years away, and more than 34 years further away than in 1982, when it was less than two years away. Furthermore, the Trustees currently project that in the year following 2041, the program would still be able to pay 74% of full benefits. 
   The Congressional Budget Office Estimates that Social Security Will Pay Full Benefits Until 2052. The Congressional Budget Office projects that the program will be able to pay full benefits for a full eleven years longer, until 2052. CBO projects that Social Security would still be able to pay 78% of benefits after that. [CBO, 1/05] 
   The President's Privatization Plan Worsens the Problem. The President's privatization plan worsens Social Security's financial problems. Because that plan would cut Social Security's funding by diverting payroll taxes into privatized accounts, full guaranteed benefits could be paid only until 2030. This is eleven years earlier than under current law. [Joint Economic Committee, 3/05] 
   The Cost of the Bush Tax Cuts is Nearly Three Times the Cost of the Size of the Social Security Shortfall. Over the next 75 years, Social Security's shortfall will face a shortfall of $4 trillion, according to SSA. Over the same 75-year period, Bush's tax cuts will cost more than $11 trillion. [Center on Budget and Policy Priorities]
 
 