SEN. REID'S FAITH FORUM FOCUSES ON MEETING NEEDS OF UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES
  Sen. Harry Reid convened a Faith and Community Forum today, bringing together religious leaders and social service advocates to develop an action plan for meeting the needs of the underserved.  
   "This forum is designed to combine the best ideas and approaches from both the community and local churches," Reid told an assembled group of nearly 200 participants. "Those of you in this room know better than anyone else the challenges we are facing. It is the work you do that fills in the cracks and provides a critical safety net for those in your congregations, parishes and temples." 
   Reid added, "Because of this forum, and the input from each of you, we will put together a coordinated roadmap for meeting the needs of those who are suffering." 
   The all day forum began with an opening program featuring remarks by Sen. Reid, local religious leader Dr. Robert Fowler, pastor of Victory Baptist Church, and Larry Parks, Senior Vice President of the event's sponsor, Federal home Loan Bank of San Francisco. 
   Dr. Fowler said, "It is with great appreciation and anticipation that I look forward to this event. This forum is a watershed event for our community that will allow us to pull together and combine our efforts. Our challenge will now be to move from concept to concrete. I appreciate Senator Reid's efforts putting this forum together." 
   "The Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco is pleased to participate in a faith-based event that will help increase the supply of affordable housing in Nevada," said Lawrence Parks, Senior Vice President of External and Legislative Affairs for Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco. "Affordable housing helps to build strong neighborhoods and communities." 
   Participants attended workshops focused on unmet needs in areas such as affordable housing, homelessness, ex-offender re-entry, drug prevention, gang intervention, youth programs, senior services and immigration services.
   Information from the day-long workshops will be used and included in the development of a written community plan for meeting the needs of underserved communities. Reid's office will continue to direct the effort and will work with community leaders and experts.
 
 