SEN. REID'S LEADERSHIP MAKES NEVADA MORE SECURE
  Nevada Senator Harry Reid unveiled security in Nevada today as one of his top legislative priorities for 2008. 
  "The security of Nevada and the nation is something that I focus on every day," said Reid. "In 2008, I will continue to leverage my position as the Majority Leader of the U.S. Senate to ensure that Nevada's military installations, soldiers, and first responders get the support and resources they need to keep us safe. I will also work to ensure that Nevada's veterans and wounded warriors receive the kind of care and respect that their service has earned them. Lastly, I will continue fighting against the Yucca Mountain Project to ensure that the most dangerous substance known to man is not housed in the back yards of millions of Nevadans."
  Listed below are some of the solutions Reid will push to improve Nevada's security.
  The Southern Nevada Readiness Center Act
   Reid will work with Senator Ensign to push for passage of the Southern Nevada Readiness Center Act, allowing Clark County to convey about 50 acres of land to the State of Nevada for use by the National Guard.
  The Retired Pay Restoration Act 
   Reid will propose legislation that will eliminate the phase in process, allowing veterans that are 50% to 90% disabled to receive both military retired pay and veterans' disability compensation with respect to any service connected disability under the 10 year phase in process.
  Fighting Yucca Mountain
   Reid will continue to work on cutting funds from the Yucca Mountain budget during Fiscal Year 2009. As Majority Leader, Reid will also closely monitor the Senate floor and prevent any legislation from moving forward that would help Yucca Mountain become a reality.
  Combat Meth Enhancement Act
   Reid is co-sponsoring a bill that will help law enforcement track and monitor the sale of ingredients drug dealers use to produce meth.
  Supporting Nevada's First Responders
   As the 2008 session unfolds, Reid will take every opportunity to secure additional funding for Nevada's first responders to ensure that they have the resources they need to combat criminals, fight fires, and keep our streets safe.
  School Safety and Law Enforcement Improvements Act
   As part of this legislation, Reid will push for additional resources for the hiring of more University police officers.
 
 