SEN. REID SECURES VETERANS' BENEFITS
  Recognizing the sacrifices U.S. military men and women make for our country, Nevada Sen. Harry Reid included provisions in the Department of Defense Authorization bill that addresses the needs of America's veterans. 
   Included in the unanimously passed $447.2 billion fiscal year 2005 defense authorization bill are Reid's amendments to immediately pay 100 percent disabled veterans their retirement and disability pay and to compensate prisoners of war in the First Gulf War.
   "Everyday we are reminded that our young men and women are sacrificing their lives to protect our freedoms and secure our homeland," said Reid. "It is only fair that we can ensure that they will be well taken care of when they return home. Taking care of our veterans is a matter of national security."
   Reid has been fighting for years to end the ban on "concurrent receipt," a policy that deducts disability payments to veterans from the military retirement pay they earned. For those veterans who are 100 percent disabled, Reid's amendment provides them full retirement pay and disability compensation immediately, instead of phasing it in over 10 years.
   "Many 100% disabled veterans will not live the full 10 years to realize their complete benefit. This delay in extending concurrent receipt makes no sense. We need to deliver the benefits owed to most severely disabled veterans today, not 10 years from now."
   Other provisions included in the bill will:
   * Eliminate the reduction in the Survivor Benefits Plan annuity for SBP widows over the age of 62, ending the so-called "widow's tax" on surviving military spouses;
   * Permanently establish access to the military's TRICARE health care plan for all members of the National Guard and Reserve;
   Reimburse members of the Armed Forces for any health or safety equipment, such as bullet proof vests, that they may have purchased as a result of military supply shortages.
   The Senate and the House of Representatives will now confer to iron out the differences in their two versions of the bill.
 
 