SENS. REID, ENSIGN WORK TO SECURE FUNDING FOR NEVADA MILITARY BASES, DEFENSE PROJECTS
Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign of Nevada announced today that the Senate Appropriations Committee has passed a total of $100 million in military funding for the state of Nevada. The funding, now set for full Senate approval, will go towards operating expenses at Nevada military bases, research projects at state universities, and grants to private companies developing high-tech defense systems in Nevada.
 A senior member of the committee, Reid hailed last week's passage of the FY 2007 Defense Appropriations bill as a big step forward in helping Nevada troops respond to threats quickly and efficiently to keep the country safe.
 "Nevada's military bases and other defense facilities play a critical role in protecting our country. I remain committed to ensuring that Nevada has the best equipment, necessary resources, support, and facilities for every member of our military," said Reid. "This money will help Nevada's role of safeguarding our nation continue to expand and develop." 
 "Nevadans have been instrumental in the war against terrorism, and it is crucial that we continue to fund their needs as well as those of the rest of our military fighting this war," said Ensign. "This funding will help defend our nation from those who are trying to destroy our freedoms."
 The Defense Appropriations bill will now go to the full Senate floor for a vote. Reid says he'll work for Senate approval as soon as possible.
 Reid and Ensign's work secured priority funding in the Defense Appropriations bill for the following Nevada projects:
 SOUTHERN NEVADA PROJECTS
 Nellis Air Force Base Airfield Rescue Station $4.8M
 Nellis AFB will receive funding to construct a new satellite fire station and to renovate and add to the Main Fire Station.
 ROCKY RESEARCH, LLC 
 Thermal Management Systems for High Density Electronic $6M
 Rocky Research will receive funding for a second year in a row to continue the work of the Navy's program in Power Projection Applied Research. The project is designed to develop passive cooling techniques to remove heat from next generation defense microelectronics applications more effectively than is being done with current technology. 
 Heat Dissipation for Electronic Systems and Enclosures $3M 
 Rocky Research will receive funding for a project that aims to develop heat dissipation systems that rapidly and effectively remove heat from military electronics and microelectronics systems and enclosures on vehicles and in ground stations. 
 Novel Lightweight Armor Material for Insensitive Munitions Protection of Tactical Missiles $1.0M
 Rocky Research will also receive funding to support further advanced material development of a lightweight, relatively inexpensive and easily manufacturable, highly ballistics resistant material for vehicle use in order to protect mobile rocket launcher tubes and rockets. 
 UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA LAS VEGAS
 Structural Reliability of Smart Munitions and Lightweight Structures $2.0M
 UNLV will receive funding to continue research and development of structural reliability testing programs.
 Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Research $1.0M
 UNLV will receive funding to continue research and development of unmanned aerial vehicle platforms. The Nevada UAV project will concentrate on the development of medium and microscale (MAV) platforms for surveillance in support of DOD and DOE missions. 
 Bio-surveillance in a Highly Mobile Population $2.0M
 UNLV will also receive funding to create an effective way to trace the spread, and isolate the source of infectious diseases and bio-terror agents among units of the U.S. military.
 NORTHERN NEVADA PROJECTS
 Nevada Air National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Complex $5M
 Funding will be used to replace existing Vehicle Maintenance Complex with an adequately sized and properly configured facility. The Vehicle Maintenance Complex is used to meet operational and training requirements to repair, maintain, and park organizational vehicles - automobiles, trucks, and specialty vehicles used to support the Nevada Air National Guard's C-130 aircraft mission.
 Naval Air Station Fallon Range Improvements $7.7M
 The funds will be used to construct new towers to support air to ground scoring on the Military Operations on Urbanized Terrain (MOUT) target area at B-20, 42,257 feet of concrete-encased underground power, vaults/hand-holes, three power transformers, and 40,354 feet of fiber optic data transmission cable linking all new towers to the existing West Tower.
 Hawthorne Army Depot Wabuska Railroad Line Spur $1.4M
 HWAD will receive funding to provide a rail siding capable of holding approximately 50 cars, and will allow incoming and outgoing trains to pass. The Wabuska spur will nearly double the capacity on the line. It will increase HWAD's outload capability to approximately 400 containers/day. Once this siding is constructed, HWAD's ability to ship by rail will be expedited by allowing one train to pull over onto the siding while another incoming or out-going train passes. The Wabuska Rail Line is 54 miles long and serves the HWAD. This single rail line is the only rail line into HWAD. The spur should alleviate delivery issues in the future and therefore help keep Hawthorne off the BRAC list in the future. 
 SIERRA NEVADA CORPORATION
 SA-90 Airship Persistant Surveillance Program $8M
 The Sierra Nevada Corporation will receive funding to develop a ground station and for the fabrication, ground and flight test of two Reconnaissance SA-90 Airships for persistent surveillance. Combatant Commanders have documented an urgent need for economic persistent surveillance on the battlefield that can provide reach back in imagery and communications. 
 Scathe View Upgrade $6M 
 The Sierra Nevada Corporation will receive funding to provide for a satellite communications upgrade.
 MPOI for Micro-Satellite Datacom Amplifier $2.8M
 OPTICIMP will receive funding to enable the implementation of reconfigurable switching network architectures to interconnect a much larger number of nodes, while addressing the needs of intra-satellite networks.
 MPOI for Battlespace Information Exchange $3.0M 
 OPTICIMP will also receive funding to on the Option II of the FY05 initiated program. The specific objectives include: 1.) Fabrication and Characterization of CWDM modules, 2.) Determine and Optimize High-Speed Modulation Characteristics, 3.) Perform Initial Wafer-Scale Reliability Testing, 4.) Software development of network control logic, 5.) Design and prototyping of network transceiver layer electronics, and 6.) Implement WDM-capable integrated level of network controller logic.
 Fuel Cell Fast Start Battery for Ship Propulsion $5.0M
 ALTAIR will receive funding to support the Navy's Office of Naval Research, Naval Surface Warfare Systems/Cardarock-Philadelphia to develop a fast-start lithium-based battery and develop a long life, high cycle life, fast charge/discharge nano lithium battery. This would permit optimization of the fuel cell for cruising, while increasing system efficiency and operational lifespan.
 EYE-COM CORPORATION
 Soldier Mounted Eye Tracking and Control Systems $2.5M
 Funding will be used to purchase equipment, materials, and personnel resources to design and develop a Biosensor, Communicator and Controller System that would be integrated in helmet display systems to aid the warfighter in numerous operations such as sentry duty, transportation, and reconnaissance. 
 2-PHASE TECHNOLOGIES, INC
 Rapid Manufacturing and Repair of Composite Components for High Temperature Service $2.0M
 Funding will be used to continue the development and testing of the reconfigurable tooling system that can produce composite parts that can withstand temperatures of 427C (800F) and still remain re-formable and can be used to substantially higher temperatures as permanent tooling. 
 REVA INTERNATIONAL, LTD.
 RI-2200 High-Intensity Searchlights for NAVAIR $3.5M
 Funding will be used to support acquisition by the U.S. Navy's Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) to acquire 2465 RI-2200 high-intensity discharge lighting systems to improve personnel and aircraft safety as well as enhance effectiveness of the service's night operations.
 NEVADA NATIONAL GUARD
 C-130 SCATHE View Communication System Improvement $1.8M
 The Nevada National Guard will receive funding to purchase communication systems modifications, which will provide imaging capabilities to support humanitarian relief and non-combatant evacuation operations such as Joint Task Force Katrina. 
 Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) System $5.0M
 The Nevada National Guard will receive funding outfit four more of eight planes with Infrared Countermeasures Systems. 
 Counterdrug Task Force Operations $3.75M
 The Nevada National Guard will receive funding to continue its Counterdrug Operations which provides support to interdiction and demand reduction operations conducted by law enforcement and community agencies statewide.
 M-915 Tractor Trucks $4.0M
 The Nevada National Guard will receive funding to purchase M-915A3 Truck Tractors in the Nevada Army National Guard wheeled vehicle fleet and replace Truck Tractors left in theater. 
 M-1151 HMMWV Utility Trucks $5.9M
 The Nevada National Guard will receive funding to procure a XM114 HMMWVs. 
 DAY AND ZIMMERMAN
 CBU DECASING $3.0M
 Day and Zimmerman will receive funding to continue the development of a safe and environmentally acceptable process for the demilitarization of Combined Bomb Units (CBUs), Improved Conventional Munitions (ICMs), and MLRS.
 CONTAINED STATIC ROCKET MOTOR $1.5M
 Day and Zimmerman will receive funding to develop a safe and environmentally acceptable process to demilitarize small tactical rocket motors.
 SMALL ROCKET MOTOR DISPOSAL $1.0M
 Day and Zimmerman will also receive funding to develop a safe and environmentally acceptable process for the disposal of small rocket motors and the associated ammonium perchlorate. The program will review the potential methods of demilitarizing small rocket motors and safely disposing of the ammonium perchlorate in the rocket motor propellant. After the process has been identified and the specifications for the procedures and equipment developed, the equipment will be designed, fabricated, installed and the process tested.
 NORTHERN NEVADA SPECIAL OPERATIONS TRAINING CENTER $3M
 Funding for the Special Operations Training Center Project will be applied to two training structures - the Live Fire Shoot House and a Rappel Tower. 
 UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA RENO $0.75M
 UNR will receive funding for their Non-lethal Stunning/Immobilizing Weapons program. Specifically it will be used for graduate student support for two students for three years, research technician support, and for equipment and supplies
 DESERT RESEARCH INSTITUTE
 Alternative Futures at the Range-Complex Level for the SW U.S $1.0M
 DRI will receive funding for a program that will allow the Marine Corps (and Department of Defense) to anticipate and address issues that may affect military mission readiness activities on and between installations and ranges in the Southwest U.S.
 Army Landscape Dynamics Support Program (LanDPro) $1.0M 
 DRI will also receive funding to provide direct support for the military mission at the U.S. Army National Training Center (NTC) and other installations in the southwest U.S.
 
 