SEN. REID RECOMMENDS WASHOE SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT TO SCHOLARSHIP COMMISSION
  Today the Senate's Democratic Leader, Sen. Tom Daschle (D-SD) sent a letter to the President recommending Washoe School Superintendent Dr. Jim Hager for the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship Commission. Sen. Daschle made the recommendation of Dr. Hager at the request of Nevada Sen. Harry Reid. 
   Reid, recognizing Hager's commitment to the sciences and education, felt Dr. Hager would be an excellent addition to the prestigious commission.
   "Dr. Hager has committed his life to education and promoting science in particular" said Reid. "Should the President accept our recommendation and formally nominate Dr. Hager for this post, I am confident Dr. Hager would do Nevada and the nation proud."
   Reid added, "Most important, Dr. Hager's confirmation to the Goldwater Scholarship Commission would help inspire more students in Nevada to pursue science and math degrees in college with the help of this scholarship."
   The purpose of the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation, is to alleviate a critical current and future shortage of highly qualified scientists, mathematicians and engineers. It was authorized by the United States Congress in 1986 to honor Senator Barry M. Goldwater, who served his country for 56 years as a soldier and statesman, including 30 years of service in the U.S. Senate.
   Dr. Jim Hager assumed the position of Washoe County Superintendent of Schools in Reno, Nevada, on January 1, 1999. He has served as Superintendent of Schools in Kent, Washington; Beaverton, Oregon; and Boulder, Colorado. Dr. Hager has been involved in public education since 1964 as a teacher, principal, Director of Secondary Education, Deputy Superintendent and Superintendent. He has also taught at the college and university level.
   The Goldwater Scholarship Commission evaluates applications from thousands of students across the nation who are applying for the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarships. The Commission makes the final decision on which students get the scholarships. From among the thousands that apply, roughly 300 students are selected. Each scholarship covers eligible expenses for tuition, fees, books, and room and board, up to a maximum of $7,500 annually.
 
 