SEN. REID COMMENTS ON JUDICIAL COMPROMISE AND PRISCILLA OWEN NOMINATION
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid issued the following statement on the floor of the U.S. Senate today. 
   Remarks as prepared for delivery: 
   In my remarks this morning, I will speak briefly about the Priscilla Owen nomination and more generally about the negotiations that led to the defeat of the so-called nuclear option. As I said this morning, the nuclear option is off the table and we should stop speaking about it after today.  
   I continue to oppose the nomination of Priscilla Owen to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. As a member of the Texas Supreme Court, Justice Owen has consistently ruled for big business and corporate interests in cases against workers and consumers. Her colleagues on the Texas court - including the man who is now the Attorney General of the United States, Alberto Gonzales - have criticized her decisions. Judge Gonzales even called one of her opinions "an act of unconscionable judicial activism." 
   In case after case, Justice Owen's record marks her as a judge willing to make law from the bench rather than follow the language of the statute and the intent of the legislature. Even on the conservative Texas Supreme Court, Justice Owen is a frequent dissenter, and her opinions reveal an extreme ideological approach to the law. 
   As a result of the agreement announced last night, it is clear that this nominee will receive an up-down vote. I intend to vote against her confirmation, and I urge my colleagues to do so as well. I specifically urge my Republican colleagues to render an independent judgment on this and other controversial nominations. 
   But if Justice Owen is confirmed as a federal judge, I hope she surprises those of us who have fought her nomination. Perhaps her experience as a judicial nominee has exposed her to a broader range of views, and that experience may make her more sensitive to concerns regarding privacy, civil rights and consumer rights. 
   The agreement that will allow Justice Owen to receive an up-down vote also had the effect of taking the nuclear option off the table for this Congress. I want to review what I believe was at stake in this debate. 
   The agreement makes clear that the Senate rules have not changed. The filibuster remains available to the Senate minority. The seven Democrats agreed that filibusters will be only be used in extraordinary circumstances. In my view, the fact that there have only been 10 filibusters out of 218 nominations in the last four years means that filibusters are already rare. 
   In any event, the agreement provides that "each signatory must use his or her own discretion and judgment in determining whether extraordinary circumstances exist." This is a subjective test, as it always has been. 
   The fourteen Democrats and Republicans who entered into the agreement last night, and the rest of us who were prepared to vote against the nuclear option, stood for the principles of extended debate, minority rights and Constitutional checks and balances. For two hundred years, the Senate rules embodying those principles has protected our liberties and our freedoms. 
   Those rules have not made life easy for Presidents and parties in power. 
   Most every occupant of the White House, most every majority on Capitol Hill, has grown frustrated with the need to build consensus instead of ruling by their own desires. But that is precisely what our Founding Fathers intended. 
   Those Founders created this body as a place secure from the winds of whim. A place for deliberation and honorable compromise. It is why Nevada with its two million people has as much say as California with its 35 million. It is why sometimes we are governed not by the principle of "one man, one vote," but by the principles of the one person who rises with a voice of conscience and courage. 
   When Thomas Jefferson and Franklin Roosevelt tried to pack our courts, patriots of both parties put aside their personal interests to protect our American rights and rules. 
   Nothing in the Advice and Consent Clause of the Constitution mandates that a nominee receive a majority vote, or a vote at all. According to a Congressional Research Service, over 500 judicial nominees since 1945 - 18% of all judicial nominees - were never voted on by the full Senate. Most recently, over 60 of President Clinton's judicial nominees were denied an up-or-down vote. In contrast, we have approved 208 out of President Bush's 218 nominees, a 95% confirmation rate. 
   The difference between a 95% confirmation rate and a 100% confirmation rate is what this country is all about. That 5% reflects the moderating influence and spirit of openness made possible by the Advice and Consent Clause. 
   When our Founders pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor to the cause of our Revolution, it was not simply to rid us of George the Third. It was because they had a vision of democracy. James Madison, the Father of our Constitution, wrote that "The accumulation of all powers legislative, executive, and judiciary in the same hands, whether of one, a few or many - and whether hereditary, self-appointed, or elective - may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny." 
   Stripping away these important checks and balances would have meant that the U.S. Senate becomes merely a rubber stamp for the president. 
   It would have meant that one political party - be it Republicans today or Democrats tomorrow - could effectively seize control of our nation's highest courts. 
   It would have removed the checks on the President's power...meaning that one man, sitting in the White House, could personally hand out lifetime jobs to judges whose rulings on our basic rights can last forever. 
   That's too much power for one person. That's too much power for one President. That's too much power for one political party. It's not how America works. 
   Our democracy works when the majority rules not with a fist but with an outstretched hand that brings people together. The filibuster is there to guarantee this. 
   The success of the nuclear option would have marked another long, sad stride down an ever more slippery slope toward partisan crossfire and a loss of our liberties. 
   Instead, this is the moment we turned around and began to climb up the hill toward the common goal of national purpose and a rebuilding of America's promise.
 
 