SEN. REID HIRES NEW SOUTHERN NEVADA DIRECTOR
  Nevada's Sen. Harry Reid announced today that Rebecca Lambe will join his staff as the Southern Nevada Regional Director, managing the busy Las Vegas office and overseeing day to day operations, outreach and strategic and long-term planning. Lambe's primary responsibility will be working with community leaders and elected officials to ensure Reid is constantly up to date on what matters most to Nevadans. 
   "Rebecca is one of the best political and policy advocates in the country and Nevada is lucky to have her," Reid said. "I'm grateful that she will be by my side in Nevada so that I can continue to use my position in Washington to deliver results for families, workers and retirees in our State. She is an accomplished, talented and dedicated woman who has spent a career in the political field. I have a good team of people who work every day to make our state and our communities better. I can think of no one more qualified than Rebecca to help lead that effort, and I very much look forward to her coming on board."
   Lambe has an extensive background in public service and comes to Reid's office after serving as the Executive Director of the Nevada Democratic Party. Prior to the Nevada position, Lambe worked as campaign manager for U.S. Senator Jean Carnahan and also served as Carnahan's State Director where she managed five district offices. Lambe graduated with Bachelors degrees in Journalism and Political Science and a law degree from the University of Missouri-Columbia.
   "This is an exciting opportunity and I look forward to working in this new capacity," Lambe said. "Sen. Reid has been incredibly effective for Nevada, and his new Senate leadership position will mean even more of an ability to deliver for our state. Our area faces many challenges, from public lands issues to health care, and I look forward to working closely with the community and with Sen. Reid to address those challenges."
   Lambe will replace Colonel Robert Herbert, who is returning to Washington D.C. to work on military, veterans and transportation issues for Sen. Reid.
 
 