SEN. REID INTRODUCES RENEWABLE SCHOOLS ENERGY ACT OF 2006
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada announced today that he has introduced the Renewable School s Energy Act of 2006. In addition to providing Nevada public school districts with $90 million in zero-interest bonds for renewable energy projects, this bipartisan legislation will help public school districts save taxpayer dollars by cutting utility bills, increase educational opportunities for students, and bring additional funds to Nevada schools. "I am proud of this legislation because it will save Nevada schools money and promote renewable energy," said Reid. "Every dollar saved on utilities is a dollar that could be used to get every Nevada student the best education possible." In addition to helping schools spend less on energy, this legislation will make it easier for public schools to take advantage of rebates and incentives offered by utility companies for the purchase of renewable energy products and systems. 
   Reid's legislation is widely supported by school district officials across the State. 
   "The Renewable Schools Energy Act has the potential to significantly lower our utility costs and help to ensure that we devote our limited resources to the classroom," said Paul Dugan, Washoe County School District Superintendent. "This legislation is a model about how the Federal government can work collaboratively with local school districts to strengthen the education for each child in Nevada. I commend the Senator for his hard work on this important issue."
   The Clark County School District will spend $6 million more on utility costs than they last year and the Washoe County School District will spend $1.5 million more. Similar price increases were felt across the state.
   "The Renewable Schools Energy Act will support the vision of a more energy independent future and reduce the reliance on fossil fuels where costs are rising," said Dr. Walt Rulffes, Clark County School District Superintendent. "This will not only reduce our ongoing energy costs, but will also provide for a unique and highly valuable learning opportunity for students, encouraging their understanding of Math and Science."
   Most Nevada school districts are likely to use the bonds to install solar panels on the roofs of their schools, because that is the easiest and most affordable process. But, it is also possible that certain schools could use the allocated funds to purchase geothermal heat pumps or even small wind turbines. However, no matter what system school districts choose, they will have the ability to use the projects as tools to teach students about renewable energy.
 
 