SEN. REID ANNOUNCES NEVADA TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada today announced Appropriations Committee passage of significant funding for major Nevada transportation projects, including $55 million towards a new Air Traffic Control Tower at McCarran International Airport, $3 million for the Carson City Freeway, and $3 million for statewide bus facilities.
   The funding, totaling $74 million dollars, has cleared committee vote and is now set for final Senate passage. 
   "As Nevada continues to develop statewide," said Reid, "we must be sure that our transportation network, including our roads and freeways, keeps pace with Nevada's tremendous growth. These funds go a long way in doing that." 
   On the development of a new Air Traffic Control tower at McCarran, Reid said "The McCarran International Airport one of the busiest airports in the country, and it's important for both Las Vegas residents and visitors that we keep this airport on the cutting-edge. I couldn't be happier to help move this project forward."
   Nevada projects include: $3.0 Million For Southern Nevada Beltway Interchanges $5.0 Million For the Blue Diamond Highway (Las Vegas to Pahrump) $55 Million For New Air Traffic Control Tower Facility at McCarran $1 Million For Freeway and Arterial System of Transportation (FAST) in Las Vegas/Clark Co. $3.0 For Carson City Freeway - Phase 2 $1 Million For Colfax Narrows Project $1 Million For I 580 - Meadowood Mall Interchange $1 Million For Pyramid Highway Corridor Early Action Items $3 Million For Nevada Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities $1 Million For Wheeler Peak Drive Road Upgrade.
   A Full List of Projects is Below: 
   2007 Transportation Appropriated Projects 
   Southern Nevada 
   1. Southern Nevada Beltway Interchanges: $3.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: Project request for construction of 4 Regional Beltway Interchanges on the Las Vegas Beltway: 1) Airport Connector Interchange consist of high-speed directional ramps connecting the southern segment of the Las Vegas Beltway (Interstate 215) to the airport connector, with direct high-speed access to McCarran International Airport, replaces and/or modify the existing low speed loop ramps and problematic weaving sections that currently pose significant accident potential and congestion during peak hours; 2) US 95 North Interchange completes US 95-Beltway facility between Durango Drive and Tenaya Way, and provides directional ramps connecting the Beltway to the 4-lane U.S. Highway 95 freeway facility; 3) Northern Beltway @ I-15 project upgrade the existing interchange to a system-to-system interchange and to expand the beltway mainlines; and 4) Summerlin Parkway Interchange to put an interchange and overpass bridge at Clark County Route 215 and the intersection of Summerlin Parkway. 
   2. SR 160 Blue Diamond Highway (Las Vegas to Pahrump): $ 5.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: Reconstruct and provide safety improvements on SR 160 from Las Vegas Blvd. (Clark County) to Pahrump (Nye County), for a distance of approximately 46 miles. 
   3. New Air Traffic Control Tower Facility for Southern Nevada: $55.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: The funds will be used to construct a new Air Traffic Control Tower building, including a radar control room, offices, training facilities, and supporting airway facilities (communications and surveillance equipment.) 
   4. FAST Implementation, Las Vegas/Clark Co., NV: $ 1.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: The requested phase of the FAST System extends along I-515 from Boulder Highway North to Charleston Boulevard. The project follows I 515 from the Southern junction of Boulder Highway to Charleston Blvd (Clark County). The project will be advertised July 2006 and is expected to be completed 2008. 
   Northern Nevada 
   5. Carson City Freeway - Phase 2: $3.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: The requested project on US 395, The Carson Freeway, from US 50E (East William St) to US 50/South Carson Street Intersection will in Phase 2A the construction of the central portion of the Carson City Freeway starting at the US 50 East Single Point Urban Interchange and continuing south on a new alignment to a partial interchange at Fairview Drive - Phase 2A advertises in 2006 and is expected to be completed in 2008. Phase 2B includes the construction of the southernmost portion of the Carson City Freeway starting at the Fairview Drive Interchange and continuing south on a new alignment to a point where it connects to US 50 West at the existing US 50 West-Tahoe Juncture/S. Carson Street intersection. Phase 2B advertises in 2008 and is expected to be completed in 2010. 
   6. Colfax Narrows Project: $ 1.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: Project Design $4 Million Right of Way $3 Million Construction $95 Million + $11 Million for Construction Engg. 
   7. I 580 - Meadowood Mall Interchange: $1.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: Construct new half diamond interchange on I 580 at Meadowood Mall from Del Monte to Meadowood Mall Way. (Washoe County). The construction of one-way frontage roads on both sides of I-580, extending from Meadowood Mall Way south to Del Monte Interchange will connect the half interchange at Meadowood Mall Way to the full interchange at Del Monte. 
   8. Pyramid Highway Corridor Early Action Items: $1.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: Funding for this project will be used for construction of the intersection at Pyramid Highway and McCarran Blvd. and will initiate PD&E work on the full corridor including outer ring freeway. 
   Rural Nevada 
   9. Nevada Statewide Bus and Bus Facilities, NV: $3.0 Million 
   Specific use for requested funds: The proposed project will fund capital facilities improvements: transit vehicle expansion and replacement, bus maintenance facilities, Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS), intermodal terminals and park and ride lots. 
   10. Wheeler Peak Drive Road Upgrade: $1 Million 
   Local residents have indicated that due to seasonal road closures, they lose significant business. Funds will contribute to phased project to improve road so that it stays open in all seasons.
 
 