SEN. REID ADDRESSES SOCIAL SECURITY UNITY RALLY
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid delivered the following remarks at the Social Security Unity Rally today: 
   "This week, President Bush wraps-up his 60-day campaign for Social Security privatization.  
   "For the last two months, he's gone across the country, but I know he's never seen a crowd like this... 
   "Because President Bush only talks to audiences who already agree with him. And they don't allow concerned Americans like you from his events. 
   "That's really too bad....because President Bush could learn something from you. He could learn that Social Security privatization is a bad deal and Americans are united against it! 
   "I wish that President Bush were here today. 
   "We could tell him that we all want to strengthen Social Security - but we're never going to support a plan that weakens it. 
   "We could let him know that we all want to address Social Security's long-term challenges - but we're never going to start with a privatization plan that cuts benefits by one-third and adds $5 trillion in debt. 
   "Privatization is a buzzword for "destroy" Social Security, and if President Bush is serious about strengthening the program, he will join the American people and reject private accounts. 
   "But President Bush has already shown that he doesn't care what the people think....and Republicans in Congress today are plunging ahead with hearings on privatization. 
   "Well, as you see here today, Democrats are ready to fight! 
   "We're listening to you. We know privatization is a risky scheme. And we're not going to let President Bush and the Republicans in Congress weaken the most successful social program our nation has ever seen! 
   "Democrats are going to stand united against privatization. 
   "And we're also going to continue to stand up for retirement security. 
   "That means finding new ways to help Americans save and finding ways to strengthen Social Security. 
   "But first...it means doing everything we can to make sure George Bush finally hears the message you have delivered today: stop trying to privatize Social Security. 
   "It may take another 60-days. It may take another 6 months. 
   "But Democrats will not back down! And the American people will not back down! 
   "United we stand to protect Social Security! 
   "Thank you."
 
 