SENS. ENSIGN, REID, REP. HELLER ENCOURAGE NEVADANS TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF GRANT WORKSHOPS
  Senator John Ensign, Senator Harry Reid and Congressman Dean Heller today encouraged Nevadans interested in federal grant opportunities to attend one of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Rural Business Enterprise Grant Writing Workshops. In March, USDA will be in Dayton, Winnemucca and Ely to provide assistance and information about applying for grants through the federal government. 
   "Public entities and non-profits should attend these free workshops to learn about the process and explore grant opportunities that may be available to them," said Ensign, who owned a small business before running for Congress. "These workshops are specifically designed to educate people in small communities about grant opportunities that can be used for assistance ranging from purchasing machinery to training employees."
   "The USDA is providing Nevadans with this great opportunity to learn about how to write a winning grant," said Reid. "This free workshop will surely benefit Nevada's rural communities. I encourage anyone interested in starting a business or developing the one they have to make use of this program."
   "These workshops provided by USDA are specifically targeted at increasing economic development for small communities. Nevada's many rural communities should take advantage of these opportunities to learn about grants offered by the USDA and the steps necessary to successfully apply for this funding," said Heller.
   According to USDA, grant funds may be used for marketing studies, feasibility studies, business plans, training, purchasing new equipment for lease, constructing a building and more. There is no fee to attend these workshops sponsored by USDA Rural Development. For additional information go to http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/nv/.
   Dates, times and locations for the grant writing workshops in Nevada are:
   March 17 - 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.
  Greater Nevada Credit Union
  555 Hwy 50 East
  Dayton, Nevada
   March 19, 2008 - 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.
  White Pine County Library
  950 Campton Street
  Ely, Nevada
   March 20 - 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.
  Humboldt County Library
  85 East Fifth Street
  Winnemucca, Nevada
 
 