SEN. REID SECURES $4.3 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR RURAL NEVADA RANGE, AGRICULTURE AND RANCH LANDS
  Sen. Harry Reid has secured $4.320 million to reduce wildfires, conserve water and protect range and agriculture lands throughout Nevada in the FY07 Senate Agriculture Appropriations bill.  
   The new funding amount that will go towards several ongoing and new projects is $480,000 more than last year's level - an 11 percent increase. "Nevada faces unique challenges associated with preventing fires and flooding. Our rural ranchers and farmers are up against invasive species that destroy crops," said Reid. "These projects are an asset to the natural resources in the state. I will continue to fight for projects that make our state a better place to live and that help preserve and protect pristine Nevada." 
   Reid secured funding for the following projects: 
   Nevada Arid Rangeland Initiatives $499,000 Initiative projects include work on Nevada's significant invasive species problem (e.g., tamarisk, whitetop, cheatgrass), conservation of species of concern (e.g., sage grouse), development of less water intensive crops (e.g., native seed, wine grapes), and well-water testing in agriculture communities for pesticides and naturally occurring metals like arsenic. 
   Tamarisk and Cheatgrass Control $1.612 million To control tamarisks, invasive plants which threaten aquatic systems by depleting water and out-competing beneficial native vegetation like willow and cottonwood trees, and cheatgrass, another invasive species which is a significant wildfire fuel and which also destroys native sage habitat. This is a $200,000 increase over last year. The FY07 budget proposed zeroing out this funding and closing down the Agricultural Research Service Lab in Reno. Because of Senator Reid's efforts this office will remain open and continue its critical work. 
   Reducing Hazardous Fuels $200,000 This first-time funding will go to the Fire Safe Council for maintenance and management of existing fuelbreaks using mechanical, herbicidal, livestock grazing, seeding, and other methods, with an emphasis on treating fuelbreaks situated in eastern and central Nevada. A portion of this funding will support the continuation and expansion of a program that promotes fire threat reduction amongst homeowners. 
   International Arid Lands Consortium $573,000 To produce research, development, technical assistance, training initiatives and technology transfer in the field of arid lands management, development, restoration and reclamation of arid and semi-arid lands. Its member institutions, including Desert Research Institute of the University of Nevada, partner with Middle Eastern countries land management agencies to explore new and creative research and demonstration opportunities. 
   As recently announced, Reid also secured $150,000, the full amount requested, to manage Mormon crickets and $500,000 for Carson City's erosion control program. 
   Now that the bill has been passed out of the Appropriations Committee, it will head to the U.S. Senate floor for passage, then to Conference Committee before it becomes law.
 
 