SEN. REID, MAYOR GOODMAN TOUR DOWNTOWN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
  Nevada Senator Harry Reid and Las Vegas Mayor Oscar B. Goodman toured downtown Las Vegas today to survey redevelopment projects currently underway, and discuss those planned for the future. 
   "The process of revitalizing downtown Las Vegas is something I'm happy to be a part of," said Reid. "For those of us who have been here for a long time, like Mayor Goodman and I, the prospect of a vibrant, entertaining, and culturally-driven downtown area is very exciting. A healthy and strong downtown will strengthen our economy, create more jobs and make the number one tourist destination in the world an even more exciting place for tourists to visit."
   "Downtown is undergoing a transformation and I was glad to show Senator Reid all the projects that are changing the skyline of the city's center," said Las Vegas Mayor Oscar B. Goodman. "Not only is the city seeing new projects that will provide housing and entertainment to residents and tourists, but we are also developing projects that are preserving our unique history."
   Reid and Goodman's tour included stops at the Fremont East District, the historic Las Vegas Post Office, the Molasky Center, World Market Center, Las Vegas Premium Outlets, Union Park / Lou Ruvo Brain Institute, Newport & Soho Lofts, Juhl residential high-rises, and the Fifth Street School in a compressed natural gas bus belonging to the City of Las Vegas Department of Public Works.
   An important part of the redevelopment of downtown Las Vegas is the construction of energy efficient buildings. The new Molasky Corporate Center is leading the way after earning its Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification by implementing the use of energy efficient glass, electricity-producing photovoltaic solar panels, reclaimed water for landscaping, cleaner under-the-floor air circulation, and wall insulation created from recycled blue jeans. In addition to the Molasky Center, all projects in Union Park will be required to be LEED certified, and Union Park will be the first project in Nevada to participate in the LEED for Neighborhood Development program.
 
 