MOBILE RESOURCE CENTERS OPEN THIS WEEK ACROSS NEVADA TO PREVENT FORECLOSURES
  This week Mobile Resource Centers will be stopping in the five Nevada counties that are being hit the hardest by the national mortgage crisis. Today, Sen. Reid encouraged Nevadans who may be at risk of losing their homes to attend the center closest to them. 
   "Today, our Mobile Resource Center makes its first stop in Reno," said Reid. "I urge all homeowners facing foreclosure to take advantage of all that these centers have to offer. The information the Mobile Resource Centers provide is invaluable and can help to prevent Nevadans from losing their homes." 
  The Foreclosure Mobile Resource Centers bring together government, lenders, and non-profit organizations to provide the information that homeowners need to help prevent foreclosure. Below is a list of dates, times, and organizations that will be on hand at each Mobile Resource Center: 
   WASHOE 
   Monday, November 26th
  2pm-4pm
  Sierra View Library (Reno Town Mall)
  4001 South Virginia Street, Reno, 89502
  Representatives from Housing and Urban Development, Credit Counseling Services, Wells Fargo, Countrywide, Freddie Mac and the Mortgage Bankers Assoc. 
  DOUGLAS
   Tuesday, November 27th
  10am-12pm
  Douglas County Public Library
  1625 Library Lane, Minden, 89423
  Representatives from Housing and Urban Development, Credit Counseling Services, Wells Fargo, Countrywide, the Mortgage Bankers Assoc., and JP Morgan Chase.
  ELKO
   Wednesday, November 28th
  12pm-2pm
  Elko County Library
  720 Court Street
  Representatives from Housing and Urban Development, Credit Counseling Services, Wells Fargo, Countrywide, and JP Morgan Chase.
  CLARK
   Thursday, November 29, 2007
  12pm-2pm
  Clark County Library - Flamingo
  1401 East Flamingo Road, Las Vegas, 89119
  Representatives from Clark County Legal Services, Consumer Credit Counseling, East Las Vegas CDC, Housing and Urban Development, Nevada Fair Housing, the Women's Development Center, Fannie Mae, Wells Fargo, Housing for Nevada, Countrywide, Freddie Mac, Mortgage Bankers Assoc., Bank of America, Citi Group, and Washington Mutual.
  NYE
   Friday, November 30, 2007
  12pm-2pm
  Pahrump Community Library
  701 East Street, Pahrump, 89048
   Representatives from Consumer Credit Counseling, Housing and Urban Development, Nevada Fair Housing, Wells Fargo, Housing for Nevada, Countrywide, Mortgage Bankers Assoc., Bank of America, and Washington Mutual.
 
 