DEMOCRATS DEMAND NEW DIRECTION FOR AMERICA'S SECURITY
  A day after three top retired military officers offered a scathing analysis of how the failed Bush Administration Iraq policy is making America less safe, Senate Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Carl Levin and Senate Armed Services Committee Members Jack Reed and Hillary Rodham Clinton today called for a change. With the threat of terror growing and the military increasingly stretched thin, Democrats are fighting to take America's security in a new direction.  
   Recent press reports have laid bare the dangerous state of disrepair in which Bush Republican policies have left America's national security. The intelligence community has concluded that the war in Iraq has made the threat of terror worse. The military is now in open revolt against the Bush Administration, protesting that Army cannot maintain its current activity in Iraq and meet its other global commitments with out billions more in funding. Americans know it's time for a change, but the Bush Administration and the Do Nothing Republican Congress are satisfied with the status quo. 
   "Yesterday, DNI Negroponte said the NIE assessed that the Iraq jihad is shaping a new generation of terrorist leaders and operatives and that the Iraq jihad is 'fueling' the global jihadist movement," said Levin. "That's a sobering assessment. Not only has the Iraq war distracted us from the fight against terrorism, it's made the fight even tougher. We are seeing deepening sectarian conflict in Iraq. The reported CIA estimate provides powerful evidence to change course in Iraq." 
   "Iraq was a strategic mistake. The Bush Administration's mishandling of the war has increased the number of radical Islamic fundamentalists and resentment and hatred of the United States," said Reed. "Furthermore, five years in Iraq has stretched our military so thin that they would have great difficulty addressing the growing terrorist threat." 
   "The Bush-Cheney Administration has stretched our military to the brink, stretched the facts to fit their ideology, and stretched the patience of the American people with rhetoric instead of results. The Bush-Cheney-Rumsfeld team cannot gloss over the cold hard facts: their policies are failing, our military is breaking, and the American people are demanding a change," said Senator Clinton. 
   America's security is headed in the wrong direction, and the American people expect and deserve change. The Do Nothing Republican Congress has refused to hold the Bush Administration accountable for policies for its failures. Democrats are fighting to take our national security in a new direction, with the tough and smart policies to give the American people the real security they deserve.
 
 