SEN. REID CALLS ON BUSH TO TAKE REAL STEPS TOWARDS PRICE RELEIF, ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  Democratic Leader Harry Reid released the following statement: 
   "Today's announcement from President Bush amounts to little more than half measures and wrongheaded policies that will do nothing to address the current energy crisis or break the stranglehold that foreign oil has on our nation. Instead, the president has clearly chosen to continue our dependence on foreign oil by failing to make the real investments we need to develop renewable energy sources and biofuels that will benefit our economy, create jobs, free us from this national security threat our dependence creates and protect our environment.  
   "I agree that we must do more to increase our capacity to create energy but we also must take action today to provide relief to American consumers who are struggling under burdensome prices. The President has suggested there is nothing he can do to provide immediate price relief. That is simply untrue. We can and should do more to lower the price of gas today. 
   "As the energy debate moves to the Senate, Democrats are committed to working in the interests of American families, not big oil or foreign governments. We will be guided by our commitment to using American know-how to move towards energy independence." 
   THE DEMOCRATIC COMMITMENT TO ENERGY INDEPENDENCE 
   As the energy debate comes to the Senate, Democrats remain fully committed to working to pass an energy bill that will break our dependence on foreign oil and provide relief to American families who have continued to struggle under skyrocketing prices. These principles will guide Democrats as the issue is debated. 
   Renewable Electricity Standard: Numerous studies have demonstrated that a national standard would save consumers money on their energy bill, create jobs and help clear our air. We urge you to include a strong renewable electricity standard which would require 10 percent of our electricity to come from geothermal, solar, wind and biomass by 2015. 
   Oil Savings: To make our nation more secure and move us towards energy independence requires that we take rapid but reasonable steps to reduce our consumption of oil. We urge you to include a provision to reduce oil consumption by at least 1.75 million barrels of oil per day or greater by 2015. 
   Electricity Reliability: The Senate bill should require mandatory and enforceable electricity reliability standards and ban on Enron-type market manipulation. 
   Energy Efficiency: The bill and conference report should include strong energy efficiency standards for the residential and commercial building sector and the industrial sector, require appliance standards, expand the Energy Star program, and reauthorize the federal government building efficiency program. Energy efficiency is the quickest, cheapest and cleanest way to meet our energy demand. 
   Biofuels: The bill and conference report should require a significant increase in home-grown biofuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel. We can reduce our use of gasoline, create a new domestic industry with thousands of jobs, and gain secure supplies of fuel. 
   Climate Change: The Senate bill and conference report should require a comprehensive climate change title that put our nation on a path to stabilize and eventually reduce greenhouse gas emissions to fight the problem of global warming. 
   Tax Incentives: The Senate bill and conference report should include an appropriate, equitable, and diversified mixture of at least $16 billion in targeted energy tax incentives (including a production tax credit for geothermal, solar, wind, and biomass) over the next ten years, with offsets so that this can be done in a fiscally sound way. 
   Protect the Environment: Neither the bill and the conference report should not include any type of liability waiver for methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) producers; allow for oil and natural gas drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; or detrimental changes to the Clean Air Act and other environmental laws.
 
 