SEN. REID: IRAQ WAR IS HURTING NEVADA NATIONAL GUARD
  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada again called for a change of course in Iraq and the end to an escalation policy that is stretching the National Guard to the limit.  
   The National Guard's top priority is to protect Nevadans from danger and to act as a first line of defense when disaster - natural and otherwise - strikes. But as growing demands are placed on America's already overstretched military, the National Guard is called in to help, with hundreds Guardsmen and women from Nevada - and their equipment - being shipped to Iraq. Adding to the strain, when Guard units return, their equipment is left behind and members who honorably served often find the job they had when they left is no longer there for them when they come home. "The Iraq war is taking a toll on Nevada's National Guard and the Guard all across the country," said Reid. "Equipment is either destroyed or left behind in Iraq, which makes it difficult for Guardsmen and women to train and leaves them unprepared to serve the governor should disaster strike Nevada. I remain committed to doing everything possible to change course in Iraq and ensure that Nevada's National Guard has the tools it needs to protect Nevada's residents and the millions of people who visit our state every year." 
   To address the challenges confronting the Guard, Reid believes more money needs to be allocated to replace Guard equipment, we need to grow the military, and employers need to be encouraged to hire Guard members. While Guard members cannot be fired for their service, some employers make the work situation almost unbearable for returning servicemen and women, because they know there is a chance they could be redeployed. About 250 members of Nevada's National Guard are currently deployed. The Nevada Air National guard just deployed 45 additional guard members from their 152nd Wing and Intelligence section last week. The Army National Guard will deploy 60 guard members from the C1/1-168 GSAB (MEDEVAC) unit located at the Reno/Stead Airport in 2008.
 
 