DEMOCRATS HIGHLIGHT ACCOMPLISHMENTS IN FACE OF REPUBLICAN OBSTRUCTIONISM
  Sens. Charles Schumer and Debbie Stabenow and House Democratic Caucus Chair Rahm Emanuel today discussed Democrats' achievements since assuming the majority six months ago. Even with Republicans stalling progress at every turn, this Democratic Congress is delivering on our promises to move America forward.  
   Senate Democrats have made great progress in addressing America's priorities and tackling problems this Administration and past Republican Congresses have ignored. Both houses of Congress have passed energy legislation that strengthens our economy and national security, the 9/11 Commission recommendations, and tough ethics and lobbying reform. We also raised the minimum wage and balanced the budget.
   Unfortunately, Republicans have attempted to obstruct our progress us at every turn. Senate Republicans are forcing the Senate to waste hours upon hours debating meaningless motions - wasting Congress's time and the American people's time. The American people are counting on Republican Senators to help us lead the way, not stand in the way. Schumer, Stabenow and Emanuel also unveiled a Web video today highlighting Republican obstructionism over the past six months: http://democrats.senate.gov/journal/entry.cfm?id=277868&.
   "Once known as the Grand Ole Party, today the Republican Party can more aptly be described that the 'Grand Obstructionist Party,'" Schumer said. "Perhaps they see progress in a new Congress as defeat for them rather than a win for the American people. Whatever the reason, they need to know that by their obstructionism, they're not hurting Democrats, they're slighting the American people."
   Said Stabenow: "The Rubber Stamp Republicans have turned into the Road Block Republicans, and the American people deserve better. The new Democratic majority is making real progress on issues that matter to Americans, like homeland security, health care and the war in Iraq. Last year Americans stood up and demanded a new direction for our country and the Republicans have answered that call with a blind eye, a deaf ear and road block after road block."
   "On the very day that Jack Abramoff's sidekick Stephen Griles was being sentenced to a jail term, Senate Republicans blocked landmark lobbying reform legislation from getting to the President's desk. Old habits must die hard," Emanuel said. "Yesterday's court appearance served as a stark reminder of the Abramoff lobbying scandal, the control the special interests had over the Republican Congress, and the need for real lobbying reform. The American people aren't surprised by the acts of Senate Republicans, but they are disappointed."
 
 