SEN. REID HELPS SENATE PASS IMPORTANT SECURITY FUNDING FOR NEVADA
  U. S. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada led the passage of two important pieces of legislation: the Homeland Security Appropriations bill and the 9/11 Commission recommendations conference report. Both pieces of legislation will have significant positive impacts on Nevada. 
   The Homeland Security Appropriations bill includes funding to strengthen the border and ensure first responders have the tools they need to do their jobs. This includes $40 million in funding to improve Customs and Border Protections procedures at various airports. McCarran International Airport, one of the world's busiest passenger airports, will benefit from additional Customs and Border Patrol agents. This legislation was designed to improve security, while promoting business and leisure travel to the United States.
   "This additional funding will help streamline travel at McCarran International Airport while also making it more secure," said Reid. "Additional agents will have an immediate impact on travel, making it easier and more enjoyable for those traveling to Las Vegas."
   Reid also secured $145 million in funding for the National Domestic Preparedness Consortium which includes the Nevada Test Site (NTS). The NTS will receive around $22 million to continue its vital research of new security measures and operations.
   "Research and testing crucial to Nevada and the nation's security is done at the Nevada Test Site," said Reid. "I'm glad that I was able to deliver this funding that will allow the test site to continue its critical work."
   Passing the 9/11 Commission recommendations conference report makes Nevada and the rest of the nation safer. This legislation funds the most vulnerable cities and states, enhances communication capabilities for first responders, strengthens transit security, and improves oversight of our intelligence and homeland security systems.
   "This bill is long overdue. Millions of visitors travel to Las Vegas each year, making it vulnerable to terrorism. I'm glad that I have finally been able to provide the level of security we need to keep Nevada safe. I look forward to President Bush enacting this bill as soon as it reaches his desk."
 
 