SEN. REID BRINGS TOGETHER SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS FROM ALL 17 NEVADA COUNTIES
  Sen. Harry Reid invited all 17 of Nevada's school superintendents to sit down and have an open discussion about the impact No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB) is having on Nevada's school system. This is the first time the superintendents have met with Sen. Reid simultaneously. "After hearing story after story about how difficult the implementation of this law is in Nevada and across the nation, I found it imperative to speak with those educators on the front lines," said Sen. Reid. "Clearly, we must come together to fix this law in order to protect and preserve the quality of education for Nevada's children. To date, this law has had the opposite effect." In Nevada, there are 17 counties, each with its own superintendent who oversees all educational programs. Statewide, there are approximately 400,000 students in the elementary and secondary education program. Washoe County School District Superintendent Dr. Jim Hager is the chair of Nevada's School Superintendents. Recently, Hager expressed his frustrations with this law, namely that all students in all districts must show annual progress in math, English, and science by 2014. Dr. Jim Hager, speaking for all the superintendents, said, "We are very excited to meet with Senator Reid and express our concerns with the No Child Left Behind Act. While NCLB contains some good and valid concepts, we need to work through the bureaucratic requirements set by the Administration and find a realistic approach to help students learn and teachers teach." 
   Reid has tried to help improve the effects of the No Child Left Behind Act by introducing and supporting measures that will help Nevada's most vulnerable educational communities. Reid introduced legislation in the Senate that would give teachers in rural areas more time to meet the "highly qualified" certification in every subject they teach, a requirement of the No Child Left Behind Act. Thirteen of the 17 counties in Nevada would be helped by this bill. Recognizing the merit and need of this legislation, the Department of Education adopted this principle and implemented it in March 2004. "Since its passage in 2001, the No Child Left Behind Act has done more harm than good, and Nevada is suffering under the burden of the unfunded mandates this law has imposed," Reid added. "Congress passed this legislation, but President Bush does not include enough funding in his budget proposals. What I'm hearing from the superintendents today is that this has left our schools, our administrators, our teachers, and mostly our students hung out to dry." In the meeting, which took place at Nate Mack Elementary School, the superintendents from each county were invited to grade the No Child Left Behind Act with a poor, average, or excellent mark. Reid also encouraged the superintendents to submit their ideas for legislation that would improve the delivery of education in Nevada as it relates to the No Child Left Behind Act.
 
 