DEMOCRATS DECRY REPUBLICAN INACTION ON CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE CRISIS
  New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez and Wisconsin Gov. Jim Doyle today held a conference call with reporters to discuss the rapidly-approaching shortfall in funding for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), a shortfall that will put the health insurance of over 600,000 low-income children at risk. Though this funding crisis has been on the horizon for months, like so much in the Do Nothing Republican Congress, it has been ignored. A state-by-state analysis of the importance of the SCHIP program and the dangerous consequences if it is not fully funded follows this release.  
   A bipartisan program that helps fund state health insurance programs for low-income children across America, SCHIP is a critical support for American families who are increasingly struggling to get by. If left without the funding they need, state-run programs like the innovative BadgerCare in Wisconsin will be forced to make tough decisions that will leave even more American children without health insurance. States like New Jersey could face a funding shortfall of more than $150 million--nationwide the total gap is more than $888 million. Democrats in Washington and across America have consistently fought to ensure America's children keep the health insurance they depend on. Legislation Senator Menendez has co-sponsored in the Senate will fix the gap. Sadly, a Do Nothing Congress that has so far accomplished little for the American people seems unlikely to address the problem in its waning days. Democrats today called for a new direction, where the health of America's children is considered a priority. 
   "Not a single member of Congress would let their own child go without health care," Senator Menendez said. "So why will this Congress allow America's neediest children to do without health care? We must pass the Keep Children Covered Act to ensure states like New Jersey aren't forced to take drastic steps due to millions in SCHIP shortfalls."
   "This is just another example of how when it comes to health care, the Republican Congress is part of the problem, not part of the solution," Governor Doyle said. "Wisconsin's BadgerCare program is a model for the nation in providing health insurance to working families and kids, but unless Congress takes action in the next two weeks, we'll face a significant funding shortfall. I hope that Congress and President Bush will do the right thing and provide this funding so we can continue to provide the services people depend on." 
   Tens of millions of Americans--and millions of children--lack health care in America today, but the 109th Congress has failed to address the problem. Democrats believe the least leaders in Washington can do is to keep more from unnecessarily losing the care they do have. With children set to lose their health insurance because the Republican Congress has failed to do its job, it is time for a new direction.
 
 