SENS. REID, ENSIGN PUSH FOR MORE GEOTHERMAL ENERGY
Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign were joined today by western senators in a letter Interior Secretary nominee Dick Kempthorne, Acting Interior Secretary Lynn Scarlett, and Bureau of Land Management Director Kathleen Clark to move forward on geothermal energy research. 
 For eight months, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has not been conducting any geothermal lease sales on federal lands because the Interior Department has not been able to issue new regulations for geothermal leases or provide a timeline for completion. During that time, over 120 lease applications have been submitted to the Reno BLM office, but the applications have been not been processed. The lengthy delays in revamping federal regulations have created similar situations throughout the West.  
 Nevada is poised to be a national leader in renewable energy production. Fifteen geothermal plants in the state are already producing electricity. The development of geothermal energy in Nevada is expected to help to stabilize electricity and natural gas prices for consumers. Geothermal energy development will also produce new and high-paying jobs across much of rural Nevada. 
 The text of the letter to Governor Kempthorne, Acting Interior Secretary Scarlett, and BLM Director Clark is below. 
 April 28, 2006 
 The Honorable Dirk Kempthorne The Honorable Lynn Scarlett 
 Governor, State of Idaho Acting Secretary of the Interior 
 PO Box 83720 1849 C Street, N.W. Boise, Idaho 83720 Washington, DC 20240 
 The Honorable Kathleen Clark 
 Director, Bureau of Land Management 
 1849 C St, N.W. 
 Washington, DC 20240 
 Dear Governor Kempthorne, Ms. Scarlett, and Ms. Clarke: 
 We are writing to express our strong concern about the inability of the Bureau of Land Managements (BLM) to process geothermal leases on federal lands in a timely fashion. We understand that the BLM has not conducted any geothermal lease sales on federal lands since beginning an analysis in August of 2005 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58) and its changes to the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-581). 
 There are nearly 6,000 megawatts of geothermal energy that can and should be brought into production in Western states over the next ten years. With advances in technology and sensible tax policies, even more of the largely untapped domestic resource base could be quickly developed. 
 The American Job Creation Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-357) took the first steps toward expanding federal incentives for new geothermal power production and to bring that power online and to market. The legislation included a 5-year 1.8 cent production tax credit for new geothermal facilities in service by January 1, 2006. Last year, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 expanded upon the American Job Creation Act and extended availability of the renewable energy production tax credit through 2007 and expanded the scope of the geothermal facilities that would be covered by the production tax credit. 
 The Geothermal Steam Act of 1970, as amended (84 Stat, 1566; 30 U.S.C. 1001-1025) provides the Secretary of the Interior with the authority and responsibility to lease public lands and other federal lands, including National Forest lands, for geothermal exploration and development in an environmentally sound manner. This authority was subsequently delegated to the BLM. 
 To date, approximately eight months have passed since the BLM has successfully processed a single geothermal lease on federal land. The BLM's inability to process geothermal leases has created a substantial backlog of lease applications and is causing investor and regulatory uncertainty, as well as running counter to Congressional intent and the need for additional electricity supply to meet demand growth. BLM's delay is seriously jeopardizing the economic viability of many promising geothermal projects, since the delay is consuming much of the "placed in service" window for production tax credit-eligible projects. 
 We strongly urge the Department to move much more swiftly to issue the necessary regulations, interim or final, and finish processing the backlog of geothermal leases. Please provide us with the current status of the geothermal leasing program in the West, the resources assigned to implementation, as well as a schedule of implementation that will allow most if not all projects currently held in abeyance to be permitted and operating well before the end of the "placed in service" period. 
 We look forward to your prompt response on this matter. Geothermal power is important to the economic vitality of the West. 
 Sincerely, 
 Senator Harry Reid (D-NV) 
 Senator John Ensign (R-NV) 
 Senator Ken Salazar (D-CO) 
 Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) 
 Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) 
 Senator Wayne Allard (R-CO) 
 Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID) 
 Senator Daniel Akaka (D-HI) 
 Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) 
 Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) 
 Senator Larry Craig (R-ID) 
 Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) 
 Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) 
 Senator Daniel Inouye (D-HI).
 
 