DEMOCRATS PLEDGE TO FIGHT FOR 'PROMISE OF AMERICA'
  Today, standing in the shadow of one of the nation's great presidents, Democratic Senators stood united in protection of the Constitution and against the Republican abuse of power. Sens. Reid, Durbin, Schumer, Clinton, Kennedy, and Boxer urged Republicans to end their partisan bickering over seven radical judges and get back to the people's business.  
   "This is about priorities," said Democratic Leader Harry Reid. "The Republican party's priorities are way out of line. They are willing to fight for seven radical judges, but they can't fight for a budget that meets the needs of our schools, our cops and our veterans. Republicans are abusing their power and leaving working Americans to fend for themselves. The American people have a very different set of priorities and so do Democrats." 
   At the event, the Democrats outlined the priorities they will continue to fight for, even if the Republicans insist on breaking the rules to change the rules in the Senate. 
   "President Bush, Senator Frist, and Majority Leader DeLay are on a quest for absolute power in Washington, even if it means corrupting our government and the vision of our founding fathers," said Harry Reid. "While Republicans corrupt our government, Democrats will fight to protect our constitutional checks and balances and basic fairness for the American people." 
   Should Republicans insist on going forward with the "nuclear" option, the Democrats maintained they will focus the Senate on legislation that addresses the promise of America and concerns of working Americans, including: 
   1. Women's Health Care (S. 844). "The Prevention First Act of 2005" will reduce the number of unintended pregnancies and abortions by increasing funding for family planning and ending health insurance discrimination against women. 
   2. Veterans' Benefits (S. 845). "The Retired Pay Restoration Act of 2005" will assist disabled veterans who, under current law, must choose to either receive their retirement pay or disability compensation. 
   3. Fiscal Responsibility (S. 851). Democrats will move to restore fiscal discipline to government spending and extend the pay-as-you-go requirement. 
   4. Relief at the Pump (S. 847). Democrats plan to halt the diversion of oil from the markets to the strategic petroleum reserve. By releasing oil from the reserve through a swap program, the plan will bring down prices at the pump. 
   5. Education (S. 848). Democrats have a bill that will: strengthen head start and child care programs, improve elementary and secondary education, provide a roadmap for first generation and low-income college students, provide college tuition relief for students and their families, address the need for math, science and special education teachers, and make college affordable for all students. 
   6. Jobs (S. 846). Democrats will work in support of legislation that guarantees overtime pay for workers and sets a fair minimum wage. 
   7. Energy Markets (S. 870). Democrats work to prevent Enron-style market manipulation of electricity. 
   8. Corporate Taxation (S. 872). Democrats make sure companies pay their fair share of taxes to the U.S. government instead of keeping profits overseas. 
   9. Standing with our troops (S. 11). Democrats believe that putting America's security first means standing up for our troops and their families.
 
 