BREAST CANCER RESEARCH FUNDING BILL IS ONE STEP CLOSER TO PASSAGE
  A bill sponsored by Nevada Senator Harry Reid to study the possible links between breast cancer and the environment passed an important milestone. Despite the threat of fifteen amendments that were filed to the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act by Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK), the bill passed out of the Senate Health, Environment, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee in tact. 
  "I'm pleased this bill passed another hurdle," said Reid. "I will continue to do all I can to pass this important legislation because it will help to provide answers to the 1,100 plus Nevada women who were diagnosed with breast cancer last year and to all of the individuals who are touched by this disease."
  "Senator Harry Reid is a true leader in our mission to end breast cancer," said Fran Visco, President of the National Breast Cancer Coalition. "He gave us his word that this bill would pass this year and we know that under his leadership, that will happen. We are grateful for his support. He has been key to successfully moving this bill through the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee and women and their families across the country join me in thanking him."
  According to the Nevada Cancer Institute, Nevada women rank 26th in the nation for breast cancer incidence and 19th for breast cancer deaths.
  Reid's Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act would create a national strategy for conducting research into the possible links between breast cancer and the environment. It establishes a peer-reviewed grant program within the National Institutes of Health to fund multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional research that includes collaboration with community organizations, to study environmental factors that may cause breast cancer. The legislation authorizes $40 million per year over five years for this research program. This research may lead to a better understanding of breast cancer that could improve efforts to prevent, treat and cure it.
 
 