SEN. REID HONORS MINDEN CENTENNIAL
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada released the following statement published in the Congressional Record to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Miden's formal establishment, which is this Sunday, July 2, 2006. 
   Here are excerpts from the Senator's statement:  
   "I rise today to commemorate a historic and important event in Nevada. On July 2, 2006, the town of Minden will celebrate its 100th anniversary."
   "Located in the scenic Carson Valley, Minden is best known for its beauty. The Carson Valley Mountain Range provides an imposing, but beautiful, background for the small community of 7,500. Minden is widely known for its small town charm because the town was mapped and planned before a single brick was laid. Visitors and residents of Minden can see the planning even today in the neatly laid streets and buildings. Minden retains its turn-of-the-century feel, and most of the original architecture is still evident in the town."
   "Like other communities in the Carson Valley, Minden was founded as a result of the railroad. In 1905, the Virginia and Truckee Railroad explored possible locations to expand their rail line. Heinrick Frederick Dangberg, offered to donate land from the H.F. Dangberg Land and Livestock Company for the expansion. The railroad accepted his offer, and Dangberg submitted a plan for the new town to the Douglas County Commissioners in 1906. In choosing a name for the new town, Dangberg honored his birthplace near Minden, Germany."
   "The Virginia and Truckee Railroad carried gold and silver from the famed Comstock Load in Virginia City, Nevada. But by the time of their proposed expansion in 1905, the railroad began to look for new sources of revenue. They found a lucrative revenue source in transporting livestock, and the new branch of the railroad that ran through Minden became the main shipping route for livestock going from San Francisco to Chicago."
   "With the railroad and other businesses in the town, Minden and the neighboring community of Gardnerville became the center of commerce for the Carson Valley. In 1915, there was a growing sentiment to move the courthouse from Genoa to a more populated area. More than 150 people from the Carson Valley traveled to the state capital to see the Nevada Senate vote to move the county seat to Minden. With the completion of a new courthouse in 1916, Minden replaced Genoa as the county seat of Douglas County."
   "In 1925, one of the most famous Minden residents, David Derek Stacton, was born. Over the course of his life, Stacton won wide acclaim as an author and a poet. He was honored as a Guggenheim fellow in 1960 and 1966. Although he passed away at the early age of 41, Stacton left us many critically acclaimed histories on subjects from Napoleon to Nefertiti."
   "By 1950, the Virginia and Truckee Railroad was struggling, and the operation was closed down. For a town that grew out of the end of the railroad line, this loss was a big change for the community. The people of Minden met this challenge, and other industries soon came to Minden, many of them high tech firms from California. Among those companies was Bently Industries, the maker of vibration monitoring equipment. Today, a steady wave of high tech companies continues to relocate to Minden and Douglas County."
   "This small town - which got its first traffic light in 1985 -has managed to move itself into the 21st century, without losing its historic charm. Every June, thousands of Nevadans travel from all over to take part in the Carson Valley Days. Co-hosted by Minden and Gardnerville, Carson Valley Days is an annual event with a parade, carnival, live music, truck pull, and arts and crafts. This historic event was started in 1910 by H.F. Dangberg, and it is now in its 96th year."
   "Mr. President, I'm proud to have a town like Minden in my home state, and I congratulate the people of Minden on their 100th anniversary. I encourage all my colleagues in the Senate and all the people of this great country to experience this beautiful and historic part of Nevada."
 
 