SEN. REID: REPUBLICANS IGNORE 9/11 FAMILIES, MAKE AMERICA LESS SECURE BY BLOCKING IMPLEMENTATION OF 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS
  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid made the following statement today in response to Republican objections to appointing members to a conference committee on the 9/11 Commission Recommendations bill. A statement issued by the 9/11 Families, which calls for passage of the bill appears below. 
   "Nearly six years after the attacks of 9/11, we face the same threat that we faced that day: Osama bin Laden and a determined extremist group intent on harming Americans. Today, we heard the views of the 9/11 families that reminded us once again how urgently the reforms we passed in the 9/11 bill are needed, yet Republicans continue to block our efforts to move forward."
   "Since we took control of the Senate, Democrats have been working to get things done for the American people, but Republicans have been obstructing these efforts at every step of the way. I had hoped they would reconsider their obstruction when it comes to moving legislation that would make America more secure, but they continue to object. It is tragic that the American people must remain less safe as a result of the Republicans' obstruction."
   STATEMENT ON STATUS OF 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION BILL
  June 28, 2007
   The 9/11 families are grateful to Congressional Leadership for taking the difficult step of removing a controversial labor provision from pending security legislation intended to implement the remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations. We recognize that this was a difficult decision for them, considering their party's long-standing dedication to the principles involved.
    Passage of this bill is long overdue, particularly in light of bipartisan support at the bill's inception in both the House and Senate. The Democrats have taken an important step toward improving our national security by removing what the opposition identified as an impediment to the bill's passage.
   Senate Republican leadership must, in turn, stop blocking the naming of conferees so that this critical legislation can move forward. Similarly, the Administration should cease its threats to veto legislation regarding provisions that go to the heart of the 9/11 Commission's recommendations.
   Everyone must work together. The safety and security of our country is at stake.
   Carol Ashley
  Mother of Janice, 25
  Voices of September 11th
   Rosemary Dillard
  Widow of Eddie, 54
  9/11 Pentagon Families
   Beverly Eckert
  Widow of Sean Rooney, 50
  Families of September 11
   Mary Fetchet
  Mother of Brad, 24
  Director, Voices of September 11th
   Carie Lemack
  Daughter of Judy Larocque, 50
  President, Families of September 11
   Abraham Scott
  Widower of Janice, 46
  9/11 Pentagon Families.
 
 