SEN. REID HIGHLIGHTS $500K TO MAKE NEVADA SCHOOL BUSES CLEANER, SAFER
  Working to better protect the health and well being of Nevada's children and help school districts with the increasing costs of transportation, Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada announced $500,000 to replace and retrofit outdated school buses.  
   "Our kids need cleaner, safer buses to transport them to and from school. I have consistently supported efforts to make programs like these possible because Nevada will benefit from the short and long term rewards," said Reid. "In the short-term, this program will help the well being and health of our children and ease the financial burden that many of our school districts are facing. In the long-term, replacing and retrofitting old school buses will help improve air quality and protect our environment." 
   Many rural school districts in rural Nevada are operating outdated and unsafe school buses and do not have the additional funding to improve or replace their school bus fleet. The skyrocketing fuel prices have only made the problem worse. 
   Under the program, hundreds of school buses serving mainly rural counties will be installed with pollution control devices to lower emissions. 
   "We are grateful for Senator Reid's assistance in helping Nevada to obtain this much needed funding to provide additional safe transportation to and from school for children in Nevada," said Governor Kenny Guinn."
   In 2004 and 2005, Reid also introduced legislation that will help rural school districts transport children to school in a way that is safe, affordable and environmentally sound. The "Bus Utility and Safety in School Transportation Opportunity and Purchasing Act of 2005" - or BUS STOP - authorizes the federal government to provide $50,000,000 in grants on a competitive basis to rural local educational agencies seeking federal share assistance to purchase school buses. The federal share would be 75 percent.
   The $500,000 grant will go to the Nevada Office of Energy for the program.
 
 