SEN. REID, SPEAKER PELOSI SIGN 'LIVE EARTH PLEDGE'
  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi were proud to be among the first to sign the "Live Earth Pledge," created by former Vice President Al Gore. The pledge is in conjunction with the global "Live Earth" event to be held on every continent on July 7 (7-7-07). 
   "I am proud to sign this pledge to do my part to solve the climate crisis," said Reid. "By working together on all levels, at home, school, work, and church, we can all play a role in protecting our planet for future generations. I encourage everyone to sign this pledge and get involved in this important movement to help raise awareness about the things we can and must do to avert global warming." 
   "By signing this pledge, I rededicate myself to the prevention of dangerous global warming," Pelosi said. "The climate crisis is as local as our neighborhoods and as global as the planet. We must act swiftly to protect God's creation from dramatic changes that threaten our national security and health, our crops and coastlines, and the very survival of many species on earth. Reducing global warming is also an opportunity to stimulate new and innovative technologies, create new 'green' jobs, and reduce pollutants that are harmful to human health."
   Reid and Pelosi have long been leaders in efforts to protect the environment and address climate change. Most recently, Senator Reid led the passage of major energy legislation to make cars and trucks more fuel efficient, grow the production and use of clean renewable fuels, and reduce America's reliance on oil. This morning, Pelosi announced the House's "Energy Independence Day" legislation to make the nation energy independent and reduce global warming.
   Reid and Pelosi, who believe Washington must lead by example, are working together on an initiative to "green" the U.S. Capitol.
   The pledge as signed by Senator Reid and Speaker Pelosi is below.
   I PLEDGE:
   1. To demand that my country join an international treaty within the next 2 years that cuts global warming pollution by 90% in developed countries and by more than half worldwide in time for the next generation to inherit a healthy earth;
   2. To take personal action to help solve the climate crisis by reducing my own CO2 pollution as much as I can and offsetting the rest to become "carbon neutral;"
   3. To fight for a moratorium on the construction of any new generating facility that burns coal without the capacity to safely trap and store the CO2;
   4. To work for a dramatic increase in the energy efficiency of my home, workplace, school, place of worship, and means of transportation;
   5. To fight for laws and policies that expand the use of renewable energy sources and reduce dependence on oil and coal;
   6. To plant new trees and to join with others in preserving and protecting forests; and,
   7. To buy from businesses and support leaders who share my commitment to solving the climate crisis and building a sustainable, just, and prosperous world for the 21st century.
 
 