SEN. REID HOSTS MEETING FOR DROUGHT MANAGEMENT
  Federal and local leaders gathered at a Henderson water treatment plant today to discuss new ideas to meet Southern Nevada's water needs in the face of rapid population growth and the longest drought in modern history. The forum, called Western Water Vision, was hosted by Sen. Harry Reid and the Southern Nevada Water Authority. Sens. John Ensign and Bennett Raley, a U.S. Assistant Secretary of the Interior also took part in the bipartisan event. 
   "Seeing the Las Vegas Strip rise from the desert is testament to the incredible resourcefulness of Nevadans," said Reid. "We need to harness that same resourcefulness to meet the challenges posed by the drought. The people joining me today have the vision and experience to help Southern Nevada do just that - to expand the recycling of our water, to harness the market to better manage the Colorado River among the lower basin states, and to bring new technology like desalinization to fruition. Together with the conservation efforts of each of us in our homes and private businesses, we can meet the challenge and build on Nevada's strong economic growth and excellent quality of life."
   "My family is proud to call southern Nevada home, and we love living here," Ensign said. "In order for future generations to maintain our quality of life, we must come together to create solutions for managing the drought. I am confident that southern Nevada - home to cutting edge technology, world-class research facilities, and fearless entrepreneurship - will meet this challenge and continue to flourish."
   Reid invited Raley to discuss his work to bring the Colorado River states together. During his tenure as assistant secretary, Raley helped craft complex water trading deals in California that were important to assuring Nevada's water supply. Just last week, the seven states that use Colorado River water met with Raley in Las Vegas to discuss ways to meet increased water demands - through better management, new development of in-state resources, and water trades among states.
   "The strong working relationships among the States, along with the close attention that Sen. Reid and other members of Congress from the Basin have paid to these issues, makes me very optimistic that we can build on the successes of 2003 to address Nevada's water needs," Raley said.
   Pat Mulroy, General Manager of the Southern Nevada Water Authority, discussed several water-saving strategies that are already being used in Nevada - including water banking and water recycling.
   "The drought has taught us that we must reduce our over dependence on the Colorado River," said Mulroy. "We have a plan to develop additional water resources that will secure Nevada's economic future and protect the health and safety of our residents."
 
 