SENATE DEMOCRATIC LEADERS TO CALL ON CLEAR CHANNEL TO RENOUNCE LIMBAUGH'S ATTACK ON NATION'S TROOPS
  Senate Democratic leaders will send the following letter early next week to Mark P. Mays, CEO of Clear Channel Communications, calling on him to publicly repudiate Rush Limbaugh's characterization of troops who speak out against the Iraq war as "phony soldiers." The leaders are waiting to send Clear Channel this letter in order to give their colleagues - including those who have recently spoken up against attacks on our troops' patriotism - the opportunity to sign this letter and join in expressing outrage at Mr. Limbaugh's indefensible comments. 
   Below is the text of the letter:
   Mr. Mark P. Mays
  CEO, Clear Channel Communications Inc.
  200 East Basse Road
  San Antonio, TX 78209
   Dear Mr. Mays,
   At the time we sign this letter, 3,801 American soldiers have been killed in Iraq, and another 27,936 have been wounded. 160,000 others awoke this morning on foreign sand, far from home, to face the danger and uncertainty of another day at war.
   Although Americans of goodwill debate the merits of this war, we can all agree that those who serve with such great courage deserve our deepest respect and gratitude. That is why Rush Limbaugh's recent characterization of troops who oppose the war as "phony soldiers" is such an outrage.
   Our troops are fighting and dying to bring to others the freedoms that many take for granted. It is unconscionable that Mr. Limbaugh would criticize them for exercising the fundamentally American right to free speech. Mr. Limbaugh has made outrageous remarks before, but this affront to our soldiers is beyond the pale.
   The military, like any community within the United States, includes members both for and against the war. Senior generals, such as General John Batiste and Paul Eaton, have come out against the war while others have publicly supported it. A December 2006 poll conducted by the Military Times found just 35 percent of service members approved of President Bush's handling of the war in Iraq, compared to 42 percent who disapproved. From this figure alone, it is clear that Mr. Limbaugh's insult is directed at thousands of American service members.
   Active and retired members of our armed forces have a unique perspective on the war and offer a valuable contribution to our national debate. In August, seven soldiers wrote an op-ed expressing their concern with the current strategy in Iraq. Tragically, since then, two of those seven soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq.
   Thousands of active troops and veterans were subjected to Mr. Limbaugh's unpatriotic and indefensible comments on your broadcast. We trust you will agree that not a single one of our sons, daughters, neighbors and friends serving overseas is a "phony soldier." We call on you to publicly repudiate these comments that call into question their service and sacrifice and to ask Mr. Limbaugh to apologize for his comments.
   Sincerely,
   Senator Harry Reid
  Majority Leader 
   Senator Richard Durbin
  Assistant Majority Leader
   Senator Charles Schumer 
  Vice Chairman 
  Democratic Conference.
   Senator Patty Murray
  Secretary
  Democratic Conference.
 
 