SEN. REID: YUCCA MOUNTAIN BILL A STEP IN RIGHT DIRECTION
  The Senate Appropriations Committee today passed a bill that will cut funding for the proposed Yucca Mountain nuclear waste dump, create a program to store nuclear waste at interim sites outside Nevada, and demand an audit of how the Department of Energy is spending its Yucca Mountain money. 
   One of the principle architects of the bill, U.S. Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), said the measure is good for Nevada.
   "This bill isn't exactly what I wanted, but it's a good step in the right direction," said Reid. "It acknowledges that the proposed Yucca Mountain nuclear dump is failing, and that we must look at other solutions. My preferred solution would be on-site dry cask storage - and this bill would allow and encourage that. It also allows for temporary interim storage sites in states or regions outside Nevada that have civilian nuclear reactors. It's a good bipartisan compromise." 
   Reid is the ranking member on the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which approved the bill earlier this week. Today the full Committee approved the measure, clearing the way for a full Senate vote. 
   The FY '07 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill provides $494 million for the Yucca Mountain project in fiscal year 2007 - slightly less than this year's $500 million budget. Reid has kept the project's budget at the same level for three years now, without even increases to offset inflation. 
   The bill's Yucca budget is $50 million less than the Bush Administration requested, and about half what the Department of Energy estimates it needs to keep the Yucca Mountain Project on schedule. 
   "The Yucca Mountain Project is bogged down in scientific, health, and safety problems," said Reid. "I don't believe the dump will ever open, and I think any money spent on Yucca is wasted. That's why I'm happy we've at least managed to keep the funding levels low."
   The $494 million budget for Yucca includes $10 million that would actually be used for a different project - a plan to create interim storage sites outside of Nevada. 
   The measure contains language instructing the Department of Energy to work with states that have nuclear reactors to identify the need for, feasibility of, and location of, interim storage sites within those states or regions. Nuclear waste could be stored at those sites for 25 years. The bill upholds the conditions of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, which specifies that no interim storage can be placed in Nevada.
   The FY '07 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill also requires a General Accounting Office audit of the Yucca Mountain budget money. The audit would ensure that all appropriated money is spent in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. Reid says he'll work to get the bill to the Senate floor as soon as possible.
 
 