SEN. REID INTRODUCES SAFE SKIES ACT
  Today, Sen. Harry Reid gave the following speech on the Floor of the U.S. Senate, announcing his new bill, the Safer Skies Act of 2006. The new legislation will allow local law enforcement officers to carry their firearms on aircrafts, making airplanes more secure and helping local law enforcement travel across country more easily.
   The text of Senator Reid's remarks is below. 
   "Mr. President, I rise today to re-introduce legislation I originally introduced last Congress, a bill to make air travel safer by allowing local law enforcement to carry their firearms on aircrafts, the "Safer Skies Act of 2006."
   "This legislation is needed to increase the safety of our airplanes, as well as to make it easier for local law enforcement to travel across the county. Whether on official travel or personal travel, Federal law enforcement officers are allowed to carry firearms with them throughout their flights. The legislation I am introducing today would extend the same privilege-and responsibility-to local law enforcement officers."
   "Ever since the horrific terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, we have seen how our local emergency responders, including local law enforcement officers, play a vital role in protecting not just their local communities, but the entire Nation. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita are the most recent examples. We think of local law enforcement officers as our nation's first responders, but they are also the nation's early preventers. They are the first to identify local crimes that could turn into national attacks. They are the first to report suspicious behavior that could thwart a future terrorist attack. And they are the ones who can keep our nation safe by stopping a terrorist threat before it becomes an attack. Their eyes, ears and experience are critical to our national security, and that includes on airplanes."
   "Hundreds, thousands of police officers use the nation's airlines each day. Authorizing certain qualified local Police Officers to carry their weapons onto planes, whether on or off duty, will give airline personal access to additional assistance if needed. The unique, long-term training in handling various disturbances including hostage situations, barricaded subjects, drunken persons and the mentally ill will provide added security to our nation's flights and enhance passenger safety. Authorizing qualified local officers to carry their duty weapons on aircrafts is a way to be proactive in enhancing the security of our nation's air travel. It will also have a deterrent effect on potential hijackers, knowing their may be more armed law enforcement on any given flight."
   "A terrorist attack in any city is a national concern. Local law enforcement officers are a crucial element of the plan to protect our Nation. I want to thank the Las Vegas Police Protective Association and the National Association of Police Organizations for their support of this important legislation. In particular, I would like to thank Detective David Kallas, Executive Director Las Vegas Police Protective Association, Detectives Chris Collins and Michelle Jotz, and John Dean Harper for their input and advice."
   "With their help, we have produced legislation that will keep our country safe, by giving law enforcement the standing they deserve as they continue to protect our hometowns and the nation. I ask unanimous consent that both this letter of support from the National Association of Police Organizations and the text of the bill be printed in the Record."
 
 