SEN. REID FIGHTS FOR BREAST CANCER RESEARCH FUNDING
  A bill championed by U.S. Senator Harry Reid (D-NV) that would increase research into the causes of breast cancer is now one step closer to passage.  
   The Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act won approval from the Senate Health, Environment, Labor, and Pensions Committee today. 
   The bill provides funding for research into possible environmental causes of breast cancer, a disease that will affect one in eight American women during their lifetime. 
   "Our scientists will not be able to find a cure for breast cancer until we know what causes it, and until now there has been only limited research into the potential links between environmental toxins and breast cancer," said Reid. "This is a disease that affects thousands of women in Nevada, and all their friends and families. We need to support research so we can find a cure." 
   About three million women in America are living with breast cancer. This year alone, almost 275,000 new cases are expected to be diagnosed - 1,660 of those patients will be in Nevada. 
   Scientists have identified some risk factors for breast cancer, but fewer than 30% of cases can be explained by those factors. Environmental toxins could be partly responsible for America's high breast cancer rate, but very little research has been done on the subject. 
   Reid's Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act would create a national strategy for conducting research into the possible links between breast cancer and the environment. It authorizes $30 million a year for five years for the National Institutes of Health. The funding would be used to establish eight multi-disciplinary centers to study the impact of environmental factors on breast cancer. Ultimately, the studies could lead to treatments and prevention strategies for the disease. 
   "We are grateful for Senator Reid's longstanding commitment to the Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act," said Fran Visco, President of the National Breast Cancer Coalition. "Senator Reid's support has been vital to the success of this legislation which will help us to discover the causes of breast cancer, and gain the knowledge needed to prevent it, treat it more effectively, and, hopefully, eradicate this disease. The National Breast Cancer Coalition appreciates and recognizes Senator Reid's sustained leadership in advancing policies that will assist us in achieving our mission to end breast cancer."
   "Reid's bill now goes to the full Senate. Reid says he'll work to bring it up for a vote as soon as possible."
 
 