SEN. REID ANNOUNCES NEW COMMUNICATIONS CENTER
  Democratic Leader-elect Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) today announced he is creating a new communications 'War Room' in the U.S. Capitol to provide Democrats a visible and vocal platform from which they will be heard. "As the Democratic leader, I will ensure that all Americans - from my rural hometown of Searchlight to the nation's big cities - know the values and principles for which Democrats stand," Sen. Reid said.  
   "That is why I have formed an aggressive operation with the best talent in the country to spread the word and get the truth out." Jim Manley, a seasoned and skilled media operative on Capitol Hill, will be Staff Director of the new Senate Democratic Communications Center (SDCC). Manley will oversee a 15-member staff, message development and communications strategy for Reid and the Democratic caucus. For the past 11 years, Manley has served as Press Secretary for Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-MA) and the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. 
   Prior to the HELP committee, Manley worked for former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D-ME). Phil Singer will come on board as Communications Director, handling rapid response and messaging for Reid and Senate Democrats. Singer has earned widespread praise for his media savvy, tenacity and know-how, most recently as National Spokesperson for Kerry-Edwards 2004. Before the Presidential campaign, Singer spent four years as Communications Director for Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY). Tessa Hafen will join as Press Secretary, working alongside Manley and Singer while also ensuring focus and priority for Nevada and regional media. 
   Hafen, a native Nevadan, has been essential to Team Reid since she joined six years ago, most recently as Campaign Press Secretary on his overwhelmingly successful re-election in Nevada. Senator Reid also said the new Senate Democratic Communications Center will aggressively pioneer Internet outreach, including online news outlets and blogs. "We will use every tool and innovative avenue available to us to get our message out," Reid said. 
   "The Internet is the future, and it is vital to this new communications project." The SDCC will be launched January 4, 2005 , when Sen Reid is sworn in as the new Democratic Leader. Contact information will be distributed at that time.
 
 