SUSAN MCCUE, MAJORITY LEADER REID CHIEF OF STAFF, TO JOIN ONE AS PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Senate Democratic Majority Leader Harry Reid announced today that his long-time Chief of Staff Susan McCue is leaving the Senate to join the ONE campaign as its first President and Chief Executive Officer. Capitol Hill veteran and top Reid aide, Gary Myrick, will succeed McCue.  
 McCue has worked for Senator Reid for nearly 15 years and as his Chief of Staff since 1999. As the Senator Reid's top aide, she managed his policy, political, communications and state offices, working daily with members of Congress and congressional staff on both sides of the aisle. When Reid was elected Democratic Leader in 2004, McCue was tasked with assembling and managing a new leadership team to rebuild and reassert progressive strength. At the same time, she created a widely praised and far-reaching communications operation that has led to unprecedented unity and coordination among House and Senate caucuses along with interest and advocacy groups across the country. 
 McCue, who will leave the Senate in January, will be replaced by Gary Myrick as Chief of Staff. With Reid since 2003, Myrick was hired by then Assistant Democratic Leader Reid to be his eyes and ears on the Senate Floor and is credited as playing an instrumental role in Reid's mastery of the intricacies of the Senate. Upon his election as Democratic Leader in 2004, Reid asked Myrick to play an expanded role as Deputy Chief of Staff, involved both in the day to day operation of his office, but also to help Reid navigate his first term as leader. Since 1989, Myrick has worked for three Democratic leaders - former Majority Leader George Mitchell, former Democratic Leader Tom Daschle, and now Majority Leader Harry Reid. 
 Senator Reid said "Susan has been one of my most trusted advisers since I have been on Capitol Hill. She has been at the center of every major political and policy decision I've made on and off the Senate floor, and deserves great credit for the Democratic victories just three weeks ago. She's a rare talent, and will be tremendously missed. I know that she will remain a close friend and adviser, and will make great strides at the ONE Campaign in eradicating poverty and disease around the globe." 
 "I'm pleased that Gary Myrick has agreed to serve as my new Chief of Staff," said Senator Reid. "He has the trust and respect of the Senate Democratic Caucus, and will serve the nation well as we move forward on a new direction for the American people." 
 In her new position as President and CEO of the ONE Campaign, McCue will oversee the development and implementation of new nationwide media and grassroots campaigns to raise awareness and action to fight the emergency of global AIDS and extreme poverty. ONE was founded by 11 of America's most well-known and respected aid groups: Bread for the World, CARE, DATA, International Medical Corps, International Rescue Committee, Mercy Corps, Oxfam America, Plan USA, Save the Children US, World Concern, and World Vision. ONE's members include 2 million people from every state in the country, and over 70 non-profit, advocacy and humanitarian organizations. For more information on the ONE Campaign, visit www.one.org.
 
 