SEN. REID TESTIFIES FOR HELIPORT LAND
  Working to protect residents, air tour operators and a petroglyphs site in Clark County, Sen. Harry Reid testified at a hearing today for a Nevada delegation-supported bill that would convey land to be used as a heliport.  
   The legislation would convey 229 acres from the Bureau of Land Management to Clark County for use as a heliport, and would require that helicopters flying over the petroglyphs in the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area avoid the most sensitive cultural resource and wildlife areas. Fees paid by tours over the Conservation area using the heliport would be available for improvement of the public lands in Nevada. 
   "This is a win-win solution that protects residents from noise, protects sensitive areas of Sloan Canyon, and protects tourism jobs," said Reid. 
   The hearing was held by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Subcommittee on Public Lands and Forests. The House of Representatives held a hearing on this legislation earlier this month. 
   This legislation is supported by all members of the Nevada delegation: Senator John Ensign, Congresswoman Shelley Berkley, and Congressmen Jim Gibbons and Jon Porter. 
   The text of Reid's testimony follows: 
   Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today to testify on S. 2378, a bill that Senator Ensign and I introduced that addresses a controversial issue in the Las Vegas area. 
   The number of helicopter tours departing from the Las Vegas area has increased by 50 percent in the last three years, accounting for almost 65,000 flights a year. This has resulted in a conflict with local residents that live near the current heliport at McCarran Airport. Also in the area are the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area and North McCullogh Wilderness Area that have the potential to be impacted by helicopter operators. In developing this bill, we have worked with many stakeholders to arrive at a compromise that resolves the conflicts and manages the land and airspace in the public interest. 
   S. 2378 would convey 229 acres of public land managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to Clark County, Nevada, for its use as a heliport. It would also impose fees on operators for all helicopter flights that occur over the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area (NCA) with the proceeds used for the management of cultural, wildlife, and wilderness resources on public lands in the State of Nevada. Finally, this bill would restrict helicopter operators to a detailed flightpath, with appropriate elevations, that will ensure the protection of the values found in the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area and the sanity of residents who have been subject to the noise of the helicopters. 
   Some have suggested that an alternative site near Sunrise Landfill be added to this bill. I could support that alternative, provided Clark County maintains final authority over the site selection and that it not slow the passage of this legislation or the eventual construction of a new heliport. 
   This solution is only possible if the land is provided at no cost to the County. With the soaring land values in the Las Vegas area, there would be no way to develop a heliport in any proximity to the city. In addition, Nevada is in the unique position of being a state where 87% of the land is managed by the Federal government, leaving opportunities for public services on non-federal land severely limited. 
   The solution crafted in this legislation gives the aerial tourism industry a way to continue providing to the public the scenic and recreational opportunities it demands while resolving the potential conflicts helicopters may have. I thank the Chairman and the Committee for their consideration of this important piece of legislation to the Las Vegas area.
 
 