SEN. REID ANNOUNCES NEVADA NORTHERN RAILWAY DESIGNATED AS NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada announced that the Nevada Northern Railway Complex has officially been designated as a National Historic Landmark by Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne.  
   "The Railway Complex has great historical value because it offers a peek into Nevada's rich history," said Reid. "I'm pleased it was officially recognized - the designation came just in time for the centennial celebration. I encourage everyone to visit this wonderful national treasure. " 
   The Nevada Northern Railway is the best-preserved, least altered, and most complete main yard complex remaining from the steam railroad era. It was established in 1905 to support the area's booming copper mining industry. The era of dieselization of the railroad industry during the second half of the 20th century led to alterations and demolitions of railroad yards and shops nationwide. The East Ely yard escaped modernization because of its geographical remoteness and the decline of the mining industry it once served. 
   Reid has been a champion for this designation since it was first proposed and has been working to move it through the necessary steps at the Department of Interior and the National Park Service. 
   Ron James, Nevada State Historic Preservation Officer and National Historic Landmark Committee Member, was also instrumental in moving the designation forward. 
   "The Nevada Northern Railroad is one of the most significant resources of its kind in the nation," said James. "Listing of this resource as a National Landmark provides richly deserved recognition for a place where time has stood still." 
   Compared to other states, Nevada has few sites designated as National Historic Landmarks. Reid is committed to working with the proponents of historical sites around the state to get them the proper recognition they deserve. 
   This year Reid included $300,000 in the Senate Interior Appropriations bill for historical preservation efforts in Goldfield, and $540,000 last year for the Historic Las Vegas Post Office. 
   The National Historic Landmark designation is the highest such recognition accorded by our nation to historic properties determined to be of exceptional value in representing or illustrating an important theme, event, or person in the history of the nation. National Historic Landmarks can be actual sites where significant historical events occurred, places where prominent Americans worked or sites that represent the ideas that shaped our nation. Fewer than 2,500 historic places carry the title of National Historic Landmark.
 
 