SENS. REID, ENSIGN ANNOUNCE $10.2M FOR CONTINUED SOUTHERN NEVADA ROAD, AIRPORT PROJECTS
  Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign of Nevada announced today that Southern Nevada will receive $10,286,143 for much needed road, highway, and airport improvements.  
   "With our state's incredible growth rate, transportation is one of our most pressing issues," said Reid. "Part of managing growth is making sure Nevadans can get where they need to be as quickly and as safely as possible. This funding will help us keep up with our increasing transportation demands, prepare for future growth, and create jobs." 
   "We are in an ongoing struggle to enable Nevada's road system and airports to keep up with our unprecedented growth," Ensign said. "The safety of Nevadans is a priority for me and this funding will help improve public safety and the safety of individuals traveling in Nevada." 
   The following projects will receive funding: 
   $3,153,955 for Blue Diamond Highway, from Valley View to Rainbow Boulevard, to widen and reconstruct the roadway. The proposed improvements will reduce current motorist delays and help make the road safer. This project will add additional travel lanes in each direction to make way for the anticipated increase in traffic volumes expected from residential and commercial developments that are occurring in this area. 
   $2,523,164 for Lake Mead Parkway/Lake Las Vegas Gateway, from just west of the intersection with Boulder Highway east to the entrance to Lake Mead National Recreational Area, to widen and reconstruct the roadway. This project provides direct access to the Lake Mead National Recreation Area and will provide alternate modes of transportation for bicycles and pedestrians. 
   $4,205,274 for Craig Road, from Berg Street to Pecos Road, to widen the roadway and create a railroad grade separation. The purpose of this project is to improve the operational performance on Craig Road, which provides critical access to and from Nellis Air Force Base. This project fills the remaining gap to widen Craig Road to six lanes to avoid "bottleneck conditions" particularly when the Union Pacific Railroad rail traffic stops all through traffic on Craig Road. The new bridge to be constructed over the Union Pacific Railroad tracks will eliminate an at-grade railroad crossing, thereby increasing public safety and reducing congestion. $261,250 for Boulder City Municipal Airport to expand tie-down apron and complete installation of an automated weather observing system (AWOS-III). The installation of weather reporting equipment is required to provide current weather information to the flying public and to enhance safety at the Airport. The expansion of the tie-down apron is necessary to meet current and future aircraft parking needs. 
   $142,500 for Perkins Field Airport to improve airport road access. The project is necessary to accommodate airport traffic and to provide for future airport development. 
   Reid has secured millions of dollars from Transportation Appropriations bills in order to improve Nevada's transportation system. This funding is provided by the U.S. Department of transportation grant program.
 
 