SENS. REID, ENSIGN ANNOUNCE $2.9M FOR CONTINUED NORTHERN NEVADA AIRPORT PROJECTS
  Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign of Nevada announced today that Northern Nevada will receive $2,919,055 for airport and highway improvements.  
  "With our state's incredible growth rate, transportation is one of our most pressing issues," said Reid. "Part of managing growth is making sure Nevadans and tourists can get where they need to be as quickly and as safely as possible. This funding will help Northern Nevada keep up with our increasing transportation demands, prepare for future growth, and create jobs." 
   "These funds are necessary to improve our airports," Ensign said. "These funds will help secure the safety of individuals traveling to and from our Nevada communities, and they will also help stimulate the current and future economy of Northern Nevada." 
   The following projects will receive funding: 
   $1,200,000 for Reno/Tahoe International Airport for security enhancements. The Reno/Tahoe International Airport will also receive $103,125 to reconstruct taxiway C. The project will reduce the potential for foreign object debris damage and to enhance safety of aircraft operations. 
   $450,000 for Carson Airport to acquire approximately 25.52 acres of land, phase I, for runway 9/27 approaches and transitional surface protection. The land acquisition is required to meet runway approach protection standards and to enhance safety of aircraft operations. 
   $841,055 for Interstate 580 Freeway Extension, from Mt. Rose Highway to the Bowers Mansion Road Interchange, to construct bridges. This project provides access to Bureau of Land Management and Forest Service lands, and Lake Tahoe National Forest. This controlled access highway will not only increase traffic safety and reduce commute times between Reno and Carson City, but will also remove a substantial portion of the traffic off of US-395 and away from the residential areas. 
   $66,500 for Gabbs Airport to remove an existing power pole from runway 08/26 protection zone and to install a segmented circle with lighted wind cone at Gabbs Airport. Removal of obstructions from runway 08/26 protection zone is necessary to enhance safety of aircraft operations. Installation of the segmented circle with wind cone is necessary to provide visual wind data to the flying public and to enhance safety at the airport. 
   $200,000 for Minden-Tahoe Airport to remove obstructions on runway 12/30. The project is necessary to meet current airport design standards and enhance safety at the airport. 
   $161,500 for Lincoln County Airport to prepare the design for the rehabilitation of runway 17/35, construct a bypass taxiway, rehabilitate tie-down apron, and construct airport access road at the airport. The rehabilitation of runway 17/35 will improve the poor pavement condition and to enhance safety of aircraft operations. The construction of the bypass taxiway is necessary to improve aircraft circulation and to enhance safety at the airport. The rehabilitation of the tie-down apron is necessary to improve the poor condition of the pavement area and to enhance safety. The construction of the airport access road is necessary to facilitate access to the airport by vehicular traffic. 
   Reid has secured millions of dollars from Transportation Appropriations bills in order to improve Nevada's transportation system. This funding is provided by the U.S. Department of transportation grant program.
 
 