SENS. REID, ENSIGN WIN $4.5 MILLION FOR BETTER EQUIPMENT FOR U.S. TROOPS
  Sens. Harry Reid (D-NV) and John Ensign (R-NV) are helping a Nevada-based company provide U.S. troops overseas with high-tech equipment that can help keep them safe. Reid and Ensign have set aside $4.5 million in the federal budget to pay for powerful personal searchlights that troops can carry with them. The searchlights are designed and manufactured by Reva International, a Reno-based company.  
   "Our troops are risking their lives to keep us safe, so we must make sure they have all the equipment they need to keep themselves safe," said Reid. "These searchlights will let our troops see dangers before they're close enough to do harm. They're Nevada's remarkable contributions to a safer country and a stronger military." 
   "Providing our troops with the best possible equipment is the least we can do," said Ensign, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "These flashlights will not only increase visibility for our troops but will also enhance their ability to perform their overall duties because of its advanced technology." 
   Reva International's high-intensity handheld searchlights are designed to keep troops safe during nighttime operations. The lights are lightweight for easy portability, shock resistant, and can clearly illuminate areas three-quarters of a mile away. They can also be recharged quickly and can be used underwater or with infra-red night vision technology. Similar models are already being used by U.S. Secret Service and Border Patrol agents. The new funding will cover the cost of providing them to a vastly greater number of U.S. servicemen and women. 
   "I am extraordinarily grateful to Senators Reid and Ensign for their continued support of the Reno business community and of Reva International," said Markus W. Frick chief executive officer of Reva International, Ltd. "The Army funding that Senators Reid and Ensign have been so diligent in pursuing will allow the military to begin fielding the most capable searchlights in the word. It will also let us add to our Reno-based manufacturing and assembly staff. This is great news for Reva International and the Reno community." 
   The funding for the searchlights is in the Department of Defense Appropriations bill, which just passed the Senate. The bill will now go to a Senate/House Conference Committee.
 
 