SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT ON PATRIOT ACT
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid today delivered the following floor remarks on the Senate's vote for final passage of the Patriot Act. Democrats have supported the PATRIOT Act from the beginning, overwhelmingly voted for the improved version today, and will continue to fight to make it even better in the future.
   STATEMENT OF SENATOR HARRY REID ON FINAL PASSAGE OF THE PATRIOT ACT REAUTHORIZATION BILL  
   March 2, 2006 
   Mr. President, yesterday the Senate passed a bill negotiated by the junior Senator from New Hampshire to strengthen protections in the PATRIOT Act. In light of the improvements contained in the Sununu bill, I will now vote in favor of the pending conference report. 
   As I have emphasized many times, Democrats support the basic authorities contained in the PATRIOT Act. We voted for the original Act in 2001. We unanimously supported the reauthorization bill that passed the Senate last summer. And in recent months, we have been vigilant to ensure that no provision of the Act would expire during ongoing negotiations over a long-term extension of the law. 
   But our support for the PATRIOT Act does not mean a blank check for the President. Last December, a bipartisan group of senators joined together to insist on improvements in the flawed reauthorization bill that had returned from a House-Senate conference. Republican and Democratic senators alike declared that Congress can provide the government with the powers it needs to protect Americans, and at the same time ensure sufficient checks and oversight to prevent abuses of these powers. Security and liberty are neither contradictory, nor mutually exclusive. 
   Our call for improvements in the PATRIOT Act has now borne fruit. We stood up to the White House to demand a more balanced approach to anti-terror tactics, and we have succeeded. Thanks to the courageous stand of Senator Sununu and a handful of other Republicans, along with the longstanding efforts of Chairman Specter, Senator Leahy and other Democrats on the Judiciary Committee, the Senate will soon pass a stronger, better PATRIOT Act. 
   The current bill is not perfect, and falls short of the unanimously supported Senate bill we passed last summer. I would have preferred additional improvements in the conference report. But the version of the PATRIOT Act we will soon reauthorize is a vast improvement over the law we passed hastily in 2001. 
   For example, under the original PATRIOT Act a person who received a government request for business records under section 215 was barred from discussing the request with anyone. Now for the first time, recipients of such a gag order will be able to challenge it before a judge. 
   In addition, the new bill will restrict government access to library records. This bill makes clear that libraries operating in their traditional role, including providing Internet access, are not subject to national security letters. 
   Finally, under the Sununu bill we passed yesterday, individuals or businesses who receive a national security letter will not be required to tell the FBI the identity of a lawyer they may consult to obtain advice or assistance. 
   Even before the Sununu improvements, the conference report included a number of crucial provisions to ensure congressional and public oversight of the government?s expansive powers under the Patriot Act. We insisted that the House accept four-year sunsets instead of seven-year sunsets on the most controversial provisions of the Act. The conference report also requires extensive congressional and public reporting, and mandates audits by an independent Inspector General. 
   I will continue to fight for additional improvements in the Act, such as those highlighted by Senator Feingold. 
   First, I continue to favor the Senate-passed version of section 215, under which a government request for medical records and other sensitive personal information must have a more direct connection to a suspected terrorist or spy. 
   Second, I remain extremely concerned about the lack of meaningful checks on government overuse or abuse of national security letters. The Washington Post reported last November that the FBI issues more than 30,000 such letters a year without any judicial supervision. I plan to fight for additional oversight of the government?s power to issue these secret subpoenas. 
   Third, I still do not believe that it was appropriate to include in the conference report sections not included in either the House or the Senate bills limiting the right of habeas corpus in cases that have nothing to do with terrorism. I will oppose any further weakening of the Great Writ. 
   Despite these remaining flaws, I am satisfied that the conference report as improved by the Sununu bill is a step in the right direction from the original PATRIOT Act, and I will cast my vote in favor of it. 
   Let me say a word about the relationship between the current debate over the PATRIOT Act and the continuing controversy over unlawful eavesdropping by the National Security Agency. 
   On the same day we voted on the PATRIOT Act conference report last December, the New York Times reported that the President had authorized a secret program to eavesdrop on American citizens without the warrants required by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. 
   That story had a clear impact on the PATRIOT Act vote that day. 
   Some questioned why we were even having this protracted debate over reauthorization of the Patriot Act, since the President seemed to believe he was free to ignore the laws we enact anyway. 
   But in fact, no one is above the law, not even the President. One lesson of the NSA spying scandal is that Congress must stand up to the President, and must insist on additional checks on the powers exercised by the executive branch. That is what we are doing today in the PATRIOT Act. 
   Both the debate over the PATRIOT Act and the debate over NSA wiretapping are about checks and balances. They go to the heart of our system of separation of powers. 
   Today we give the government the tools it needs to protect our national security while placing sensible checks on the arbitrary exercise of executive power. 
   Today we declare that congressional and judicial oversight of the government?s investigative authorities need not hamper the government?s ability to fight terrorism. 
   And today we pledge that Congress will continue to serve as the strong, meaningful check on the executive branch that our Founders intended it to be. 
   For these reasons, I will vote to reauthorize and improve the PATRIOT Act.
 
 