SEN. REID JOINS ROCK THE VOTE, STUDENTS TO OPPOSE SOCIAL SECURITY PRIVATIZATION
  Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) joined representatives of MTV's Rock the Vote and college students from around the country at a Capitol Hill news conference today to show how much young people will lose under President Bush's Social Security Privatization Plan. If the plan passes, Nevadans in their late teens and twenties could lose as much as 35% of their annual benefit by the time they retire.  
   "The Bush privatization plan is a bad deal for young Americans," said Reid. "The President promises increased benefits but in reality, private accounts will only deliver cuts and new debt." 
   The President's plan to privatize Social Security would hit college kids and twenty-somethings the hardest, according to calculations based on formulas by the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities. College students and others born between 1983 and 1987 would lose more than 35% of their total annual benefit. Twenty-somethings born between 1975 and 1982 would lose more than 30% of their annual benefit. If Social Security is kept intact, young people will not face the steep benefit cuts they would get from privatization. 
   "Nevadans don't like privatization, they don't like benefit cuts, and they don't like the amount of debt the President is willing to take on," said Reid. "Democrats are united on this issue. We won't let this happen." 
   Reid was joined at the news conference by his Democratic colleagues, Sens. Charles Schumer (D-NY), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and Max Baucus (D-MT). College students at the news conference used a web-based calculator to illustrate how much of their Social Security benefit would disappear under the President's privatization plan. Hans Riemer, the Washington director of Rock the Vote, was also at the news conference. 
   "Mr. President, please let us in to your events on Social Security," said Riemer. "Young people would like a seat at the table. We'd like to talk to you about why you would support a plan that cuts benefits for young people so much."
 
 