SEN. REID ANNOUNCES FINAL PASSAGE OF GREAT BASIN NATIONAL HERITAGE ROUTE
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada announced that the U.S. Senate passed the Great Basin Heritage Route Act.  
   "I'm extremely pleased that the Great Basin Heritage Route Act finally passed. This bill has been a labor of love. Few places have such rich history as White Pine County, making it especially well suited for this designation," said Reid. The Great Basin Heritage Route will be a source of pride for communities in rural Nevada and people all across the state." 
   The Heritage Route will comprise a corridor of land that follows the historical Pony Express and Overland Trials. This Act will celebrate and conserve the region's archaeological and historic resources as well as its wide array of natural resources, which include forests of thousand-year-old bristlecone pine. 
   The Great Basin is a vast region that covers most of Nevada and parts of Western Utah, and is characterized by dramatic mountain ranges and semi-arid basins. The areas designated within the heritage route - White Pine County and the Duckwater Indian Reservation in Nevada and Millard County, Utah - sit at the heart of this important geographic and cultural region. 
   A "National Heritage Area" or "route" is a place designated by the U.S. Congress where natural, cultural, historic and recreational resources combine to form a cohesive, nationally distinctive landscape arising from patterns of human activity shaped by geography. These patterns make National Heritage Areas representative of the national experience through the physical features that remain and the traditions that have evolved in the areas. 
   In addition to enhancing local pride, designation comes with limited technical and financial assistance from the National Park Service. Federal financial assistance provides valuable "seed" money that covers basic expenses such as staffing, and leverages other money from state, local and private sources. 
   In 1986 Reid led the fight for the establishment of Great Basin National Park, Nevada's first and only national park. Reid also secured $3.2 million for the construction of the Great Basin National Park Visitor Learning Center, which opened in 2005. 
   The bill now goes to the President for his signature.
 
 