SENATE DEMOCRATS CONDEMN LIMBAUGH'S ATTACK ON TROOPS
  Senate Democrats today sent the following letter to Mark P. Mays, CEO of Clear Channel Communications, calling on him to publicly repudiate Rush Limbaugh's characterization of troops who speak out against the Iraq war as "phony soldiers." Despite recent Republican comments condemning verbal attacks on our troops, when given the opportunity to join us in signing this letter, not a single one did so. 
   Below is the text of the letter: 
   October 2, 2007
   Mr. Mark P. Mays
  CEO, Clear Channel Communications Inc.
  200 East Basse Road
  San Antonio, TX 78209
   Dear Mr. Mays,
   At the time we sign this letter, 3,808 American soldiers have been killed in Iraq, and another 28,009 have been wounded. 160,000 others awoke this morning on foreign sand, far from home, to face the danger and uncertainty of another day at war.
   Although Americans of goodwill debate the merits of this war, we can all agree that those who serve with such great courage deserve our deepest respect and gratitude. That is why Rush Limbaugh's recent characterization of troops who oppose the war as "phony soldiers" is such an outrage.
   Our troops are fighting and dying to bring to others the freedoms that many take for granted. It is unconscionable that Mr. Limbaugh would criticize them for exercising the fundamentally American right to free speech. Mr. Limbaugh has made outrageous remarks before, but this affront to our soldiers is beyond the pale.
   The military, like any community within the United States, includes members both for and against the war. Senior generals, such as General John Batiste and Paul Eaton, have come out against the war while others have publicly supported it. A December 2006 poll conducted by the Military Times found just 35 percent of service members approved of President Bush's handling of the war in Iraq, compared to 42 percent who disapproved. From this figure alone, it is clear that Mr. Limbaugh's insult is directed at thousands of American service members.
   Active and retired members of our armed forces have a unique perspective on the war and offer a valuable contribution to our national debate. In August, seven soldiers wrote an op-ed expressing their concern with the current strategy in Iraq. Tragically, since then, two of those seven soldiers have made the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq.
   Thousands of active troops and veterans were subjected to Mr. Limbaugh's unpatriotic and indefensible comments on your broadcast. We trust you will agree that not a single one of our sons, daughters, neighbors and friends serving overseas is a "phony soldier." We call on you to publicly repudiate these comments that call into question their service and sacrifice and to ask Mr. Limbaugh to apologize for his comments.
   Sincerely,
   Senator Harry Reid, Majority Leader
   Senator Richard Durbin, Assistant Majority Leader
   Senator Charles Schumer, Vice Chairman, Democratic Conference
   Senator Patty Murray, Secretary, Democratic Conference
   Senator Daniel Akaka
   Senator Max Baucus
   Senator Joseph Biden
   Senator Barbara Boxer
   Senator Sherrod Brown
   Senator Robert Byrd
   Senator Benjamin Cardin
   Senator Tom Carper
   Senator Bob Casey
   Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton
   Senator Kent Conrad
   Senator Christopher Dodd
   Senator Byron Dorgan
   Senator Dianne Feinstein
   Senator Tom Harkin
   Senator Daniel Inouye
   Senator Edward M. Kennedy
   Senator John Kerry
   Senator Amy Klobuchar
   Senator Mary Landrieu
   Senator Frank Lautenberg
   Senator Patrick Leahy
   Senator Carl Levin
   Senator Blanche Lincoln
   Senator Bob Menendez
   Senator Barbara Mikulski
   Senator Bill Nelson
   Senator Barack Obama
   Senator Jack Reed
   Senator Jay Rockefeller
   Senator Ken Salazar
   Senator Bernie Sanders
   Senator Debbie Stabenow
   Senator Jon Tester
   Senator Jim Webb
   Senator Sheldon Whitehouse
   Senator Ron Wyden
 
 