SEN. REID CONTINUES WORKING TO MAKE NEVADA THE LEADER IN RENEWABLE ENERGY
  Nevada Senator Harry Reid today unveiled his vision for 2008 to preserve Nevada's outdoors, while creating jobs by making the Silver State the world leader in renewable energy.  
  "I have long championed environmental causes in Nevada and will continue to do so," said Reid. "I want to preserve Nevada's outdoor heritage and the areas where families go to hunt and fish, as well as ensure Nevada children have clean air to breathe for decades to come. And by developing Nevada's renewable energy industry, we can create thousands of jobs while we're at it."
  Below are some of Reid's plans regarding energy and the environment.
   Renewable Electricity Transmission financing
   Passing legislation that would increase financing options for building transmission capacity/access to and distributed generation of electricity from renewable energy resources in Nevada and across the West. 
  Extend Solar, Geothermal Renewable Energy Tax Incentives
   Extend and expand federal tax incentives for renewable energy production and investment. Include in that legislation, if feasible, the renewable schools bonding concept and other provisions that are part of S.1531, Reid's clean renewable energy and economic development bill. 
  Climate Legislation
   Look for opportunities to add even more provisions to the national climate change bill to promote renewable energy technology in Nevada and to help the State adapt to the effects of fossil fuel-induced warming, like drought, invasive species and increased wildfires. Defend against nuclear amendments that might give new life to the dying Yucca Mountain dump. 
  Small Community Drinking Water Fund Act
   Pass legislation to authorize additional assistance to small communities for water quality compliance activities. 
  YUCCA MOUNTAIN
   Energy and Water Appropriations
   Cut FY09 funding to FY08 level or lower for both the Department of Energy and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's line item for Yucca.
  Defend Against Nuclear Amendments to Climate Change Legislation 
  Write numerous second degree amendments for potential Pro-Yucca amendments offered
  AGRICULTURE
   Farm Bill
   Reid will monitor and support work to complete action on a farm bill conference report. He will work to protect the interests of Nevada currently in the bill, including strong conservation programs, nutrition programs, and disaster assistance. 
  Energy
   Grow incentives for on-farm energy production from sustainable energy sources, such as solar and wind.
 
 