SEN. REID SECURES $2.35 MILLION IN FUNDING TO PRESERVE OPEN SPACE AND PROTECT ENDANGERED SPECIES
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada has secured $2.35 million for several Nevada projects in the FY07 Senate Interior Appropriations bill. 
   "The management of Nevada's public lands and our wildlife is very important to me. I am pleased to know this bill secured funding for important conservation priorities throughout our state," said Reid. "I will continue doing all I can to protect our natural resources and bolster wildlife populations throughout Nevada." 
   Now that the bill has been passed out of the Appropriations Committee, it will head to the U.S. Senate floor for a vote by the full Senate. 
   The following projects are expected to receive these levels of funding in the final Senate bill: 
   NEVADA BIODIVERSITY RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION INITIATIVES $1,250,000 
   This major UNR program supports science-based approaches for conservation planning. Efforts are centered towards protecting Nevada species such as the sage grouse, Lahontan Cutthroat Trout, the Armargosa Toad, and the desert tortoise. This research program supports the work of 30 graduate students and dozens of undergraduates who provide on-the-ground field work necessary to craft reliable and effective conservation plans. 
   LAHONTAN CUTTHROAT TROUT RESTORATION $500,000 
   This continued funding is for the restoration of the Lahontan Cutthroat Trout, the state fish, in the Lake Tahoe Basin and the Truckee, Carson and Walker River Basins. This recovery implementation program, has been on-going in Nevada since 2001. To date, Reid has delivered over $1 million to this important project. The recovery of this important native Nevada species has been successful, due in large part to the Reid's attention. 
   WILDLIFE WATER CATCHMENTS (GUZZLERS) $100,000 
   This initiative will help Nevada Big Horns Unlimited and the Fraternity of the Desert Bighorn construct several large game water guzzlers. In recent years, both of these groups have successfully reintroduced bighorn sheep into eight different mountain ranges in Nevada. Water guzzlers work by collecting rainwater in a catchment system that funnels the water into a large reservoir. These water guzzlers are important because they ensure that water will be available throughout the year for bighorn sheep and other large game. In addition to supporting large game, more than sixty different species have been documented using guzzlers already installed in Nevada ranges. 
   ASH CANYON GATEWAY $500,000 
   This money will be used by Carson City and the Nevada Division of Forestry to procure 112 acres of environmentally sensitive land NW of Carson City. In addition to being in an important watershed area for Carson City, the property is part of the critical habitat for goshawk, spotted owl, bald eagles and other protected species. This is important because it will help Carson City continue its strong commitment to maintaining open space.
 
 