SENS. REID, ENSIGN SECURE $7 MILLION FOR NEVADA WATER AND INTERIOR PROJECTS
  Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign are working to improve water systems for Nevada communities and protect natural resources in the state. The two Nevada Senators secured more than $7 million for Nevada in an Appropriations bill that passed the Senate last night. In addition to water treatment projects around the state, there is funding for road improvements and a fire warning system at Mount Charleston.  
   "The upkeep and improvement of water systems is a critical issue for every Nevada community," said Reid, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "This bill includes funding to ensure safe drinking water in our small towns and large cities. I am also excited about the projects in this bill that will help strengthen conservation efforts around our state and improve access to our public lands. 
   "With wildfires still burning in Southern Nevada, the $750,000 for a warning system at Mount Charleston is especially important," Ensign said. "When fire or other natural catastrophes strike the Spring Mountains, there is a very narrow window of opportunity to evacuate the area and make sure that law enforcement can access it. An emergency warning system will provide a tremendous boost to public safety efforts in those crucial moments." 
   As part of the legislation, Reid also secured a commitment that the Bureau of Land Management would work with the National Wild Horse Association (NWHA), a wild horse advocacy group in southern Nevada, to develop an innovative pilot adoption program for wild horses and burros. This program will improve adoption efforts in Nevada by drawing on proven marketing and media strategies to increase adoptions and by providing horse advocates with the opportunity to shape and improve the adoption process. This pilot adoption program will build on the current successes that NWHA has had in adopting wild horses while also developing an adoption model that can be replicated at other locations. 
   List of projects: 
   Mount Charleston Warning System $750,000 
   Henderson Southwest Wastewater Treatment Plant $100,000 
   Funding for a plant to recycle wastewater for irrigation of parks, trails, golf courses, and other landscape areas. 
   Clark County Reclamation District $650,000 
   For the design and construction services for an upgraded community wastewater treatment facility in Searchlight. 
   Douglas County sewer system improvements. $400,000 
   To replace a main sewage pipeline that recently ruptured. 
   North Lemmon Valley water infrastructure improvements $150,000 
   To provide water service to residents currently using domestic wells. 
   Carson City, Hobart drinking water system $ 50,000 
   For a water pump that will provide water from Marlette Lake to Carson City and Virginia City 
   Jarbidge Canyon Road Construction $3,000,000 
   The Jarbidge Canyon Road provides the only year-round vehicle access to the town of Jarbidge, NV and is a significant access route to the Jarbidge Wilderness. The existing road is poorly designed and is frequently damaged by high stream flows, resulting in road closures and damaging critical fish habitat. This funding will allow improvement of this important road and fund habitat restoration for the Jarbidge River Bull Trout. 
   NV Biodiversity Research and Conservation Initiative (UNR) $1,250,000 
   NBRRC provides scientific support for conservation efforts for species such as the sage grouse, Lahontan Cutthroat Trout and the desert tortoise in Nevada. 
   Motorized Trail - Paiute Meadows $450,000 
   This funding will allow construction of a 15 mile long motorized trail that will allow for public access to the Paiute Meadows area north of the Black Rock Desert - roughly 350,000 acres - which is now inaccessible. 
   Lahontan Cutthroat Trout Restoration $500,000 
   This funding will support conservation and recovery projects for the endangered Lahontan Cutthroat trout in the Lake Tahoe basin and the Truckee, Carson and Walker River basins. The Fish and Wildlife service will work with communities, private property owners and others to implement on-the-ground projects. 
   Walker Lake Working Group $250,000 
   For ongoing water negotiations in the Walker Basin
 
 