SEN. REID WINS MORE THAN $97 MILLION TO SAVE NEVADA LAKES
  Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) has set aside more than $97 million in the federal budget for efforts to preserve two of the most beautiful natural sites in the world - Lake Tahoe and Walker Lake in Nevada.  
   The funding is part of the FY '07 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which was approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee today. Reid is the Ranking Member on the subcommittee that wrote the bill. 
   "Lake Tahoe and Walker Lake are national treasures," said Reid. "We need to preserve them for future generations of Nevadans to admire and enjoy, and for future Americans to visit. Both lakes were in bad shape recently, but now we're making good progress towards restoring them. This funding will help us continue those efforts." 
   Reid set aside $88 million in funding for the Desert Terminus Lake project, for environmental efforts at Walker Lake. The White House had asked to cancel funding for the project, which had previously been approved by Congress. Reid fought to protect the full amount of the funding. 
   Reid also set aside $9.35 million for four ongoing projects to restore and preserve Lake Tahoe. 
   Reid has been fighting to save Lake Tahoe since 1997, when he held a summit to draw national attention to the health and clarity of the lake. He brought then-President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore to Nevada to see the environmental threats particular to the lake's geography. In 2000, Congress passed the Lake Tahoe Restoration Act, which authorized $300 million over ten years. The funding is for land acquisition, erosion control, forest management, fire suppression and to improve water quality, including efforts to clean-up MTBE contamination. 
   Reid has held annual summits each year since then, with Senator John Ensign of Nevada, Governor Kenny Guinn, and other leaders. The events have helped create a strong partnership of federal, state, and local governments and private groups dedicated to saving Lake Tahoe. 
   The FY '07 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill will now go to the full Senate for a vote. Reid says he'll work to get it to the Senate floor as soon as possible.
 
 