SENS. REID, FEINSTEIN, LIEBERMAN ANNOUNCE MOST SWEEPING ETHICS, LOBBYING REFORM IN GENERATIONS
  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada and Senators Dianne Feinstein and Joe Lieberman today announced final agreement with the House on the text of the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act. This bicameral agreement contains the most sweeping ethics and lobbying reforms in generations. The House plans to take up the bill Tuesday, and the Senate will do so later this week. 
   Among its many provisions, the bill will slow the revolving door between Congress and the lobbying world, end subsidized travel on corporate jets, require disclosure of lobbyists who bundle campaign contributions, and increase transparency in the legislative process by requiring earmark transparency for the first time ever and preventing new earmarks from being added in the dead of night.
   "The American people asked us in November to fix the way business gets done in Washington, and Democrats are heeding that call," Reid said. "We are fighting to enact the most sweeping ethics and lobbying reform in history so we can deliver to the American people a government as good and honest as the people it represents."
   Said Feinstein: "In the last election, the message was loud and clear: It is time to change the way business is done in the nation's capitol and restore public trust in Congress. Passage of this ethics reform package is the most direct action we can take. This will show the American people that tighter rules and procedures are in place and that the corrupt practices of the few will not be permitted." 
   "Congress is now poised to pass a sweeping and sorely needed lobbying and ethics reform package - very close to the legislation passed by the Senate in January - that responds to voters' demands that Members of Congress put the public interest over personal gain," Lieberman said. "This strong and broad set of reforms will require more disclosure of lobbyists' activities than ever before, including the disclosure of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions that lobbyists bundle together for candidates."
 
 