SEN. REID WANTS TO EASE PROCESS FOR NEVADA TEST SITE WORKERS SEEKING COMPENSATION
  U.S. Sen. Harry Reid announced today that he is asking the Bush Administration to give a special designation to the Nevada Test Site ensuring employees who suffer from radiation-linked cancers automatically receive compensation. Men and women who worked at the test site and now suffer from radiation-induced cancers are eligible for up $150,000 and medical costs if they can prove 50% of the diseases stems from their employment. 
   However, former workers have run into repeated obstacles and delays in the process. In a letter he released today to the Bush Administration, Reid asked that the Nevada Test Site be considered a Special Exposure Cohort for workers through 1992.  
   "I remember as a kid watching explosions from the test site," Senator Reid said. "We were struck with awe and wonder. But, there was another side to those tests, the men and women who worked at the test site and were exposed to cancer causing levels of radiation." 
   Reid added, "Now, hundreds and hundreds of these test site workers suffer from radiation-induced cancers and are eligible for compensation. Unfortunately, the system is working against them and these workers face delays at every turn. The men and women who worked at the test site helped this country win the Cold War. After decades of waiting and suffering, this designation will ensure the government honors their sacrifices." 
   Five years ago, Sen. Reid ensured Nevada Test Site workers were eligible for a federal program that compensated workers who have radiation-induced cancers, beryllium diseases or silicosis while working in the nuclear weapons industry for DOE or its contractors. 
   Unfortunately, very few Nevada workers who should qualify for the compensation have been approved or even had their case reviewed. To be eligible for the program, workers must go through a laborious process to prove their illness is a result of their employment at the Nevada Test Site. The cohort designation Reid is asking for will eliminate that process. 
   Sen. Reid was joined by former test site workers Ray Slaughter and John Funk who have faced continued difficulty despite suffering from multiple radiation-linked cancers. 
   Former Nevada Test Site worker John Funk has been diagnosed with three types of cancer. Funk said, "We've been abandoned by everyone who was supposed to help us. After I was interviewed for two hours, my case was whittled down to ten sentences, and then the agency put together 14 pages on why to reject me. If we are to survive we need this special cohort and all the help we can get." 
   Ray Slaughter worked for five years as a tunnel miner and operating engineer at the Nevada Test Site during the open air and underground phases of nuclear testing. "The Department of Labor is questioning the likelihood of my radiation exposure as being the causal factors," Slaughter, who has been diagnosed with two forms of cancer, said. "At present they are requiring me to undergo a 'dose reconstruction' process that can take as much as two years to complete. It is my belief that the government should act in all haste and give those of us so called 'cold war warriors' what Congress and the President promised us." 
   The process for a Special Exposure Cohort designation is expected to take six-nine months. If a resolution is not reached, Senator Reid pledged to pursue a legislative course of action. 
   A copy of the letter follows: 
   November 30, 2005 
   The President
  The White House
  Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President: 
   Nevada Test Site workers were and are on the frontline of the United States' nuclear defense capabilities. In working to protect our nation, many have been exposed to radiation, beryllium, and silica that have left them suffering, or dead, from life-threatening cancers. It took the United States government decades to set up a system to compensate these brave workers and others like them across the nation for their sacrifices. Unfortunately, that system continues to fail Nevada Test Site employees. That is why I write to urge you to add employees who worked at the Nevada Test Site at least through the 1992 nuclear tests in the Special Exposure Cohort under Subtitle B of The Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act (EEOICPA), P.L. 108-375, ensuring them some relief from the illnesses from which they have suffered while it can still help them and their families. 
   In 1950, President Harry S. Truman designated what would later be called the Nevada Test Site as the nation's nuclear proving grounds. A month later, the first atmospheric test at the Nevada Test Site was detonated. The United States conducted 100 above-ground and 828 underground nuclear tests at the Nevada Test Site from 1951 - 1992. Out of the 1054 nuclear tests conducted in the United States, 928, or 88 percent, were conducted at the Nevada Test Site. In addition, the Nevada Test Site has served, and continues to serve, as the premier research, testing, and development site for our nuclear defense capabilities. The Nevada Test Site and its workers are an essential and irreplaceable part of our nation's defense capabilities. 
   Congress acknowledged that we had the responsibility to provide employees and their families compensation for the cancers contracted while building our defense capabilities. Thus, we passed the EEOICPA in 2000 and made further amendments to this act in 2004. EEOICPA was designed to provide a system for timely compensation of our nation's nuclear defense facility workers cancers. Unfortunately, Nevada Test Site workers are not seeing the timely compensation these programs were meant to provide. 
   Many Nevada Test Site workers have significant criticisms of the length of time that they have been waiting for compensation. The length of processing time taken by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to do the exposure analysis required for Nevada Test Site workers suffering from cancer is of particular concern. Some of these applicants have waited 20 years or more for their claims to be paid. Fifty-seven percent of Nevada's Test Site cancer claims are still pending at NIOSH. And, of these, NIOSH has recommended compensation in only about 11 percent of cases. By comparison, NIOSH has recommended compensation for 25 percent of all cases nationwide. 
   Nevada Test Site employees believe that NIOSH's analyses are biased against the employees, resulting in claims being denied for largely arbitrary reasons. Some are asked to provide information that they never received from their employers for national security reasons. Others are asked for dose information, but were never monitored. Some believe their claims are being denied because of partisan politics. All agree that the process is not timely. 
   Our Nevada Test Site workers have defended the United States well. We should and must compensate them now for the cost of this service to their nation. It is time to add employees who worked at the Nevada Test Site at least through the 1992 nuclear tests to the EEOCIPA Special Exposure Cohort and to ensure them the timely compensation they are guaranteed under the statue. My office stands ready to assist you in any way that it can. If you have any questions, please contact Sandra Schubert on my staff at 202.224.6996. Thank you for your expeditious attention to this matter. 
   Sincerely,
   HARRY REID
  United States Senator
   cc: Michael Leavitt, Secretary, United States Department of Health and Human Services 
   Ellen Chao, Secretary, United States Department of Labor 
   Donald Rumsfeld, Secretary, United States Department of Defense 
   Samuel Bodman, Secretary, United States Department of Energy
 
 