SENS. SALAZAR, MEN?NDEZ, NAMED NEW C0-CHAIRS OF SENATE DEMOCRATIC HISPANIC TASK FORCE
  Today, Senate Majority Leader Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) and Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Chair of the Senate Democratic Steering and Outreach Committee announced that Sens. Ken Salazar (D-CO), and Robert Menéndez (D-NJ) will be the new co-chairs of the Senate Democratic Hispanic Task Force (HTF). The HTF has been key in continuing to promote a strong partnership between the Hispanic community and their allies in the Senate Democratic Caucus.  
   The Senate Democratic Hispanic Task Force is committed to specifically addressing the needs of the Hispanic community. Each year, the Task Force hosts several events that bring together Democratic Senators and Hispanic Leaders. 
   "Senators Salazar and Menendez are key leaders in the Hispanic community and among Democrats, and without a doubt, they will lead the HTF with great commitment and fight to ensure that Latinos are at the table during the discussion of every major issue before Congress," Senator Reid said. "Senate Democrats are committed to improving the quality of life of Latinos, and all hard working Americans. Our country needs a new direction on education, healthcare, the economy, immigration, and Iraq, and Democrats are starting to deliver." 
   "Senators Menendez and Salazar are incredible leaders in our Democratic caucus," Senator Stabenow said. "The Hispanic Task Force is central to our outreach plans as the Democratic majority in the Senate, and I know Senators Menendez and Salazar will lead it with energy and a commitment to our Democratic values." 
   "I am honored to have been selected by Majority Leader Reid and Senator Stabenow to help lead the Hispanic Task Force," said Senator Salazar. "The Task Force was formed in 1989 and founded by Senator Jeff Bingaman because Americans of Hispanic backgrounds are the fastest-growing demographic group in our Nation. That status, along with their history and ongoing influence on American life, create unique public policy challenges for our Nation. I look forward to helping Senate Democrats forge stronger ties with the Hispanic community, because Democratic values of fairness, mutual respect and opportunity are the values I grew up with and they form the bedrock of the Hispanic community today." 
   "With more Hispanics serving in the U.S. Senate than ever before, this is indeed an historic opportunity for Hispanics and for our nation," Menendez said. "As co-chair of the Hispanic Task Force, I will work alongside Ken Salazar to ensure Hispanics, and the issues important to them, are an integral part of the overall Senate agenda and process. We will fight to advance legislation and policies that will unlock the political, economic and social potential of America's fastest-growing segment." 
   The Senate Democratic Hispanic Task Force promotes policy issues of mutual importance including inequities in health care, education, homeownership and benefits for veterans. The Senators pledged to keep on fighting to improve life opportunities for Hispanics and to continue working with their colleagues on the House of Representatives to ensure that the issues of concern to the Hispanic community will be heard in Congress.
 
 