SEN. REID, REP. PORTER, BLM, FORD MOTOR TEAM UP TO 'SAVE THE MUSTANGS'
  Working to protect an icon of the American West, Sen. Harry Reid, Rep. Jon Porter, the Bureau of Land Management and Ford Motor Co. announced today a public-private campaign to provide long-term sustainability and care for wild horses.  
   Recently, Ford Motor Company offered to pay for the transportation of 2,000 wild mustangs to new homes among Native American tribes and other non-profit organizations. Working with the BLM, Ford has now created a "Save the Mustangs" fund that will allow the public to help provide ongoing care for the horses in their new habitats. 
   "People in Nevada, throughout the West and across the country feel so strongly about protecting wild horses," Senator Reid said. "This effort is an ideal way to combine private and public resources to help care for these animals. Ford and the BLM deserve a lot of credit for this approach to solving a difficult problem." 
   More than 50% of the country's wild horses are in Nevada. This creates unique challenges for public lands management in the state. Overpopulation of horses along with recent droughts has threatened the well-being of wild horses and burros and has seriously harmed the rangeland upon which they depend for their survival. Nevada's Congressional delegation is already working to send $5 million to the state for a wild horse and burro center, and Reid noted that he and Sen. Ensign are working with Congressman Porter to introduce legislation that would provide adoption incentives. 
   "Wild horses are a symbol of the American West. I applaud Ford Motor Company and the BLM for their efforts to protect our wild horses, and I look forward to working with Senators Reid and Ensign on developing legislation that will go the next step in balancing the protection of our public land with the well-being of these majestic animals," said Congressman Jon Porter. 
   "The wild mustang has been the inspiration for our most popular car, the Ford Mustang, for more than 40 years," said Ziad Ojakli, Ford group vice president - Corporate Affairs. "So we think it's only right to return the favor and do what we can to help save the mustangs from an uncertain future. The tremendous response we've had from all over the country to Ford's new savethemustangs.org website is clear evidence that this issue truly strikes a chord with many Americans." 
   Nevada's BLM State Director Bob Abbey said, "We are committed to the well-being of wild horses and burros, both on and off the range. This new partnership with Ford and Take Pride in America enables us to carry out the will of Congress while finding good homes for wild horses and burros, which are a treasured symbol of the Western spirit and an icon of American freedom." 
   Shari Warren, President of the National Wild Horse Association (NWHA), said "The National Wild Horse Association welcomes the opportunity to work with Members of our Nevada Congressional delegation to strengthen existing protections for our wild horses, while at the same time, launching new and innovative ideas to improve the wild horse adoption program so that more wild horses can find their way to good homes." 
   Nearly 32,000 wild horses and burros roam public lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management in 10 Western states, with more than 50% of those horses living in Nevada. 
   These wild animals have virtually no natural predators, and their herd sizes can double about every five years. To maintain populations in balance with their habitat, the BLM removes excess animals from the rangelands every year. The BLM places thousands of wild horses and burros into private ownership through adoption each year. Approximately 22,500 Mustangs that have been removed from the rangelands are currently in federal holding facilities. 
   Senators Reid and Ensign and Congressman Jon Porter hope to introduce federal legislation in the coming weeks that would offer adoption incentives and greater protections for horses.
 
 