SEN. REID CALLS FOR SENATE VOTE ON ESTATE TAX
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada today delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. Senate, calling on Republican Leaders to stop holding the economic security of millions of Americans hostage to a trillion-dollar handout to multi-millionaires. Reid urged the Senate to hold the cloture vote on this bill today, so that the Congress can turn to important legislation like the pension bill.  
   The text of Senator Reid's remarks, as prepared for delivery, is below. 
   Mr. President, I'm terribly disappointed with this situation we have this week in the Senate. 
   This should have been a good legislative week. 
   We should be feeling good after having passed legislation to restore the coastline in Louisiana and Mississippi. 
   We should be feeling good after having passed legislation to protect the pensions of 45 million Americans. 
   We should be feeling good after having passed legislation to provide funding for our beleaguered troops. 
   We should be feeling good after having passed legislation to help reconstruct our military. 
   And we should be feeling good after having passed legislation to provide middle-class tax relief. 
   But in fact-because of the manipulations of this Do Nothing Congress-all we've done is the Off-Shore drilling bill.
   The Senate has done nothing for the defense of our nation, nothing to protect pensions, and nothing to provide relief to the struggling middle class. 
   Why? Because of what Republicans call the "Trifecta," but is really the "Defecta" bill. It hurts American, workers and it drives America billions into debt, just so Republicans can get on their path to legislative heaven. 
   It's time to put this charade to bed. My side is ready to end this circus. 
   Let's have a cloture vote right now, so we can get on with business of the American people. 
   The Senate has already spent too much time on the number 1 priority of Republicans - giving 800 billion dollars in tax relief to 8,100 of the wealthiest Americans. 
   We need to vote, and we need a new direction.
 
 