SEN. REID: BUSH FAILS TO COME CLEAN ABOUT HIS SOCIAL SECURITY PLAN
  Tonight, George W. Bush provided few new details of his Social Security privatization plan and once again failed to come clean on the three key questions that the American people continue to ask. Bush failed to acknowledge the extent to which benefits will be cut, debt will be increased and whether the Republican privatization plan will increase the long-term solvency of the program.  
   Bush Failed to Address Benefit Cuts: Tonight Bush said, "Your money will grow, over time, at a greater rate than anything the current system can deliver - and your account will provide money for retirement over and above the check you will receive from Social Security." [George W. Bush, State of the Union, 2/2/05] 
   But, CBO Says Bush's Plan Will Cut Benefits by 45 Percent or More for Seniors. The Bush plan will reduce benefits for all seniors, even those who choose not to invest in privatized accounts. According to the Congressional Budget Office, "benefits for the 1980s birth cohort would be...30 percent lower...and benefits for the 2000s cohort would be...45 percent lower." [CBO, "Long-term Analysis of Plan 2 of the President's Commission to Strengthen Social Security," 7/21/2004, pp. 11 and Figure 2A] Bush Failed to Address Increases in Debt: Tonight Bush said, "We will make sure this plan is fiscally responsible, by starting personal retirement accounts gradually, and raising the yearly limits on contributions over time, eventually permitting all workers to set aside four percentage points of their payroll taxes in their accounts." [George W. Bush, State of the Union, 2/2/05] 
   But, The President's Plan Adds Over $4.5 Trillion in Debt. "Over the first ten years that the plan actually was in effect (2009-18), it would add more than $1 trillion to the debt. Over the next ten years (2019- 28), it would add over $3.5 trillion more to the debt. All told, the plan would add more than $4.5 trillion to the debt over its first 20 years." [Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, "New Details Indicate Administration Social Security Plan," 2/2/05] Bush Failed to Address Social Security's Long-Term Solvency: Tonight Bush said, "By the year 2042, the entire system would be exhausted and bankrupt. If steps are not taken to avert that outcome, the only solutions would be drastically higher taxes, massive new borrowing, or sudden and sever cuts in Social Security benefits or other government programs." [George W. Bush, State of the Union, 2/2/05] 
   But, a Senior Administration Official Admitted the Plan Does Nothing to Address Solvency. A Senior administration official said today in a press briefing, "So in a long-term sense, the personal accounts would have a net neutral effect on the fiscal situation of the Social Security and on the federal government." After the official was asked whether "I am right in assuming... the personal accounts by themselves as having no effect whatsoever on the solvency issue?" The senior Administration official replied: "That's a fair inference." [White House, Background Briefing on Social Security, 2/2/05]
 
 