INVOKING SPIRIT OF FDR, UNIFIED SENATE DEMOCRATS DEMAND PRESIDENT NOT ADD TRILLIONS TO DEBT IN RISKY PRIVATIZATION SCHEME
  Standing outside the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial today, Senate Democrats presented a united front to fight against the President's plans to send the national debt skyrocketing by privatizing Social Security. The Senators released a letter to the White House from a unified Democratic Caucus calling on President Bush to send a plan for Social Security reform that does not exacerbate national debt. 
   Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid released the following statement:
   "Last night, George Bush said Social Security is a 'symbol of trust between generations.'
   "Well Mr. President, there can't be trust if someone is hiding something. You gave the American people another speech, but failed yet again to come clean on the three most important issues in your plan
   "Once again, we heard nothing about benefit cuts...nothing about debt...and nothing about how you will address the long-term solvency of Social Security.
   "There's a reason the President doesn't talk about these things. It's the same reason even Republicans have called the President's plan a "dead horse."
   "The fact is, President Bush last night outlined the same tired privatization plan ? already rejected by members of both parties ? that will result in deep benefit cuts and a massive increase in debt.
   "And yesterday, even one of the President's most senior advisors admitted private accounts will do nothing to address long term solvency of Social Security.
   "It's a Republican privatization plan will cut benefits about $5,000 per year and increase our nation?s debt by more than $4.5 trillion.
   "Democrats recognize that Social Security faces long-term challenges. We remain eager to work with the President to both strengthen Social Security and develop new ways to help Americans save for their retirement.
   "But we cannot support privatization proposals that contain deep benefit cuts and massive increases in debt.
   "We are all for promoting retirement savings and helping Americans enhance their retirement security. But that doesn't mean taking Social Security's guarantee and gambling with it. (And once again, I remind you that is coming from a Senator who represents Las Vegas.)
   "The President is right ? we have a responsibility to the next generation when it comes to Social Security. And that responsibility starts with being upfront about our intentions.
   "Democrats are committed to strengthening Social Security, but George Bush let another chance slip last night when he failed to clarify three key details of the Republican privatization plan.
   "That is why this letter we are sending today is so important. We cannot work together to strengthen Social Security until the President abandons his plans for deep benefit cuts and massive debt increases."
 
 