INVESTIGATIVE REPORT STRONGLY CRITICIZES YUCCA MOUNTAIN WORK
  A report released today by the General Accounting Office (GAO), the non partisan investigative arm of Congress, found that the Department of Energy is failing to conduct quality scientific work at Yucca Mountain. 
   Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign requested the investigation when whistleblowers who worked at Yucca Mountain were either fired or transferred after publicly raising concerns more than a year ago. Reid and Ensign held a Senate hearing to follow up on the whistleblowers' accusations, but the employees were intimidated into not appearing.
   Now, the report released by the GAO verifies the accusations by the whistleblowers and adds new substance to claims by Reid and Ensign that the outcome of studies at Yucca Mountain are politically, not scientifically, motivated. The report focuses on the Quality Assurance program at Yucca Mountain. Quality Assurance is the way workers verify the legitimacy of their studies and will be a key factor in whether or not DOE is ever allowed to open Yucca Mountain.
   "This report confirms that the Department of Energy is wasting billions of dollars on substandard science," Senator Reid said. "They can't pass muster at even the most basic of levels. There is a reason why we are fighting Yucca Mountain. It will never be safe. We now have another report verifying that Department of Energy can not safely open Yucca Mountain as a nuclear repository."
   "While I am pleased that the GAO report acknowledges serious problems with the Yucca Mountain project, this is not news to Nevadans," Senator Ensign said. "The GAO's assessment that licensing could be delayed because of these issues provides the Nevada delegation additional time to put funding into viable alternatives to Yucca Mountain. Completion of the nuclear waste repository should be delayed permanently."
   The GAO's report - Persistent Quality Assurance Problems Could Delay Repository Licensing and Operation - is attached to this press release.
 
 