SEN. REID, REP. BERKLEY COMMEND PASSAGE OF BILL TO EXPAND ED FOUNTAIN PARK
  Sen. Harry Reid and Rep. Shelley Berkley applauded the unanimous passage of a bill that will expand Ed Fountain Park. The Ed Fountain Park Expansion Act, sponsored by Reid, will transfer approximately eight acres of federal land to the City of Las Vegas for the expansion of the popular park for additional athletic fields, and for a recreation center that could also house office space for non-profit groups.  
   "I'm pleased the Ed Fountain Park Expansion Act passed," said Reid. "Whether it's for a soccer game, football practice, or a simple family picnic, this park is a great resource for Valley families to get outside and spend some time together. I am happy we succeeded in passing this legislation to make Ed Fountain Park bigger and better." 
   Nevada Congresswoman Shelly Berkley sponsored the companion bill in the House of Representatives. 
   "Transferring this property to the City of Las Vegas will allow the City to expand Ed Fountain Park, a place that already offers so many recreational opportunities for residents of this neighborhood," Berkley said. "I can't think of a better use for this property than expanding a popular and valuable community resource." 
   Ed Fountain Park is located in City Councilman Lawrence Weekly's district. "Expanding parks in mature areas of the city can be a challenge, but this bill allows Ed Fountain Park to grow and add amenities for Las Vegas residents to enjoy," Councilman Lawrence Weekly said. "I am grateful to Senator Reid for his continued leadership to Nevada and what this type of support from the U.S. Senate means to the constituents of Ward 5." 
   Ed Fountain Park is one of the best known and well-used parks in the City of Las Vegas. Located in a mature part of the City, adjacent to the City's oldest golf course, Ed Fountain Park has provided recreational opportunities for generations of local residents. 
   The land to be transferred to the city previously served as the headquarters for the Desert National Wildlife Refuge, which has now moved to the joint Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Forest Service office in North Las Vegas. The Fish and Wildlife Service is not authorized to transfer parcels administratively, so this legislation was needed to facilitate the transfer.
 
 