SEN. REID RECOGNIZES NEWEST MEMBERS OF NEVADA NEWSPAPER HALL OF FAME
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada issued the following statement in the Congressional Record to honor the induction of Frank, Tony, and Ted Hughes into the Nevada Press Association's Hall of Fame:  
   "Mr. President, I rise to recognize the newest members of the Nevada Newspaper Hall of Fame. This month, the Nevada Press Association inducted Frank, Tony, and Ted Hughes into the Hall of Fame for their contributions to journalism in Nevada." 
   "For more than 75 years, the Mineral County Independent News has provided the small town of Hawthorne with valuable news and information about their community. For more than 50 of those 75 years, the Hughes brothers have used their skill for journalism and hometown pride to make the Independent News thrive." 
   "Each of the Hughes brothers started at the Independent News at an early age. Tony Hughes was a paperboy. He would later sweep floors and fold papers on the weekends. Soon after his graduation from high school, Tony was hired full time." 
   "While Tony was the first member of the Hughes family to join the paper, his brothers would soon follow. Frank and Ted Hughes joined Tony to help run the printing presses, sell advertisements and shoot photographs. Today, the brothers manage the day-to-day operations of the Independent News, and each is responsible for writing stories and reporting on the Community." 
   "As I have expressed, the Independent News is a true family business. The paper has a total of four employees. Frank, Tony, and Ted are helped by Heidi Bunch, a receptionist who manages the office." 
   "In an age of large media conglomerates and corporate news, it is refreshing to get the local community angle from the Independent News. Every Thursday, the residents of Hawthorne look to the Independent News to read about community events at local churches, the American Legion, and Schurz Elementary. Subscribers can also read about the local Serpents' football or basketball game as well as view important announcements about the Mineral County school system." 
   "One of the most interesting features to me, though, is the paper's ``Reflections on the Past.'' There you can view a summary of the events in Hawthorne from 20,50, and even 70 years ago. It is an amazing collection of Northern Nevada's rich culture and history." 
   "All of this success is a direct result of the Hughes family. Without their hard work and dedication, this local paper might not be in existence today. I am pleased that Tony, Frank, and Ted Hughes have been recognized for their excellence in journalism, and I am proud to have the opportunity to pay tribute to them before the Senate today. I look forward to continuing to read the Independent News for years to come."
 
 