HOUSE AND SENATE DEMOCRATS TO HOLD 250 NEW DIRECTION EVENTS DURING AUGUST
  With the country at a crossroads, facing a critical choice between the status quo and a new direction, House and Senate Democrats today announced that they will be taking their message of change across the country during the August recess, holding 250 New Direction events across America. 
   House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi kicked-off the series of events on Thursday in Minneapolis, Minnesota with Representatives Martin Olav Sabo and Betty McCollum and is holding a New Direction Town Hall meeting on Friday in San Francisco with three Bay Area members. Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid will be holding New Direction events throughout the month, including an event in Reno, Nevada on stem cells next week.
   "Democrats are charting a New Direction, one that unites our country and creates a better America," Leader Pelosi said. "Democrats will own August by holding press events and town hall meeting throughout the country to talk about our New Direction for America. Whether it's the war in Iraq, price of gas, affordable health care, or the cost of college, Americans know the country is going in the wrong direction. Our New Direction for America will address the real priorities of the American people, expanding opportunity and prosperity for all, not just the privileged few."
   "The American people deserve better than this Do Nothing Republican Congress," said Leader Reid. "They deserve better than leaders who sell out the middle class to special interests, who rubberstamp the failed policies of the Bush White House, and who ignore the challenges facing working families. It's time for leaders as good as the American people. It's time for a Congress that serves all Americans. Democrats are fanning out throughout the country in August to show what a New Direction for America would mean for America's families."
   More than five years of failed leadership by President Bush and his Rubber Stamp Republican Congress have put America on the wrong track and in desperate need for a real change. Republican incompetence has put our national security in doubt and left our troops at risk. Failed economic polices have left the middle class working harder while making less, unable to afford the rising cost of health care, college tuition, and gasoline. Meanwhile, leaders who put partisan ideology and special interests ahead of working families have given handouts to multi-millionaires and put seniors' Social Security in danger. While the Republican Congress has chosen to do nothing to help, ignoring the concerns of the American people, Democrats are fighting for a new direction.
   House and Senate Democrats will be crisscrossing the country this August with events in more than a dozen states, including: Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Iowa, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, North Dakota, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Washington, and Wisconsin.
 
 