SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT BUSH'S FISCAL 2009 BUDGET
  Nevada Senator Harry Reid released the following statement today in response to President Bush's FY 2009 budget, which he released this morning: 
  "The president's budget represents more of the same policies that have gotten our country into the weakened economic position we're experiencing today: a position that is hitting Nevada's working families especially hard.
  "A president's budget is a statement of his priorities and, once again, we are seeing President Bush's priorities are out of sync with Nevada's. Take Yucca Mountain for example. Despite the fact Congress cut his proposal by $108 million last year, President Bush requested $495 million again this year. Clearly, he will not get that funding, which is half of what the Energy Department says it will need to proceed with the dump anyway. I will continue working with Nevada's congressional delegation, while leveraging my leadership position in the Senate, to stop the dump from ever being built.
  "Meanwhile, as the president is attempting to throw more money at Yucca Mountain, his budget cuts nearly $200 billion from health programs for seniors, people with disabilities, and poor children, which affects hundreds of thousands of Nevadans. On top of cutting funding for states to fight bioterrorism and improve rural health care, the budget continues to underfund No Child Left behind and would eliminate 48 other education programs. Further, while experts agree the foreclosure crisis that exploded under his watch will continue to grow this year, not shrink, the president cut funding for foreclosure prevention and counseling programs. This crisis has weakened our nation's economy and is already having an impact on Nevada's state budget.
  "President Bush's fiscal policies are the worst in our nation's history - he has turned record surpluses into record deficits - while ignoring the needs of working families across the country. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress this year to ensure Nevada's needs are met, while passing a responsible budget that is balanced and ends the Bush approach of spending money we don't have."
 
 