SOCIAL SECURITY AND AFRICAN AMERICANS
  During the month of February, Black History Month, all Americans celebrate the achievements of African Americans. As we observe these achievements, we must also engage in a serious discussion that will certainly impact the lives of African Americans; the debate over the privatization of Social Security.  
   Social Security is one of our nation's most successful initiatives. The program provides critical benefits for millions of Americans, and it is particularly important for African Americans. 
   Social Security's benefits are not handouts - they are earned through hard work and contributions into the system throughout one's life. Nor are Social Security's benefits lavish. The average retiree benefit is only $955 per month. Yet without Social Security, nearly 50% of all Americans 65 and older who receive Social Security would live in poverty. Moreover, Social Security provides African American seniors with 44% of their total income and it is the only source of income for one in three African Americans 65 and older. For these Americans, Social Security's guaranteed benefit is the only thing standing between them and a life of poverty and destitution. 
   Contrary to many claims, Social Security is not in crisis, and will remain solvent for many decades to come. However, the system does face long term challenges. Estimates from the Congressional Budget Office indicate that in 50 years Social Security may be able to pay only about 80% of promised benefits if Congress takes no action. We should act to address these long term challenges. However, we must avoid so-called solutions that only make the problem worse. 
   I am especially concerned by President Bush's proposal to move toward the privatization of Social Security. The President wants to cut the program's funding by diverting payroll taxes away from the program's Trust Fund and into privatized accounts. This cut in funding would require very deep cuts in benefits. Under the leading plan being discussed, which the President has called "a good blueprint," benefits would be cut by one-third or more. These cuts would apply to all seniors, disabled workers and the survivors of workers - widows and children. Not to mention, they would still apply to those who choose not to risk their money in privatized accounts. 
   The White House also apparently is planning to fund its privatization plan by borrowing more than $2 trillion, much of which would come from countries like China and Japan. This not only will increase our nation's dependence on foreign creditors, but it will create much larger budget deficits. That, in turn, will create strong pressure for cuts in important programs like Medicare and Medicaid, among others. 
   The President has tried to argue that his privatization plan would help African Americans. In truth, privatization would be very harmful to the African American community, as many independent analyses have shown. 
   First, African Americans on average earn less, and suffer from unemployment more, than other groups; especially in younger years when African American employment gaps compared to whites are at their highest. Social Security's progressive benefit formula accounts for this disparity to determine and provide benefits. Privatization does not address income and unemployment disparities and would move away from this progressive approach ultimately reducing benefits to African Americans. 
   Beyond its retiree benefits, Social Security provides critical assistance to the disabled, and protects American families from the loss of a parent or spouse, or from the loss of income from the disability of that parent or spouse. In fact, African American families receive a greater proportion of disability and survivor benefits. 
   In my view, all American families, including African American families, should have the opportunity to save and grow wealth. That is why we need to strengthen and modernize our current system of retirement security, and to encourage more Americans to save for the future. However, it is important that we do this without weakening Social Security and undermining the program's basic guarantee for those who have been paying into the system in good faith. 
   We can and should work together on a bipartisan basis to strengthen and improve Social Security, and Democrats stand ready to work with the President toward that end. At the same time, we will not support a privatization plan that reduces the program's funding while making deep cuts in guaranteed benefits and adding massive amounts of debt. 
   While we celebrate Black History Month, I ask all Americans, especially African Americans to carefully examine the President's privatization plan. I believe it's the wrong approach for all Americans and has major implications for African Americans in particular.
 
 