SEN. REID OPENS NEW COMMUNICATIONS CENTER
  Democratic Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) today opened the new Senate Democratic Communications Center in the U.S. Capitol. The communications center in the U.S. Capitol will provide Democrats a visible and vocal platform from which they will be heard.  
   "As the Democratic leader, I am pleased to open a new communications center 
  to ensure that all Americans - from my rural hometown of Searchlight to the 
  nation's big cities - know the values and principles for which Democrats 
  stand," Reid said. "This center will provide a central place for Democrats 
  to spread our message of economic opportunity, retirement security and 
  affordable and accessible health care to all Americans. I am pleased that 
  the best talent in the country has gathered here to spread the word and get 
  the truth out." 
   Senator Reid also said the new Senate Democratic Communications Center will 
  aggressively pioneer Internet outreach, including online news outlets and 
  blogs. "We will use every tool and innovative avenue available to us to get 
  our message out," Reid said. "The Internet is the future, and it is vital to 
  this new communications project." 
   Jim Manley - Staff Director: A seasoned and skilled media operative on 
  Capitol Hill, Manley will be the Staff Director of the new Senate Democratic 
  Communications Center (SDCC). Manley oversees the office, message 
  development and communications strategy for Reid and the Democratic caucus. 
  For the past 11 years, Manley has served as Press Secretary for Sen. Edward 
  Kennedy (D-MA) and the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. 
  Prior to the HELP committee, Manley worked for former Senate Majority Leader 
  George Mitchell (D-ME). 
   Phil Singer - Communications Director: Singer will handle rapid response and 
  messaging for Reid and Senate Democrats. Singer has earned widespread praise 
  for his media savvy, tenacity and know-how, most recently as National 
  Spokesperson for Kerry-Edwards 2004. Before the Presidential campaign, 
  Singer spent four years as Communications Director for Sen. Charles Schumer 
  (D-NY). 
   Tessa Hafen - Press Secretary: Haffen will work alongside Manley and Singer 
  while also ensuring focus and priority for Nevada and regional media. Hafen, 
  a native Nevadan, has been essential to Team Reid since she joined six years 
  ago, most recently as Campaign Press Secretary on his overwhelmingly 
  successful re-election in Nevada. 
   Fabiola Rodriguez-Ciampoli - Director of Hispanic Media: Rodriguez joins the 
  SDCC to focus primarily on outreach to Hispanic media. Rodriguez-Ciampoli 
  previously headed an aggressive media effort to reach out to Hispanic voters 
  for the Kerry-Edwards campaign. Before that she was Director of Specialty 
  Media at the Democratic National Committee. 
   Ari Rabin-Havt - Director of Internet Communications: Rabin-Havt served as 
  Deputy Director of Internet Communications for John Kerry's Presidential 
  race. Before that, he was Executive Dir of Click Back America a project of 
  the MoveOn.org Voter Fund. He has previously worked at Penn Schoen and 
  Berland and in Representative Ted Strickland's (OH-6) office. 
   U.S. Senate Democratic Communications Center
  United States Capitol
  Room S-318
  Washington, DC 20510
   Phone #: 202-224-2939
  Fax : 202-228-5776
   STAFF 
   Jim Manley: Staff Director: Jim_Manley@reid.senate.gov  
   Phil Singer: Communications Director: Phil_Singer@reid.senate.gov  
   Tessa Hafen: Press Secretary: Tessa_Hafen@reid.senate.gov  
   Fabiola Rodriguez-Ciampoli: Director: of Hispanic Media Fabiola_Rodriguez-ciampoli@reid.senate.gov  
   Ari Rabin-Havt: Director of Internet Communications: Ari_RabinHavt@reid.senate.gov
 
 