DEMOCRATS SET OUT ON 'FIX IT, DON'T NIX IT' SOCIAL SECURITY TOUR
  Highlighting their commitment to strengthening Social Security, Democratic Senators today set-out on the two-day, four-city "Fix It, Don't Nix It" tour across the United States. Led by Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND), the tour will allow the Senators to hear directly from the American people.  
   Over the next two days, the Senators will convene Democratic Policy Committee Social Security forums in New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Las Vegas. In each city, they will talk with local citizens about the Social Security debate and how Democrats want to fix the program. 
   The three lead Senators were joined in New York by host Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) and Senators Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Senator John Kerry (D-MA), and Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), who also attended in Philadelphia. 
   "There are long-term challenges for Social Security we need to address, and Democrats are committed to finding bipartisan solutions to meet them. It is what Congress has always done," said Reid. "But instead of talking about ways to save Social Security, this time Republicans are talking about a privatization plan that cuts benefits, adds trillions in debt and does nothing to strengthen the program. That is unacceptable." 
   As Senators stressed on the tour, Democrats are committed to protecting and strengthening Social Security for American families.They want to work with President Bush to strengthen Social Security for the long term, but insist on doing it right. 
   Unfortunately, the Republican privatization plan would cut Social Security's funding, weakening the program and making its financial problems worse. 
   The GOP plan will... 
   * Cut benefits by one-third or more, even for those who choose not to risk their money in a privatized account. 
   * Increase the debt by $5 trillion, largely financed by foreign countries like China and Japan.
   "The President is pushing hard for his plan to take apart Social Security, which means deep benefit cuts and nearly $5 trillion dollars in additional debt," said Dorgan. "The American people deserve to be heard, because Social Security is the bedrock of every American's retirement security. We intend to listen to the American people. We will talk with them, not at them, in order to hear what Social Security means to them and what they think ought to be done to preserve and strengthen it for years to come." 
  Today's tour comes on the heels of 42 Democratic Senators sending a letter to President Bush expressing their hope that a bipartisan solution to strengthening Social Security can be found. As a first step towards this, the Senators urge the President in the letter to publicly reject privatization - given the public's opposition to the plan and the weakening effect it will have on the program. The Senators write: "Such a statement would eliminate a serious obstacle to the kind of bipartisan process that Democrats are seeking to deal with Social Security's long-term challenges and to improve the retirement security of all Americans" 
   U.S. Representatives Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Bob Brady (D-PA) and Allyson Schwartz (D-PA) joined the tour for the Philadelphia stop, while U.S. Representatives Ed Pastor (D-AZ) and Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) attended the Phoenix event.
 
 