NEVADA CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION WORKS TO RESOLVE HELICOPTER FLIGHT PATH CONFLICT
  Working to find a common sense solution that protects helicopter tour operators, reduces noise for home owners and safeguards one of Nevada's richest petroglyph sites, Nevada's Congressional delegation introduced legislation today to provide land for a new heliport and set guidelines for helicopter flight paths over the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area.
   The legislation would convey 230 acres to Clark County for use as a heliport, and would require that helicopters flying over the Sloan Canyon petroglyphs avoid the most sensitive cultural resource and wildlife areas. 
   "The establishment of this heliport will improve the every day lives of tens of thousands of residents in the Las Vegas Valley who are adversely affected by helicopter noise," Sen. Harry Reid said. "We are also taking special care to control flights over the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area and have designed the bill to provide long-term viability for helicopter tour operators."
   "This legislation is a reasonable approach for air tour operators, residents and the natural resources in the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area," Ensign said. "We are planning five years ahead for our community's needs, which is a remarkable feat given the growth in southern Nevada. I am confident this will go a long way in preserving the interests of the Clark County residents and local businesses in the years to come."
   "This legislation will protect natural resources and cultural treasures unique to southern Nevada while meeting the needs of our families - who will enjoy more peace and quiet - and the needs of our helicopter tour operators," said Congresswoman Berkley (D-NV).
   "Air tour operators provide a unique service for visitors to Southern Nevada and contribute to our economic strength. This balanced bill will ensure their future viability while addressing the concerns of local residents and ensuring the continued protection of sensitive environmental lands," said Congressman Jim Gibbons.
   "I am pleased that an agreement has been reached to provide for a new heliport site in Southern Nevada," said Congressman Jon Porter. "Our thriving tourism industry in Southern Nevada depends upon many of the services that air tour operators provide, which attract many visitors domestically and abroad. This legislation will protect those businesses while at the same time preserving our precious environment and the quality of life enjoyed by our residents," he said.
   The legislation would convey about a third of a square mile of public land managed by the Bureau of Land Management to Clark County for dedicated use as a heliport. The land is located just south of the Henderson city limits and east of Interstate 15.
   The bill would also ensure that flights steer clear of the highest concentrations of sensitive and special cultural resources and minimize the impact on the bighorn sheep and other wildlife that live in the McCullough Mountains. Any helicopter flight originating from and/or landing at this heliport would be required by law to fly no further than 5 miles north of the southernmost boundary of the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area and at least 500 to 1000 feet above ground level while in the NCA.
   The legislation sets a $3 per passenger fee that will go to a special fund dedicated to the protection of the cultural, wilderness, and wildlife resources in Nevada.
   Introducing federal legislation allows for interested parties, such as Clark County, the City of Henderson, and the tour operators, to proceed with the negotiation of a prospective lease agreement. Provisions detailed in the lease agreement will govern flights from the new heliport. This lease agreement is expected to be developed as the delegation's bill moves through Congress.
 
 