SENS. REID, ENSIGN HOST CELEBRATION OF PROGRESS
  Nevada Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign welcomed federal and state officials to the banks of Lake Tahoe today for an annual summit on efforts to save the lake. Interior Secretary Gale Norton and Federal Highway Administrator Mary Peters were among the guests at the eighth annual summit, dubbed A Celebration of Progress.  
   "Lake Tahoe is the jewel of the Sierra," said Reid. "It's a national treasure, and we have a duty to protect it for future generations. We have made remarkable progress in the last seven years, thanks to a great partnership of the private sector and federal, state, and local governments. We have invested in forest restoration and community fire protection, built better roads and expanded our trail system. But we still have much more work to do. That's why I'll keep fighting every year to make sure Lake Tahoe gets the funding Congress authorized - the funding it needs and deserves." 
   "Last year, I announced that I would be introducing legislation to provide $300 million in guaranteed funding for Lake Tahoe over eight years," Ensign said. "This year, we're delivering the first installment - $38 million - a record amount to preserve and protect Nevada's pristine treasure. The next decade will be critical to restoring Lake Tahoe's clarity. Together we can, and we will, create a clear future for Lake Tahoe." 
   Reid held the first Lake Tahoe Summit in 1997 to draw national attention to the declining health and clarity of the lake. He brought then-President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore to Nevada to see the environmental threats particular to the lake's geography. In 2000, Congress passed the Lake Tahoe Restoration Act, which authorized $300 million over ten years. The funding is for land acquisition, erosion control, forest management, fire suppression and to improve water quality, including efforts to clean-up MTBE contamination. 
   This year's summit was held at the Ponderosa Ranch in Incline Village, and was sponsored by Senators Reid and Ensign, the Ponderosa Ranch, and Terra Firma Associates. Summit participants included Norton and Peters, representatives from the states of Nevada and California, speakers from the U.S. Forest Service, the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and local experts from the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency and the League to Save Lake Tahoe. 
   "I commend the hard work and diligence of the Nevada Congressional in amending the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act," said Norton. "Working together through the Act, we can restore Lake Tahoe to its pristine condition for future generations to enjoy." 
   "Today, we have established aggressive goals so that our projects lie lightly on the land, valuing and protecting the surrounding environment," said Peters. "Success is defined by better moving the American economy while leaving project sites the same or better than we found them." 
   This year's summit was dedicated to the memory of Nevada Governor Mike O'Callaghan, who died earlier this year. O'Callaghan was one of the earliest supporters of environmental restoration efforts at Lake Tahoe.
 
 