DELEGATION PURSUING FEDERAL LAND TRANSFER FOR NEVADA CANCER INSTITUTE LAS VEGAS FACILITY
  Sen. John Ensign, Sen. Harry Reid, Rep. Shelley Berkley, Rep. Jon Porter and Rep. Dean Heller introduced legislation that provides federal land for an additional facility for the Nevada Cancer Institute. The bill, introduced in the Senate by Ensign and in the House by Berkley, transfers land at the intersection of Alta Drive and Hualapai Way to the city of Las Vegas. Las Vegas City Councilman Steve Wolfson represents Ward 2 where the land is located.  
   "The Nevada Cancer Institute improves the lives of cancer patients throughout our state, and this land will help ensure that patients get the care they deserve," Ensign said. "By freeing up the resources of the Cancer Institute, cancer patients will have greater access to better care, improving the quality of life for individuals fighting this terrible disease." 
   "This legislation will help to ensure that all Nevadans have access to the latest in cancer prevention, education, detection, and treatment options," said Reid. "The Cancer Institute is already serving thousands Nevadans - many of whom live in rural Nevada - and this legislation will allow them to improve the prevention, early detection and survival of cancer in our state." 
   Approximately 80 acres of federal land will be transferred to the city of Las Vegas for development and support of the new Cancer Institute facility. To provide support for the institute the bill also includes provisions for commercial development and flood control functions. This legislation will help the Nevada Cancer Institute focus resources on research and patient care, not land. 
   "This 80 acre site will be transformed into a home for the Nevada Cancer Institute and will be developed in a way that enhances NCI's lifesaving mission and benefits our community. In addition to a new campus for the Nevada Cancer Institute, this parcel will also provide park space and will serve as a hub for doctors, researchers and medical providers working to treat cancer patients and to find breakthroughs that will provide new hope for their families," said Berkley. "This is a great accomplishment for the Nevada delegation. The Nevada Cancer Institute is an enormous resource for providing high-quality treatment to those who suffer from this devastating disease," said Porter. "I am proud to work with the Nevada delegation on such important legislation to the state. Giving the Nevada Cancer Institute the resources they need benefits everyone in our state who is inflicted by this life threatening disease. As a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, I will work to help move this legislation through the committee as quickly as possible," said Heller. 
   "I would like to thank everyone that has been working through this process to ensure that this land is available for the Nevada Cancer Institute," Wolfson said. "We are pleased to provide a home in Ward 2 for this life-saving care center." 
   For more information on the Nevada Cancer Institute please visit www.nevadacancerinstitute.org.
 
 