SEN. REID WORKS TO KEEP AMERICA COMPETITIVE
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada today introduced bipartisan legislation to make America more competitive in the global economy by taking on the challenges currently confronting Nevada and the nation.  
   America used to lead the world in science, research and technology, which resulted in a healthy economy, strong national defense and a promising future. Today countries including India and China are challenging America's global dominance and threatening its position as the world's economic leader. Improving education is key to reversing this trend by ensuring our schools are producing a workforce that can compete in a global economy. In Nevada, students are ranked 43rd in the country for math skills and only a fraction of Nevada's high school seniors took math and science advanced placement tests. 
   "The America COMPETES Act of 2007 will ensure that our nation's citizens are armed with the critical math and science resources and skills they need to succeed in the areas of science, technology, and research," Senator Reid said. "It is time Congress makes a lasting investment in Nevada's future scientists, professors, and engineers by providing people with the essential math and science foundation. This act will strengthen schools, universities, and research centers in Nevada and throughout the country with the necessary funding to regain America's competitive edge in the world through innovation and long term investment." 
   The America COMPETES Act, or the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education and Science Act, will focus on three primary areas of importance to maintaining and improving United States' innovation: 
   * Strengthening education in the areas of math, science, technology, and engineering;
   * Increasing research investment;
   * Developing an innovation infrastructure.
   This bipartisan bill is in response to recommendations contained in the National Academies' "Rising Above the Gathering Storm" report and the Council on Competitiveness' "Innovate America" report released during the last Congress. 
   Reid has long been a champion for strengthening Nevada's workforce through education and training, and believes this Act will make a significant down payment to America's competitive future in the 21st century. 
   The bill was introduced today by Senators Bingaman, Ensign, Inouye, Kennedy, McConnell, Mikulski, Stevens, and others.
 
 