SEN. REID: ON CINCO DE MAYO, DEMOCRATS CELEBRATE CONTRIBUTIONS OF LATINOS TO THE NATION
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid joined millions of Americans today in commemorating Cinco de Mayo. This day marks the historic triumph of the Mexican people over the French Army in the battle of Puebla in 1862. 
   "Today, we celebrate the enormous contributions of Latinos to our country, especially the achievements of Mexican Americans," said Sen. Reid. "Americans of all walks of life have embraced this day as their own, which has become a symbol of pride, patriotism and diversity. Cinco de Mayo also reminds us that all peoples - regardless of their race, ethnicity or national origin - have the inalienable right to freedom, liberty and self-determination and that all cultures are worthy of respect." 
   Latinos are the fastest-growing minority group in the United States. They are leading a record number of small businesses - 1.2 million - with annual revenues of more than $200 billion. The fastest-growing small business sector is Latina-owned firms. Today, there are 30 Latino Members of the United States Congress, many of them Mexican-Americans.
   Democrats have taken bold steps to ensure that this community has every opportunity to reach the American Dream. Senate Democrats have shown a strong commitment to, and will continue to fight for, the issues that Latino families care about, like education, jobs and meeting the commitment to our nation's veterans. Democrats are also working for comprehensive immigration reform with policies that are tough and smart, as well as to improve minority health. 
   "For Democrats, diversity is not just a slogan, it is a bedrock principal," Sen. Reid added. "Hispanics are an integral part of the American fabric and have shown remarkable perseverance, hard work and dedication to family, which make our communities stronger and more vibrant. Democrats will not rest until every member of our society has the opportunity to achieve their fare share of the American Dream."
 
 