SENS. REID, ENSIGN LAND BILLS WILL BENEFIT SOUTHERN NEVADA
  Working to improve the quality of life for the people of Nevada, Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign testified to a U.S. Senate Committee today in favor of their legislation to convey land to the American Legion in Parhump and to modify conditions of a previous land conveyance to the University of Nevada, Las Vegas Research Foundation. 
   The Edward H. McDaniel American Legion Post No. 22 Land Conveyance Act directs the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to convey five acres of land to the American Legion Post No. 22 in Pahrump for the construction of a post building and memorial park for use by the American Legion and other community groups.
   "Thanks to this bill, Pahrump - a town where the population of veterans has tripled in recent years - will be able to build a new veterans center to benefit the whole community," said Reid.
   Commenting on the committee hearing, Senator John Ensign added, "Veterans in Nevada are winning throughout the state in response to the substantial growth rates we are witnessing. The new veterans center in Pahrump is a fine example of this."
   The University of Nevada at Las Vegas Research Foundation Reinvestment Act modifies the requirement of the land conveyance to the UNLV Research Foundation to enable the Foundation to reinvest proceeds from leasing the land.
   "When completed, this premier research center will provide a focus for high-tech education and research and create entrepreneurial opportunities for cutting edge companies, allowing for the much-needed diversification of the economy of southern Nevada," Reid commented.
   "Investing in high tech research is essential to our economic future," said Ensign, Chairman of the Senate Republican High Tech Task Force. "This research center will work to bring more technology opportunities to southern Nevada."
   Since 87 percent of Nevada's land is controlled by the federal government, congressional approval is required to facilitate these land conveyances.
 
 