SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT ON VOTER RIGHTS
  Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid released the following statement: 
   "Today, our brave men and women of the armed forces are working to bring the right to free and fair elections to Iraq. Their sacrifice absolutely demands that we work to ensure our own elections are fair.  
   "That is what today's debate is about and I welcome it. 
   "History has shown us that the right to vote demands constant vigilance and attention. The right to vote is secured by our Constitution, but history has shown that, at times, Constitutional protection was not enough. Widespread disenfranchisement of African Americans and other citizens lead to the landmark enactment of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and amendments in1970, 1975 and 1982. In each of these instances, we needed tough new laws and took action. And more recently, the abuses in Florida during the 2000 election demonstrated the need for additional reform and in response we passed the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002. 
   "While the literacy tests and poll taxes of the past are gone, a more insidious form of disenfranchisement continues to taint our electoral system. In this past election in my home state of Nevada, phone calls were made to heavily African American parts of Las Vegas to trick those voters into not voting. Those calls, which we were unable to trace, told voters that Election Day was November 3rd, not November 2nd. Our registration process in Nevada was also tainted by the proven destruction of Democratic voter registration forms. That fraud is still under investigation. And in some of my earliest elections in Nevada, private individuals dressed in uniforms meant to resemble federal immigration officers were posted near polls to intimidate minority voters. 
   "In this past election in Ohio, heavily minority precincts had disproportionately long lines because there weren't enough voting machines in those precincts. Widespread and blanket challenges to Ohio voters was a thinly veiled effort to suppress the vote. And legal challenges to restrict provisional voting - a provision of HAVA that was meant to cure the widespread disenfranchisement of African Americans in Florida in the 2000 Election - undermined congressional intent and the right to vote. 
   "These problems damage our system, deny our citizen equal protection and deny the right to vote. Rooting out this corruption requires not only strong laws, but strong hearts. It relies upon the integrity of our election officials in every state and each one of us to speak up when abuses occur. It is my hope that the debate today in the Senate will once again lead to action to cure some of the most glaring defects of the 2004 election. 
   "One of the most significant problems in Ohio and in many other states was an inability to ensure the integrity of electronic voting machines. We can easily find national solutions to this challenge. I know this because we did it in Nevada. In the 2004 election, Nevadans voted on electronic machines with a paper trail. The machine was simple and easy to use. After a voter cast his or her vote, a paper print-out was registered for the voter to see and was then later collected when the vote was counted. Nevada was the only state in the nation that provided a paper trail. 
   "The use of these machines helped ensure integrity of the election in Nevada and gave voters peace of mind that votes cast were counted. Last year, my colleague from Nevada Senator Ensign and I introduced a measure to require paper trails for electronic voting machines nationwide. 
   "We will reintroduce our bipartisan Voting Integrity and Verification Act (VIVA) in the 109th Congress. I hope that as we consider the 2004 election today, we look forward to enacting commonsense measures like VIVA so that we continue to improve the integrity of our elections. 
   "With HAVA we made significant reforms and the lessons we learned from the 2004 election have provided us with an opportunity to build on that success. I hope my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will join with me in that effort."
 
 