SEN. REID FIGHTS TO PREVENT WILDFIRES
  Sen. Harry Reid helped Nevada secure the resources it needs to address the issue of hazardous fuel reduction in the Ely area and the removal of hazardous fuels from Forest Service lands all across Nevada, particularly at Lake Tahoe.  
   "I will continue working on different ways to help Nevadans fight and prevent catastrophic wildfires," said Reid. "This is an important and timely issue, especially since we're in the middle of a dangerous wildfire season." 
   The FY07 Senate Interior Appropriations bill includes language encouraging the BLM to evaluate the need for hazardous fuel reduction and watershed restoration in the vitally important Ely watershed and to consider additional funding for these activities. The overgrowth of pinyon and juniper pines throughout much of White Pine County has raised the potential for wildfire.
   The Senate bill also includes language that strongly encourages the Forest Service to expedite the removal of hazardous fuels in the Humboldt-Toiyabe Forest and the Lake Tahoe Basin area. The Forest Service is also directed to explore opportunities for using this biomass for use in local electricity generation. 
   The wildland fires currently raging in the State are an immediate reminder of the volatile wildland fire situation throughout Nevada and the need for Federal land managers to accelerate the removal of hazardous materials. 
   Reid received $200,000 in the Agriculture bill for maintaining fuel breaks and reducing hazardous fuels - this language compliments his efforts to ensure Nevadans are safe from these devastating events. 
   Nevada will benefit from a portion of the $19 million in grant funding for rural and volunteer fire programs also included in the Senate Interior Appropriations bill. Rural and volunteer fire departments do an extraordinary job of protecting Nevada communities - this grant program allows departments to acquire the best available fire equipment and training for their firefighters.
 
 