SENS. REID, ENSIGN WORK TO BRING MORE HOMELAND SECURITY FUNDS TO NEVADA
  Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) and Sen. John Ensign (R-NV) are working closely with Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge to meet the needs of Nevada's first responders. In a letter sent to Ridge today, Reid and Ensign pointed to news reports late last year indicating that Las Vegas was among a small group of cities considered at risk of a terrorist attack. 
   While Reid and Ensign worked with Ridge last year to secure an additional $10.5 million for the state, they note in the letter that many communities that had less visible threats received significantly more. The Senators hope that, as the Department of Homeland Security begins to distribute funds based more on potential threats rather than population, Las Vegas will receive more resources.
   A copy of Sen. Reid's and Sen. Ensign's letter follows:
   May 6, 2004
   The Honorable Tom Ridge
  Secretary
  U.S. Department of Homeland Security
  U.S. Naval Security Station
  3801 Nebraska Avenue, NW
  Washington, DC 20393
   Dear Secretary Ridge:
   We are writing in regard to the safety and security of Nevada's major metropolitan areas. During the last year, news reports indicated Las Vegas was among a small group of cities that the Department of Homeland Security considered at risk of a terrorist attack. In particular, several news reports listed Las Vegas as a potential area of concern around the New Year Eve celebrations. These incidents place tremendous burdens on state and local emergency responders and law enforcement officials. As you continue to review your budget and allocate resources for state and local entities, we urge you to consider the crucial needs in Las Vegas and other parts of Nevada.
   Las Vegas is one of the nation's top tourist destinations, welcoming more than 36 million visitors every year. On any given day the hotels in Las Vegas host on average nearly 300,000 short-term residents. Ensuring the safety of these visitors and Las Vegas residents is a priority for Clark County's law enforcement and emergency responder community. Over the last few years, they have worked hard with limited budget resources to provide excellent services in Las Vegas. There are, however, several challenges that they still face.
   Las Vegas, like many communities throughout the country, does not have a communication system that allows for adequate contact between disparate agencies such as fire and police services. Tragically, the response to the terrorist attacks of September 11 demonstrated that interoperable communication systems are crucial to saving the lives of emergency responders and the people they are working to protect. Las Vegas estimates a fully integrated system will cost nearly $40 million. That requires a significant investment in resources.
   As you review the potential threats and needs of various communities throughout the country, we urge you to ensure that Las Vegas has sufficient resources to deal with any threat it may face. While we appreciate your efforts to work with us to secure an additional $10.5 million for Las Vegas as a high-threat urban area, many communities that had less visible threats received significantly more. Given the combined needs of protecting a tourist destination, and building a new communication system, it is imperative that Las Vegas receive sufficient funding to demonstrate publicly that the city continues to be well protected.
   With the President requesting a much larger portion of homeland security funding for threat based allocations, we urge you to remember the important needs facing Las Vegas, especially consideration of the tourist population. If you have any questions about our concerns, please contact us or have your staff contact our offices.
   We appreciate your consideration of our request and look forward to hearing from you.
   Sincerely,
   HARRY REID
  United States Senator
   JOHN ENSIGN
  United States Senator.
 
 