SEN. REID RECOMMENDS FORMER PARK PLACE ENTERTAINMENT PRESIDENT GALLAGHER FOR WHITE HOUSE AGING PANEL
  Nevada Sen. Harry Reid has recommended Thomas E. Gallagher for the White House Conference on Aging, praising Gallagher's commitment to improving the quality of life of America's senior citizens.  
   The WHCoA conducts extensive work to understand and develop policy recommendations on issues of critical importance to seniors. 
   "I plan to work closely with Tom as he works with the WHCoA to ensure that the issues and views of Nevadans are explored in the proceedings of this committee," said Reid. "Tom's extensive private sector experience will be a great asset to the Conference as it works to formulate recommendations to Congress and the President." 
   The WHCoA is made up of a Policy Committee recommended by Congress and the President from the public and private sector. The work of the Committee culminates in October at a meeting that 1,200 delegates and other officials are expected to attend. The theme of this year's conference, "The Booming Dynamics of Aging: From Awareness to Action" will deal with a broad range of issues from workplace opportunities for older workers to health care and access to affordable prescription drugs. 
   Following the October meeting, WHCoA formulates a series of policy recommendations for Congress and the President. 
   Through his work as Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel of several Fortune 500 Companies, Gallagher has become well-versed on the health care challenges facing the business community. 
   For example, as President and CEO of Park Place Entertainment (now Caesars Entertainment), Gallagher reached a historic contract with Nevada's Culinary Union resulting in fully paid health care and free prescription drugs for employees, as well as retiree benefits for seniors. 
   Prior to his corporate management work, Gallagher was a partner in Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, specializing in corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions. He graduated magna cum laude from the College of Holy Cross in Worchester, Massachusetts in 1966. He graduated from Harvard Law School with honors in 1969 and was the Editor-in-Chief of the Harvard Journal on Legislation.
 
 