NEVADA OFFICIALS HAIL PROGRESS OF COYOTE SPRINGS
  Praising it as a major step forward for the state and people of Nevada, Republican and Democratic officials from across Nevada today hailed the progress of Coyote Springs, the new development currently under construction in Clark and Lincoln Counties. 
   The Coyote Springs project is extremely important for the state and the Nevada economy. When finished, Coyote Springs will bring over 150,000 thousand homes and nearly a half-million jobs to one of the fastest growing regions in America. Its importance and benefit to the state has required the work of every major official in Nevada for more than five years, resulting in a project that has been praised as a model of environmentally sound use of the land. 
   "Nevadans expect their leaders to do their very best for the state and the people they serve and this is what we have accomplished with Coyote Springs," said Senator Harry Reid (D-NV). "During construction, Coyote Springs will be a major source of jobs for Nevadans. When completed, it will be a wonderful home to hundreds of thousands." 
   "Coyote Springs is a project of tremendous vision and everyone who is working so hard to make it a reality is to be commended," said Senator John Ensign (R-NV). "Projects like this provide a tremendous boost to Nevada's economy and create thousands of jobs. Nevada's continued growth is a result of creative and visionary projects such as Coyote Springs." 
   "I am proud to have had the opportunity to be part of the collaborative process that made this project possible," said Rep. Jim Gibbons (R-NV). "Nevada is the fastest growing state in the nation with the highest share of federal land and Coyote Springs will serve as model for responsible statewide growth by balancing the needs of people and the environment, all while encouraging the economic development so vital to the health of our state." 
   "The Coyote Springs Development will be a great enhancement to Clark and Lincoln Counties, providing jobs and a great place to live for people residing in our state," said Gov. Kenny Guinn. 
   Also attending today's event were Mesquite Mayor Bill Nicholes, Clark County Commissioner Tom Collins, Lincoln County Commissioner Ronda Hornbeck, Amy Leuders and Juan Palma of the Bureau of Land Management, Bob Williams of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Alexis Strauss of the Environmental Protection Agency, Kevin Roukey of the Army Corps of Engineers, Chairman and Founder of the Wingfield Nevada Group Harvey Whittemore, President and CEO of the Nevada Development Authority Somer Hollingsworth, Joe Pantuso of the Southern Nevada Homebuilders Association, Pat Mulroy of the Southern Nevada Water Authority, Dr. Richard Tracy of the University of Nevada Reno, Danny Thompson of the Nevada State AFL-CIO, and Amy Glad of Pardee Homes. 
   Nevada is unique in that the federal government manages over 87% of the land. This requires all officials from the local to the state to the federal level to work on land use and natural resource issues. Republicans and Democrats at all levels of government have worked together for years to help make Coyote Springs a project that is a model of economic, housing, and environmental development.
 
 