DEMOCRATS FIGHT TO PUT MIDDLE CLASS PRIORITES AHEAD OF ESTATE TAX REPEAL
  Across the country, the American people are struggling under the weight of incompetent Bush Republican policies, and they are looking to the Congress for help. Democratic Senators Kent Conrad, Joe Lieberman, and Barack Obama today called on Bush Republicans in the Senate to put aside their partisan legislative agenda in favor of much-needed legislation to address the immediate priorities of the American people.  
   Gas prices are skyrocketing, health care costs are rising, and college tuition is fast becoming too expensive for middle-class families to afford. Unfortunately, in Washington, D.C., Bush Republicans aren't paying attention. After devoting the Senate's time to a constitutional amendment that even its supporters conceded had no hope of passage, Republicans in the Senate plan to provide $1 trillion in tax breaks to the very wealthiest Americans. Sadly, they plan to offer nothing for the majority of hardworking families who are struggling to get by. A fact check on the effects of full repeal of the estate tax is attached to this release. 
   "In Connecticut last week I heard from my constituents about the many real challenges they face today and about what they priorities they want us to tackle in Congress--surging gas prices, skyrocketing health care costs that are bankrupting families and businesses alike, an uncertain economic and employment climate, and increasing college tuition," said Senator Lieberman. "Instead, the Republican Senate leadership is using up our legislative calendar to try to push through legislation to assure that the very wealthiest estates will get a multimillion dollar tax break. This is exactly the kind of partisan, election year politics that has caused so many Americans, who want their elected representatives to tackle the problems that directly affect their lives, to lose faith in the direction of our government." 
   "Let's call this trillion-dollar giveaway what it is - the Paris Hilton Tax Break," said Senator Obama. "It's about giving billions of dollars to billionaire heirs and heiresses at a time when American taxpayers just can't afford it." 
   Democrats believe the American people deserve better, and after five years of Bush Republican incompetence it's time for a real change. Democrats have comprehensive plans to make America energy independent, to ensure our nation's security, and to make health care and education affordable and accessible. Bush Republicans have shown that their priorities do not include the pressing concerns of the American people. It's time for a new direction.
 
 