SEN. REID HIRES NEW NEVADA OPERATIONS AND LEGISLATIVE DIRECTOR
  Sen. Harry Reid, the Senate Democratic Leader, announced today that Heather Urban is joining his staff as Nevada Operations and Legislative Director.  
   Urban will have oversight of all Nevada legislative matters and will be a crucial link for Reid's senior policy staff, connecting Reid's leadership position to Nevada priorities. She will develop and implement Reid's priorities on education, health care and energy, and manage his legislative staff. Urban will continue working on Reid's bipartisan, comprehensive planning for Nevada's public lands, securing appropriations for the state, gaming issues and stopping the Yucca Mountain project. She comes from Congresswoman Shelley Berkley's office where she worked for four years, most recently as Legislative Director. 
   "Heather brings with her a wealth of experience and knowledge of Nevada," Senator Reid said. "She has been a tremendous asset to our state, and I am lucky to have her on staff. She is talented and dedicated, and I can think of no one better to lead the team of people who work for me and Nevada every day." 
   Urban has an extensive Nevada and Congressional background. She joined Congresswoman Berkley's office in February of 2001 as a Legislative Assistant focusing on issues such as business, crime, education, labor and travel and tourism. Urban's Congressional experience includes working for Congressman Michael Forbes from New York and Senator Chuck Schumer from New York. She also worked as a Special Education Teacher for Teach for America. Urban graduated from Syracuse University with a Bachelors of Arts in Public Relations and Psychology. 
   "This is a tremendous opportunity," Urban said. "Sen. Reid's new leadership position means he can be even more effective for Nevada. I look forward to working on his staff and with a great team of people dedicated to delivering results for Nevada." 
   Additionally, Urban will partner with Leader Reid's Nevada staff to implement a schedule and outreach program that ensures effective, two-way communication with Nevadans. 
   Urban replaces Dr. Kai Anderson who worked on Reid's staff for nearly six years and recently joined the firm Cassidy and Associates in Washington, D.C.
 
 