SEN. REID ISSUES STATEMENT ON NEED TO PASS MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE
  Sen. Harry Reid release the following statement on the minimum wage increase: 
   "I was heartened last week to see my Republican colleagues express their commitment to addressing the issue of poverty, but I believe the time has come for them to back up their words with action and vote to increase the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour.  
   "In a country that values work and the opportunity to get ahead, a hard day's work should bring a decent day's pay. But in America, this is not the case. We have mothers and fathers working full-time in minimum wage jobs, but still living in poverty and struggling to get ahead. 
   "I met with some of these workers in Nevada last month. When you talk with them, you begin to understand that increasing the minimum wage is not about helping teenagers earn more from their summer jobs. It is about helping families realize the promise of America. 
   "This fact was driven home during a conversation I had with a woman from Reno named Natasha. 
   "Natasha is married, with one child, and works as a server in popular restaurant. She works hard, as does her husband. But with a minimum wage job, she has trouble making ends meet and affording basics like food, clothing and housing. She has tried to get ahead and take classes at a community college in the area, but had to cut back because she couldn't afford to go to school and also pay for what she needed to take care of her family. 
   "Here is Natasha - trying to live the American Dream by going to school and getting ahead - but unable to because we have a minimum wage in this country that just isn't enough. 
   "Natasha's story is like many others I have heard - stories of families caught in a cycle of poverty. This is a cycle we can begin to end today by increasing the minimum wage. 
   "An increase of the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour will help over 7 million Americans. For the typical worker, it will mean an additional $4,370 a year. 
   "It may not sound like a lot to some, but $4,370 is a lot of money when you live paycheck to paycheck. An increase of this size can help a family heat their home or pay for transportation to work. Or it can help a mother afford childcare, so she doesn't have to worry about her kids while she is away. 
   "Now, I understand the Majority is calling to increase the minimum wage to only $6.25 per hour and further attempting to end the 40 hour work week by proposing flex time. Both theses measures are unacceptable. 
   "First the nominal increase of the minimum wage to $6.25 will help 5 million fewer Americans than an increase to $7.25. Secondly, ending the 40 hour work week and replacing it with flex time would deny over 10 million minimum wage workers the ability to earn overtime pay. 
   "We can do much better. 
   "Helping our families live more productive lives must be our top priority. Providing workers a wage that is consistent with the rising cost of living is both fair and just. 
   I urge my colleagues to pass an increase of the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour."
 
 