NEVADA VETERANS TO GET NEW HOSPITAL IN LAS VEGAS, CLINIC IN FALLON, EXPANDED SERVICES IN RENO
  Sen. Harry Reid today praised a commitment from the Secretary of Veterans Affairs that medical care will be enhanced around the state of Nevada. In a statement released today, Sen. Reid indicated that a long needed VA hospital will open in Las Vegas, as well as a clinic in Fallon and services in Reno will be expanded. 
   Nevada has the fastest growing veterans population in the country, and Sen. Reid and Nevada's Congressional Delegation have worked closely with VA Secretary Tony Principi to improve the quality and access to health care.
   Reid noted there is still much work to be done in many Nevada communities, and signaled that he would build on the success of today's decision to ensure the needs of all veterans are met.
   Reid's statement follows:
   "I am delighted the Veterans Administration will develop a Medical Center Campus in Las Vegas that will include a new hospital, nursing home and outpatient clinic. These facilities are desperately needed. Our veterans are finally going to get the kind of care they deserve. I applaud the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Tony Principi, for taking this action on behalf of Nevada's veterans."
   "A campus like this will be a magnificent addition to the Las Vegas Valley. It will be modern and full-service, and will allow for incredible research and collaborative opportunities with doctors, scientists and university researchers from across the state. The bottom line for veterans is that they will be provided with first-rate health care in a centralized, modern facility, and without the delays which have become all too common in the VA system."
   "Now, we have to ensure the planning process moves forward as quickly as possible, so construction can begin. The Nevada Congressional delegation will be working closely with the VA to help with site selection and, most importantly, to ensure that the project is fully funded."
   "The VA Secretary's announcement also includes good news for Fallon, where a new clinic will be established, and Reno, where there will be an expansion of services. We still have a lot of work to do for other parts of the state, like Elko, Mesquite and Tonopah, for example, where the veterans community is still significantly under-serviced. I am going to keep advocating for these communities, and all veterans in Nevada, until they have the level of care they deserve.
   "Our veterans have done so much for the freedom and security of our country. We must honor the sacred pledge that this country made to them - providing quality health care is a major part of that pledge."
 
 