SENS. REID, ENSIGN WORK TO INCREASE PILT FUNDING
  Working to relieve the financial strain on Nevada communities, Sens. Harry Reid and John Ensign are calling for increased funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. 
   PILT compensates counties that include significant amounts of federal land, which is exempt from local property taxes. PILT funds are critical to the budgets of local governments, which supply essential services such as law enforcement, road maintenance and search and rescue.
   In a letter to the Senate panel that will set the funding level, Reid and Ensign and were joined by 57 fellow senators in seeking to increase PILT funding to $255 million in the 2005 fiscal year, an increase of about 12 percent from the Administration's $225 million request.
   "PILT is a fair way for the federal government to assist local communities that are limited in their tax base because of federal lands," said Reid, who has led the effort for five years to fully fund PILT. "It provides funds for vital community needs that Nevada families depend on, from schools and hospitals to emergency responders."
   "PILT works with local communities throughout Nevada to balance their ability to generate a sufficient level of taxes with their respective amount of federal land," Ensign said. "This program is a practical method to help relieve the financial burden facing small communities."
   PILT funding is administered by the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management. Payments are authorized by Congress, which has recognized that counties and other local government entities with substantial acreage of Federal land could not collect sufficient taxes to provide needed services.
   The BLM administers the PILT program because it is the largest single Federal land management agency, with responsibility for over 264 million acres of public land. Payments are made for BLM administered lands, national forests, parks, and wildlife refuges; land used for Federal water projects; and some military installations.
   All 17 Nevada counties receive PILT payments. Last year, Nevada counties received a total of $13 million and are expected to receive $14 million this year.
   A copy of the letter can be found at http://reid.senate.gov/pdfs/piltfy05.pdf:
 
 