SEN. REID SECURES $1 MILLION TO STRENGTHEN NEVADA ECONOMY
  Economic growth in Nevada will get a boost from $1 million in infrastructure improvements and planning secured by Sen. Harry Reid.  
   The funds, approved as part of the Economic Development Administration reauthorization bill, will help communities expand and upgrade physical infrastructure and support local strategies for economic development. Reid, a senior member of the Environment and Public Works Transportation Subcommittee, helped write the bill. 
   "These funds will help Nevada communities preserve the past and plan for the future," said Reid. "And it will help create good jobs, which is the key to a good quality of life." 
   The Nevada Commission for the Restoration of the V & T Railroad will get $800,000 to restore this important part of Nevada's heritage. Under the reconstruction plan, the railroad will be extended 17 miles from the end of the existing track in Gold Hill to Carson City. 
   "The V & T Railroad is a historically important relic of our state's past," said Janice Ayres, the gubernatorial appointee to the Nevada Commission for the Restoration of the V & T Railroad, and also President of the Northern Nevada Railway Foundation, the non-profit 501 (c) 3 organization raising funds for the reconstruction effort. "Senator Reid has been instrumental in helping us preserve a part of history for generations to come, and I thank him for his leadership. He has significantly moved this project forward through his continuing support of our efforts." 
   Nevada's Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology will receive $200,000. The center conducts programs to support the growth of entrepreneurship and technology throughout Nevada. The center is working to create a statewide technology resource directory, conduct training and education seminars, develop Nevada's interstate and intrastate marketing capabilities, and implement a technology strategy for Nevada. 
   "This funding will foster healthy diversification of Nevada's and surrounding regions' economy by expanding the innovation and technology base. High quality jobs will be created by both entrepreneurs and technical professionals who will further strengthen the existing leading industries of gaming, tourism, and mining while developing new segment strengths in areas such as alternative energy, environmental science, entertainment technology and life sciences. It is also expected that advances in the commercialization of the research and technology from Nevada's research institutions will result," said Bob Goff, Chairman of Nevada Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology. "I would like to thank Senator Reid for his leadership and support in this enormously important endeavor." 
   Nevada has received more than $25 million over the last ten years through EDA to support critical public works development throughout the state. This bill is on its way to the President for his signature.
 
 