BIPARTISAN LAWMAKERS CALL ON ENERGY DEPARTMENT TO INVEST IN GEOTHERMAL ENERGY
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada, joined by nine other Democratic and Republican lawmakers, sent a letter to Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman, calling on him to fully implement the Energy Policy Act by providing loan guarantees for geothermal energy projects.  
   The earth's heat is the primary element used in creating geothermal power. In areas with high underground temperatures, where the water is close to land surface, wells can be drilled into rock allowing water and steam to flow toward power generators that produce electricity. Then, the water is re-injected to sustain the reservoir. 
   The Energy Policy Act, which Congress passed and President Bush signed into law last year, requires the Department of Energy (DOE) to provide loan guarantees for a wide variety of advanced, alternative energy projects. However, the loan solicitation guarantee announcement produced by the DOE omits geothermal energy. Nevada has abundant geothermal resources that can and should supply thousands of megawatts of clean, renewable electricity to consumers across the State. New technologies and solid financing can help deliver that supply sooner and increasingly cost-effectively. 
   The letter states, "More than a year ago, Congress directed you to make loan guarantees for projects that 'avoid, reduce or sequester air pollutants or anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases; and employ new or significantly improved technologies as compared to commercial technologies in service in the United States at the time the guarantee is issued.' In section 1703(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, there is a list of projects which 'shall be eligible for a guarantee under this section.' We believe that this is not an optional list from which the Department may pick and choose. Congress directed that all those on the list shall be eligible." 
   "I hope Secretary Bodman takes geothermal energy far more seriously than has been the case so far in this Administration. Investing in geothermal energy is good for our country because it has the potential to reduce America's reliance on foreign energy sources, but it is also particularly good for Nevada," said Reid. "Investing in geothermal energy projects would help Nevada's rural communities by diversifying the tax base, creating high paying jobs, and helping to stabilize power costs."
 
 