DEMOCRATS KICK OFF NATIONWIDE 'GOLDEN PROMISE' CAMPAIGN TO PROTECT AMERICANS' SOCIAL SECURITY
  With President Bush and his Republican Congress renewing their commitment to privatizing Social Security, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid today rallied with hundreds of seniors and other concerned citizens in an effort to protect retirement security from continuing Republican threats. Today's event kicks of a new nationwide "Golden Promise" campaign to call on members of Congress to sign a petition and pledge to oppose efforts to privatize Social Security.  
   Even though the American public soundly rejected risky privatization schemes in 2005, President Bush and his Rubber Stamp Republican Congress have announced that their privatization scheme remains a top priority for their party. Democrats remain committed to a government that serves all Americans, that responds to the wishes of the American people, and that will protect the retirement security of the nation. 
   "I am proud to be here today, standing up to protect Americans retirement security," said Senator Reid today. "We all know President Bush has long sought to privatize Social Security, but the last year the American people and Democrats stood together to reject his risky scheme, which would have slashed benefits and piled on trillions in new debt. With baby-boomers looking forward to retiring, Republicans continue to move in the wrong direction. That is why Democrats are fighting for a new direction that brings retirement security and retirement dignity to all Americans." 
   "The Republican mantra, when it comes to Social Security, seems to be: 'If at first you fail to privatize? try, try again,'" said House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. "Republicans may not be listening to reason? but Democrats are listening to the American people - and the American people want a new direction, one that strengthens Social Security, and addresses the real concerns of everyday Americans." 
   Despite sound rejection in the court of public opinion, the Bush Administration and Congressional Republicans quietly continue with their hidden plan to privatize Social Security. This year's budget sets aside $712 billion over the next 10 years for Social Security privatization. In July, when the President updated his budget, it contained Social Security private accounts. Further, top Bush officials and Republican congressional leaders have said several times that they plan to return to Social Security after the 2006 election. 
   Bush Republicans have repeatedly shown that they are committed to ignoring the wishes of the American people to privatize Social Security and undermine seniors' retirement security. Democrats are fighting to take America in a new direction.
 
 