FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON TO JOIN SENS. REID, ENSIGN AT 10TH ANNIVERSARY OF TAHOE FORUM
  U.S. Senator Harry Reid today unveiled the much anticipated details about the 10th annual Lake Tahoe Forum. On Friday, August 17, Senators Reid and John Ensign will be joined by former President Bill Clinton along with other distinguished federal, state and local leaders at the Sierra Nevada College. 
   The 10th Anniversary Forum will recognize the work completed in the last 10 years that has improved the lake's clarity, increased environmental restoration around the lake, improved transportation and its impacts on the lake, and promoted a collaborative effort to protect Lake Tahoe. The forum will also provide an opportunity to review the efforts at preventing wildfires, reducing the fuel load in the basin and wildfire restoration.
   The Tahoe Forum has been an annual event since 1997, when the first forum was organized by Reid. Each gathering brings together environmental and government leaders from around the country, representatives of the federal government, business organizations and environmental groups in an effort to improve upon or create cooperative initiatives to maintain the beauty and integrity of the basin.
   The first Forum, which was also attended by President Clinton as well as Vice President Al Gore and four Cabinet Secretaries, established the Lake Tahoe Federal Advisory Committee to oversee restoration at the Lake. This year the forum will welcome back President Clinton as we celebrate 10 years of progress.
   The 1997 Lake Tahoe Presidential Forum resulted in a pledge of $50 million in federal spending for the basin's troubled environment by President Clinton. In a ceremony on an Incline Village beach, Clinton signed an executive order that declared Lake Tahoe an area of national concern, citing the basin's extraordinary natural, recreational and ecological resources. Clinton's pledge was the kick-start to funding for the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency's Environmental Improvement Program, which eventually resulted in the federal government, California and Nevada committed to each paying a share of the $900 million environmental plan.
   The Summit is open to the public. For information call Mary Conelly at 775-686-5750.
   WHO: 
   Former President Bill Clinton
  U.S. Senator Harry Reid (D-NV)
  U.S. Senator John Ensign (R-NV)
  U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA)
  Former U.S. Senator Richard H. Bryan (D-NV)
  Governor Jim Gibbons (R-NV)
  U.S. Representative Dean Heller (R-NV)
   WHAT: 10th Anniversary of the Lake Tahoe Forum
   WHEN: Friday, August 17, 2007, at 3:00 p.m. PT
   WHERE: 
   Sierra Nevada College
  999 Tahoe Boulevard
  Incline Village, NV
 
 