SEN. REID PAVES WAY FOR NEVADA'S ROLE AS LEADER IN ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
  Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada is supporting two bills that will help increase Nevada's energy independence and grow Nevada's renewable energy industry. "Nevada is blessed with abundant sources of renewable energy and every day that we're not taking advantage of those resources is another day of missed opportunity and continuing to rely on foreign and unsustainable sources of fossil fuels," said Reid. "Accelerating Nevada's production and use of renewable energy could create 3,300 new jobs, predominantly in rural Nevada, and position Nevada as our country's leader in renewable energy. I will continue working to ensure our state becomes a leader in making the country energy independent."  
   Renewable Energy Tax Bill-This bill (S.1531), which has broad support by Nevadans, creates a ten-year extension of the renewable energy production tax credit and Clean Renewable Energy Bonds (CREBs). It creates a new CREBs-like program for water conservation projects in rural communities, an investment tax credit for geothermal exploration expenditures and significant new tax credits for solar investment and gives zero-interest bonding authority to Nevada's school districts to purchase renewable energy projects. A summary of each section of the bill is attached. National Geothermal Initiative Act of 2007-This bill (S.1543) sets a goal for the U.S. to achieve 20 percent of its total electrical energy production from geothermal resources. To reach this goal, the U.S. Department of Energy must create a National Geothermal Research Initiative, establish a geothermal exploration research and information center at a national laboratory or university, require Federal land managers to make geothermal development a priority and authorize the intermountain west geothermal consortium. Advancing geothermal energy exploration and production technologies will make Nevada a national if not global leader in clean energy. Under Reid's leadership, energy legislation will be considered in the Senate next week.
 
 