SEN. REID CALLS FOR FUEL EFFICIENT SENATE CARS
Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) wants to conserve gas by changing all official Senate cars to hybrids or flexible-fuel vehicles in the near future.  
 Reid wrote a letter to the Sergeant at Arms of the U.S. Senate this week asking him to work on updating the official fleet. High-mileage cars like hybrids or flexible fuel vehicles would be better for the environment, help the U.S. conserve gas, save taxpayers money on fuel costs, and allow the Senate to lead by example. 
 Reid is a long-time conservation advocate and works for the development of renewable energy sources. He has worked to provide tax incentives for research and development of solar, wind, and geothermal energy. He is also working to lower gas prices in Nevada and around the country, and is sponsoring Clean EDGE - the Democratic plan that is designed to make America energy independent by the year 2020. 
 The text of Reid's letter is below: 
 June 5, 2006 
 The Honorable William H. Pickle
 Sergeant at Arms
 United States Senate
 Washington, DC 20510
 Dear Bill:
 I am writing to urge you to explore the use of flexible fuel and/or hybrid vehicles in the Senate's vehicle fleet. As gasoline prices continue to spiral upward with no end in sight, coupled with real concerns over global warming and national security, I would like to see the Senate lead by example and make a long-term commitment to utilizing energy efficient and alternative fuel vehicles in its fleet. 
 I understand your office maintains the Senate=s vehicle fleet and provides vehicles to Members of Leadership who are assigned Capitol Police Protective Details. Last year, I asked my staff to explore the possibility of selecting a hybrid vehicle for my Protective Detail vehicle. We were told that the selection of hybrid vehicles was very limited and that the U.S. Capitol Police, Dignitary Protection Division advised that hybrid vehicles were not able to support their protective missions at that time. 
 Recently, several of my colleagues and I met with the Chief Executive Officers of the big three automobile makers to discuss the nation=s energy crisis and their production of fuel efficient and alternative fuel vehicles. We were told that great strides have been made just in the past year to increase the production of these kinds of vehicles, including the production of flexible fuel sports utility vehicles. In fact, an American automobile maker is marketing a large flexible fuel sports utility vehicle to law enforcement organizations. 
 Given the increased availability and performance of these advanced vehicles, I encourage you to consider including them in the Senate=s vehicle fleet. In addition, as a Member of the Capitol Police Board, I hope you will direct the Capitol Police, Dignitary Protection Division, to assess the ability of hybrid and flexible fuel vehicles to meet the necessary vehicle performance requirements. I look forward to the Capitol Police assessment and appreciate your consideration of my inquiry. 
 Sincerely, 
 HARRY REID 
 cc: William Ford, Jr., Chairman of the Board and CEO - Ford Motor Company
 Tom LaSorda, Chief Executive Officer - Chrysler Group
 Rick Wagoner, Chief Executive Officer - General Motors Corporation.
 
 