SEN. REID ANNOUNCES ORGANIZATIONS PARTICIPATING IN FORECLOSURE MOBILE RESOURCE CENTERS
  Following his recent announcement of five Mobile Resource Centers throughout Nevada to address the state's foreclosure crisis, U.S. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada announced today the numerous organizations that will participate. 
  "With representatives from several key agencies, nonprofits, and lending institutions, the Mobile Resource Centers will provide Nevadans in danger of losing their homes with the information they need to prevent foreclosure," said Reid. "The lenders and mortgage servicers play a unique role in the process of providing information and assistance to Nevada borrowers in trouble, and I want to extend my thanks to all the agencies and lenders for their continued support and assistance in helping me launch these Mobile Resource Centers." 
  Below is a list of dates, times, and organizations that will be on hand at each Mobile Resource Center:
  WASHOE 
   Monday, November 26th
  2pm-4pm
  Sierra View Library (Reno Town Mall)
  4001 South Virginia Street, Reno, 89502
   Representatives from Housing and Urban Development, Credit Counseling Services, Wells Fargo, Countrywide, Freddie Mac and the Mortgage Bankers Assoc. 
  DOUGLAS
   Tuesday, November 27th
  10am-12pm
  Douglas County Public Library
  1625 Library Lane, Minden, 89423
   Representatives from Housing and Urban Development, Credit Counseling Services, Wells Fargo, Countrywide, the Mortgage Bankers Assoc., and JP Morgan Chase.
  ELKO
   Wednesday, November 28th
  12pm-2pm
  Elko County Library
  720 Court Street
   Representatives from Housing and Urban Development, Credit Counseling Services, Wells Fargo, Countrywide, and JP Morgan Chase.
  CLARK
   Thursday, November 29, 2007
  12pm-2pm
  Clark County Library - Flamingo
  1401 East Flamingo Road, Las Vegas, 89119
   Representatives from Clark County Legal Services, Consumer Credit Counseling, East Las Vegas CDC, Housing and Urban Development, Nevada Fair Housing, the Women's Development Center, Wells Fargo, Housing for Nevada, Fannie Mae, Countrywide, Freddie Mac, Mortgage Bankers Assoc., Bank of America, Citi Group, and Washington Mutual.
  NYE
   Friday, November 30, 2007
  12pm-2pm
  Pahrump Community Library
  701 East Street, Pahrump, 89048
   Representatives from Consumer Credit Counseling, Housing and Urban Development, Nevada Fair Housing, Wells Fargo, Housing for Nevada, Countrywide, Mortgage Bankers Assoc., Bank of America, and Washington Mutual.
 
 