SEN. REID: ONE YEAR AFTER PRESIDENT'S ANNOUNCEMENT OF SURGE STRATEGY, IRAQIS REMAIN NO CLOSER TO POLITICAL SOLUTION
  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid made the following statement today ahead of the one-year anniversary of President Bush's announcement of his escalation in Iraq: 
   "It is unfortunate and undeniable that one year after President Bush announced his 'surge' strategy, Iraq has failed to meet the benchmarks he outlined - and his Administration has refused to hold Iraqis accountable for these unacceptable results. No amount of White House spin can hide the fact that the escalation's chief objective of political reconciliation remains unmet, Iraqis have not demonstrated any readiness to stand up and take responsibility for their own country, and 2007 was the most lethal year yet for American troops. Democrats know Americans cannot afford to continue to pay the heavy price of this war and will continue to fight for a change of course that makes our country more secure.
   "One year ago, President Bush outlined several important goals. He said the Iraqi government would take responsibility for security in all of Iraq's provinces by November 2007. He said Iraq would hold provincial elections. He said the Iraqi government would pass legislation to share oil revenues among all Iraqis. And he said Iraq would pass de-Baathification laws and constitutional reforms. Not one of these goals has been met.
   "Instead, over the past year nearly 900 brave Americans have been killed while trying to provide Iraq's leaders with the opportunity to unite their country. In that time American taxpayers have spent more than $120 billion to finance another nation's civil war and back an Iraqi government that shows little interest in progress. And as President Bush continues to cling stubbornly to his flawed strategy, Al Qaeda only grows stronger. Rather than unconditionally supporting an endless war the American people oppose, I strongly urge the President to work with Congress to redeploy our troops and refocus the mission in Iraq so we can more effectively fight the war on terror."
 
 