SENATE PASSES SEN. REID LEGISLATION TO PREVENT SUICIDE AMONG YOUTH, ADOLESCENTS
  Speaking out about his experience when his own father committed suicide, Sen. Harry Reid announced today that his legislation to target resources to programs that will prevent suicide among youth and adolescents passed the Senate last night. Reid introduced the bill with Sen. Gordon Smith (R-OR), whose 21-year-old son, Garrett, committed suicide last year. 
   "Suicide - and youth suicide in particular - is not an easy thing to talk about," Senator Reid said. "I can still recall the day in 1972 that I received the tragic news that my father had taken his own life. Over the years that followed my father's death, my family didn't talk about his suicide. We were left alone and carried this experience in a very private way."
   "It wasn't until 1996 - twenty-four years later - that I spoke publicly for the first time about my father's suicide. Shortly thereafter, my office was inundated with calls and letters from people around the country who had also lost a loved one to suicide," Reid added.
   Reid noted that Nevada has among the highest rate of youth suicide in the nation. In 1998, there were 13.8 suicides for every 100,000 teens. The legislation, known as the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act would target resources to states, like Nevada, that have higher rates of youth suicide.
   In 2003, the Nevada State Legislature approved, and Governor Guinn signed into law a bill that creates a statewide program for suicide prevention in Nevada. This bill will help the State of Nevada to implement this strategy.
   "I have learned that suicide is a national problem - and one that is particularly severe in Nevada. Suicide is the 11th highest cause of death in the United States. More children die from suicide each year than from cancer, heart disease, AIDS, birth defects, stroke and chronic lung disease combined," Reid said.
   In addition to Sen. Smith, Reid was joined by Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT), Jack Reed (D-RI), and Mike DeWine (R-OH). 
   Details of the legislation: 
   * Suicide Prevention for Children and Adolescents
   Authorizes $48 million over 3 years for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to award grants to states, public or private nonprofit organizations tasked with carrying out a state's suicide prevention plan, or to tribal organizations to develop, implement and analyze state-sponsored statewide or tribal youth suicide early intervention and prevention strategies in schools, educational institutions, juvenile justice systems, substance abuse programs, mental health programs, foster care systems and other child and youth support organizations. 
   These funds would help organizations (public organizations, nonprofit, political subdivisions, tribal organizations, etc) that are carrying out the state sponsored statewide or tribal youth suicide early intervention and prevention strategy.
   Preferences would be granted to states, like Nevada, that have rates of youth suicide that significantly exceed the national average.
   Authorizes $12 million over three years for a Suicide Prevention Resource Center that provides suicide prevention support, training, technical assistance and materials to States, political subdivisions of a State Indian tribes, public organizations or nonprofits. 
   * Mental Health Services on Campus 
   Will increase access to, and enhance the range of, mental and behavioral health services for students so as to ensure that college students have the support necessary to successfully complete their studies.
   Authorizes $22 million for SAMHSA to award competitive grants to institutions of higher education to create or expand mental and behavioral health services to students at such institutions, to provide such services, and to develop best practices for the delivery of such services. 
   Services funded through these grants may be provided at college counseling centers, college and university psychological service centers, mental health centers, psychology training clinics, and institutions of higher education supported, evidence-based, mental health and substance abuse screening programs.
 
 