SEN. REID CONTINUES WORK TO INCREASE PILT FUNDING
Working to relieve the financial strain on Nevada communities, Sen. Harry Reid is again calling for increased funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. The PILT program provides essential funding to county governments for essential services like roads, law enforcement and education. 
 Reid, joined by 55 fellow senators including Senator John Ensign, sent a letter to the Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee panel seeking to increase PILT funding to $240 million in 2007.  
 The State of Nevada is comprised of almost 87% public land, including 48 million acres of BLM land and 6 million acres of national forest land. PILT funds are distributed to counties based on a formula that evaluates the total acreage of federal lands and the size of the local population. 
 All 17 Nevada counties receive PILT payments. In each of the last several years, Nevada counties have received in excess of $13 million. 
 Last year Senator Reid worked closely with members of the Senate and House Appropriations Committee to achieve a record PILT funding level of $236 million. 
 The text of the letter is below:
 May 1 , 2006 
 The Honorable Conrad Burns The Honorable Byron Dorgan Chairman Ranking Member Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee Senate Interior Appropriations Subcommittee United States Senate United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 
 Dear Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member: 
 As you know, the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program provides payments to local communities to compensate them for losses to their tax bases that result from the presence of significant amounts of federal land in their counties. These funds are critical to the budgets of local governments, which supply many essential services such as search and rescue, law enforcement, road maintenance and education. The PILT program demonstrates the federal government's partnership with the counties in stewardship of the nation's public lands and in providing services to citizens. 
 In addition to the regular residents of our country's public land counties, millions of Americans who visit national parks, forests, and other public lands rely on county governments to provide high-quality services and a clean and safe environment. The PILT program makes this possible. 
 Unfortunately, the Department of the Interior's Fiscal Year (FY) 2007 budget request of $198 million - $37 million less than was appropriated for FY 2006 - reverses the positive trend over recent years of incremental increases, moving towards full funding. This places an undue financial hardship on our counties, who are mandated by law to provide many critical public services. 
 The current authorization level for the PILT program is estimated to be $350 million for FY 2007. As we work to achieve full funding for PILT, we urge the Committee to provide at least $240 million for FY 2007. We look forward to working with you to support this important program. 
 Sincerely, 
 Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid
 Senator Craig Thomas
 Senator Larry Craig
 Senator Daniel Inouye
 Senator Tom Harkin
 Senator Richard Shelby
 Senator Tim Johnson
 Senator Diane Feinstein
 Senator Barbara Mikulski
 Senator Orrin Hatch
 Senator Mike DeWine
 Senator Patty Murray
 Senator John Ensign
 Senator Patrick Leahy
 Senator Robert Bennett
 Senator Max Baucus
 Senator Frank Lautenberg
 Senator Mark Dayton
 Senator Dick Durbin
 Senator Carl Levin
 Senator Elizabeth Dole
 Senator John Warner
 Senator Blanche Lincoln
 Senator George Allen
 Senator Mark Pryor
 Senator John Kerry
 Senator Ron Wyden
 Senator John Thune
 Senator Mike Crapo
 Senator Michael Enzi
 Senator Kent Conrad
 Senator James Jeffords
 Senator Russell Feingold
 Senator Joe Lieberman
 Senator Ken Salazar
 Senator Maria Cantwell
 Senator Barack Obama
 Senator Bill Nelson
 Senator Mary Landrieu
 Senator Jeff Bingaman
 Senator Barbara Boxer
 Senator Dick Lugar
 Senator Jim Bunning
 Senator Norm Coleman
 Senator Gordon Smith
 Senator Edward Kennedy
 Senator Jim Talent
 Senator Lisa Murkowski
 Senator Debbie Stabenow
 Senator Christopher 'Kit' Bond
 Senator Trent Lott
 Senator Evan Bayh
 Senator Olympia Snow
 Senator Chris Dodd
 Senator Herb Kohl
 Senator Jon Kyl.
 
 