SEN. REID HAILS PASSAGE OF DEFENSE FUNDING BILL
  U.S. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada hailed the passage of the Defense Appropriations bill. Reid, the Senate Majority Leader, helped direct $87,020,000 to Nevada for a variety of high-tech programs being developed by the military, Nevada's higher education institutions, and the state's private sector.
  "I'm so pleased that this money is coming to the Silver State," said Reid. These funds go to our military, our universities, and the state's private sector, all for the purpose of keeping Nevadans and all Americans safe."
  The Defense Appropriations bill includes $28,040,000 for Southern Nevada and $58,980,000 for Northern Nevada. Below is a list of projects receiving funding.  
   SOUTHERN NEVADA 
   $400,000 for 98th Range Wing to increase efficiency of the Mobile Shear project at Nellis AFB to comply with environmental and DOD demilitarization regulations. 
   $1,600,000 for Online Technology Training Program to allow for the continuation of an on-base program, offering technology curriculum through in-class study at Nellis Air Force Base.
   $2,400,000 for Unmanned Threat Emitter (UMTE) Modernization so that Nellis Air Force Base is able to complete the modernization of the remaining four UMTE's at the Nellis Test and Training Site. This system provides Radar Warning Receiver ranging solutions resulting in realistic tactical training for combat aircrews.
   $4,000,000 to perform research and development of the project technology for research and development into advanced environmental controls systems and unique components for environmental systems operating in harsh environments. Rocky Research (Boulder City) will conduct this project that will focus on developing energy efficient components while avoiding the cost of installing larger or additional air conditioning plants. The design parameters will be kept generic to allow for adaptation to other military needs in the Army and the Missile Defense Agency.
   $3,000,000 to develop interoperability across Unmanned Air Systems platforms. Progeny Systems Corporation (Henderson) will work on this high priority need for the Navy. 
   $800,000 for initial production of a new card design to improve the security of the Common Access Card system. Optimal Maximum Entrophy Verification (OPEV) is currently under prototype development with the US Air Force, by Optikey, LLC (Las Vegas), and provides security measures that cannot be counterfeited or decoded and is economically produced.
   $1,300,000 to construct the Antenna, Diagnostic, and Microwave Material Characterization Facility at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas and train students in electromagnetic compatibility and electromagnetic interference issues. This facility will attract research and promote future research interactions and academic training in the communications field. 
   $2,400,000 to perform research and development of Heat Dissipation for Electronic Systems and Enclosures that will remove heat from military electronic systems and their enclosures. This work is being done by Rocky Research (Boulder City). 
   $2,400,000 to conduct research and ongoing development of an energy efficient electrochemical field deployable system for potable water generation and/or water purification system. This project is under contract with American Pacific Corporation (Las Vegas).
   $1,440,000 to procure a truck deployed explosive containment vessel/lightweight, portable containers to dispose of terrorist bombs, design, test, and verify fabrication procedures and evaluate experimental data. With the ongoing war in Iraq and Afghanistan, the military is in need of a lightweight, portable container that can be used to dispose of terrorist bombs onsite. This project will help produce such a container and is being conducted by Blast Containment, Inc. (Henderson).
  $1,000,000 to perform research and development on the Novel Lightweight Armor Material for Insensitive Munitions Protection of Tactical Missiles to validate the applicability of coordinated molecular-bond-based material (COMBAM) for use as a lightweight, potentially self-cooling armor material. This project is administered by Rocky Research (Boulder City).
   $2,900,000 to integrate the Combat Casualty Management System components and increase capabilities to provide remote activation and communications link to tactical command center or from low flying aircrafts such as UAVs. This system minimizes the risk of exposure of those aircraft and crews to battlefield threats, provides the ability to bring supplies to medics where needed, increases signal strength for distance and non-line-of-sight detection, and locates and tracks multiple survivors within the battlefield. Noninvasive Medical Technologies, Inc. (Las Vegas) is administering this project.
   $1,200,000 to establish the Research Visualization Facility (RVF) which will provide the University of Nevada, Las Vegas with unique hardware, software, essential infrastructure resources and professional advisory staff support. The RVF will be located in the new Science, Engineering, and Technology Building, which offers the university research community and visiting researchers the ability to visually analyze and compare results of advanced computer simulations. 
   $1,600,000 to study 100 lung cancer patients to determine the effect of radiation on lungs in people being treated for lung cancer at the Nevada Cancer Institute. Specifically, they will study the use of Statins that may counteract the effects of radiation on vascular endothelium and normal tissues.
   $1,600,000 for the O2Diesel Air Quality Project site preparation, fuel acquisition, equipment, materials and labor, maintenance, testing and verification, and project management and oversight at Nellis Air Force Base. The project will continue and expand research and testing on the capability of the fuel additive technology O2Diesel and next generation blend O2-B20Diesel to reduce particulate and other exhaust emissions from diesel powered vehicles in non-tactical applications at Nellis, AFB in Clark County, Nevada and at Nevada Air National Guard facilities.
   NORTHERN NEVADA
   $1,920,000 to construct a building at the Naval Strike and Air Warfare Center at the Naval Air Station Fallon, and a simulator to train Navy SEAL Joint Terminal Attack Controllers. 
   $5,800,000 to allow the Nevada National Guard to capitalize on current imagery systems and capabilities which supports a multitude of other DOD Aerial Imagery systems. 
   $3,500,000 to maintain current Nevada Army National Guard Counter drug Operations.
   $2,960,000 to procure M872A4 34T Flatbed trailers to support either training or Homeland security missions for the Army National Guard.
   $1,200,000 to finish the propelling agent slurry gel program at Hawthorne Army Depot including the installation of equipment and prove-out of the processing line. The program is administered by Day & Zimmerman (Hawthorne). 
   $1,560,000 to construct the Northern Nevada Special Operations Training facility (two training structures - Live Fire Mobile Shoot House and Rappel Tower) to support joint training requirements conducted at the Hawthorne Army Depot. 
   $3,000,000 to enhance and expand the design, development, and application of the Biosensor, Communicator and Controller System with full integration into Drive and Flight Simulator Testing systems. Collaborative efforts are underway between Eye-Com Corporation (ECC), Washoe Sleep Disorders Center, University of Nevada-Reno, NASA, US Army, US Navy and Air Force to deliver a working system that has been comprehensively tested in multiple simulators for improving operator performance. 
   $3,900,000 to focus on the MPOI for Battlespace Information Exchange second and final phase for the completion of the FY 05 initiated program; and to introduce an efficient optical interconnectivity solution that addresses all inter-platform communications needs of UAV platforms. This project is conducted by OptiComp Corporation (Zephyr Cove). 
   $5,000,000 to develop and demonstrate a Multi-Sensor Detect, See, & Avoid (MS DSA) initiative for an 18 month concept demonstration program to evaluate the performance of the system. This project, managed by Sierra Nevada Corporation (Sparks), will satisfy the requirements and intent of collision avoidance in the Federal Aviation Regulations and the Convention on International Aviation's Rules of the Air. 
   $5,000,000 to develop a high-energy single generator operations lithium ion battery that will result in a long life, high cycle life, fast charge/discharge nano lithium battery. This project, administered by Altair Nanotechnologies, Inc. (Reno), will contribute to significant reductions in fuel use and other energy savings, while simultaneously expanding the electrical power available on ships to meet the rapidly increasing load demands of new weapons, environmental, and communications systems.
   $4,000,000 to develop a pre-production capability of the Helicopter Autonomous Landing System (HALS) to transition to a pre-production configuration. HALS enables crews to operate safely in degraded visual environments increasing operational capability and survivability to combat forces. The project is being managed by Sierra Nevada Corporation (Sparks).
   $700,000 to develop the University of Nevada-Reno - Millimeter Wave-Based Fatigue Countermeasure Technology - a novel device based on millimeter that will serve as a skeletal muscle fatigue countermeasure for use in the battlefield. 
   $2,000,000 to conduct research and development of Multisignal Nanosensors for Detection of Improvised Explosive Devices. The research is being conducted by Altair Nanotechnologies, Inc. (Reno).
   $1,800,000 to design, develop and test a full-scale Controllable Shock Absorber for Advanced Submarines Weapon Shock Mitigation device for the safety of the US Navy nuclear submarines. The project is administered by Advanced Materials and Devices, Inc. (Reno). 
   $1,440,000 to develop a combined Container Pre-Screening Sensor System prototype of the chemical sensor system to be evaluated in laboratory and field tests. Nevada Nanotech Systems, Inc. (Reno) will manage this project.
   $800,000 to extend current gun tube computational fluid dynamic software to include analysis of the moving hardware required for the Lightweight Cannon Recoil Reduction and run the analysis on a massively parallel, high performance computer system to insure quick response to design analysis questions. Software and Engineering Associates (Carson City) will administer this project. 
   $4,800,000 to procure composite support structures for the Tactical Support Structures for AN/TPS-59 Radar system, the current joint tactical system for the Marine Corps System Command. This project is under contract with MFG/Ratech (Sparks).
   $2,400,000 to accelerate CISRT Enabling Materials Technology development that will address developmental risk mitigation that will lead to a tactically deployable system. This project is overseen by Advanced Materials and Devices, Inc. (Reno).
   $800,000 to perform research and development for an Advanced Fuel Cell Based Power System for Small UAV Applications to direct methanol fuel research. Scheelite Technologies LLC (Reno) is a contractor under this program.
   $1,600 000 to develop methods and technologies for characterizing critical global military operating in natural environments (polar, tropic, temperate, and desert) for support of high-tempo military operations worldwide. This program is administered by the Desert Research Institute.
   $3,200,000 to help transform and improve defense communications and image and signal processing capabilities for Massively Parallel Optical Interconnects for MicroSatellite Applications. OptiComp Corporation (Zephyr Cove) administers this program.
   $1,600,000 to complete the Rapid Manufacturing and Repair of Composite Components which will include fabrication of prototype parts using trap toolings and scale tooling for larger parts. This program is managed by 2Phase Technologies (Dayton).
 
 