SEN. JEFFORDS SECURES $16 MILLION TO ESTABLISH NATIONAL UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION CENTER AT UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., announced today that the University of Vermont (UVM) will receive $16 million in federal funding for transportation research and development. Jeffords secured the funding as part of the federal highway bill, which President Bush signed into law today.  
   As the ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Jeffords has worked for more than three years to pass the highway legislation, which will bring over $1 billion to Vermont through 2009. 
   The legislation provides funding to UVM to establish one of 10 National University Transportation Centers to study transportation issues, particularly those affecting northern and rural areas, in an effort to promote and develop more efficient transportation policies. The Center will also explore environmental issues as they relate to transportation policy. 
   The highway bill also included $1 million for research at UVM on hydrogen and renewable fuels in the transportation sector. 
   "We must develop more efficient and environmentally friendly transportation policies at a state and federal level," said Jeffords. "I cannot think of a better place than the University of Vermont to study these critically important issues. UVM's reputation for academic excellence and cutting edge research directly contributed to its designation as a National University Transportation Center." 
   "We are thrilled to become a national transportation center," said UVM President Daniel Mark Fogel. "This designation and the funding associated with it create a tremendous opportunity to expand our research capacity to identify environmentally and economically sustainable strategies for the nation's critical transportation issues. In the coming months, we will work with federal officials and Senator Jeffords' office as we design the center and develop its research agenda." 
   Fogel continued, "This designation properly recognized the University of Vermont as one of the nation's premier research institutions. Equally exciting is the opportunity to direct funds to nurture the engineers, planners and other professionals who will become our nation's transportation leaders, through the hands-on research involving undergraduate and graduate students that the transportation center will sponsor. We are extremely grateful for Senator Jeffords' vision." 
   For more information, please contact Enrique Corredera at the University of Vermont at (802) 656-2005.
 
 