GAO CALLS FOR MORE CONTROLS OVER SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL
  A report issued today by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) calls on federal regulators to tighten oversight procedures in the wake of several cases in which spent nuclear fuel has gone missing from nuclear power plants, including the most recent case one year ago at the Vermont Yankee facility.
   The report, requested by Vermont's Congressional delegation and Rep. John Olver, D-Mass. 1st District, concludes that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's regulations and oversight activities "are insufficient to ensure control of all spent fuel," and says that the effectiveness of the nuclear power plants to control and account for spent fuel is "uneven."  
   The GAO report notes that the NRC stopped conducting routine inspections of power plants' compliance with control and inventory programs in 1988, "because it considered the potential risk for spent fuel to be lost or stolen from a plant to be very low."
   "According to NRC officials, the agency viewed spent fuel assemblies as 'self-protecting' because of the extremely high level of radiation they emit and their large size and weight," the GAO report says. 
   The GAO report recommends that the NRC:
   * Establish specific requirements for the control and accounting of loose spent fuel rod and rod segments and nuclear reactor licensees' conduct of their physical inventories, and;
   * Develop and implement appropriate inspection procedures to verify compliance and assess the effectiveness of licensees' material control and accounting programs for spent fuel.
   The report also analyzed how two spent missing fuel rod segments went missing at Vermont Yankee. The rods, which were reported missing in April 2004, were later determined to be in a cylinder in the spent fuel pool at the plant, but the problem cost Vermont Yankee "several million dollars" to locate the spent fuel pieces and review the control procedures, the report says. 
   While the NRC found no safety consequence as a result of the missing spent fuel at Vermont Yankee, "NRC considered the apparent violation a potentially significant failure of the licensee's material control and accounting program," the report says. It adds, "Enforcement action against the licensee for its apparent violation of material control and accounting regulations is currently under review by NRC management," with a decision expected "sometime in 2005."
   U.S. Senator Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., said, "I call on the NRC to implement these recommendations immediately. The NRC must do more to track spent fuel, as we saw in the case of Vermont Yankee, and the NRC must start inspecting plants again to avoid a repeat situation. I would respectfully remind the NRC that the 'R' stands for 'regulatory.'" Jeffords is the ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which has oversight of the NRC.
   U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy, D-Vt,, said, "Although the rod pieces were found at Vermont Yankee, that incident and this report illuminate gaps in NRC's oversight that must be filled. Everyone living near these plants needs to know that NRC is doing everything to ensure their safety."
   U.S. Rep. Bernard Sanders, I-Vt., said, "Action by the NRC cannot come soon enough. Strict and effective control of high-level radioactive waste is an urgent national security issue, not to mention a serious environmental and public safety issue. The GAO has made sensible recommendations that the NRC must implement, at a minimum, to assure the safety of Vermonters and all Americans. The days of letting the nuclear industry self-regulate without proper federal oversight must come to a long overdue end."
   Congressman Olver said, "The discovery last year that spent fuel rods were missing at Vermont Yankee was alarming, generated great public concern for safety, raised questions about NRC's regulation and oversight of spent nuclear fuel and prompted my colleagues and I to call for this study. It is clear that the NRC needs to do more than it is doing today to control and account for spent fuel. I join my colleagues in urging the NRC to immediately act on GAO's recommendations." 
   A PDF copy of the full GAO report is available at http://jeffords.senate.gov/d05339.pdf.
 
 