SEN. JEFFORDS ANNOUNCES $2 MILLION IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION FUNDING FOR HIGH-SPEED INTERNET LINK IN NORTHERN VERMONT
 Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., today announced that the U.S. Economic Development Administration will award $2 million to support the North Link fiber optic network, a project that will connect six northern Vermont counties to high-speed Internet access. The counties include Caledonia; Essex; Franklin; Grand Isle; Lamoille and Orleans.  
   The North Link project is the brainchild of the Economic Development Council of Northern Vermont (EDCNV), working with Vermont Electric Coop.
   "Broadband access is so critical to our economy, and the North Link project will allow these counties to operate on a level playing field wth more densely populated, urban areas. It is truly an innovative and exciting opportunity for rural Vermont and its businesses," said Jeffords. He is the ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Commiteee, which oversees the EDA.
   "The Commerce Department is pleased to partner with the people of Vermont and set the stage for investment and innovation through economic development grants like these," said U.S. Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development David A. Sampson. "This broadband project will help businesses innovate, bringing high-skill, high-wage jobs to the region."
   Connie Stanley Little, executive director of Economic Development Council of Northern Vermont, added, "Thanks to the assistance of Senator Jeffords, the North Link project will be a critical component in the creation of high-tech jobs and economic development opporunities." The council is the sole EDA-designated district in Vermont.
   Currently the lack of broadband access is hurting these regions of northern Vermont and forcing businesses to relocate to other areas with high-speed access, according to the EDA. The project, which will link private sector, first responders, state offices, hospitals and educational institutions, will cost an estimated $8.7 million. These funds are expected to spur as much as $58 million in private sector investment over five years, creating an estimated 510 new jobs and retaining more than 2,000 existing jobs, according to the EDA.
   Contact: Connie Stanley Little, Economic Development Council of Northern Vermont, 802/524-4546; Diane Derby, 202/494-0139.
 
 