SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT ON CHRISTOPHER REEVE
  Mr. President, I come before the Senate today with a heavy heart to pay tribute to Christopher Reeve.
   I was lucky to be able to call Christopher Reeve a friend. His passion for life and for improving the lives of all Americans serves an inspiration to all of us. He may have played the character of Superman in the movies, but he lived the role of a superman through his life. I consider myself quite fortunate that our paths crossed on many occasions, in Vermont, at his home in New York, and in the halls of Congress. 
   Chris was an outspoken advocate for the arts. As the co-founder of the Congressional Arts Caucus and for several years, the Chairman of the Senate Committee with jurisdiction over the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), Chris and I shared the belief that federal support for the arts was critical. At a time when the NEA was under attack in 1995, I asked Chris to testify before the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee on the importance of the agency. His testimony brought attention to the issue, and highlighted the role that arts and education play in the lives of children. To this day, I believe that his testimony and advocacy helped preserve the agency through very difficult times.
   Later, I turned to Chris again for help, this time on the important issue of lifetime caps on health insurance policies. In 1996, as the Congress was writing new laws governing the portability and availability of health care coverage, Chris helped me gather support for a proposal to raise the lifetime caps of health insurance policies. Chris was an outspoken advocate in support of that proposal, and shared his own personal story concerning health insurance to raise awareness for the lifetime cap issue. His courage and leadership brought that issue to the forefront of the Congressional debate.
   His dedication to stem cell research was renowned. His testimony before the Congress and advocacy for the issue, once again, put a human face on the possibilities that could emerge from stem cell research for those with spinal cord injuries and other diseases and afflictions. 
   Chris' commitment to bettering the lives of individuals with disabilities never ended. In 2000, Chris traveled to Burlington, Vermont at my request to speak before a disability conference. It was his first visit back to Vermont since his accident. He called the disability movement the last great civil rights movement, saying the primary obstacle for the disabled is other people's fear. Chris said, "Changing the public's perception of people with disabilities takes time. It's about them getting over their fear. Imagining that it could be them. And once they know that, once they can really sympathize, then you get change. 
   And then America lives up to its full potential. And I think we're on that path. Thanks to Christopher Reeve countless Americans will live to their full potential. We will continue to work on his behalf on the issues he was so dedicated to.
   I send my deepest condolences to Chris' wife, Dana and their entire family. They cared for Christopher with a love and kindness that was inspirational. Dana herself was an inspiration to all of us. She understood the devotion and greatness of Chris. She helped Chris live out his desire to help the disabled.
   I hope they are comforted with his memory, and the knowledge that their loss is shared by so many across this nation. 
   Thank you.
   I yield the floor.
 
 