SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT ON PASSAGE OF JOBS BILL
  I voted with an overwhelming bipartisan majority of my colleagues in support of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The Act has my support because it accomplishes several key economic objectives important to Vermont and the nation. This was a very complicated bill with about 276 separate provisions, running the gamut from international trade sanctions, to closing corporate tax loopholes, to creating incentives for domestic manufacturers and alternative sources of clean energy. I believe the American Jobs Creation Act will give an important and sorely needed economic boost to America's domestic production capacity, transportation system, and to the average American. 
   For many years, the U.S. has had a policy of providing tax incentives in the form of tax deductions and credits to companies that sold their products overseas. Last year, the World Trade Organization found those tax benefits to U.S. corporations to be illegal under international trade law and authorized the European Union to impose tariffs on a wide range of products from the U.S. Those tariffs, which are currently at 12%, are scheduled to go as high as 17% in March of 2005. If we had not changed the law, thousands of U.S. products sold abroad-including computer chips, cheese and maple syrup - would be at a significant economic disadvantage in the EU market. 
   The recently enacted JOBS bill repealed those provisions and directed those tax benefits to virtually all domestic production and manufacturers. I worked hard to make sure that industries important to Vermont, such as quarries and timber, would be eligible for the new domestic manufacturing deductions included in the law. I recently heard from the Associated Industries of Vermont, which urged my support of the bill. The AIV said the American Jobs Creation Act "represents a critical step forward in addressing many of the trade and tax cost burdens undermining the viability of Vermont and other US manufacturers." 
   In addition, this bill includes provisions I fought for that provide tax credits for producers of clean, sustainable sources of energy such as wind and closed-loop biomass, as well as incentives for energy producers to install new cleaning technologies in coal-burning facilities. 
   Some have argued that this legislation is just another big corporate give - away and that it will only add to the national deficit. Wrong on both counts. If that were the case than I would have voted against it. The JOBS bill is revenue neutral. It provides the tax benefits it does by redirecting existing foreign sales tax credits and by closing some of the most abusive tax loopholes that came to light from the Enron debacle.
 
 