SEN. JEFFORDS SECURES FEDERAL WILDERNESS BATTLEFIELD FUNDS
  Sen. James M. Jeffords, I-Vt., announced today that he has secured an additional $200,000 for the National Park Service to commemorate Vermont's historic role in the Battle of the Wilderness. 
   The funds will enable the Park Service to construct a parking lot near the juncture of the Brock Road and the Orange Plank Road, in the Wilderness, an intersection that 1,234 Vermonters were killed or wounded defending in the 1864 battle. The parking lot must be completed before a monument, honoring the Vermonters, can be placed on the battlefield.
   Jeffords has already secured $5.6 million in federal funds which enabled the Park Service to purchase nearly 500 acres of battlefield where the Vermonters fought and where a massive housing development had been planned.
   "The Vermonters' heroic defense of the Brock and Plank Road crossroads cost our state more casualties than any other battle of the Civil War," Jeffords said. "It is time, at long last, to give our soldiers who fought there proper recognition. There was no fiercer fighting in the entire war than on this land."
   According to Civil War historian Howard Coffin, who has worked closely with Jeffords on the Wilderness project, "The Battle of the Wilderness was Vermont's great moment in the Civil War. The heroic stand of the Vermont Brigade prevented the Confederates from cutting Ulysses Grant's army in two in the first major fighting of the decisive Overland Campaign of 1864."
   The Park Service plans a major interpretation of the fighting of May 5-6, 1864, on the land that Jeffords has protected. Trails will be constructed leading to the key locations of the fighting and interpretive signs will be installed. The centerpiece will be a monument to the Vermonters, carved in the shape of Camel's Hump, for which the State of Vermont has already appropriated $40,000.
   Senator Jeffords has long been one of the leading advocates in Congress for the preservation of Civil War sites. Jeffords helped create the Civil War Sites Commission in 1990, that drafted a plan for Congress and the National Park Service to employ in saving battlefields. Jeffords has helped to secure more than $26 million to preserve battlefield land at such key sites as Cedar Creek, Chancellorsville, Harper's Ferry, Antietam, and now, the Wilderness. He has received the Hildene Award and the Full Duty Award for his preservation efforts.
   The following quote from his official report on the Wilderness Battle, written by Brig. Gen. Lewis A. Grant, commander of the Vermont Brigade, will be inscribed on the Wilderness Monument:
   "The brigade has met the enemy in his strongholds, attacked him under murderous fire, and in the very face of death has repulsed with great slaughter repeated and vigorous attacks upon our lines, and on no occasion has it disgracefully turned its back to the foe. The flag of each regiment, though pierced and tattered, still flaunts in the face of the foe, and noble bands of veterans with thinned ranks, and but few officers to command, still stand by them; and they seem determined to stand so long as there is a man to bear their flag aloft or an enemy in the field."
 
 