SEN. JEFFORDS INTRODUCES COUNTRY STORE PRESERVATION BILL
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., today introduced legislation that would establish a program to support historic country store preservation efforts around the country. The bill would authorize $50 million over five years for the program. 
   As introduced, The National Historic Country Store Preservation Act of 2005 would establish a program that would:  
   * Sponsor and conduct research on the economic impact of historic country stores, help develop best practices for improving profitability and address preservation needs; 
   * Offer small grants and revolving loans to state and local agencies, non-profit organizations and historic country store proprietors to aid preservation efforts; 
   * Authorize a Country Store Alliance Pilot Project to be conducted in Vermont. 
   The legislation calls on the US Economic Development Administration to oversee the establishment of the program. Jeffords is ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, which has jurisdiction over the EDA. 
   Jeffords said, "Country stores are a critical part of rural life, and with the increased competition from larger chains, these store owners must work even harder to stay viable and profitable. This legislation will help them do that." 
   Drawing from his own personal experience, Jeffords added, "The Pierce Store was the hub of our small community when my wife Liz and I settled in Shrewsbury in 1963. When the store closed its doors, Shrewsbury lost a vital part of its identity." 
   A historic country store is defined in the bill as one that has operated at the same location for at least 50 years and has retained sufficient integrity of design to clearly identify it as a country store. At least 115 such stores now exist in Vermont and account for an estimated $55 million in annual retail sales. It is estimated there are thousands more country stores nationwide. 
   Paul Bruhn, Executive Director of the Preservation Trust of Vermont, said, "Vermont's country stores are the heart of their communities. They are the difference between a place that has a real sense of community and a place that is just a collection of buildings. But as important as they are, many of the stores are very fragile economically." 
   During his 30 years in Congress, Jeffords has built a strong track record for preserving historic structures. In recent years, he has secured $12 million for historic covered bridges in Vermont and a $25 million authorization for efforts to preserve historic barns nationwide. 
   Statement of Senator James M. Jeffords 
  National Historic Country Store Preservation Act of 2005 
  May 12, 2005 
   Mr. President, I have a long been a proponent of measures that support historic preservation and economic development, and it is in keeping with that tradition that I rise today to introduce the National Historic Country Store Preservation Act of 2005. 
   This bill establishes a national program to support historic country store preservation that will aid in the revitalization of rural villages and community centers nationwide. 
   For many Americans, the country store invokes an image of a simpler life before much of this country became stamped with shopping malls and the "big-box" store. But for thousands of people living in Vermont and for millions more living in rural communities across the United States, a visit to the local country store is a regular part of one's daily life. They are centers of commercial activity in the towns they serve and embody the core of American small business entrepreneurship. 
   Many of these vital small businesses have been passed down among family members for generations. They are operated in buildings that have existed for as long as 150 years. In fact, by one of the more vigorous standards in Vermont, a country store is only considered historic if it was built before the Winooski River Flood of 1927. 
   In my hometown of Shrewsbury, Vermont, the Pierce Store was the hub of our small community when my wife Liz and I settled there in 1963. Run by the four Pierce siblings - Marjorie, Glendon, Marion and Gordon - the store was the place to go for a neighborly chat as much as for your milk and butter. Children would get off the bus to buy their penny candy. Glendon Pierce could tell a great tale, and the political banter was endless. With its antique cash register and woodstove, this was the quintessential general store. Unfortunately, the Pierce Store closed its doors some years back and Shrewsbury lost a vital part of its identity. There has been a recent attempt to revive the store, and I hope, for the sake of my community, it proves successful. 
   Despite their small relative size and market share, historic country stores have demonstrated incredible resiliency, surviving floods and fires, overcoming economic downturns, and reformulating their inventories to meet modern needs. According to the Vermont Grocers' Association, country stores account for an estimated $55 million annually in retail sales in Vermont. Nonetheless, competition from larger chain stores continues to increase. When coupled with the additional cost and expertise required to maintain their aging structures and external facades, today's remaining country stores are hard-pressed to overcome these unprecedented challenges. 
   In Vermont, a handful of historic country stores close each year and the cumulative impact of those losses is experienced throughout the state. The National Trust for Historic Preservation has listed the entire State of Vermont among America's "Eleven Most Endangered Places," due to the threat that large-scale development poses to Vermont's small, independent retailers. 
   Yet country stores remain fixtures of Vermont's landscape. The Vermont Alliance of Independent Country Stores estimates that more than 115 historic country stores are scattered about the state. Across the country, thousands of these establishments help to define the character of rural life. 
   These country stores draw local customers and tourists alike, offering convenient access to newspapers, groceries and local specialty foods in a typically neighborly atmosphere. Many stores also double as local post offices or outdoor camping and home hardware goods suppliers. It's not unusual (and highly recommended) that customers buy a fresh whole wedge of cheddar cheese from a 38-pound wheel next to the cash register. Fathers can buy earthworms and tackle and take their daughters to the nearby fishing hole for an afternoon excursion. 
   The National Historic Country Store Preservation Act of 2005 is designed to build upon the momentum that country store preservation work has generated in Vermont and to gather useful models and information to develop a program that supports historic, rural country stores nationwide. 
   My legislation authorizes the U.S. Economic Development Administration to make grants to national, state and local agencies and non-profit organizations to support historic country store preservation efforts. The bill promotes the study of best practices for preserving structures, improving profitability and promoting collaboration among country store proprietors. In addition, the bill establishes a revolving loan fund. The fund will be used for research, restoration work and collaborative endeavors that will improve our understanding of existing needs and provide the assistance required to address them. 
   This bill seeks to sustain America's rural heritage by uniting small business development and historic preservation. I encourage my colleagues to join me in my efforts to protect our Nation's historic country stores and revitalize our rural communities. 
   I ask that a summary of the legislation be printed in the Record.
 
 