VERMONT SENATORS RELEASE REPORT ON CLEAN AIR PROGRAM
  Vermont's Sens. Jim Jeffords and Patrick Leahy today released an interim report from the National Research Council (NRC) that indicates that provisions of the current Clean Air Act are stronger than the Bush Administration's clean air proposals.  
   The Vermont Senators, who have led the fight in Congress against President Bush's attempts to weaken the Clean Air Act with his "Clear Skies" proposal and changes to the New Source Review (NSR) Program, hailed the report. 
   Jeffords, the ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee said, "The report provides further proof that the Bush Administration has been recklessly tinkering with the Clean Air Act for several years and wants to go even further. They want to replace existing programs, like New Source Review, that have documented benefits, with a proposal that is weaker and slower when it comes to reducing emissions and protecting health and the environment."
   "Yet another scientific investigation into the Bush Administration's management of emissions regulations brings us to the same conclusion - clean air laws are being pushed aside, rolled back and weakened behind the mask of catchy phrases like the 'Clear Skies Initiative'," said Leahy. "The Bush Administration's policies and their plans for further environmental rollbacks will make our air and water dirtier, and that breaks faith with the stewardship that Americans expect of their government."
   Leahy, the ranking Democratic member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Jeffords have worked together to hold hearings into implementing meaningful reforms to the nation's clean air laws. In 2002 they convened joint Judiciary-EPW Committee hearings to investigate the NSR changes and how changes threatened to undermine ongoing enforcement cases. Jeffords and Leahy also led a February 2004 Democratic Policy Committee hearing where former Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) officials testified that changes to NSR would allow coal-fired power plants to spew millions of tons of pollutants into the air. The officials also said that the Administration's changes to the program threatened EPA's enforcement activities.
   In 2003, President Bush changed the NSR Program to allow power plants to increase emissions without the threat of lawsuits and without having to add antipollution equipment now required by law to control smog, acid rain and soot.
   The "Interim Report of the Committee on Changes in the New Source Review (NSR) Programs for Stationary Sources of Air Pollutants," says that it is "unlikely that Clear Skies would result in emission limits at individual sources that are tighter than those achieved when NSR is triggered at the same sources."
   The final report is expected to be released by the end of the year.
 
 