SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT ON IDEA VOTE
  Sen. Jim Jeffords issued the following statement today after voting against a bill reauthorizing the Individuals with Disabilites Education Act (IDEA). The bill passed 95-3.
   "I voted against this bill because Congress has again reneged on a promise it made nearly 30 years ago to pay its fair share to educate children with disabilites. In 1975, Congress agreed the federal government would pay 40 percent of the additional costs. Today, the federal government does not even cover 20 percent. It is the worst example of an unfunded mandate, and the burden will again be passed on to our local schools and property tax payers." 
   "As it did with the No Child Left Behind Act, Congress is making hollow promises. We know from past experience that these funds must be mandatory, and in this bill they are not. There has been much talk about holding schools accountable, but it is time for Congress to hold itself accountable. It is time to pay our fair share."
   Below is the floor statement that Senator Jeffords delivered Wednesday on the Harkin-Hagel Amendment, which would have met the full funding commitment. The amendment needed 60 votes to pass; it received 56 votes.
   Statement of Senator James M. Jeffords
  Harkin-Hagel Amendment
  May 12, 2004
   Mr. President, 
   I support the bipartisan Harkin-Hagel amendment to S. 1248, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act of 2003. This amendment would fully fund the federal share of special education within six years, and finally meet the commitment that Congress made in 1975 when the original IDEA law was enacted. 
   And although I am supporting this amendment, I must admit that my emotions are mixed. That is because we have been trying to accomplish this task for 29 years, and for 29 years we have failed. Quite simply, this should have been done a long time ago, and it pains me that we are still debating this issue.
   In 1975, I was a member of the House-Senate conference committee that authored the Education for All Handicapped Children Act. This came after courts across this country ruled that state and federal constitutions obliged schools to provide all children with a free and appropriate education. At that time, we in the Congress enacted a funding schedule for the federal government's share of IDEA dollars. We calculated the cost of educating a disabled child to be about twice that of a non-disabled child. Based on that calculation, we committed the federal government to pay forty percent of the national per-pupil expenditure for each disabled child's education.
   The schedule was for the federal government to pay 5 percent by 1978; 10 percent by 1979; 20 percent by 1980, 30 percent by 1981; and 40 percent by 1982. Currently, we're not even meeting the 1980 allocation of 20 percent. In fact, we are only providing states with 18.6 percent of the costs. This is a disgrace. And according to the Congressional Research Service, if we continue increasing funding at a rate of $1 billion each year, we will never reach our goal of 40 percent set in 1975.
   Every dollar that the federal government fails to provide must be supplied by the state and local governments, which usually translates to higher property taxes. For communities that often struggle to pass school budgets, our failure to meet our promise may fuel resentment against families that already have enough to deal with in raising a child with special needs. 
   In many small towns, such as those in Vermont, Iowa, and Nebraska, a single child with severe disabilities can have a significant impact on a school's budget. Yet even though the federal government has broken its promise year after year, great progress has been made and the states and local school districts deserve a lot of the credit for providing quality education to so many children. 
   It is long overdue that we here in the Congress stand up to our responsibility to support all of our children, schools and communities. If 29 years has shown us anything, it is that our children do not benefit from hollow promises. 
   The underlying bill is a solid piece of bipartisan legislation. There are some compromises on difficult issues, such as how children are disciplined. But none of the issues addressed in the bill is as important as the subject of this amendment - fully funding IDEA and treating the annual funding increases as mandatory spending.
   Although I am supporting this amendment, I am deeply troubled that some may consider the funding mechanism being proposed here a gimmick, since the current $10 billion federal allocation will remain as discretionary spending in the language before us.
   If we are successful in passing this amendment, and I hope we will be, the integrity of the amendment will only be upheld if the current $10 billion continues to be used only for IDEA. Further, those $10 billion must remain $10 billion, and not be reduced or used for non-IDEA programming.
   As important as it is to vote for the amendment before us, it is equally important to commit to protecting this level of funding. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. The time is long overdue for fulfilling our promise.
 
 