SENS. JEFFORDS, LEAHY SEEK $600 MILLION FOR LIHEAP
  The Honorable Ted Stevens
  Chairman
  Senate Committee on Appropriations
  The U.S. Capitol, Room S-128
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Chairman Stevens: 
   As you work to meet the needs of the millions of Americans affected by hurricanes Charley and Frances, we also ask you to include $600 million in emergency Low Income Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) funds in the upcoming fiscal year 2004 Supplemental Appropriations bill for these disasters. As the winter heating season begins, low income families and seniors across New England and the Midwest are facing record home heating prices. Emergency LIHEAP funding will ensure that the Department of Health and Human Services can assist consumers in these states that are already facing disconnections or cannot afford to purchase fuel for the winter. 
   Our Vermont fuel assistance programs are now receiving calls from constituents on fixed incomes that have fallen behind on their fuel payments and are concerned about making ends meet this fall. In Vermont, the first deadline for applications for fuel assistance was August 31, 2004 and payments are not expected to reach eligible applicants until November 2004. In response to this first deadline, our state received 1,800 more applications than last year. Vermont's increase in assistance applications reflects the increased heating costs throughout the Northeast and Midwest. Almost daily, newspapers are reporting on the effect of higher energy costs for consumers in these regions this winter. The Energy Information Administration is forecasting that heating costs will again increase, and heating a home with oil will cost an average of $1,094. Compared to average heating costs from 1998 to 2000, expenditures this winter are expected to be 45 percent higher for heating oil.
   This situation warrants the provision of emergency LIHEAP funding in the supplemental appropriations bill, and it may be our last opportunity to act before the onset of cold weather in New England and the Midwest. Families and businesses affected by the hurricanes deserve our help, as do those who face a heating crisis this winter. Thank you for your consideration of our request. 
   Sincerely,
   James M. Jeffords, U.S.S.
  Patrick Leahy, U.S.S.
 
 