SEN. JEFFORDS CALLS ON PATAKI TO STOP IP TIRE BURN
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., today urged New York Gov. George Pataki to reject an application by the International Paper Company that would allow the plant to burn shredded tires at its Ticonderoga facility.
   In a letter to Pataki, Jeffords wrote: "As the Ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, I oppose International Paper's plan to use the citizens of Vermont as guinea pigs for a proposed tire burn or any other measure that will increase air pollution." 
   "If the winds blew in the opposite direction, I am sure the residents of New York would have similar concerns. Prevailing winds bring in pollution from Midwest power plants, making New England the exhaust pipe of the nation. We should be working together to reduce pollution, not allowing it to increase," Jeffords wrote (full letter attached).
   Jeffords sent a letter expressing similar concerns to Stephen Johnson, acting administrator with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in Washington (see attached).
   Earlier this month, International Paper submitted an application to the New York Department of Environmental Conservation seeking permission for a two-week test burn of the rubber tire chips. Vermont's DEC will review the plan, but the decision will be up to New York officials.
   Since IP's plans for a test burn were made public in 2003, Jeffords has challenged the proposal, citing the company's poor track record of environmental compliance and the company's outdated emissions control technology. 
   Jeffords has noted that emissions from poorly controlled facilities that burn tire fuel can be hazardous to human health. Those downwind of the plant's stack may be at increased risk for developing asthma, cardiopulmonary disease and even cancer, Jeffords said. 
   On Wednesday, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee will consider the Bush Administration's plan to relax the Clean Air Act. Jeffords opposes the Administration's "Clear Skies" measure and has introduced the Clean Power Act, which has 18 bipartisan co-sponsors. 
   (Attachments below)
   February 14, 2005
   Governor George E. Pataki 
  State Capitol 
  Albany, NY 12224
   Dear Governor Pataki:
   I am writing to express my strong opposition to the International Paper Company's (IP) intention to burn shredded tires at their Ticonderoga facility on Lake Champlain and request that you reject their application to proceed with a trial burn. 
   On February 1, 2005, IP requested a modification of their permit to conduct a two-week test burn of rubber tire chips known as Tire Derived Fuel (TDF) at its facility. Ticonderoga's multiclone cyclonic device, a more primitive technology than is used by all other U.S. facilities burning TDF, is insufficient to remove fine particulate matter (PM2.5) and heavy metals including toxic air pollutants such as mercury from flue gases. 
   As the Ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, I oppose International Paper's plan to use the citizens of Vermont as guinea pigs for a proposed tire burn or any other measure that will increase air pollution. If the winds blew in the opposite direction, I am sure the residents of New York would have similar concerns. Prevailing winds bring in pollution from Midwest power plants, making New England the exhaust pipe of the nation. We should be working together to reduce pollution, not allowing it to increase.
   The addition of PM2.5 and mercury emissions in this region of Vermont and New York is not only an air quality concern, but also one of water quality. Nationally, one in six women of childbearing age has unsafe levels of mercury in her body, putting her children at risk for birth defects. The New York Department of Health, in conjunction with the EPA, strongly advises women of childbearing age and children under 15 against eating fish from Lake Champlain due to unhealthy levels of mercury and PCBs. Knowingly adding more mercury or PCBs to Lake Champlain is not acceptable. Lake Champlain is a treasure both our states share and one that we must strive to protect. 
   In an effort to keep my constituents informed about the NY DEC decision-making process, I request that:
   * A description of the NY DEC's decision-making process be sent to me that includes an outline of NY and Vermont's roles and responsibilities with expected timeframes for decisions as well as includes responsibilities for holding public meetings, responding to public comments, and the process to be used to resolve disputes between state agencies; 
   * Public meetings be held in Addison County, Vermont in coordination with the State of Vermont and local officials, and that timely, accurate information about the impacts of tire burning on Vermont's air and water quality is shared; 
   * NY DEC hosts a web page that contains all public documents related to air and water permits IP has requested for its Ticonderoga facility since January 2003 and that this web page be updated throughout the permitting process in a timely manner as to allow all stakeholders timely, accurate and complete information about the planned activities at the IP facility; 
   * A copy of IP's February 1, 2005 permit application be immediately sent to the Vermont ANR, EPA Regions 1 and 2 as well as to my office; 
   * NY DEC notify by phone and email these same parties of the state's completeness determination on the same day that IP is notified, or before, and that the courtesy extends to all future decisions about permitting at this facility; and 
   * The amount of the permit fees required to be collected under section 502(b) of the Clean Air Act from this facility be reported to my office and whether those fees are sufficient to cover the reasonable costs of reviewing and acting upon the IP application for a Title V permit, implementation and enforcement of the terms and conditions of the permit, emissions and ambient monitoring and the other requirements of 502(3)(A). 
   I believe that after thoroughly reviewing IP's application and hearing about the public health and environmental impacts the burning of tires will have on Vermonters, New Yorkers, and Lake Champlain, I trust you will agree that the risks far outweigh any benefits IP may derive from switching fuels.
   Finally, I applaud New York for the recent landmark settlement last month that will greatly reduce power plant emissions, and I trust that you will exercise great caution in considering a significant new source of air emissions in the Adirondack Park region.
   Should you have any questions about this request, please do not hesitate to contact me, or have your staff contact Ken Connolly on my staff at 202-224-1958.
   Sincerely,
   James M. Jeffords
   February 14, 2005
   The Honorable Stephen L. Johnson 
  Acting Administrator 
  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
  Ariel Rios Building 
  1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. 
  Washington, D.C. 20460 
   Dear Administrator Johnson:
   I am writing to express my strong opposition to International Paper Company's (IP) intention to burn shredded tires at their Ticonderoga facility. 
   I appreciate EPA's involvement in this issue since 2003 and for agreeing with my concerns about the safety of burning tires for fuel at facilities that are not equipped with appropriate pollution control devises. Ticonderoga's multiclone cyclonic device, a more primitive technology than is used by all other U.S. facilities burning tires, is insufficient to remove fine particulate matter (PM2.5) and heavy metals including toxic air pollutants such as mercury from flue gases. 
   As the Ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, I oppose IP's plan to use the citizens of Vermont as guinea pigs for a proposed tire burn or any other measure that will increase air pollution. New England already suffers health and environmental impacts from air pollution from Midwest power plants. 
   Increasing air pollution in the region of Vermont and New York is not only a concern for the quality of our air but also that of our water. Nationally, one in six women of childbearing age has unsafe levels of mercury in her body, putting her children at risk for birth defects. The Vermont Department of Health and the New York Department, both, in conjunction with the EPA strongly advises women of childbearing age and children under 15 against eating fish from Lake Champlain due to unhealthy levels of mercury. Knowingly adding more mercury to Lake Champlain is not acceptable.
   In an effort to keep my constituents informed about this important issue, I would like to know what EPA is doing to ensure that:
   * New York is formally coordinating with the Vermont and that each states' roles and responsibilities in this process are being given full consideration; 
   * Public meetings are held in Addison County, Vermont in coordination with the State of Vermont and local officials; and 
   * Timely, accurate information about the impacts of tire burning on Vermont's air and water quality is being made available and easily accessible to Vermonters. 
   I also request that: 
   * Upon notification from NY DEC of the completeness determination that you notify my office; and 
   * EPA reviews New York's Title V permit program as it relates to this facility to determine whether it meets criteria in Section 502(b) of the Clean Air Act including whether those fees collected from IP are sufficient to cover the reasonable costs of reviewing and acting upon the IP application for a Title V permit, implementation and enforcement of the terms and conditions of the permit, emissions and ambient monitoring and the other requirements of 502(3)(A). 
   To prevent further risks to public health and the environment, I request that EPA object to IP's Title V permit modification application. I trust you will agree that the risks far out weigh any benefits IP may derive from switching fuels. 
   Should you have any questions about this request, please do not hesitate to contact me, or have your staff contact Ken Connolly on my staff at 202-224-1958.
   Sincerely,
   James M. Jeffords
   cc: EPA New England Administrator Robert Varney EPA Region 2 Administrator Kathleen C. Callahan
 
 