SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF MICHAEL CHERTOFF AS SECRETARY OF DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
  We are here today discussing the nomination of Judge Michael Chertoff to be the next Secretary of the United States Department of Homeland Security. 
   Let me begin by thanking Secretary Ridge for all he did in leading the department through its creation and start-up. It was a difficult job and the nation owes him a debt of gratitude for tackling this difficult task.
   I opposed the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, in part, because I was concerned that by combining disparate areas of the federal government we could create more problems than benefits. Several recent reports from the Government Accountability Office have shown that this is a valid concern.
   The next Secretary of the Homeland Security Department will need to focus time and energy on ensuring that the various divisions within the department become integrated. A separate and divided Department of Homeland Security cannot work to increase our national security. Our best chance for preventing another terrorist attack relies on a coordinated and well run agency. If this does not occur, I fear that my original concern regarding the creation of this entity will be realized.
   Judge Chertoff has an impressive resume, and in fact, has already been confirmed by the Senate for several positions. His experience includes serving as a federal appellate court judge, United States Attorney, and head of the Criminal Division at the United States Department of Justice. However, questions have been raised about the potential involvement of Judge Chertoff in the prison abuse scandals, an issue that was pivotal in my opposition to Judge Gonzales being confirmed as the United States Attorney General.
   Senators Levin and Lieberman have been working to determine whether Judge Chertoff had any knowledge about the scandal, and they deserve our profound thanks. However, as in too many cases, this administration has made a decision to keep much of the information from the public. The citizens of the United States deserve honesty and openness from the government. 
   The information that has been revealed shows that Judge Chertoff had no knowledge or involvement in the torture scandal. I must make a decision based on the record I have in front of me, not on the possibility of the record I do not know. Reviewing this record leads me to believe that Judge Chertoff would be capable of performing the duties of Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, and I will thus support his confirmation to that position. 
   It is my hope that Judge Chertoff will complete the work that Secretary Ridge began and create an integrated Department of Homeland Security. I also hope that Judge Chertoff will be able to lead by example and create the open environment at the Department of Homeland Security that my constituents and the citizens of this nation deserve and expect.
   It will take many hours of hard work and it won't be easy. I wish him the best of luck in accomplishing the task.
 
 