SEN. JEFFORDS URGES SENATE MAJORITY LEADER TO TAKE UP LIHEAP
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., is calling on Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist to take up legislation this week that would reauthorize the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program and provide higher funding levels for the program. 
   Authorization for LIHEAP expired last month, and Jeffords said it was critical for the program to be reauthorized while the Senate is in session this week.
   "We must take steps to assure that these families will be provided the extra help they need and deserve to pay their home heating bills this winter," Jeffords wrote in a letter sent to Frist on Monday. More than two dozen Senators, including Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., signed on in support of Jeffords' request.
   Jeffords said the current funding levels - $2 billion in regular funds and $600 million in contingency funds - were insufficient to meet the demand. He proposed that funding be increased to $3.4 billion, as called for in legislation that had previously passed the Senate. Jeffords is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which has jurisdiction over LIHEAP.
   Jeffords noted that forecasters are expecting a sharp increase in heating costs this winter. The costs for oil heat will increase by more than 28 percent, averaging more than $1,309 for the heating season. This is an increase in heating costs of more than $400 compared to a year ago. Homes relying on propane are expected to pay $1,443 this winter, up 26 percent compared to last year.
   "This may be the Senate's last opportunity to act before the onset of severely cold weather," Jeffords said. "Constituents facing this winter's high heating bills deserve our help." 
   (letter attached)
   November 15, 2004
   The Honorable Bill Frist
  Majority Leader
  Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Majority Leader Frist:
   We write to request your assistance in ensuring that S. 2949, a bill to reauthorize the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance program, be passed by the Senate during the upcoming November session. The bill was introduced on October 8, 2004 with bipartisan support and awaits action on the Senate calendar. Given the Senate's unanimous support earlier this Congress for similar authorization language contained in the Community Services Block Grant reauthorization legislation (Section 202 of S. 1786), we believe S. 2949 can be taken up and passed by unanimous consent.
   Authorization for this critically important program expired at the end of fiscal year 2004. The Senate should act before we adjourn to ensure that this vital program is reauthorized at a higher funding level. The current level of $2 billion in regular funds and $600 million in contingency funds is insufficient. We need $3.4 billion, as proposed in S. 2949 and S. 1786, to assist America's low-income families. We must take steps to assure that these families will be provided the extra help they need and deserve to pay their home heating bills this winter.
   The country is about to head into a cold winter with high fuel costs. The Energy Information Administration forecasts a sharp increase in heating costs this winter. The costs for oil heat will increase by more than 28 percent, averaging more than $1,309 for the heating season. This is an increase in heating costs of more than $400 compared to a year ago. Homes relying on propane are expected to pay $1,443 this winter, up 26 percent compared to last year.
   This may be the Senate's last opportunity to act before the onset of severely cold weather. Constituents facing this winter's high heating bills deserve our help. 
   (Signed by Sen. Jeffords and 25 other Senators)
 
 