SEN. JEFFORDS COMMENTS ON INTERNATIONAL PAPER'S PROPOSED TIRE BURN
  Statement of Sen. Jim Jeffords 
  Public Hearing on International Paper's Proposed Tire Burn
   I am sorry that the Senate's schedule prevents me from attending this hearing in person, but I would like to voice my continued and long-standing opposition to International Paper's plan to burn tire-derived fuel at its Ticonderoga mill without upgrading to modern pollution controls.  
   In my 30 years in Congress, I have worked to reduce air pollution and improve environmental quality for all Americans. I worked to ensure the passage of the Clean Air Act in 1990 and more recently I have introduced legislation to improve air quality, to clean up dirty power plants and to create incentives for investment in clean, renewable power.
   For eight years now, I have been urging International Paper to do what virtually all other pulp and paper mills have already done - install an electrostatic precipitator (ESP) or baghouse fabric filter. To date, International Paper has refused to take this prudent step. 
   Since 1997, I have voiced these concerns to International Paper, to the New York Department of Environmental Quality and to the Environmental Protection Agency, and I believe we have made some progress. I am pleased that we are holding today's public hearing. I am pleased that there is agreement that New York, Vermont and EPA officials will oversee any trial burn. I am pleased that numerous experts from New York, Vermont and EPA have worked with International Paper over the last two years on a more thorough testing procedure. Yet while these improvements ensure greater public health protection, there are still a number of outstanding environmental concerns that need to be addressed before a trial burn can be safely conducted.
   First, International Paper must model and test for fine particulates, which are known to increase when tires are burned. Second, while I appreciate New York's agreement to notify Vermont in advance of a trial burn so that we can monitor for any changes in air quality, I believe ambient air quality monitors should also be installed and monitored in Ticonderoga. Third, we know burning tires results in more waste ash and this ash must be tested and properly disposed. Finally, I am concerned about zinc and zinc compounds and their effects on Lake Champlain. 
   I believe these are very appropriate concerns, concerns that would be greatly alleviated if International Paper agreed to install an ESP or a baghouse fibric filter prior to its test burn. 
   Those of us who are old enough might be sensing a bit of déj? vu as we face this challenge. Back in my days as Vermont's Attorney General, and throughout most of the 1970s, International Paper was locked in a struggle with the State of Vermont and citizens groups over water and air pollution from its Ticonderoga mill. While International Paper tells us that there are no comparisons between then and now, the similarities are striking. 
   In two cases that went to the U.S. Supreme Court, International Paper argued that it was meeting all minimum state and federal standards, and the state of New York supported them. International Paper also argued that the cost of doing better would be too much for the plant to bear. In the end, hundreds of thousands of dollars were spent in court, International Paper paid $5 million to settle a citizen suit and the environmental improvements were made. 
   I believe there was a lesson to be learned from that experience. We cannot afford to waste valuable time and millions of dollars arguing. We should get it right the first time. 
   Unfortunately, all I have seen so far is a repeat of the past. International Paper insists that a trial burn will demonstrate that it can meet the lowest air quality standards under current law. International Paper may well do the minimum required by law. But we can and should do better for Vermonters and New Yorkers who continue to suffer from unhealthy air, especially when it comes to fine particulates and other toxic air pollutants. 
   The EPA reports that each year tens of thousands of people die prematurely from exposure to PM 2.5 , the fine dust particles emitted by tire-burning, and hundreds of thousands more suffer from significant respiratory or cardiovascular effects. We know that the health benefits of reducing PM 2.5 far exceed the costs, and we know that it's the right thing to do.
   If International Paper intends to be viable in the future, now is the time to invest in modern pollution controls. The EPA has already begun ratcheting down requirements for PM 2.5 . It is only a matter of time before the mill will need to install better pollution controls anyway.
   Despite regulatory efforts already underway, I am concerned that not enough attention is being given to pulp and paper mills that burn tires. For that reason, I introduced legislation today to address this concern. The Tire Derived Fuel Safety Act of 2005 would ensure that Americans who live near pulp and paper mills that burn tires are protected from these harmful air pollutants. Senator Patrick Leahy is co-sponsoring this legislation. 
   This bill requires the EPA to issue performance standards for pulp and paper mills that switch to or use tire-derived fuels to ensure that all communities across United States are equally and fairly protected. 
   The bill also requires the EPA to study and report to Congress on the health impacts from increased air emissions from the use of tire-derived fuel. It also requires the EPA to work with Health and Human Services to document the rates of childhood diseases - particularly respiratory diseases - of children who live or attend school within 20 miles of a pulp or paper mill burning TDF.
   I have long been a proponent of developing alternative energy sources, as well as recycling of materials such as old tires that would otherwise create a blight on our landscape. 
   When technologies are available to prevent environmental degradation from the re-use of tires, it's a win-win for industry, citizens and the environment to promote the use of tire-derived fuels. That is, if those who burn tires employ that technology.
   Thank you for the opportunity to express my continued concerns. I will be submitting for the record letters I have written on this issue over the past eight years. I urge the New York Department of Environmental Conservation and the EPA to carefully review and respond to all comments submitted. And I urge New York to deny the trial burn permit until International Paper upgrades its pollution controls and addresses all of my environmental and public health concerns.
   Below is a Summary of S. 2011, Tire Derived Fuel Safety Act of 2005
   Purpose: 
   The Tire Derived Fuel (TDF) Safety Act of 2005 is intended to ensure that Americans living near pulp and paper mills that burn tires for energy are protected from the potential harmful effects of air pollutants such as fine particulates. 
   Bill Provisions:
   This bill requires the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to:
   Issue performance standards for fine particulates (PM 2.5) for pulp and paper mills (SIC Codes 2611 and 2621) that switch to tire-derived fuels resulting in an increase in air emissions for any criteria pollutant including PM 2.5; ? Ensure that these new standards are no less stringent than the performance achieved by an electrostatic precipitator or Kevlar baghouse fabric filter;
   * Stop the issuance of any new Title V air permits for pulp and paper mills burning tire derived fuel (TDF) until the new standards are issued;
   * Provide a three year phase-in period for existing pulp and paper mills burning tires that do not meet the new standard to upgrade emissions equipment;
   * Study and report to Congress on the health effects of increased emissions, especially fine particulates, from the use of TDF;
   * And, work with Health and Human Services to report to Congress on the rates of childhood diseases, particular respiratory diseases, of children that live or attend school within a 20-mile radius of a pulp and paper mill burning TDF.
   Why Controls Are Needed:
   Standardizing emissions limits for pulp and paper mills that burn TDF will ensure that public health is protected. EPA's 1997 "Air Emissions From Scrap Tire Combustion" report determined that the burning of tires results in the emissions of "criteria" pollutants, such as particulates, carbon monoxide, sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds. It also results in hazardous air pollutants, such as polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PCBs); and metals such as arsenic, cadmium, nickel, zinc, mercury, chromium and vanadium. Depending on the length and degree of exposure, health effects include irritation of the skin, eyes and mucous membranes, respiratory effects, central nervous system depression and cancer. 
   EPA determined that facilities equipped with a baghouse fabric filter or an electrostatic precipitator to control particulate emissions are best able to control harmful air pollutants. EPA reports that it is not likely that a solid fuel combustor without add-on particulate controls could satisfy air emissions regulatory requirements in the U.S. 
   Most pulp and paper mills that regularly burn TDF already have these control technologies installed. This bill will ensure that all pulp and paper mills use the most up-to-date and effective control technologies.
 
 