SENS. JEFFORDS, LEAHY ANNOUNCE EXTENSION OF NORTHEAST KINGDOM REAP ZONE
  Sens. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., and Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., announced Thursday that the Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP) zone in the Northeast Kingdom has been extended for an additional five years. The REAP Zone designation, an initiative developed in partnership with the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development, was due to expire at the end of fiscal year 2005. 
   "I am pleased that we were able to negotiate an extension of this critical rural economic development initiative for five additional years. With Pat Leahy's leadership, this program has brought millions of dollars to the Northeast Kingdom in projects large and small," said Jeffords.
   Leahy said, "This is wonderful news for the people of the Northeast Kingdom, and now their hard work and vision will continue to be rewarded for years to come. The REAP Zone investments are sprouting new jobs, better conditions and a brighter future. The REAP Zone encourages economic growth, and the benefits multiply throughout the community and the region. That's why I pushed so hard for this designation more than five years ago and why I am pleased about Senator Jeffords' successful efforts to see it continued. This news is a nice way to end the year, and an even nicer way to begin the holiday season."
   The NE Kingdom's REAP Zone, a partnership between USDA Rural Development and the Northeast Kingdom Collaborative, was created in December 2000. The program's purpose is to mitigate the negative effects of lack of employment opportunities and job losses to rural communities as well as to create an environment for communities to find strategies to solve their own programs. The Northeast Kingdom's REAP Zone serves as a model for USDA's other economic development efforts around the country. There are only five REAP Zones in the nation. 
   "Working in partnership with non-profit and private sector organizations in the Northeast Kingdom, Rural Development has been able to connect myriad of community, housing and business program resources to meet the needs of Northeast Kingdom residents and communities," said Jolinda LaClair, state director of USDA Rural Development in Vermont.
   "This is a lovely holiday present for the Kingdom. This will bring increased opportunities for economic and community development in the Northeast Kingdom," said Patricia Sears, Chair of the Board of the Northeast Kingdom Collaborative.
   Since 2001, USDA Rural Development has provided over $34 million in grants and loans for a variety of projects in Caledonia, Essex, and Orleans counties such as: constructing a fire and rescue building in Barnet; upgrading the wastewater treatment plant in Lyndon; developing an automated reservation system for tourists who want to visit the Kingdom; recapitalizing a revolving loan fund for private landlords to improve rental properties in the Northeast Kingdom; and renovating the 1857 Millbrook Schoolhouse in the Town of Westmore for use as municipal offices and a community meeting facility.
   Contact: Patricia Sears, Chair Northeast Kingdom Collaborative, 802/744-6600; Jolinda LaClair, USDA Rural Development for Vermont and New Hampshire, 802/828-6002.
 
 