VERMONT DELEGATION INTRODUCES NATIONAL DAIRY EQUITY ACT OF 2004
  The Vermont congressional delegation - Rep. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Sen. Jim Jeffords (I-Vt.) and Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) - Wednesday joined in introducing the National Dairy Equity Act (NDEA), new legislation to create a largely-processor funded safety net to protect dairy farmers in Vermont and across the country when the current Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) program expires in September 2005. In the works for over a year and co-authored by Rep. Sanders, the NDEA establishes regional boards with the authority to require processors to pay a higher price for Class I milk (milk to be consumed as fluid milk). Unlike the Northeast Dairy Compact, the NDEA is designed to work in every region of the country, including the Upper Midwest. 
   "Much like the Northeast Dairy Compact, this plan would allow our farmers and farmers across the country to get fair prices from the market for their milk," said Leahy. "By restoring regional input in dairy pricing, NDEA would temper the volatility in the marketplace and guarantee that Vermonters get a sensible price for the milk they produce. The current MILC program has been a vital lifeline to dairy producers, but it expires next year. I am committed to continuation of a nationwide dairy plan that ensures compact-level benefits to Vermont farmers and to farmers nationwide." 
   Jeffords said, "We need to assure that our farmers are paid a fair price for their milk, and this bill will help make that happen. To be successful, our farmers must be able to plan and invest based on long-term goals rather than on short-term market swings." 
   "The NDEA will ensure that the dairy processors - who have been taking advantage of both farmers and consumers - pay a fair price so that our family farmers in Vermont can survive." Sanders said. "Importantly, the NDEA accomplishes this goal in a way that benefits family farmers in every region of the country - from New England to the South to the Midwest to the West Coast 
   The National Dairy Equity Act (NDEA) builds on the success of the delegation's efforts during the Farm Bill debate to create a national solution to the unstable prices that dairy farmers face in all regions of the country. During consideration of the 2002 Farm Bill, the delegation's effort brought together the Northeast, the South and the Upper Midwest for the first time in many years. 
   The new NDEA is a national program which permits regional marketing areas to establish minimum prices for Class I milk (milk sold for fluid use). Under the NDEA, five regional dairy marketing areas would be established. States within the various regions would have the option of participating. Those that did not would continue in the current MILC program, which would be extended to 2007 to coincide with the reauthorization of the Farm Bill. 
   The NDEA overcomes many of the regional differences that characterized the Dairy Compact fights because savings from the MILC program are used to guarantee that farmers in all regions - including those with low Class I utilization like the Upper Midwest - receive equitable payments. 
   The NDEA is supported by the Vermont Farm Bureau and the two dairy cooperatives serving most Vermont farmers - the St. Albans Co-op and Agrimark.
 
 