SEN. JEFFORDS: $6 MILLION IN FEDERAL SUPPORT WILL REDUCE WATER POLLUTION IN VERMONT
  The Vermont Agency of Transportation (VTrans) has begun the administration of a stormwater mitigation grant program using federal dollars secured by Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., in the recently passed federal highway bill. VTrans will award grants between $10,000 and $150,000 to municipalities throughout Vermont to reduce water pollution caused by existing public roads and road maintenance activities.
   Most of Vermont's road network is maintained by towns, villages and cities of less than 10,000 persons. These communities often lack the resources needed to improve infrastructure, equipment and practices to minimize the water pollution associated with these roads. As a result, it is critical to provide financial support to these municipalities to protect Vermont's lakes, rivers, and streams. 
   The state will not need to provide matching funds to access these federal dollars. Rather, local municipalities will supply 20 percent of the total project costs for the grants they apply for.
   "As we work to improve Vermont's roads, we must also work to minimize their environmental impact," said Jeffords. "Protecting Vermont's natural resources is every bit as important as enhancing the state's transportation network, and there is no reason we can't do both. These federal dollars will help Vermont's towns and cities tackle the pollution that has plagued some of Vermont's waterways for too long."
   Hank Lambert, executive director of Vermont Local Roads, said, "The Vermont Local Roads Program joins Vermont towns and cities in thanking Senator Jeffords for his leadership in providing funds to repair roads against erosion and stormwater damage. Local roads and bridges are increasingly in disrepair and towns are falling behind. These funds address water quality while helping to improve the roads themselves."
   Beth Ann Finlay of the Northern Vermont Resource Conservation and Development (RC&D) Council said, "We are excited that this new grant program will fill an existing funding gap by providing grants for important road-related water pollution projects in the $10,000 to $150,000 range."
   Dawn Terrill, Secretary of VTrans, said, "All of this money will be used to aid local communities in helping to protect Vermont waterways from the damaging effects of pollution. Lake Champlain will benefit greatly. Half the money will aid the governor's Clean and Clear initiative to greatly reduce phosphorus and other sediment-related pollutants that cause algae growth by 2009."
   At Jeffords' request, half of the money, $3 million, will be available over five years to all communities outside of Chittenden County. The funds are expected to help local municipalities stabilize ditches and culverts against erosion and flooding; construct storage facilities to reduce the impact of salt and sand use; purchase road cleaning equipment; implement best management practices; and support other projects to minimize water pollution emanating from public roads.
   An additional $3 million will be available within Chittenden County, which has the largest number of stormwater impaired streams. This new assistance builds on more than $3 million in EPA grants, secured jointly by Jeffords and Senator Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., for similar work over the past four years.
   "I especially want to thank VTrans, the Vermont Agency of Natural Resources, the Vermont Local Roads Program and the Northern Vermont RC&D, which are jointly implementing the grants," said Jeffords.
   A series of informational meetings on the new grant program will be conducted at various locations across the state in April by the Vermont Local Roads Program. The meetings will begin at 8:15 AM and the dates and locations are as follows:
   * April 10: Barton; Barton Village Hall (Downtown. Basement level)
   * April 11: St. Albans; Comfort Inn (Off Exit 19, I-89, left at the first intersection)
   * April 12: Manchester; Manchester Bar & Grill (Route 11/30, east of new Route 7)
   * April 13: Middlebury; Middlebury Inn (Route 7 downtown, at major intersection)
   * April 17: Berlin; Suzanna's Restaurant (Less than one mile off Exit 7, I-89)
   * April 20: Norwich; Tracy Hall, Main Street (Brick building across from Post Office)
   For more information about the grant program, please contact:
   Hank Lambert, Vermont Local Roads Program, (800) 462-6555
   Bill McManis, VTrans, (802) 828-2602
   Beth Ann Finley or Linda Boudette, Northern Vermont RC&D, (802) 793-7816
 
 