SENATORS CALL FOR LEADERSHIP ON GLOBAL MERCURY POLLUTION
 A bipartisan group of seven Senators today introduced a Sense of the Senate resolution urging the Bush Administration to engage constructively in international dialogue on mercury and to prepare a comprehensive strategy to swiftly reduce global mercury pollution and use. 
   The Senators believe the United States should move forward with stronger mercury controls as the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) considers country recommendations for international agreements to limit mercury use, trade, mining, and pollution. These strategies will be considered at the 23rd Session of the UNEP Governing Council, planned for next week in Nairobi, Kenya. To date, the Bush Administration has taken no position on any potential treaty.
   Senators introducing the legislation include: Sens. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., Olympia Snowe, R-Me., Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., Paul Sarbanes, D-Md., Joe Lieberman, D-Conn., Mark Dayton, D-Minn., and Frank Lautenberg D-NJ.
   Senator Jeffords, the ranking member of the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee said, "The United States should not be sitting on the sidelines on yet another global pollutant as international efforts to control mercury move forward. We have a moral responsibility to do all that we can to protect Americans from global and domestic pollution and should be leading by example, not pretending that voluntary actions will do the job."
   In particular, the Senators advocate development of a U.S. strategy leading to international negotiations on a binding agreement for mercury, where all nations with significant contributions to the global pollution problem share responsibility for action. Since mercury pollution can travel the globe, international cooperation on a plan including both immediate and long term actions to reduce mercury pollution is vital to protecting public health and the environment.
   Mercury is a persistent and toxic heavy metal found naturally in the environment but also emitted into the air, land, and water during fossil fuel combustion, waste incineration, chlorine production, mining, and other industrial processes. It is also traded as a commodity and used in the manufacturing of many products, though alternatives exist for most of those purposes. Once mercury reaches our waterways, it is transformed into a highly toxic form and builds up in the tissue of fish and animals that become part of our diet. 
   Consumption of mercury-contaminated fish and seafood by pregnant women can cause serious neurodevelopmental harm in the fetus. In the United States, this is the primary means of exposure to mercury. In the developing world, however, mercury exposure and contamination, as well as related health effects, are often more severe with direct exposure impacts on adults and children. Currently, 44 states have fish consumption advisories for mercury.
 
 