SENS. LEAHY, JEFFORDS SECURE CONSTRUCTION FUNDS FOR VERMONT NATIONAL GUARD
  The Vermont National Guard will receive more than $8 million from the military construction funding bill passed Friday by the U.S. Senate and House, Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Jim Jeffords (I-Vt.) announced. The funds secured by the two Vermont senators will be used to build a new Information Systems Facility at the Guard's headquarters at Camp Johnson in Colchester and to upgrade the Ethan Allen Firing Range in Jericho.  
   The senators secured $5.6 million for the Information Systems Facility and $3 million for the range improvements in the Conference Report on the Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill. 
   The Vermont National Guard has many key computer systems throughout Camp Johnson. The new information technologies facility will consolidate key servers and other computer systems into one secure building, which will better enable the Vermont National Guard to coordinate its diverse activities and take on new missions. An additional $3 million will go toward an additional advanced firing range at the Ethan Allen range, which provides the National Guard a realistic training ground. 
   "The Vermont National Guard is a first-class force with front-line duties, and our Guard deserves first-class facilities," said Leahy, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a member of the conference committee that negotiated the final bill. "The new facility will help take the Vermont National Guard into the 21st Century. The building will reflect the skill, intelligence and energy that the members of the Vermont Air and Army Guard bring to their work every day." 
   "I am very pleased that the Vermont Guard is able to proceed with this important project," said Jeffords. "The Vermont Guard has performed superbly both abroad and at home. They deserve the best technology, and this facility will support them as they continue to serve Vermont and the country."
   The legislation is expected to be signed into law by President Bush as early as today (Friday).
 
 