SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT ON IDEA IMPROVEMENT ACT
  As the 108th Congress comes to a close, the House and the Senate are considering a significant legislative initiative, the Individuals with Disabilties Education (IDEA) Improvement Act. The purpose of the IDEA Improvement Act is to reauthorize the law that was enacted 29 years ago, the Education for All Handicapped Children Act. That law, now known as IDEA, was based upon a series of court decisions in the early 1970s that found that children with disabilities were no different than other children and were, and still are, entitled to a free and appropriate education. 
   I was one of the original authors of the 1975 law. A key provision of that law was the inclusion of language that committed the federal government to pay 40 percent of the national average per pupil expenditure for each disabled child's education. Unfortunately, this is a commitment that has yet to be met. This year, my own state of Vermont had to spend $22 million in state funds to make up the shortfall from the federal government.
   I do not believe the bill before us, the IDEA Improvement Act of 2004, will provide the federal funding to sufficiently accommodate all children with disabilities. As we approach the 30th anniversary of the original IDEA law, it is unconscionable that we, the Congress, will have once again failed to fulfill our commitment to pay the 40 percent share we promised almost three decades ago. In fact, as of today, we are not even halfway there. 
   I voted against the Senate version of this bill earlier this year, primarily because of the funding issue, and I am opposed to the passage of the House-Senate IDEA Improvement Act conference report.
   In addition to the funding problem, I have serious concerns about two other provisions. The IDEA Improvement Act aligns itself with the No Child Left Behind standard for teacher quality. Unfortunately, the definition here is as flawed as it is in the NCLB Act. I had hoped the bill would recognize the balance between providing children with quality instruction and the difficulties in recruiting and retaining quality teachers. In Vermont today, more than one-fifth of special educator positions are not filled by qualified personnel. I believe that this bill will make that statistic worse, not better. 
   Another issue that is troubling to me is the diversion of IDEA funds to other education programs. This bill allows school districts to reduce local spending equal to 50 percent of all new federal IDEA funds (from Fiscal Year 2005 forward) and use them for other educational purposes. This flexibility is available if school districts are in compliance with IDEA. This means that in a few years, the vast majority of school districts in the country will be able to shift billions of dollars that had been spent on special education to other areas. I have been fighting for years to increase the amount of money available for special education, and this provision risks derailing the progress that we have made. I am gravely concerned about this provision and its impact. School districts that are underfunded by No Child Left Behind will be tempted to fix that problem by cutting corners in IDEA and using that money for other programs. This sets a terrible example for future education legislation.
   Although I oppose the final passage of this bill, several provisions improve upon current law. Most importantly, the bill maintains the constitutionally guaranteed rights of children with disabilities.
   The bill greatly improves the monitoring and enforcement procedures for compliance with the law. Previously, states not in compliance were not necessarily sanctioned. In fact, in many situations, the only mechanism for enforcing the law was moving forward with a lawsuit. This new legislation calls for increased federal oversight and provides more enforcement tools at the state level.
   Although I am opposing the passage of the IDEA Improvement Act, I would like to especially thank Senator Kennedy and his staff for their efforts during this process, especially Connie Garner, whose hard work is greatly appreciated.
   It is my hope that we will not wait until the next authorization to continue to work together to improve the IDEA program and the funding that is so desperately needed for all children with disabilities. Next year will mark 30 years of federal underfunding. When will we recognize that our children have waited long enough?
 
 