SEN. JEFFORDS URGES DOE TO TRACK HOME HEATING OIL PRICES THIS WINTER
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., today urged federal officials to track home heating oil prices carefully this winter to ensure they are collecting the data necessary for the possible release of oil from the Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve.  
   In a letter to U.S. Secretary of Energy Spencer Abraham, Jeffords said, "Without diligent monitoring and tracking of home heating oil prices in our region, we won't know if, or when, to release oil from the Northeast Reserve. Unless oil prices drop dramatically soon, many Vermonters are going to have a tough time heating their homes and businesses this winter."
   The average price for home heating oil in Vermont as of October 11, 2004 was $1.85, an increase from the week before of 2.3 cents.
   The Energy Policy and Conservation Act sets the conditions for the release of oil from the Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve at the discretion of the President. The President can base the decision on the following factors: 
   * The price differential between residential heating oil in the Northeast and crude oil must be more than 60 percent greater than its 5-year rolling average for that month;
   * The price differential must continue to exceed the 60-percent threshold for two consecutive weekly (Monday) observations; 
   * The price differential must be increasing as of the most recent observation. 
   Jeffords wrote, "The federal government provides an important backup for heating oil supplies in the event severe circumstances affect supply, delivery and prices. If extreme events conspire to reduce supplies and increase prices for Vermonters, I expect the Administration to have collected the necessary information to support the release of oil from the Reserve."
   Attached is a copy of the letter:
   October 19, 2004
   The Honorable Spencer Abraham
  Secretary
  U.S. Department of Energy
  1000 Independence Ave., SW
  Washington, DC 20585
   Dear Secretary Abraham:
   I write to ensure that the Department of Energy (DOE) has taken all necessary steps to monitor New England's home heating oil prices, so that, if warranted, the President will receive a timely recommendation for the release of oil from the Northeast Reserve. In November of 2000, Congress amended the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 2000 (EPCA 2000) authorizing the Department of Energy to establish the Northeast Reserve. The reserve now contains two million barrels of home heating oil. 
   As you know, EPCA 2000 sets conditions for the release of oil from the Northeast Reserve at the discretion of the President. In order to determine whether the conditions exist for a release, close and thorough monitoring must be made of both crude oil and Northeast home heating oil prices from mid-October through March. The nation is already experiencing record high crude prices. I urge DOE to commit all resources necessary to track crude and home heating oil prices in Vermont and throughout New England. 
   The Northeast Reserve was established as an insurance policy against supply, inventory, and delivery problems. The federal government provides an important backup for heating oil supplies in the event severe circumstances affect supply, delivery and prices. If extreme events conspire to reduce supplies and increase prices for Vermonters, I expect the Administration to have collected the necessary information to support the release of oil from the Reserve. 
   Without diligent monitoring and tracking of home heating oil prices in our region, we won't know if or when to release oil from the Northeast Reserve. Unless oil prices drop dramatically soon, many Vermonters are going to have a tough time heating their homes and businesses this winter. I appreciate your personal attention to this matter.
   Sincerely,
   James M. Jeffords
  U.S. Senator.
 
 