SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT ON GOP CONVENTION
  It is a pleasure to be standing here with Senator Leahy and Congressman Sanders today to set the record straight: The Republican Party we are seeing at the convention this week is not the same Republican Party we have seen at work in Washington, D.C. for the past three years. 
   This convention has portrayed the President as inclusive and moderate, as someone who respects varying points of view, as someone who is willing to compromise and find common ground. Sadly, that is not the President I have come to know. 
   If this were an Olympic sport, the President and his handlers would win the gold medal for political gymnastics. They say one thing and do another. 
   And while they can parade moderate voices before the cameras on prime-time television, these voices do not represent the President they are there to nominate. 
   Since the day George W. Bush was sworn into office, the conservative Republican leadership in the White House and Congress has been driving an agenda of ideology over substance.
   This Bush Administration has pushed the Republican Party to the far right - with little tolerance for differing opinions. In doing so, this Administration has promoted policies that are bad for Vermont and bad for our nation.
   Let's take some of them one-by-one:
   On environmental policy, this President Bush is moving us backward rather than forward. I was proud to work with the first President Bush on the Clean Air Act of 1990. He called our work, "A new chapter in our environmental history, and a new era for clean air." Now, this President Bush is undoing his father's legacy and our nation's environmental policy.
   On energy policy, President Bush would rather help his friends and supporters at the big oil companies than invest in renewable and alternative energy sources.
   On education policy, almost three years after the passage of the "No Child Left Behind Act," we are in danger of leaving many more children behind because President Bush refuses to provide the necessary funding so that every child in this nation receives a quality education.
   On transportation policy, as our nation's highways and bridges deteriorate, President Bush blocks an important six-year highway bill that would improve our roads, create more than a million jobs, and provide a strong boost to our economy.
   And worst of all, President Bush has spent billions of dollars on an unnecessary war in Iraq, with no coherent strategy; no timetable for withdrawal; no international consensus; and no accountability for intelligence reports that were manipulated to start the war in the first place. Now, more than 900 American soldiers have died.
   The promises of candidate Bush, who pledged to bring a new bipartisan tone to Washington, have gone unmet. Three years ago, I left the Republican Party because of its intolerance for moderate views and its turn to the right. Today, I am more confident than ever that I made the right decision, and I am proud to stand here, united as a delegation, to refute the misguided policies of President Bush.
 
 