HELPING OUR TROOPS THIS HOLIDAY
  During this holiday season, we are inundated with television commercials, magazine ads, and newspaper circulars, offering us the latest gadgets, at the latest sale prices. We think about all of the gifts we will be giving and getting and the holiday parties we will attend. But for hundreds of families in Vermont this year, this holiday season will be different. This year, they will be celebrating the holidays without a member of the family. For some, a loved one is in Iraq, serving in the Marines. For others, that loved one is a member of the Vermont National Guard serving in Afghanistan, or at Camp Shelby, Mississippi, waiting to deploy to Kuwait. 
   Right now, the Vermont National Guard has over 1300 members who have been called up to active duty. Countless other Vermonters are active duty members of the Armed Forces, serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and beyond. And for the families of the 15 soldiers with ties to Vermont who have given their lives for their nation, this holiday season will be especially difficult.
   But even before the war began, one thing has been evident in my travels throughout Vermont; no matter our views on the war, our support for our troops is unwavering. And for so many of us here at home, we are left wondering what we can do for these fellow Vermonters, for their families, and for their friends.
   In the true spirit of this great state, a number of Vermonters have made it their priority to answer this question. I have been amazed by the outpouring of support I have seen, and the amount of work that these individuals have taken on to provide whatever comforts, and basic necessities, they can to help these Vermont service members and their families. I have also heard from a number of Vermonters who want to help, but do not know how. The following is merely a sampling of the organizations here in Vermont that are answering this call. These organizations would not be able to function without the generous support of corporate donors, community organizations, and individuals.
   The Vermont Military Family Assistance Fund is a private non-profit organization established to meet the emergency needs of the families of mobilized active duty service members. The Fund can be contacted at: 888/607-8773.
   Both Operation Vermont Cares and The Freedom Fund are non-profit organizations that work to purchase and ship goods to members of the Vermont National Guard and to any other Vermonters serving abroad on active duty. Both organizations are in need of financial donations to cover the costs of shipping packages. Packages include anything a soldier might need, from hard candy to toilet paper. Operation Vermont Cares can be contacted by mail at: P.O. Box 1301 Waitsfield, VT 05673 or by phone at: 802/496-3566 and The Freedom Fund at: P.O. Box 3337 Burlington, VT 05402 or 802/864-5264.
   Operation Kindness, located at the Vermont Army National Guard Family Readiness Office at Camp Johnson, accepts donations from community organizations, churches, and individuals to support the needs of families with deployed service members. Funds, services, and goods are matched with a family in need of assistance. Operation Kindness can be contacted at: 888/607-8773.
   It is important to remember that when this season of giving comes to a close, the need of our service members will not end. I thank everyone involved in these efforts for their caring and support of these brave men and women. I wish you all a safe and joyous holiday season and a happy new year.
 
 