SEN. JEFFORDS INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO PRESERVE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., introduced legislation today to preserve existing affordable housing by providing federal matching grants to states and localities. "The Affordable Housing Preservation Act of 2004" would authorize the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to make grants for the acquisition and rehabilitation of affordable housing, including housing that is being purchased by residents. Cosponsoring the legislation are Sens. Paul Sarbanes, D-Md., Ranking Member of the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, and Diane Feinstein, D-Calif. 
   "I have heard from many of my constituents who are genuinely concerned about Vermonters who are threatened with the loss of housing," Jeffords said. "This bill would give state and local housing authorities another tool to keep people in their homes. I believe we must act now to preserve our existing stock of affordable housing."
   Sarah Carpenter, Executive Director of the Vermont Housing Finance Agency (VHFA), said her agency supports the effort and will work to further the approach. "Senator Jeffords' Preservation Bill is an important first step to helping us expand the supply of affordable housing by facilitating the preservation of existing stock and the transfer to ownership structures that will ensure future affordability," she said. 
   Jeffords' bill sets up a grant program within HUD, and awards funds based on a number of factors, including the number of affordable housing units at risk at being lost and the local market conditions in which displaced residents would have to find comparable housing options. 
   "I believe that flexibility with the funding would make this program more efficient and cost effective, and, most importantly, more helpful to the recipients themselves," said Jeffords.
   The introduction of this bill comes during a time of proposed budget cuts for affordable housing, including a $1.6 billion cut for Section 8, HUD's largest direct housing assistance program for low-income Americans, which serves some three million families. Twice in May, Jeffords joined letters to HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson to protest cuts to the Section 8 program. On May 20, Jeffords joined 16 other Senators to introduce S. 2467, a bill which would ensure Section 8 reimbursements.
 
 