SEN. JEFFORDS COMMENTS ON NOMINATION OF WILLIAM MYERS III
  Sen. Jeffords' Floor Statement on the Nomination of William Myers III
   Mr. President, I rise today to express my opposition to the nomination of William G. Myers III to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. 
   Looking over Mr. Myers record, it is clear that we do not see eye-to-eye on environmental policy. He once complained that the "federal government's endless promulgation of statutes and regulations harm the very environment it purports to protect." Mr. Myers believes that the Endangered Species Act and the Clean Water Act's wetlands protections are examples of "regulatory excesses." He has also compared the government's management of public lands to King George's rule over the American colonies.
   But policy disagreements alone are not enough to disqualify an individual from serving on our nation's lower courts. I dare say that there has not been a judge confirmed during my almost sixteen years in the Senate where the nominee and I have agreed on all issues. I believe the same could be said by any Senator who has ever served in the Senate. 
   For me to oppose a judicial nomination there needs to be more than just a disagreement on policy; there needs to be an issue concerning judicial temperament or competence. When reviewing the record compiled on Mr. Myers by the Judiciary Committee, I do believe there are serious deficiencies with this nomination, beyond a disagreement on policy, and I must oppose it. 
   First, Mr. Myers has very little litigation experience, a critical factor for serving on the circuit court level. In fact, he has never been a judge, nor has he participated in a jury trial, and only rarely has he participated in a non-jury trial. He has never been a law professor, and he has written only a few law review articles. Some candidates who I have supported in the past have lacked one kind of experience - being a judge, professor, or prolific writer - but have compensated for that gap with strength in other areas. Mr. Myers' resume, however, does not show any other such compensatory experience.
   I am also greatly concerned that Mr. Myers' past actions bring into question his ability to separate his strong beliefs from his judicial duty to rule dispassionately on the law. This is a critical trait for any judge, at any level of the judiciary, and one that appears to be lacking in this nominee. For example, when he was the Interior Department Solicitor, which is the chief lawyer for the department, he was sworn to defend the public interest and enforce federal land regulations. However, in many actions taken by Mr. Myers, he used his position to weaken environmental regulations to the benefit of his former mining and grazing industry clients. This is a strong indication of his inability to separate his beliefs from his duty as a judge, and he must not be allowed to carry that to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
   For those reasons I will oppose his nomination. In addition, as the Ranking Member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, I am distressed that the Majority Leadership has decided to use valuable floor time to debate a nominee with horrible environmental perspectives and no chance at confirmation, while failing to take action on many important environmental issues. 
   We should be enacting comprehensive power plant anti-pollution legislation. We should be looking for new opportunities to improve the efficiency of our cars, homes, and buildings to help curb air pollution and reduce global warming. We should pass standards to improve reliable delivery of electricity. We should agree to produce more renewable motor fuels that meet federal Clean Air requirements. We should build a pipeline to bring needed natural gas from Alaska to the lower 48 states. We should end manipulative electricity marketing practices that gouge our consumers. Finally, we should expand our use of renewable energy. We could do all these things, which would provide more energy for our country, and do them with substantial Senate support rather than debate a nomination that does not have the support necessary to be confirmed.
   We also have failed to ensure that the United States continues to exercise leadership in multi-lateral efforts to protect the global environment. Even though the United States led the way in negotiating and signing several important international environmental treaties, we are not yet a party to these treaties because of a failure to pass necessary implementing legislation. The Law of the Sea Treaty is a perfect example. The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants is, unfortunately, another.
   These are some of the important environmental issues the Senate should be spending its precious remaining time on, and not on divisive nominees who have no chance for confirmation.
   Mr. President, I yield the floor.
 
 