SEN. JEFFORDS NOMINATES VERMONTERS FOR SERVICE ACADEMIES
  Sen. James M. Jeffords, I-Vt., announced today that he has nominated 27 Vermonters for admission to the United States Service Academies. 
   Jeffords will honor the nominees at a reception in the Cedar Creek Room at the Vermont Statehouse from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday, December 29.
   The Senator nominated eight Vermonters to the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, CO; nine to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MD; and ten to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY. 
   The Air Force, Naval and Military academies will each select at least two Vermonters from Jeffords' list of nominees for admission. Jeffords selected the 27 nominees because they were highly qualified individuals who expressed strong interest in attending a service academy. "We continue to ask more and more from our armed forces and they have responded with a resounding commitment to defending our country. These young men and women are dedicated and I know that they will make Vermont proud," Jeffords said. As in past years, Jeffords said he made no attempt to rank the nominees, submitting each name on an equal basis. 
   All the nominees and their parents have been invited to the reception as have previously appointed cadets and midshipmen. Members of the press are also invited to attend. 
   The nominees and their hometowns are:
   * US Air Force Academy 
   James Bracy - White River Junction
  Christopher Engelken - Richmond
  Justin Irving - Burlington
  Erin Kendall - White River Junction
  Michael LaBrie - Saint Albans
  Richard Marchetti - Manchester
  Tyler McGuire - New Haven
  Alexander Vane - Charlotte
   * US Naval Academy
   Alexander Berman - Weybridge
  Seth Donlon - Enosburg Falls
  Daniel Hall - East Dover
  Nicholas Keech - Jericho
  Brian Kent - Sharon
  Geoffrey Lee - Lyndonville
  Matthew Marsh - Rutland
  Jon Pynduss - Richford
  Brandon Riker - Brattleboro
   * US Military Academy
   Matthew Baldwin - Sharon
  Joshua Boyle - Milton
  George Harper Gay - Stowe
  Joseph Hamilton - Peacham
  Mark Herrick - Marlboro
  Casey Leadbeater - St. Johnsbury
  Jeremy Paro - Richmond
  Christopher Pauze - Poultney
  Jacob Richards - White River Junction
  Matthew Schlesinger - North Ferrisburg.
 
 