SENS. JEFFORDS, FEINGOLD MILITARY FAMILY SUPPORT AMENDMENT ACCEPTED INTO DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL
  An amendment to support military families during troops' overseas deployments was accepted late yesterday as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007. The amendment, which was approved by unanimous consent, is a modified version of S. 1888, the Military Family Support Act. S.1888 was first introduced in October of last year by Sens. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., and Russ Feingold, D-Wis. 
   The Military Family Support Amendment is designed to assist military families struggling with the long-term absence of a family member. Under this legislation, the Office of Personnel Management is directed to administer a pilot program authorizing federal employees, who have been designated "caregivers" by a member of the Armed Forces, to use their earned leave time in a more flexible manner while a family member is deployed overseas. This amendment also encourages the Department of Labor to solicit private businesses to voluntarily offer more accommodating leave time to caregivers affected by these deployments.  
   "This is an important step forward in providing military families with some well-deserved support during the extended absence of a mother, father, husband, or wife," said Jeffords. "Military families make tremendous sacrifices as their loved ones risk their lives overseas, and the federal government must do its part in helping them adjust to day-to-day life without a member of their household."
   "I am pleased that the Senate has accepted this measure offering military families some relief during the difficult times when loved ones are bravely serving abroad," Feingold said. "Families with loved ones serving abroad face unique challenges and we should help reduce the burdens they face."
   The Military Family Support Amendment, S.Amdt. 4215, is cosponsored by Senators Mark Dayton, D-Minn., Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., and Patty Murray, D-Wash. The legislation does not impact the Family Medical Leave Act, and all private-sector participation in programs outlined in the amendment is voluntary. 
   CONGRESSIONAL RECORD STATEMENT OF SENATOR JIM JEFFORDS ON S. AMDT. 4215, THE MILITARY FAMILY SUPPORT AMENDMENT, TO S. 2766 THE NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2007 
   Mr. President,
   I am pleased that my amendment to support military families was accepted today by the Senate by unanimous consent to S. 2766, the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2007. Let me begin by thanking my good friend, the Senator from Wisconsin, Mr. Feingold, who joined me last year in introducing the legislation upon which this amendment is based, S. 1888, the Military Family Support Act. His advocacy for this issue and for the families of our men and women in uniform is greatly appreciated. I would also like to recognize Senator Dayton, Senator Lautenberg, and Senator Murray for their support for this amendment. Of course, the Senate and our nation benefit greatly from the leadership on national defense issues of the Senator from Virginia, Mr. Warner, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and the Senator from Michigan, Mr. Levin. I thank them both and their staff for their assistance with this amendment.
   I would also like to acknowledge the cooperation of Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee Chairwoman Collins and Ranking Member Lieberman and the expertise of their staff. They were very helpful in the process that has led to this amendment, and I appreciate their assistance. 
   At about this time last year, I was contacted by a group of Vermonters who were trying to help their coworkers with family members serving in Iraq as part of the Vermont National Guard. I was impressed by the generosity of Vermonters who wanted to do all they could to help ease the strains of military deployments felt by their friends and neighbors. I was also reminded of how a family's day-to-day life is disrupted by a deployment of a loved one overseas.
   This amendment calls for two pilot programs to help with family disruptions due to an overseas deployment. The first pilot program, administered by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), would authorize Federal employees, who have been designated by a member of the Armed Forces as "caregivers", as defined by the Department of Defense (DOD), to use their leave in a more flexible manner. No new leave would be given to any employees. This amendment simply makes leave already available more useful during stressful times for military families. The second pilot program allows the Department of Labor (DOL) to solicit businesses to voluntarily take part in a program to offer more accommodating leave to their employees. This amendment does not include in its scope the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and it does not require any private sector entity to participate. 
   Mr. President, in closing, this amendment aims to make life a little easier for those who are already giving so much to our country and to their communities.
 
 