VERMONT HAZARDOUS WASTE SITE ADDED TO EPA SUPERFUND NATIONAL PRIORITIES LIST
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I - Vt., today announced that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has placed the Pike Hill Copper Mine in Corinth, Vermont, on its National Priority List of Superfund sites, which would make it eligible for federal funding for clean-up. Pike Hill is Vermont's tenth federal Superfund site.  
   "Listing the old Pike Hill Copper Mine as a national priority is a good step, but what truly matters is getting the abandoned site cleaned up. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration isn't giving EPA the resources it needs," said Jeffords, the ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. "Fully funding the Superfund would enable EPA to accelerate the clean-up of the Pike Hill Mine and other Vermont sites."
   The Superfund trust fund is virtually bankrupt. The Bush Administration, unlike every other administration since President Reagan, has opposed reinstating the Polluter Pays fee on corporations that expired in 1995. Funding for the program has fallen 29% - over $515 million - over the last decade in inflation adjusted dollars.
   In the mid and late 1990s, Superfund cleaned up an average of 86 sites per year, but this number has since fallen by more than 50 percent in the last two years. The EPA completed construction on only 40 sites in 2003. More than 1,200 toxic waste sites on the Superfund National Priority List still await clean-up.
   The Pike Hill Copper Mine is located 1.5 miles northeast of the Village of West Corinth in Orange County. There are approximately 20,000 tons of mill and mine tailings over the surface of the mine, which was active between 1847 and 1919. These tailings are rich in metals and sulfides and when water passes over them sulfuric acid is produced and the metals are dissolved and released into local streams and rivers.
   Jeffords is a co-sponsor of legislation, S. 173, to re-instate the Superfund fees on polluters.
 
 