SENS. LEAHY, JEFFORDS OFFER BILL SETTING THE STAGE FOR 400TH ANNIVERSARY OF LAKE CHAMPLAIN'S DISCOVERY
  Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), James Jeffords (I-Vt.), Hillary Clinton (D-N.Y.) and Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) have introduced a bill to launch the formal commemoration of the 400th anniversary of the arrival of Samuel de Champlain into the Champlain Valley, which will be recognized in 2009, and to celebrate the heritage of the communities surrounding Lake Champlain. The legislation also commemorates the voyages of Henry Hudson and Robert Fulton on the Hudson River. 
   In 1609, Samuel de Champlain entered the green valley where he arrived at the lake that today carries his name. Lake Champlain stretches nearly 120 miles northward from Whitehall, N.Y., to the Richelieu River in Quebec and is nestled between the dramatic peaks of New York's Adirondacks and Vermont's picturesque Green Mountains. Vermonters and others sometimes refer to Lake Champlain as the "Sixth Great Lake," in recognition of the geographical heritage it shares with the other Great Lakes. 
   The bill authorizes the National Park Service, with recommendations from the governors of Vermont and New York and the Lake Champlain Basin Program, to establish a federal commission to provide help to the Vermont and New York state quadracentennial commissions and to local communities and nonprofit organizations, and to develop activities for 2009 that recognize the cultural and historical significance of all peoples and major events in the Champlain Valley's history. 
   "Lake Champlain is the crown jewel of New England and one of Vermont's greatest treasures," said Leahy. "Every year thousands of Vermonters visit the lake and its setting. My own fond memories of Lake Champlain including days spent fishing and boating, and one of my greatest joys is sharing those experiences with my grandchildren. Our state and our region will mark a major milestone in 2009, and this legislation will help Vermont, New York and America celebrate the rich legacy we have inherited."
   "Generations of Vermonters have cherished the Champlain valley for its historic and economic significance," said Jeffords. "I am delighted to join with Senator Leahy and New York's Senators in introducing legislation to help our two states commemorate our rich cultural heritage, and preserve our historic resources for the future."
 
 