SENS. LEAHY, JEFFORDS INTRODUCE BILL TO SET STAGE FOR LAKE CHAMPLAIN'S 400TH ANNIVERSARY
  Sens. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and James Jeffords (I-Vt.) have introduced a bill to commemorate, in 2009, the 400th anniversary of the arrival of Samuel de Champlain into the Champlain Valley, and to celebrate the rich heritage of the communities surrounding Lake Champlain.  
   Nearly 400 years ago, in 1609, Samuel de Champlain entered the green valley where he arrived at the lake that today carries his name. Lake Champlain stretches nearly 120 miles northward from Whitehall, N.Y., to the Richelieu River in Quebec and is nestled between the dramatic peaks of New York's Adirondacks and Vermont's picturesque Green Mountains. 
   The bill will allow the National Park Service, with recommendations from the governors of Vermont and New York, to establish a federal commission to provide assistance to the recently established Vermont and New York state quadracentennial commissions, to local communities and nonprofit organizations, and to develop activities for 2009 that recognize the cultural and historical significance of all peoples and events in the Champlain Valley. 
   "Lake Champlain is the crown jewel of New England and one of Vermont's greatest treasures," said Leahy. "Every Vermonter has fond memories of the lake. Mine include boyhood days spent fishing and boating, and taking my young family on ferry rides across the lake. In recent years I have enjoyed scuba diving to explore historic shipwrecks. This is an important anniversary, and our bill will help Vermont and America understand and celebrate the lake's many contributions to our heritage."
   Jeffords, who co-sponsored the bill, said: "This is an opportunity to bring national, and international, attention to the wonderful and important historic resources of the Champlain Valley. Lake Champlain played a central role in the early formation of the United States as a nation. This bill will help Vermont communities to explore their history and share it with the world."
   Vermonters affectionately refer to Lake Champlain as the "Sixth Great Lake." The lake figures prominently in the history and culture of pre-European America and Colonial North America and in the formation and early development of the United States. The pivotal Battle of Valcour Island helped change the course of the Revolutionary War for the American colonies.
 
 