SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT ON ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX
  Statement of Sen. James Jeffords, I-Vt. 
  Alternative Minimum Tax Hearing 
  Taxation and IRS Oversight Subcommittee
   I want to commend Chairman Kyl for calling today's hearing. And I want to thank today's witnesses for giving us their time and expertise. It looks like our time will be limited, and so I will keep my remarks brief. 
   Almost forty years ago, a handful of wealthy taxpayers escaped paying taxes and the minimum tax was born. It has grown like a weed since then, today snaring some three million taxpayers, with another 30 million filers trapped in the next few years if we do not act.
   We need to confront the problems created by the AMT directly rather than applying a succession of band aids. The problems are many. Millions and millions of Americans are wasting time and money in calculating a second tax liability. These people have not engaged in exotic schemes to lessen their tax burden. 
   No wonder, then, that there is tremendous frustration from ordinary taxpayers who find they have additional liability simply because they have several children or substantial state and local tax bills. 
   I look forward to the testimony of today's witnesses. I am very interested in their ideas on how we should reform this tax once and for all. 
   The AMT relief currently in place expires in about six months. Yet the Treasury Department's revenue proposals for the upcoming fiscal year are silent on the AMT.
   By contrast, the Administration wants to extend provisions of the 2001 tax cuts that expire in 2011. This is a strange approach - worrying about tax provisions that expire almost six years from now while ignoring a major tax hike that will occur six months from now.
   While the AMT should certainly be examined by the President's advisory panel on tax reform, this is just the latest in five years' worth of Administration justifications for doing little or nothing.
   Again, I commend Senator Kyl, and I appreciate the witnesses joining us today to share their expertise.
 
 