SEN. JEFFORDS SPEAKS ON REP. GOSS' NOMINATION
  Jeffords on Porter Goss Nomination
   Mr. President,
   I was unavoidably absent from yesterday's vote on the nomination of Porter Goss to be Director of Central Intelligence. I wish the Record to show that if I had been present, I would have voted in favor of the nomination.  
   The Constitution gives the President the power to select the heads of government agencies and departments. The Senate was given the responsibility of reviewing these choices and approving or disapproving them. As a body, the Senate was not given the authority to choose whomever it wishes to fill these positions. Nor is any Senator able to substitute the President's choice with an individual he or she feels is better qualified than the President's nominee. Rather, the Senate's consent is designed to act as a "check" on the selection of an egregious candidate, and a final review of the qualifications and competencies of the nominee. 
   Mr. President, Porter Goss would not have been my choice for Director of Central Intelligence. I share the concerns of many of my colleagues about the partisan political nature of many of Representative Goss' statements and positions in recent months. His opposition to the creation of the 9/11 Commission is particularly troubling. With his extensive knowledge of the intelligence community, I would have expected him to be acutely aware that the commission was vitally important to improving national security and healing the wounds of September 11, 2001.
   However, one cannot dispute the fact that Representative Goss has a great deal of experience both inside and outside the intelligence community. Early in his career he worked for the CIA both in covert operations during the Cold War and in analysis for the Directorate of Operations. This familiarity with the Agency proved very valuable when, after his election to Congress in 1988, he joined the House of Representatives Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, serving as its Chairman for the past seven years. By all accounts, Representative Goss has worked diligently to perform the oversight functions invested in Congress and to improve the quality of intelligence operations. 
   Representative Goss indicated in his testimony last week before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence that he appreciates that the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) does not have the same freedom as a Member of Congress to be partisan or provocative. The DCI is required by law to be non-partisan, and remain above the political fray. As we saw in the Iraq war, politicization of intelligence is one of the gravest threats to our national security. Representative Goss acknowledged that "objective and precise intelligence is only possible if the intelligence community's leadership is itself objective, independent and clear in its commitment to these ideas." 
   Mr. Goss has been quite forthright in criticizing the intelligence community for relying too heavily on national technical means and not investing in the more difficult area of human intelligence collection. This takes more time and commitment, but it is essential if we are to make headway against international terrorism. 
   The coming years will bring considerable reorganization and potential turmoil for the intelligence community. I believe changes must be made in a very careful, conscientious, and non-partisan manner. Representative Goss has said he understands that politics must stop at the DCI's office door. Based on his assurance that he understands the difference between being a Member of Congress and being in charge of the nation's intelligence, I will support his confirmation. For the sake of the nation, we all must hope that he is successful.
 
 