CASTLETON STATE STARTS CONSTRUCTION ON 'JEFFORDS CENTER FOR SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS'
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., today joined Gov. James Douglas and Castleton State College (CSC) President Dave Wolk to celebrate the ground breaking of a major expansion and renovation of CSC's math and science center. Sen. Jeffords secured over $1.9 million in federal funding for the project in 2006 appropriations legislation. 
   This new math and science center will serve both undergraduate and graduate students, as well as CSC faculty. Once construction is completed, the new center will include a 127-seat lecture hall, an office suite for faculty, two new classrooms, four small laboratories for research projects, an instructional lab, and a new greenhouse.
   In addition to its undergraduate programs, CSC offers Master of Arts in Education programs to train Vermont's teachers. The new math and science facilities will be particularly helpful for these graduate students who work as elementary, middle, and high school math and science teachers throughout the state.
   "Today's competitive global economy demands that Vermont's students be well-equipped in math and science," said Jeffords. "This center will have an impact on Vermont's education system twice over: it will offer CSC's current students access to top-notch math and science facilities, while it will help provide many of our teachers with the skills they need to train the next generation of Vermonters. I congratulate and thank President Wolk for his efforts in making this important center a reality."
   President Wolk also announced the naming of a nearby courtyard as "Senators Courtyard," in honor of Senator Jeffords and former Senator Bob Stafford. CSC's Academic Center and Center for the Study of the Community are both named for Senator Stafford, in recognition of his decades of support for CSC. Senator Staffords' wife, Helen, attended the announcement.
   As a senior member, and former chairman, of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, Senator Jeffords has championed improvements in math and science education in Vermont and throughout the country. During his more than 30 years in Congress, Senator Jeffords has secured tens of millions of dollars for Vermont's public colleges and universities.
 
 