SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING VETERANS' ID THEFT
  The Committee on Veterans Affairs, on which I sit, held a joint hearing with the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs this morning to examine the frightful breach of security at the Veterans Administration that has led to the loss of significant data on millions of veterans. I made it very clear to Secretary Nicholson, Secretary of Veterans Affairs, that I am angry over the loss of this data and the subsequent mishandling of this security breach by the VA. 
   I understand that the government, and in particular, agencies such as the VA that deal in direct help to individuals, need to have sensitive personal information. But the government has a sacred obligation to make sure that this information is secure. This incident is an inexcusable breach of the basic compact of trust between the veteran and the VA.
   The FBI must get to the bottom of how this happened, and take immediate measures to ensure that it never happens again. We owe our veterans nothing less.
   It is imperative that the VA take immediate steps to earn back the trust of veterans. I was pleased to hear from the Secretary that call lines were immediately established to provide information to veterans, and that these call lines are in operation six days a week for extended hours. Phone calls from my office to the White River Junction Regional Office were answered by very knowledgeable and helpful staff. In addition to listening to the fears of the veterans, they are also offering information about ways to check on ones credit and protect oneself from criminal invasions of privacy. The VA is also working with the Federal Trade Commission and other government agencies to take actions to protect veterans. The major credit agencies have been alerted to this situation and should be ready to provide special assistance to veterans.
   I am concerned, however, that not enough is being done to protect veterans against the inevitable scam operations that were launched the moment the public was notified of the theft. Some of these scams even pretend to be the VA calling to offer protection to the veteran. As far as I can determine, the VA is not doing enough to protect veterans from these efforts to trap and steal from them. It is critical that these efforts be launched immediately before more veterans are victimized.
   Above all, I urge the Secretary to request additional funds to cover the cost of fixing this problem. He is kidding himself if he thinks that the remedial actions necessary to mitigate the effect of this theft and fix the broken system can be accomplished within the current budget. It would be rubbing salt into the open wound if the funding to cover these efforts were to come out of veterans' health care or benefits accounts. While I know the Secretary hates to ask for more money, I trust that he will put the needs of veterans ahead of this administration's aversion to spending money and immediately ask for additional funds. We owe it to our veterans. I, for one, will fight hard to get them what they deserve.
 
 