SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT REGARDING HAYDEN VOTE
  Statement by Senator James M. Jeffords On the Nomination of Michael Hayden to be Director of Central Intelligence 
   Mr. President,
   I am casting my vote today in favor of General Michael V. Hayden to be Director of Central Intelligence. General Hayden has a strong background in intelligence. He has spent his career in national security and particularly intelligence, serving as commander of the Air Intelligence Agency and as Director of the National Security Agency. General Hayden has served overseas in leadership positions with the US Government in South Korea and Bulgaria, and is currently Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, serving directly under Director of National Intelligence, John Negroponte. General Hayden was straightforward in his answers to tough questions during his confirmation process, showing a clear command of the issues of national security and the challenges facing the intelligence community.
   The confirmation process has also brought to light General Hayden's leadership qualities. At this time of change and realignment at the CIA, strong leaders are clearly needed. The agency has had a difficult time adapting to the changes in the intelligence community structure and has suffered a decline in morale and sense of mission. By all accounts, General Hayden will bring a welcome change at the top, hopefully infusing the agency with a new sense of direction and relevance that is badly needed.
   I remain very concerned, however, that the wiretapping activities of the NSA have been insufficiently investigated. General Hayden insisted in his confirmation hearings that he was given unequivocal legal advice each step of the way. I do not doubt that this is true, but I believe that significant and compelling questions still remain about the validity of the legal foundation for the wiretapping programs. I have yet to be convinced that these activities are legal. Even if they are found to be legal, I question whether we really want our government to be engaged in these activities.
   But the debate on the NSA activities is far larger than just General Hayden. This debate must go on in depth, and focus on the legal and policy issues at stake, not on the personalities of those involved.
   We need to get the CIA back onto its feet and functioning properly. I believe that General Hayden is capable of doing that. I trust he will put his considerable skills to work in earnest on this task, as its success is critical to our national security.
 
 