U.S. POSTAL SERVICE TO ISSUE STAMP COMMEMORATING 400TH ANNIVERSARY OF CHAMPLAIN'S EXPLORATIONS
  The U.S. Postal Service and Canada Post on Sunday will jointly release a souvenir postage stamp sheet commemorating the 400th anniversary of the explorations of Samuel de Champlain in 1606. Champlain played a key role in the early European exploration of North America, including, in 1609, his explorations of the Champlain Valley. 
   The commemorative stamps are among the earliest steps leading up to the formal commemoration, three years from now, of Samuel de Champlain's arrival into the Champlain Valley four centuries ago. Vermont Senators Patrick Leahy (D) and James Jeffords (I) have introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate to launch the official commemoration of the 400th anniversary of the arrival, in 2009.
   The commemorative sheet features two 39-cent U.S. stamps and two 51-cent Canadian stamps. It is the third in a series of stamps issued by Canada Post to celebrate French settlements and explorations in Canada in the early 1600s. The stamp will be officially released this Sunday to coincide with the Washington (D.C.) 2006 World Philatelic Exhibition, the largest stamp exhibition in the world.
   "Like so many Vermonters, I affectionately think of Lake Champlain as the 'sixth Great Lake,'" said Leahy. "Our state and our region will celebrate Samuel de Champlain's exploration of our great lake in 2009, and these stamps will encourage people all across the United States and Canada to join us in beginning to mark this milestone."
   "This anniversary and these postage stamps remind us of the historic importance of the Champlain Valley." said Jeffords. "As we commemorate the arrival of Samuel de Champlain, we must continue to work to protect the lake from pollution and invasive species, and to promote the heritage of the entire valley for its historic value and its economic significance."
   "These stamps offer a wonderful opportunity to recognize Samuel de Champlain's explorations and share the treasure of Lake Champlain with the rest of the country," said Sanders.
   Champlain was a skilled cartographer who explored land and sea from Nova Scotia to Cape Cod. The documents of his travels and his illustrative maps and drawings have provided a detailed history of the culture in the Northeast in the early 17th Century.
 
 