EPA ADDS WILLISTON SITE TO SUPERFUND; SEN. JEFFORDS CHALLENGES ADMINISTRATION ON FUNDING
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., today announced that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has added the Commerce Street Plume in Williston to its National Priority List of Superfund sites. The designation makes the site eligible for federal funding for clean-up. The EPA had announced last year that it intended to add the site, but today's announcement makes it official. It is Vermont's 11th federally recognized Superfund site.  
   The property is located in an industrial park and is contaminated with byproducts from manufacturing and electro-plating operations emitted from 1960 to 1984. Volatile organic compounds have been detected in nearby drinking water wells above health based standards and have migrated to streams and wetlands that are habitat for two state designated threatened species. 
   Jeffords said that while he was grateful the Bush Administration has now added the Williston site to the Superfund list, the time was long overdue for the Administration to fully fund the program and re-instate the "Polluter Pays" tax so that the polluting industries, rather than taxpayers, finance the clean-up of abandoned toxic waste dumps. 
   "This is a classic example of this Administration's failure to put its money where its mouth is. It is one thing to talk about cleaning up these dangerously polluted sites; it is quite another thing to get the job done. The Administration needs to stop talking and take action," said Jeffords, the ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. He noted that one in four Americans now live within four miles of a toxic waste site. 
   The Superfund trust fund has been running short on funds since 1995, when the Polluter Pays tax on corporations expired. The current Bush Administration, unlike every other administration since President Reagan, has not pushed to have it reinstated.
   Internal EPA documents recently released reveal a record backlog of clean-up projects estimated at $750 million. Despite the chronic funding shortfall, President Bush proposed $126 million less for Superfund clean-up than last year. More than 1,200 toxic waste sites on the Superfund National Priority List still await clean-up.
 
 