SEN. JEFFORDS ISSUES STATEMENT ON CAFTA
  Statement of Sen. Jim Jeffords On CAFTA Agreement 
   "Clearly there are some benefits to the Vermont economy from CAFTA, particularly for our dairy industry. This agreement will also create additional opportunities for other Vermont exporters, and every bit helps in a global economy. My primary concern with this agreement has been the effect of the agreement on Central America, especially in poor and rural areas. After intense negotiations with the Administration over the past few weeks, we have won concessions from the Administration to provide more than $150 million over the next five years to monitor compliance with labor agreements, to provide rural development assistance, and help ensure that the benefits of trade are spread more equally across Central America. Based on this commitment of aid, I have decided to vote in favor of the CAFTA agreement. I will closely monitor the Administration's implementation of this pact."  
   Congressional Record Statement Submitted by 
  Senator James M. Jeffords
  The Dominican Republic - Central America - 
  United States Free Trade Agreement 
   Throughout my thirty years in the Congress, I have considered myself a free trader. I believe that breaking down barriers to trade and opening access to markets in a fair and balanced way in the long run benefits all economies, both consumers and producers. As the distance between economies shrinks, integration of economies in a positive way is increasingly important. The implementation of free trade agreements to codify the rules of fair play and bind all parties to strong and enforceable labor and environmental protection standards are important steps in the development of a more broadly beneficial and less biased world trading system. 
   In the case of our nearest neighbors, trade agreements take on a security component as well. I believe a strong trade agreement can help break the cycles of poverty, deprivation and marginalization currently operating in many of the Central American countries. We know the economic status quo is unjust and dangerous. Many people in the region feel they have little hope of earning a good living or providing a good education for their children. That must change. It is in the United States' economic and security interest that positive change occurs. 
   Throughout the Dominican Republic - Central America - United States Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) negotiation process, I joined a number of my colleagues on the Finance Committee in urging President Bush and the U.S. Trade Representative to address concerns about the labor and environment standards and enforcement mechanisms in this agreement. I indicated my deep concern that historically, in most of these countries, economic benefits are not shared by all strata of society. When negotiating trade agreements between economies of such unequal scale, these concerns are of particular importance. I am disappointed the Administration did not do more to advance these causes in this agreement. Some progress was made, but more could have been accomplished if our recommendations had been adopted in full. 
   I have heard from a great many points of view as this agreement has firmed up and the implementing legislation came before Congress. I have heard from many Vermonters who are opposed to increased trade in general and this agreement in particular. On the other hand, Vermont dairy farmers have come to me in support of CAFTA. Dairy industry experts predict that the ratification of this agreement will increase the sales of American dairy products to Central America by $100 million over the next several years - not a huge amount, but a significant one, given the economics of our dairy industry. As an important dairy state offering a number of high-quality cheeses and specialty products, Vermont stands to gain from this agreement. The agreement will create opportunities for other Vermont exporters as well, particularly small, niche businesses for which Vermont is famous. As with dairy sales, I don't expect these opportunities will be voluminous, but every bit helps in a global economy. 
   I have heard very diverse viewpoints from the Central American countries as well. The region's historic inability to spread economic gains to all sectors of society is of deep concern to many in the region, and I share this concern. For two decades, I have been involved in the struggle to end human rights violations and labor rights abuses in many of these countries. While CAFTA extracts important promises from Central American governments to abide by international standards of human rights and labor rights, my experience leaves me very skeptical of these commitments. Furthermore, the economic deprivation of much of the region frustrates all but the most committed efforts at reform. Current trends are leading to greater disparity between the rich and the poor, urban areas versus rural areas, and economically connected versus economically marginalized populations. These trends must be reversed - not just for the health of the region, but also for our own economic health and national security. 
   The key question is whether CAFTA will exacerbate these trends, or whether it can help reverse them. Many in the region fear the United States will move in to benefit from markets in the region while frustrating Central American efforts to access US markets. I have also heard from Central Americans who believe the reduction of tariffs and the standardization of commerce will greatly enhance their ability to sell to the US market, thereby benefiting communities, often marginal ones, in Central America. 
   After hearing diverse points of view, I concluded that without significant support from the United States to assist in the enforcement of labor agreements and development of greater capacity for balanced economic growth, I could not support CAFTA. Over the past few weeks, I have joined several of my colleagues in pushing the Administration to commit to greater support for foreign assistance to the region, aimed specifically at the most vulnerable sectors of Central American society and the need for a strong international presence to monitor labor rights compliance. While we requested greater levels of aid, our negotiations produced a commitment from the White House to budget for and support $40 million in labor and environment capacity building assistance for the next four years. Additionally the Administration has agreed to increase funding to the International Labor Organization (ILO) by $3 million annually for on the ground monitoring of each country's labor rights commitments and actual labor practices. This could potentially produce the first significant step forward in broad enforcement of labor standards throughout the region. 
   In response to our concerns, the Administration has also agreed to provide, through the Inter-American Development Bank, $30 million annually to El Salvador, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic ($10 million to each country) for rural development and institution building for a period of five years. This commitment of $150 million for rural development assistance to the region is very significant. We have asked that these funds be targeted most directly to the poorer sectors of these economies., particularly those most likely to suffer adverse effects from CAFTA. The Administration had previously announced agreements to provide Honduras and Nicaragua with U.S. foreign assistance through the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) at $215 million and $175 million respectively. In the course of recent discussions, the Administration has agreed to give higher priority to the development of MCC compacts with El Salvador, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic as well. 
   While I still have concerns about CAFTA's effect upon Central America, I believe the commitments we have received from the Bush Administration on foreign aid, labor rights and the environment represent a significant step forward in the ability of the region to reverse current trends and improve regional standards of living. I am hopeful these steps will lead to the improvement of the region's vital institutions and help ensure that the benefits of the agreement will trickle down to all members of society. The proof will be in the implementation, which I plan to follow very closely. However, I am heartened that we now have more to work with, and we are assured of greater support from the Administration for this process. Based on the strength of these assurances, I will support the CAFTA agreement.
 
 