SEN. JEFFORDS COMMENTS ON FARM WORKER SHORTAGE
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., today issued the following statement concerning illegal immigrant farm workers in Vermont:
   "I share Governor Douglas' concern that Vermont dairy farms have an adequate supply of workers to ensure their survival. That is why I have offered legislation to help Vermont's dairy farms access the H-2A immigration program that they are unfortunately now prohibited from using. Allowing Vermont dairy farms to legally hire these workers would benefit not only these farms, but Vermont's economy and the thousands of people around the country who enjoy Vermont dairy products. As the Senate turns to consideration of comprehensive immigration reform this year I will continue to work to ensure that Vermont dairy farms have an adequate supply of legal workers." 
   Below is the text of the amendment offered by Senators Jeffords last year to help dairy farms be able to obtain workers (from the Congressional Record - Senate, April 13, 2005:)
   SA 400. Mr. JEFFORDS submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 1268, making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2005, to establish and rapidly implement regulations for State driver's license and identification document security standards, to prevent terrorists from abusing the asylum laws of the United States, to unify terrorism-related grounds for inadmissibility and removal, to ensure expeditious construction of the San Diego border fence, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows: 
   At the appropriate place, insert the following
   SEC. __. COVERAGE OF MILK PRODUCTION UNDER H-2A NONIMMIGRANT WORKER PROGRAM. 
   (a) In General.-For purposes of the administration of the H-2A worker program in a year, work performed in the production of milk for commercial use for a period not to exceed 10 months shall qualify as agriculture labor or services of a seasonal nature. 
   (b) Definitions.-In this section: 
   (1) H-2A NONIMMIGRANT WORKER PROGRAM.-The term ``H-2A nonimmigrant worker program'' means the program for the admission to the United States of H-2A nonimmigrant workers. 
   (2) H-2A NONIMMIGRANT WORKERS.-The term ``H-2A worker'' means a nonimmigrant alien described in section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a)).
 
 