SEN. JEFFORDS LEADS RALLY AGAINST PRESIDENT'S PLAN TO PRIVATIZE SOCIAL SECURITY
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I -Vt., today joined Senators at a rally in front of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial to condemn the President's plans to send the national debt skyrocketing by privatizing Social Security. Jeffords is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which will consider any changes to the Social Security system. 
   The Senators released a letter to President Bush urging him to send a responsible Social Security reform package to Congress, not one that unduly burdens future generations. 
   Jeffords said that the President's plan to privatize Social Security, and his plan to make his tax cuts permanent, will increase per capita national debt to a whopping $30,000 per person, up more than 100% from 2001 low of $12,000. 
   The following is Jeffords statement from today's rally:
   "This week marks the 65th anniversary of the first check ever issued by the Social Security system. That check, for $22.54, was issued to a Vermont woman by the name of Ida May Fuller. By coincidence, she had worked in the same law firm as my father.
   "Miss Fuller got a great return on her contributions, probably the best ever, paying about $24 into the system and collecting almost a thousand times that amount as she lived to the age of 100. And all this in spite of the fact that Vermont had voted for Alf Landon in 1936.
   "We think we face challenges today, and we do, but think of the world 65 years ago. Hitler and Stalin stood astride Poland, and the fall of France was a few months away. The Depression was over a decade old, and unemployment was still almost 15 percent.
   "If FDR could launch Social Security in the face of all of that, then there is no reason we cannot strengthen it today. I think we can, and I think we will. 
   "If we do not, it is we who are bankrupt, not Social Security. The details of how we strengthen Social Security will be tremendously important, and it is worth taking the time to do it right. We cannot claim to have strengthened the system if we slash the guaranteed benefit. If you look at what is happening in our medical and pension systems, it is hard to see why America's senior citizens should let privatization put their Social Security checks at risk. 
   "Franklin Roosevelt was nothing if not an optimist. And I am confident that we can and will secure the solvency of Social Security for the future. Social Security may be celebrating its 65th anniversary of helping seniors this week, but it has not reached retirement age."
 
 