SEN. JEFFORDS SECURES $1.6 MILLION TO SUPPORT ENVIRONMENTAL, AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AT UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., announced today that he has secured $1.6 million in support of six diverse environmental and agricultural research projects at the University of Vermont. Sen. Jeffords joined UVM President Daniel Mark Fogel at a UVM press conference to make the announcement. 
   "UVM research efforts find solutions to problems that allow all of us to lead more healthy and productive lives. This is such an important role for a university to play," Jeffords said. "Financial support of research is critical to the health of our forests, our lakes, our agricultural crops, and our food supply."
   "Research is the lifeblood of the university," said Fogel. "We are very grateful to Senator Jeffords for his support of this vital function and for his tireless work on our behalf. Advancing knowledge in environmental and agriculture sciences - and applying that knowledge in the real world - are critical to Vermont's well being and to that of the nation and the world."
   The appropriation will support two ongoing research projects in UVM's Rubenstein School of Environment and Natural Resource and four in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. 
   UVM RESEARCH PROJECTS SUPPORTED BY JEFFORDS' APPROPRIATIONS
   An acid rain research initiative will continue work that has been done in the Rubenstein School over the last five years that has yielded key insights into the mechanisms by which acid rain damages trees. 
   Redesigning America's Neighborhoods for Storm Water Management is a storm water research initiative in the Rubenstein School that focuses on storm water management issues that are the consequence of rapid development in South Burlington - a community that is representative of New England "sprawl" development. 
   Researchers in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences' Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences led by Mingruo Guo will continue their work finding new applications for whey, a by-product of cheese-making. New work will concentrate on an organic whey-based insecticide. The work has great potential in pest management in greenhouses and forests.
   Researchers will work to identify the types and causes of off-flavors in maple syrup as the first step towards developing a mechanism to reduce or eliminate their formation. Off-flavors, which usually develop during the boiling process, affected 25 percent of Vermont's maple syrup crop in 2003.
   The Department of Nutrition and Food Sciences will research natural barriers to pathogen development that occur in the production of raw milk cheese. The results will help inform the national debate over aged cheeses made from unpasteurized milk, like cheddar, swiss, gruyere, and camembert. The research effort will be an integral part of the Vermont Institute for Artisan Cheese, a newly launched initiative that will provide education, training, and outreach for Vermont's artisan cheesemakers. 
   A constructed wetlands project provides an innovative alternative system for treating agricultural runoff. A prototype of the wetlands system, located at UVM's Paul Miller Research Center on Spear Street in Burlington, is well on its way to becoming a model that dairy farmers in a northern climate can use to handle run-off.
   Senator Jeffords' Statement at UVM 
  On Importance of Research
   I am delighted to be here this morning with all of you. I am especially pleased to join with President Fogel, Vice President Carr, and Deans Johnson and DeHayes to take a moment and celebrate this fine institution, the University of Vermont, for the exceptional research that is performed here every day. 
   I am proud to hail from a state that is home to a world-renowned institute for environmental studies; an Agricultural College that is at the forefront of safe and environmentally sound products and a medical college that is a leader in the diagnosis and treatment of disease. The University of Vermont has a tradition of asking critical questions in its research that have tremendous value for our world. UVM research efforts find solutions to problems that allow all of us to lead more healthy and productive lives. This is such an important role for a university to play. 
   Here in Vermont, we are lucky to have the leadership of the faculty, staff, and students of the School of Natural Resources and the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences to help us solve our local problems and maximize our productivity and efficiency. I am here today to announce funding that I was able to secure for several research projects at UVM. This funding totals $1.6 million for this year. Financial support of research is critical to the health of our forests, our lakes, our agricultural crops and our food supply. 
   For many years, I have supported research on the effects of acid rain in Vermont and throughout the northeast region. The only way we can begin to address the environmental damage caused by acid rain is by understanding the mechanism that causes this serious problem. 
   The issue of storm water has reached a feverish pitch both economically and environmentally here in Vermont and across the nation. I am happy to support UVM's continuing efforts to reduce the impact of storm water and other pollutants on the health of our streams, rivers and lakes. 
   Here at UVM in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, environmentally friendly products take on many forms. This state-of-the-art research creates useful products from whey, a waste product from the cheese-making process. These products are as diverse as a wood furniture finish, an environmentally friendly road de-icer and an organic pest control product. I can only imagine what next year's whey products will be. 
   I want to emphasize the great variety of research being done here at UVM and commend the hundreds of faculty and students engaged in research work. Without these efforts we would not be able to live in such a vibrant community with innovation and creative ideas surrounding us. 
   Vermont is not only known for its beautiful mountain views and lake vistas, but also for its research at The University of Vermont. In closing, it is important for all of us to support and enhance this institution's research capabilities. I challenge the entire University community to take advantage of each opportunity to acquire knowledge, ask questions, test your theories, and challenge yourself and each other to put what you learn to work for UVM, the local region and the global community.
 
 