SENATE PASSES SEN. JEFFORDS' CHAMPLAIN VALLEY HERITAGE BILL
  The Champlain Valley National Heritage Partnership Act is on its way to the President's desk for signature after passing the Senate late Friday night before the chamber recessed. The law, which passed the House in July and was written by Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., recognizes the historic resources of the Champlain Valley in Vermont and New York and authorizes $1 million each year for 10 years to be spent promoting and protecting the region's history and culture.
   The Heritage Partnership includes the Champlain Valley and linked waterways in Vermont and New York, from the Canadian Border to Saratoga. Most of the $10 million that is authorized will be provided in grants to local communities and organizations for education, tourism and preservation projects such as: 
   * Work on the underwater heritage trail
   * Unified heritage tourism marketing efforts
   * Signs and exhibits
   * Events related to the 400th anniversary of Samuel de Champlain's arrival in the valley
   The area was found by the National Park Service to meet the criteria to be a Heritage Area in a 1999 study, which projected $50 million a year of increased economic activity in Vermont and New York as a result of gaining Heritage Area status.
   Senator Jeffords has worked on the heritage area concept since the early 1990's when he joined the late Senator Daniel Moynihan, D-N.Y., at a heritage conference in New York. 
   "We are so fortunate to have such a rich history in the Champlain Valley, and I look forward to sharing that history as we promote this great region," said Jeffords, the ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. "This will be a huge boost for our tourism industry and a great benefit for communities up and down the lake."
   The bill was cosponsored by Senators Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y., and Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.
   "I have fond memories of days spent on Lake Champlain while growing up, as so many Vermonters have," said Leahy. "This legislation and the grants it will provide will help enhance the cultural heritage and the economic benefits that relate to our lake and its region. It is especially appropriate that this law will also become part of Senator Jeffords' legacy of achievements for Vermont. This charter will help to preserve our history for generations to come."
   "As New York and Vermont prepare to mark the 400th anniversary of Samuel de Champlain's arrival in 1609, this legislation will help our communities celebrate and observe our proud history," said Senator Clinton. "With a focus on heritage tourism and education projects, this will ensure that we provide a lasting legacy and long-term public benefit to the communities involved."
   "This is great news that the Champlain Valley will finally get the National Heritage Area designation," Senator Schumer said. "The Champlain Valley will receive the resources and attention it needs to preserve the area, as well as making improvements to enhance tourism, and create new education projects which promote its history. This beautiful region deserves to be preserved for future generations of New Yorkers, and this designation will reenergize the area and let the region tap into the federal government's resources."
   Governor Jim Douglas, R-Vt., praised Sen. Jeffords for his commitment to protecting and promoting Vermont's heritage. "The Champlain Valley's heritage is an essential element of what draws visitors from around the world to our state. Sen. Jeffords' bill will be instrumental in our efforts to protect and promote this proud legacy for many years to come," Governor Douglas said.
   The Heritage Partnership will be administered by the Lake Champlain Basin Program and is expected to work closely with the Quadracentennial Commissions established by the governors of Vermont and New York in preparing to mark the 400th anniversary of Samuel de Champlain's arrival in 1609.
   The National Park Service will provide oversight and technical support but is not expected to be involved in day-to-day activities.
 
 