SEASONAL WORKERS AMENDMENT COSPONSORED BY SENS. JEFFORDS, LEAHY INCLUDED IN FINAL SPENDING PACKAGE
  An amendment cosponsored by Vermont's Sens. Jim Jeffords and Patrick Leahy, which would ease the shortage of seasonal workers who are desperately needed in Vermont, has been included by Senate and House negotiators as part of the final version of the $82 billion supplemental spending bill. On April 19, the amendment was successfully attached to the Senate version of the supplemental appropriations bill by a vote of 94 to 6. 
   Vermont counts tourism as one of its largest industries and, as a result, the current H-2B visa restrictions hit Vermont's small businesses particularly hard. Many employers in Vermont are forced to hire foreign workers when they cannot find Americans to fill seasonal jobs. 
   Employers who rely on international hiring faced a severe shortage of workers last year when the government's limit of 66,000 H-2B visas was reached just halfway through Fiscal Year 2004. This situation further deteriorated for many of Vermont's employers as the cap was reached within the first three months of Fiscal Year 2005. The provision would temporarily exempt workers from the 66,000 cap if they had participated in the H-2B visa program in previous years. 
   Jeffords said, "This moves us one crucial step closer to the final passage of this provision, which is so vital for Vermont's small businesses. With this amendment we are helping ensure that Vermont businesses have the resources they need to compete and succeed."
   Leahy said, "Congress has finally responded to the case we have made for this relief. Decisions about summer staffing are being made right now, and employers and communities have been anxiously waiting for this good news." 
   In February, Sens. Jeffords and Leahy cosponsored the Save Our Small and Seasonal Business Act, on which this amendment is based. 
   Congress next week is expected to pass the compromise bill and send it to the President's desk.
 
 