SEN. JEFFORDS, LEAHY, REP. SANDERS INTRODUCE WILDERNESS LEGISLATION
  Sens. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., and Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., and Rep. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., today introduced the Vermont Wilderness Act of 2006, which would build on the wilderness study areas recently recommended by the United States Forest Service.
   The delegation bill closely tracks the Forest Service plan. The proposed additions in the Breadloaf, Big Branch and Peru Peak areas are nearly identical to the Forest Service plan. In addition the bill adds two new wilderness areas, in the Glastenbury and Romance/Monastery Mountain areas. Finally, in the Moosalamoo area, this legislation codifies the Moosalamoo National Recreation Area, which has the strong support of the various communities and local partners in the area. 
   Since the last major expansion of wilderness areas in Vermont was enacted in 1984, the GMNF has acquired an additional 110,000 acres of land. The GMNF is now approximately 400,000 acres and constitutes about 6 percent of Vermont. Of these 400,000 acres roughly 59,000 are currently designated wilderness. This legislation would increase the number of wilderness acres in the Forest to about 107,000.
   "The Vermont Wilderness Act is the result of years of hard work, thorough analysis and significant public input," said Jeffords. "This legislation will help the Green Mountain National Forest remain one of Vermont's most precious environmental treasures, while continuing to support our state's economic and recreational needs. I look forward to working with my colleagues to see this legislation become law."
   Leahy said, "This legislation demonstrates our commitment to additional Wilderness areas on the Green Mountain National Forest. In many ways this legislation is an endorsement of the superb work done by the Forest Service staff in Vermont. Our legislation is a compromise between those who would prefer significant additions in wilderness areas and those who would prefer none."
   Sanders said, "I am very pleased to join Senators Leahy and Jeffords in introducing the Vermont Wilderness Act of 2006. While I'm sure that this bill won't satisfy everyone completely, it is an important step forward in preserving wilderness for future generations of Vermonters, while honoring the tradition of Vermont's working landscape and the interests of the tens of thousands of Vermonters who enjoy our state's many outdoor recreational activities."
   Summary
   In the Romance/Monastery Mountain area the bill creates a new wilderness area called the Joseph Battell Wilderness to honor the historic champion of Vermont's public lands. This area was designated as remote backcountry in the Forest Service plan - a management classification which is similar to a wilderness area. In the Glastenbury area, the Forest Service added more than 8,000 acres to their original plan, and this legislation further increases the acreage of a proposed Glastenbury Wilderness Area.
   In addition, recognizing the recreational appeal of the area surrounding Mount Moosalamoo in the northern half of the forest, the bill formally designates a new 16,900-acre Moosalamoo National Recreation Area. This designation will draw tourists from around the world for hiking, biking, snowmobiling, and a variety of other outdoor activities. Other uses of the forest, including logging, are not prohibited activities under the National Recreation Area designation.
   For additional information, please visit www.jeffords.senate.gov or www.leahy.senate.gov.
   The charts below reflect the proposed additional wilderness areas in the Vermont Wilderness Act of 2006.
   New and Expanded Wilderness Designations
   (Acreage Approximated)
   Joseph Battell (New): 12,437 acres.
   Glastenbury Mountain (New): 28,491 acres.
   Breadloaf Expansion: 4,223 new acres; 25,374 total acres.
   Peru Peak Expansion: 797 new acres; 7,844 total acres.
   Lye Brook Expansion: 2,171 new acres; 17,985 total acres.
   Big Branch Expansion: 42 new acres; 6,547 total acres.
 
 