SEN. JEFFORDS ANNOUNCES USDA TELEMEDICINE GRANT
  Sen. James Jeffords joined USDA Rural Development State Director Jolinda H. LaClair to announce the award of a $238,250 USDA Rural Development Distance Learning Telemedicine Grant to the Rutland Area Visiting Nurse Association and Hospice (RAVNAH). The celebration took place at the RAVNAH office and was attended by Rutland Mayor Cassarino, members of the health care industry, local representatives and community leaders. 
   Senator Jeffords, a senior member of the U.S. Senate Health and Education Committee said, "As a long-time proponent of telemedicine, I am thrilled to see federal action translated into improving the quality of care at the ground level. RAVNAH is to be commended for putting technology into the hands of nurses and allowing patients to participate in monitoring their own health by checking their blood pressure, pulse and other conditions and sharing that information with their providers in real time, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. I am especially excited by the high-tech coordination between the home health nurse and the patient's physician. This will result in a reduction in the response time between all the providers and an increase in the quality of care."
   RAVNAH has been providing home health care to the towns in Rutland County for 55 years. Grant funds will be used to purchase technology that will improve their ability to monitor patients' health and lessen the time nurses spend on paperwork, freeing them to do what they do best .... nurse. With the second oldest county-wide population in the state, the need for expanded home health care increases at a time when fewer and fewer people are entering the nursing profession. Clinicians with RAVNAH travel as much as 60 miles a day. They then spend up to two hours a day completing paperwork. Last year, the staff made 86,522 home visits to 2,566 unduplicated patients.
   "The Bush Administration is committed to supporting rural communities by investing in technology," said LaClair. "Vermont's landscape and winter weather can make providing home health care to our rural residents very challenging. Using cutting-edge technology, this grant will help to ensure that the RAVNAH caregivers are able to provide the daily oversight necessary for so many of their patients. I am pleased that RD is part of the answer to this very critical need." 
   The grant will purchase point of care electronic charting which will not only reduce the time a care giver spends on paperwork, but will also provide a tool for better coordination between care givers, provide primary physicians with immediate access to patient information, and reduce the potential for medication errors. Telemedicine units will also be purchased, which will provide a daily record of vital signs and changes that are not obtainable on a one or twice weekly visit. 
   "We are honored that we have been selected to receive this grant award," said Ronald J. Cioffi, RN, Executive Director of RAVNAH. "The money will be used to fund an integrated technology project that will provide our clinicians with state-of-the-art equipment and software so they may better serve Rutland County's rural population." 
   USDA Rural Development's mission is to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life in Rural America. This is done by providing financial and technical assistance to foster growth and new opportunities for business development, home ownership, and critical community and technology infrastructure. The Distance Learning Telemedicine program provides financial assistance to enhance learning and health care opportunities for residents of rural America. To learn more about USDA Rural Development programs visit the web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/vt.
 
 