SEN. JEFFORDS CALLS BUSH 2006 BUDGET A 'FISCAL TIME BOMB'
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I - Vt., today reacted to the 2006 budget released today by the Bush Administration.
   "This is not a fiscally responsible budget. Some call this budget tough; I call it a fiscal time bomb. It does not take into account the almost $5 billion a month we are spending in Iraq, the trillions of dollars needed for the President's Social Security plan, and the costs of making tax cuts permanent. The Bush Administration is attempting to balance the budget on the backs of veterans, the working poor and the environment. This budget represents the wrong priorities and wrong values for this nation."  
   Jeffords highlighted the following items in the President's 2006 budget:
   Environment - cuts the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) budget by 5.6 percent from $8.02 billion to $7.57 billion, culminating in an almost 10 percent cut over two years. Most cuts come in efforts to maintain and improve the nation's clean water infrastructure. The budget for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund would be cut $361 million, or 33%, with cuts in Vermont of almost $2 million.
   Veterans - more than doubles the co-payment charged to many veterans for prescription drugs and would require some to pay a new fee of $250 a year for the privilege of using the Veterans health care system.
   Health Care - cuts Medicaid funding by $45 billion over 10 years and eliminates 28 health programs, totaling $1.36 billion. These programs range from rural hospital grants (cuts $39.5 million) to emergency medical services for children (cuts $20 million).
   Job Training - cuts federal spending on job training by a half-billion dollars. Federal job training programs, including dislocated-worker training, will be cut by $200 million. Federal aid to states for job training, including funding to train veterans, will be cut by $300 million.
   Amtrak - eliminates all funding for Amtrak, calling bankruptcy proceedings as the solution for our nation's rail system. 
   Low Income Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) - cuts LIHEAP by over 8 percent, from $2.2 billion to $2 billion.
   Parks - cuts the National Park Service by 3 percent from $2.31 billion to $2.24 billion
 
 