PRESIDENT SIGNS SEN. JEFFORDS' MARINE TURTLE CONSERVATION ACT INTO LAW
  President Bush has signed into law legislation authored by U.S. Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., to protect marine turtles. The Marine Turtle Conservation Act authorizes $5 million to assist in the recovery and protection of marine turtles by supporting projects to conserve their nesting habitats in foreign countries, preventing the illegal trade in marine turtle parts and products, and addressing other threats. 
   Jeffords, the ranking member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee said, "Marine turtles are one of nature's true endangered treasures. This law will help protect and preserve them throughout the world. If we do not act quickly, marine turtles will face extinction."
   "Signing the Marine Turtle Conservation Act into law ensures that the successes of ongoing conservation efforts here in the United States are not lost when the endangered turtles leave our shores," said Brooks Yeager, vice president of World Wildlife Fund's Global Threats program. "We are very confident that once Congress appropriates money, the act will advance conservation goals, strengthen conservation partnerships, leverage significant resources from private and other sources, and build goodwill abroad."
   "This act is a triumph for sea turtles," said Marydele Donnelly, a sea turtle biologist with The Ocean Conservancy. "From Africa to Asia to Latin America, dedicated biologists and community activists are working under difficult and dangerous conditions to save sea turtles from extinction. The act will provide funding to stop poaching and other harmful activities," she said.
   Marine turtles around the globe are in serious trouble. This is especially true for the giant leatherback turtles, which can grow to eight feet long and swim across ocean basins, feeding on jellyfish. In the Pacific, leatherback populations have declined by more than 90 percent in the last two decades.
   Six of the world's seven marine turtle species are endangered or critically endangered - as classified by the IUCN-World Conservation Union Red List - and are listed as threatened or endangered under the U.S. Endangered Species Act of 1973. All seven are listed in Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), meaning that international trade in their parts and products is prohibited.
 
 