SEN. JEFFORDS COMMENTS ON SECTION 8 RULE CHANGES
  Senator Jeffords' Floor Statement On Section 8 Rule Changes
   Mr. President, We have all heard of the war on poverty, but I fear that forty years after that war began, there is a new war afoot, a war on people in poverty. And the latest assault in this war threatens to leave thousands of people homeless. I am speaking about the Bush Administration's plan to make substantial changes in the way our government helps our poorest citizens secure housing. 
   It is not hyperbole, in my view, to say that this change to the Section 8 voucher program could have disastrous effects. Section 8, administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, helps nearly two million poor families and disabled citizens pay for housing with vouchers that have traditionally covered the full cost of their rent. 
   But under the rule change, the reimbursements will no longer cover the full costs. As a result, housing authorities around the country will have to cut back on the number of vouchers they offer. For Fiscal Year 2005, the president's request shortchanges all housing vouchers now in use by $1.6 billion and could result in further cuts in the years ahead. This request would also remove key provisions of the Section 8 program that protect families with the lowest incomes, such as maintaining rent payments at 30 percent of a resident's income. 
   In my home state of Vermont, there are 6,080 authorized vouchers available this year, but Vermont stands to lose 740 of these by next year with the rule change. That translates to a loss of more than $4 million in housing assistance in Vermont. And this scenario could indeed get worse: it is estimated that my state stands to lose up to 1,770 housing vouchers by the year 2009. It is important to remind ourselves that we're not talking about just numbers here. These are families - real families - who will be at risk of not having a place to live. 
   I recently read in the Washington Post that the Bush Administration is making these changes in an effort to "constrain rapid growth in the program's spending." However, the increased demand for Section 8 housing arises because more people need help in our ailing economy. 
   Every day in our country, working families are forced to turn to emergency shelters and food banks because they cannot afford the high cost of rent, child care and transportation. I believe this change in Section 8 will add greatly to those numbers, while undermining our deeply held premise that work leads to self-sufficiency. 
   Every day we hear the term "working poor," but I'm afraid we do not take the time to fully understand its meaning. 
   All of this prompts me to ask, once again, where are our nation's priorities? We continue to give out tax breaks to millionaires despite an ever-mounting deficit. We pour billions of dollars into fighting a war in Iraq for which there is no end in sight. And we will be spending billions more - there is another $25 billion request before us now - to rebuild that country while our own nation's poorest citizens cannot afford housing. If I may borrow a line from Rita Markley, the executive director of the largest homeless services program in my state, "We've got to remind people that homeland security starts with a home." 
   It is unfortunate that President Bush continues to find fault with a program that has demonstrated such success. As the Congress deliberates the Fiscal Year 2005 budget, I will continue to work to protect the Section 8 program. Forty years ago, when President Johnson declared war on poverty, he highlighted this nation's commitment "to pursue victory over the most ancient of mankind's enemies." I fear, Mr. President, that we have lost sight of the enemy, at the expense of those who needed this victory the most. Thank you.
 
 