SEN. JEFFORDS RESPONDS ON GSA RESOLUTIONS
  Dear Senator Inhofe:
   It remains my opinion that the rules of this Committee and the Senate require public, in-person approval of measures reported from this Committee. I intend to adhere to these rules. However, as you know, I have encouraged the Committee to act upon the fiscal year 2005 Capital Investment and Leasing program prospectuses and other important measures.  
   In fact, the Committee received over 50 prospectuses in May of this year, an additional 16 in June, and an additional 10 prospectuses in September. I have been prepared since May of this year to support such measures in any business meeting timely scheduled for their consideration. Unfortunately, the Chairman never placed these items on any business meeting agenda. 
   Rather than forcing a choice between breaking our Committee rules, over the objection of many Committee members, and failing to act upon these prospectuses, I offer the following constructive suggestion. Because the House has already acted upon these prospectuses, I am told by the GSA that the execution of the attached letter will allow the GSA to move forward with all planned construction, alteration, and leasing projects without undue cost or delay until the Committee acts. 
   I ask you to consider this solution which will quickly resolve, upon receipt of the attached letter, any question the GSA may have about its authority.
   Sincerely,
  James M. Jeffords.
   October 8, 2004
  The Honorable Stephen A. Perry
  Administrator
  U.S. General Services Administration
  1800 F. Street, N.W.
  Washington, DC 20405-0002
   Dear Administrator Perry,
   The Committee on Environment and Public Works is considering the GSA FY05 Capital Investment and Leasing program prospectuses. The agency has provided sufficient information for a full and complete analysis of each prospectus and the Committee is carefully reviewing the information.
   We are aware of project schedules and leasing timeframes and understand the GSA must act expeditiously to defray any costs associated with project delay and, to take advantage of opportunities for savings. Based on your estimates of cost savings and assessment of other benefits associated with the projects listed below, and consistent with Committee rules, we intend to bring before the Committee resolutions authorizing these prospectuses. These matters will be taken up as soon as practicable:
   * Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Washington, DC 
  * U.S. Mission to the United Nations, New York, NY 
  * Eisenhower Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 
  * Federal Bureau of Investigation, New York, NY 
  * Department of Justice, Washington, DC
  * Federal Bureau of Investigation, Tampa, FL 
  * Bureau of Public Debt, Parkersburg, WV
  * Department of Defense Presidential Tower, Northern VA
   Please proceed with these projects and keep the Committee informed of the progress of each transaction and immediately inform the Committee of any change from the submitted prospectuses. 
   If you have any questions or need additional information, please do not hesitate to contact Angie Giancarlo at (202) 224-6176 or Margaret Wetherald at (202) 224-8832.
   Sincerely,
   James M. Inhofe 
  James M. Jeffords
  Christopher S. Bond 
  Harry Reid.
 
 