SEN. JEFFORDS INTRODUCES LOW INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FUNDING BILL
  Sen. Jim Jeffords, I-Vt., today introduced a bill that would reauthorize the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, or LIHEAP. Thirteen Senators joined Sen. James M. Jeffords in introducing this bill including Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.  
   Jeffords' bill would increase the funding to $3.4 billion and would be funded through 2010. It would ensure that low income Vermonters and citizens throughout the country will have financial assistance available to them to heat their homes. 
   Roughly 18,000 Vermont households received assistance from LIHEAP in 2003. Vermont's first deadline for applications for fuel assistance for this winter was August 31, 2004 and payments are not expected to reach eligible applicants until November. In response to this first deadline, Vermont received almost 10% more applications and more are expected to come in as it gets colder. 
   "We must ensure that the LIHEAP program has the money it needs," Jeffords said. "Low-income Americans should not be forced to decide whether to heat or eat in the winter. This is a vital program for families across Vermont, and across the nation."
   The Energy Information Administration released its winter forecast this week, forecasting that heating costs will increase, and heating a home with oil in particular will go up by more than 28% compared to a year ago and will cost an average of more than $1,300. Compared to average heating costs from 1998 to 2000, expenditures this winter are expected to be 45 percent higher for heating oil. The costs for all heating fuels will be greater than last year throughout New England and the Midwest.
   Jeffords is a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which has jurisdiction over LIHEAP.
   Vermonters looking for home heating assistance should contact the Vermont Office of Home Heating Fuel Assistance at 1-800-479-6151 or 1-802-241-1165. They can also be found online at http://www.dpath.state.vt.us/Programs_Pages/Fuel/fuel.htm.
 
 