SEN. ROBERTS: SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS TOP PRIORITY IN NEW CONGRESS
  With legislative activities for the 110th Congress in full swing, Sen. Pat Roberts today participated in hearings to examine critical policies affecting small businesses' ability to prosper and create jobs. 
   A new member of the Senate Committee on Finance, Roberts attended a hearing on small business tax measures. "It is fitting that my first hearing on the Finance Committee is on tax policy for small businesses, leaders in job creation and a vital component of the Kansas economy," Senator Roberts said. "I look forward to this debate as part of the Senate's consideration of a minimum wage increase."
   Small businesses employ half of the nation's employees in the private sector. 
   The hearing focused on proposals to extend or enhance small business tax relief, including making changes to the expensing allowance to help small businesses invest in and grow their businesses. The committee also considered proposals to allow faster depreciation for certain types of new construction, as well as suggestions to provide regulatory relief for small businesses.
   Later in the morning, Roberts attended a roundtable discussion of the Senate Committee on Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) regarding the insured.
   At the hearing, Senator Roberts noted access to affordable health care is particularly troublesome for small businesses. "Although most working Americans receive health insurance from their employers, small businesses find it very difficult to offer benefits," Roberts said. "I am pleased to again work with Senator Enzi (R-WY) on small business health plan legislation to allow small businesses to pool together to provide affordable health insurance to hardworking families. I was disappointed the Senate failed to approve similar legislation last year by a mere five votes. We need to get it done this year." 
   In Kansas, only about 41% of small businesses offer health insurance to employees in stark contrast to the 97% of larger businesses who offer health insurance.
   Yesterday, Senator Roberts introduced legislation also under HELP committee jurisdiction to provide small businesses and their employees with access to quality, affordable child care. As a Senate Finance Committee member, small businesses and their employees in Kansas will be a top priority and concern for Senator Roberts this year.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 