SEN. ROBERTS BRINGS USDA OFFICIAL TO KANSAS TO SEE BIOSECURITY RESEARCH EXPERTISE
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts announced that tomorrow his office is hosting an official from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) on a tour of the Biosecurity Research Institute (BRI) in Manhattan to showcase Kansas' leadership and expertise in the area of biosecurity research. 
   The visit is part of an ongoing effort by Senator Roberts to educate USDA and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials on the benefits of housing the new proposed National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility (NBAF) in Kansas. Currently both the Leavenworth area and Kansas State University are in contention for the facility. 
   The NBAF would replace the aging Plum Island facility, the federal government's most secure location for animal disease research. Such a center would complement and expand the work of the BRI housed in Pat Roberts Hall, a brand new, state-of-the art bio-research facility at Kansas State. 
   "Competition across the country for this facility is intense," Roberts said. "However, Kansas is well positioned and fits the Department of Homeland Security criteria. In particular, we are fortunate to have world-renowned expertise in the animal health arena at Kansas State University and through the numerous animal health companies located in the Kansas City Area. Locating this new facility in America's heartland seems like a natural fit to me." 
   Senator Roberts stated, "Although the final decision on the location of this new facility will rest with DHS, the Department of Agriculture will, without a doubt, provide expertise in the selection process. That is why it is important to demonstrate Kansas' facilities and advantages. I hope to provide a similar tour in the future to DHS officials."
   Senator Roberts' outreach began in 2005 when the Congress approved funding for site selection and preconstruction planning of a new NBAF to replace Plum Island. Senator Roberts began working with Kansas State University officials and encouraged the University and the state to make a proposal for locating this facility in Kansas. Since that time, Senator Roberts has worked on bringing the NBAF to Kansas, personally speaking with key DHS, USDA and Administration officials. 
   Last November, Senator Roberts outlined the specific reasons for Kansas' selection in a letter to DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff stressing "the unique qualifications presented by the location, economy, and people of Kansas." Text of the full letter is attached below.
   "I understand that the Kansas Bioscience Authority and Governor Sebelius have begun pursuing a NBAF in Kansas," Roberts said. "Much like the BRAC process it will be a team effort where federal, state and local governments will need to work together toward a common goal. Kansans understand the importance of food security and what it means to the defense and future of America. I believe Kansans will enthusiastically welcome this opportunity."
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and is an outspoken advocate for biosecurity and agroterrorism preparedness and research.
   The text of the letter follows:
   The Honorable Michael Chertoff
   Secretary of Homeland Security
   U.S. Department of Homeland Security
   Washington, DC 20528 
   November 14, 2006
   Dear Mr. Secretary:
   I write today regarding the Department of Homeland Security's current effort to identify a next generation biological and agricultural defense facility to replace the aging Plum Island Animal Disease Center. 
   This past August, DHS announced that two sites in Kansas remain in the running for final site selection. Given that the new National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility (NBAF) will serve as an essential component in the national strategy for protecting U.S. agriculture from a bio-terrorist attack, I want to stress the unique qualifications presented by the location, economy, and people of Kansas. 
   Few areas in the country can compete with the proposed sites in Kansas near Leavenworth and Manhattan. Leavenworth is located close to Kansas City and Manhattan is less than two hours west of the city.
   This region of the country already has a strong history of animal health research. Currently, more than 100 animal health companies, including the U.S. or world headquarters of 37, are located in the Kansas City area. Kansas City companies account for nearly a third of animal health industry sales and companies headquartered in the region account for $1.37 billion (27 percent) of the nation's animal health sales and $4.3 billion (30 percent) of global animal health sales. The Kansas City Area Life Sciences Institute consists of some of the top private health research companies in the country, many of which are conducting research that will help to identify and address public health emergencies associated with a bioterrorist attack.
   The strength of Kansas bioscience does not only lie in the private sector, however. Kansas State University is the headquarters for the National Agricultural Biosecurity Center (NABC). Already successful in the bio and agro-defense fields, the university will open a new, $54 million Biosafety Level 3 facility for agroterrorist and biological agent research in early 2007. This will be the most advanced facility of its type in the world. It is unique because it will have a slaughter floor and meat processing area within the containment facility. It will also be the only facility that has basic pathogen research, infectious plant disease research, infectious animal disease research (both large and small animal) and food safety research located under one roof. In addition, the size of the facility will allow for testing on many other biological scenarios, including the construction of a full size airliner cabin contaminated with a biological agent.
   The NBAC project receives significant support from the surrounding community and the state, which created the Kansas Bioscience Authority to boost the high-tech sector. Recently, these two partners announced a joint Bioscience Research Park to be developed just outside Kansas City. The park will serve as an education and research facility focusing on bioscience, animal health, and food safety and security.
   In addition to the achievements of Kansas State, the area surrounding the proposed site location also has the strong research foundation created by the University of Kansas and University of Missouri - Kansas City medical schools and is within close proximity to other prominent research institutions, including: the Universities of Kansas, Iowa, Nebraska, and Missouri, along with Iowa State University and Southwest Missouri State University. 
   Additionally, Northeast Kansas consistently ranks as one of the most affordable metropolitan regions in the country to live. The school systems are considered among the top educational programs in the United States, and the area has been ranked one of the best areas to raise a family and conduct business. 
   Finally, the Kansas City area is already home to a strong partnership with the federal government. Kansas City serves as a regional center for an FBI Joint Terrorism Task Force, FEMA, the ATF, the Secret Service, the Departments of Agriculture and Health and Human Services, and the Environmental Protection Agency. What is more, the proposed locations' central placement in the middle of the country provides them with a unique transportation network that allows easy travel throughout the country. Not only does Kansas City serve as the intersection for the north/south Interstates 29 and 35 and the east/west Interstate 70, Kansas City International Airport serves both the east and west coasts through 15 major airlines with both domestic and international destinations. 
   In short, I believe designation of a Kansas location for the future NBAF site will be good for Kansas, the nation, and DHS and its employees. Please do not hesitate to contact me if I can provide you with additional information during the site selection process. 
   With every best wish,
   Sincerely,
   Pat Roberts
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 