SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR END OF BEEF EMBARGO IN MEETING WITH JAPANESE AMBASSADOR
  Sen. Pat Roberts today joined members of the Senate Agriculture Committee in a meeting with the Japanese Ambassador to the United States to push for an end of the Japanese embargo on U.S. beef.  
   "During the course of the meeting I told the Ambassador that the United States has met the Japanese more than half way and that no scientific basis exists for continuing to block U.S. beef. We warned that the U.S. may be forced to take retaliatory measures if this blockage continues," Senator Roberts said. 
   Senator Roberts joined Senators Wayne Allard (R-CO), Agriculture Committee Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Appropriations Chairman Thad Chochran (R-MS) and Agriculture Appropriations Committee Chairman Bob Bennett (R-UT) in a meeting with Ambassador Ryozo Kato as a result of a letter the Senators sent to the Ambassador late last month. 
   On Wednesday, President Bush spoke with Japanese Prime Minister Koizumi and reiterated the need to resume the beef trade. Despite pressure, Koizumi did not give any indication of a time frame for reopening the border. U.S. Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice has also recently mentioned the issue in her discussions with the Japanese. Senator Roberts wrote a letter to President Bush in January to insist that this be the top issue in all discussions with Japan. 
   Senator Roberts asked the following questions of the Ambassador in the meeting today: 
   1. "We have tested nearly 250,000 cattle in the past year, yet other major trading partners of Japan have tested under 500 head with no restrictions. Why are you holding the U.S. to a different standard?" 
   2. "Given the fact that our borders have been closed to live cattle from Canada for 15 months, and the U.S. has agreed with Japan on the A40 age verification standard, Why has Japan continued to drag it's feet on opening its markets to American beef?" 
   To comply with Japanese demands the U.S. developed the A40 age verification standard to determine the age of a cow. This way, the U.S. can ensure that beef shipped to Japan is 20 months of age or younger. 
   After the meeting, Senator Roberts said, "In the U.S., we use cattle prods to move cattle. I'd be happy to ship over a few cases of cattle prods to Japan if I thought it would move the process along over there." 
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 