SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR RENEWED ENFORCEMENT OF PROTECTIONS FOR FAMILIES OF ARMED SERVICES ON ACTIVE DUTY
  Sen. Pat Roberts today called for renewed enforcement of the existing Servicemember's Civil Relief Act (SCRA) to protect the financial well-being of active duty men and women in uniform and their families. Sen. Roberts took the issue to the Senate floor requesting a hearing on the issue and sent a letter to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to raise awareness of the plight of several active duty Reserve and Guard families facing financial hardship because of noncompliance with the SCRA.  
   "Today, I want to reassure our military men and women in uniform that we will make certain that the protections provided in the Servicemember's Civil Relief Act are enforced," Senator Roberts said on the floor of the U.S. Senate. "This act is intended to ensure that when a wage-earner is called to active duty, their family has financial security and other protections while they are deployed. It means that a solider fighting in Iraq can better focus on their mission without the added stress of wondering if their family is financially secure at home. We owe nothing less to our men and women in uniform who answer the call to duty." 
   Senator Roberts told the story of when a member of one Kansas' local fire departments was called to active duty in Iraq. Mr. Welter, of Osawatomie, KS and his wife recently had purchased their first home. Knowing that with Mr. Welter called to active duty, they might face challenges meeting their mortgage payment, the Welters contacted their mortgage provider to make them aware of their situation and to seek relief under SCRA. However, the mortgage company responded by sending notice to Mrs. Welter that the company had initiated court proceedings to foreclose on her home. 
   The Servicemember's Civil Relief Act provides important rights and legal protections to lessen the burden on military servicemembers. A key component of the Servicemember's Civil Relief Act, initially passed by Congress 40 years ago as the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act, is to provide protections for servicemembers whose military service makes it difficult for them to meet financial obligations incurred prior to being called up for active duty. It does not forgive debt nor does it relieve a servicemember of their obligation to meet their financial responsibilities. Among other protections, the Act shields the servicemember or their family from eviction or from losing their home. 
   Senator Roberts went on to say, "You can imagine Mrs. Welter's distress. Not only is she worried about the safety of her husband in Iraq, she's now faced with losing her home - the very scenario the Servicemember's Civil Relief Act is designed to prevent. What is particularly appalling about this situation is that the mortgage company initially claimed that they were unaware of the Servicemember's Civil Relief Act - a law that has been on the books for 40 years. They further claimed that they could not be expected to keep up with 'everything that goes on in Washington.'Part of the problem is that Mrs. Welter had to call her Senator because she did not know where to turn." 
   Senator Roberts' office placed a call to the mortgage company, Wells Fargo, to point out the error and then insisted written assurances be provided to Mrs. Welter that the foreclosure had been halted. 
   In the letter to Ms. Julie L. Williams, Acting Controller of the Currency, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency Senator Roberts said, "I am confident the vast majority of our nation's lending institutions are eager to protect the rights and property of the brave men and women defending our country. Nonetheless, even one family denied protection under SCRA is one family too many. 
   "For this reason, I am requesting your assistance in reeducating lenders on their obligations under SCRA. We have an obligation to ensure that our servicemembers and their families continue to have a place to call home." 
   "Let me be clear, Senator Roberts said, "I commend our nation's financial institutions that support our men and women in uniform. In Kansas, I know many financial services providers. They know that the Servicemember's Civil Relief Act is not only the law, but it's the morally right thing to do." 
   Senator Roberts is an outspoken advocate for the well-being of men and women in uniform and their families. He has called for a change to an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) ruling that places an undue burden on citizen soldiers deployed around the world requiring them to file quarterly tax returns if they receive differential pay from their employers. Differential pay is the difference in pay between active duty military pay and an employee's civilian pay. 
   A former Marine, Senator Roberts is Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and is a senior member of the Armed Services Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 