SEN. ROBERTS DELIVERS FIRST DOCKING LECTURE AT SOUTHWESTERN COLLEGE IN WINFIELD
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts today delivered the following speech "A Confluence of Kansas History; A Lesson for American Politics" as the inaugural lecture of the Docking Lecture Series at Southwestern College:
   "Distinguished guests, faculty, students and campus visitors. Thank you, President Merriman, for that generous introduction, and thank you, Bill, Judy, Tom and Jill Docking for making this event and many more like it in the future, a reality. 
   "I am greatly honored to have been chosen as the Inaugural Speaker for this distinguished series. In reflecting upon the Docking Lecture series it is fitting to talk about "A confluence of Kansas History; A Lesson for American Politics." The dictionary defines the word "confluence" as "the coming or flowing together, the meeting or gathering at one point." 
   "This lecture series, located at this college, is a major confluence of Kansas history. Consider this: The Docking family, as many Kansans already know, is synonymous with excellence and leadership-excellence and leadership in banking and finance, in law, in education, and in public service. 
  "My first personal acquaintance with this unique family was with George Docking, a Lawrence banker and the 35th Governor of the State of Kansas. He was followed by his son, Robert, who served as the 38th Governor of the State of Kansas. 
   "The line continues. George and Virginia's grandsons, Bill and Tom, have held top positions in their business and professional organizations. Bill has served as President of the Kansas Bankers Association and Chair of the Kansas Board of Regents; Tom has served as the Lt. Governor of Kansas and Chair or Director of several state boards and agencies. Jill and Judy are deeply involved in medicine and finance and Jill is currently on the Kansas Board of Regents. Bill, Tom, Judy and Jill, I salute you for the contributions your family and you have made and are making to our great state every single day. 
   "Kansans understand the word "Docking" means fiscal responsibility. In public service, it also means being pragmatic and having a total absence of egotistical grandeur. When George Docking was Governor, the "mansion" was a rather plain two-story wooden house about four blocks west of the Capitol. Many Topeka residents recalled seeing First Lady Virginia, who became a veritable legend in her later years, outside working in her flower bed, and Governor Docking walking to the Capitol on most days. 
   "Fifty years ago, in 1957, Governor George Docking was the keynote speaker at the Kansas Bankers Association's annual convention. After a careful review of the state's finances, and an admonition to his colleagues to maintain safe and sound practices, a twinkle came into his eye, and with a slight smile, he told his former colleagues, who were predominately Republicans, that, ". . . in the 96 years of Kansas history there have been six Democratic Governors, three of which have been bankers." They no doubt got the message.
   "Governor Bob Docking is surely one of the most popular governors in our state's history. He had moved, after the war, to Arkansas City, where he became a successful banker and mayor. He was elected and re-elected to more terms than any other Kansas governor - four, 2-year terms. During his last year, the legislature increased the term of governor from 2 to 4 years. Meredith Docking maintained a constant presence of friendly graciousness, and served as a splendid model of how Kansans should strive to be. She was a very popular First Lady.
   "I mention this family history to underscore the major role in the formation of our state the Docking family has played and continues to play. When this family history is combined with the proud history of this splendid educational institution, Southwestern College, a Confluence of Kansas history becomes real. 
  "Southwestern College was founded in 1885, and graduated its first class of three students in 1889. It was formed and has its roots in the tradition of the Methodist Circuit Riders, those dedicated religious leaders, who braved the wild, harsh weather and other hardships to bring a message to people to be encouraged to rise above themselves, to see a goal in life more important than one's own self-interest, to love your brother and sister more than yourself. 
   "Parenthetically, I identify personally with this background. My great grandfather, John Wesley Roberts, with a wagon, flat bed press, a team of oxen, a Bible and a six gun formed the state's second-oldest newspaper in Oskaloosa, Kansas. John Wesley Roberts felt the call to come to Kansas as an Abolitionist. His early fire-breathing editorials always preached equality among men and women, and his and others' sacrifices helped give Kansas our proud history of fighting for and having been a "Free" state. 
   "The Oskaloosa Independent helped lead and accurately report on the confluence of Kansas history; the only Kansas newspaper published by three generations of the same family for over 100 years. And, like the Docking family, the Roberts family played a key role in the confluence of Kansas political history. The decision by the Republican Party to nominate a native Kansan for President represented a confluence of a new political coalition - a coalition bipartisan in nature that resulted in eight years of peace and prosperity for our nation. 
   "The President was Dwight David Eisenhower. One of the key leaders of the Eisenhower campaign, nomination, and election was my father, Wes Roberts who later served as Republican National Committee Chairman.
   "Today - as in the case of public service and the press - we have seen a confluence of excellence in education. On this foundation, there now stands a proud liberal arts college. The wide array of degrees, both undergraduate and graduate, coupled with high standards of excellence, has made Southwestern College a great asset to the people of our state with outstanding faculty and alumni. Southwestern College is synonymous with alumni accomplishment.
   "So, the creation of a lecture series which bears the Docking name and is located on this Southwestern College campus, truly creates a confluence of Kansas history. Let me now stress our national need for a second major Confluence. Throughout American history, great governmental achievements, those markers of a great civilization laid down for future generations, have required nonpartisan and selfless effort - effort based on principle without regard to partisan political gain. 
   "Certainly the Declaration of Independence, the Emancipation Proclamation, Women's Suffrage, the Civil Rights Act, Social Security, Medicare and the G. I. Bill of Rights are examples of how national leaders put the good of our country above themselves and above their political aspirations of power in seeking the greater good. They allowed, even encouraged their parties to flow together, to work in harmony for a better America. This political unity of the nations' leaders resulted in unity among our citizens. Unity results in progress; polarization and balkanization result in chaos. 
   "I regret to say the goal, and even the means, of achieving unity seems to be lacking today. I do not intend for this presentation to involve any hectoring, but it is a simple fact that if any nation's leaders allow themselves to be polarized, that nation's citizens will act accordingly. In America today, we are politicized, polarized and balkanized. 
  "Now I understand that any party organization or individual has a right to free speech - I am a journalist and former newspaper editor and a great believer in free speech so I have no quarrel there - but it should be tempered with respect and tolerance.
   "Too many times - on the Sunday morning talk shows and other media, and on the floors of the U.S. House and Senate, debate comes in a variety of different forms with partisan one-upmanship on both sides of the aisle trumping the respect and balance necessary for true problem solving and progress. But while the finger pointing from both the right and the left has grabbed the headlines, the good news is there are those whose strong goal is to see a return of Confluence, of a greater bipartisanship, in the Capitol....so stay with me here, because there is some light at the end of the tunnel.
   "Recently, Third District Congressman Dennis Moore, a Democrat, and I spoke at a forum in Overland Park where we talked about bipartisanship in Washington. We had just left D.C. after a bitter debate over Iraq and troop levels. The presidential campaigns, already in full swing, were dominating the summer news, and yet we had a packed house at the forum because people were curious whether these two perspectives from two opposite sides of the aisle would be at odds and full of gloom and doom over the state of political affairs in this country.
   "But I can tell you, there was more agreement than disagreement between us during the 90 minute conversation. Both of us could cite many examples throughout our careers, where we had come together from outside the party structure to make a difference for Kansas. And, as I began to recall, this wasn't a new thing. My godfather in this business, Senator Frank Carlson, taught me something that I remember every day - "there are no self-made men or women in politics, it's your friends who make you what you are." 
   "Senator Frank, who was the only Kansan to serve as a House member, a Senator and a Governor, was a friend to everyone he met. And even in the toughest legislative battles, I never heard him use a harsh word, never heard him speak unkindly about anyone. He took his duties as our Senator seriously, but not himself.
   "Following Senator Carlson, I had the privilege of working for my predecessor, Congressman Keith Sebelius, Governor Kathleen Sebelius' father-in-law. And Keith taught me that it was better to "smother your adversaries with the milk of human kindness." Now sometimes, when the battle would get heated, I would remind Keith that milk could curdle. But in the end, I learned that he was right. Kindness, respect, tolerance - those were far more powerful tools for legislative change than insults, attacks or bitterness. 
   "Bob Dole, Nancy Kassebaum, George Docking, Bob Docking - all successful elected officials understood that on an issue, today's opponents can become tomorrow's allies, and agreeing to disagree on one issue did not mean they could not find common ground in other areas.
   "In my own work for Kansas, it is surprising to some that one of my most recent legislative victories came while working with Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy. My legislation to expand child care opportunities for working families took a giant leap forward thanks to Senator Kennedy. The bill, which creates a grant program for small businesses to join together so they can offer their employees day care, could only win passage this year with Education Committee Chair Kennedy's assistance, and now the legislation is law and we are working on the second step of securing funding for the program.
   "Also, earlier this year I worked with Senator Kennedy to pass legislation that insured vital U. S. Department of Agriculture commodity assistance would continue to flow to our senior nutrition programs here in Kansas.
  "Yes, politics can make for strange bedfellows...but I appreciated that Senator Kennedy would reach across the aisle to work with me for our working families.
   "Agriculture, as you know, is an issue in which I have a long history. I would often lecture as Chairman of the Ag Committee, that in farm country, "we have to hang together or hang separately." It does not matter whether it is a Republican from Illinois or a Democrat from Nebraska, those of us from farm states must work together to pass farm policies that make sense for production agriculture. Right now, we are in the middle of writing another farm bill and I find myself making that same speech - some days I am more successful than others. I am not saying it is easy - but I am saying it's important. No matter how tired you get, no matter how frustrating the debate can be - and yes, I do get frustrated - you have to try to work with others to achieve your goal. You simply cannot do it alone...and if you cannot work with people on the other side of the aisle, you are not going to get very far. It is as simple as that.
   "In Kansas, I will tell you that I am proud that our delegation - four Republicans and two Democrats - can work together - above everything else and even in the heat of the campaign season - for the people of this state. Congressman Tiahrt and I mount the bully pulpit every day to fight for the General Aviation industry, which is so vital to this area's economy. Congressman Moran and I, both members of our respected Ag Committees, are working together to pass a farm bill that will enable Kansas to continue to produce the food and fiber that this world depends upon. Congressman Moore and I have introduced legislation to better enforce child support payments; and Congresswoman Boyda and I are working on legislation to address the Superfund issues surrounding Treece and other areas of southeast Kansas. 
   "My Senate colleague Sam Brownback and I work closely on appropriation projects that are vital investments in our communities and economy. But perhaps the best example I can give to show that bipartisanship is alive and well is in Greensburg, Kansas. You know, in Greensburg, that morning after the tornado, they did not care if I was a Democrat or a Republican - they just needed to know that I and the other elected officials - local, state and federal, all of us - would come together and work together to provide aid and assistance in the short term and to rebuild in the long-term. 
   "And when I called President Bush from the McDonald's in Pratt that same day to ask him to waive the normal damage inspection criteria because the whole town was destroyed, he didn't ask, and I didn't mention, if they were Republicans or Democrats, only that they were Kansans who were in a desperate condition.
   "As a result, the rebuilding is underway. Sam and I passed a $40 million appropriation for Greensburg, just days after the disaster. President Bush signed that measure, and it is now law.
   "Governor Kathleen, and all of us in the Kansas Congressional delegation are working with the Department of Labor in Washington to provide a $20 million employment assistance grant so that the town can hire vitally needed public employees including community planners and zoning officials. 
   "Sam joined me in leading the effort to pass a tax relief initiative for Greensburg in the Senate - similar to one that aided New Orleans after Katrina. It will help both residents and Greensburg businesses; Todd, Jerry, Nancy and Dennis currently are working for its passage in the House right now.
   "My point is - bipartisanship is alive and well - maybe not often in the pages of the New York Times - but here in Winfield and in many of our Kansas newspapers. Dave Seaton, The Daily Courier's publisher, and I have talked about this many times over the years. He fully understands that collaboration, not just conflict, can be newsworthy if it means we are making a difference. Without question, I think the American people are demanding the return of a more cooperative, nonpartisan spirit in Congress. 
   "Yes, there are legitimate differences between the two parties, important differences. And for sure you'll see those highlighted even more so in 2008. But there are also many points of agreement, and the continued success of this great experiment called American government of, for and by the people, is paramount. We must work together for this grand experiment to not merely survive, but to succeed. 
   "Senator Frank was right - "it is your friends who make you what you are." I am honored to call so many of you here friends. Thank you for working with me over the years to be partners in government. People and experience can and do make a difference - and in the tradition of the Docking family, it's my pledge to continue that effort. With tolerance and respect, we will succeed."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 