SEN. ROBERTS HOLDS HEARING ON NOMINATION OF AMBASSADOR NEGROPONTE TO BE FIRST DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today held a hearing on the nomination of Ambassador John D. Negroponte to be the nation's first Director of National Intelligence.  
   Senator Roberts issued the following statement: "The President has made an excellent choice in nominating Ambassador Negroponte to serve as the nation's first Director of National Intelligence. Ambassador Negroponte is a distinguished public servant, having dedicated 40 years of service to our country. 
   "Most important, Ambassador Negroponte has a demonstrated record as an outstanding manager and leader. He is well suited for this position and I look forward to his confirmation. 
   "In the past few decades, there have been many unsuccessful attempts to reform the Intelligence Community. Those attempts resulted in little more than incremental and marginal changes. It took the very visible intelligence failures associated with 9/11 and the flawed assessments on Iraq's WMD programs to build the historic consensus required for substantial change. 
   "Change is a very necessary process. If it ultimately results in fundamental and substantial change, as it appears that it might, it will have been for the good. Change will be good not only for U.S. national security, but also for the men and women of the Intelligence Community. 
   "In my years on the Senate Intelligence Committee, I have met many of these hard-working men and women who work day in and day out with one goal in mind - keeping this nation secure and its people safe. They are held back, however, by a flawed system that does not permit them as a Community to do their best work. 
   "We need to honor their commitment and sacrifices by giving them an Intelligence Community worthy of their efforts and capable of meeting their aspirations and our expectations of them. 
   "I understand that change can be hard and stressful, but we need change. And not just a month or year of change, but sustained, fundamental change that becomes a continuing process of adaptation as new threats emerge. Terrorism is a long-term threat to our national security, but I can assure you that it will not be the last threat we face. There will be others which will require our Intelligence Community to continue to be adaptive and flexible. 
   "Ambassador Negroponte, the process of change begins with you. It is my foremost hope that when confirmed, you will begin to provide the strong, independent leadership that has long been lacking in our Intelligence Community. 
   "The position for which you have been nominated was created by the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. It is no secret that this bill did not go as far as I would have liked in creating a Director National Intelligence, or DNI, with the clear authorities and chain of command that the Intelligence Community requires. 
   "As I have said before, the Intelligence Reform Act is not the best possible bill, but rather the best bill possible. If we embrace the concept of change as a continuing process, however, this reform effort is a solid first step in the right direction of someday creating a clear chain of command and accountability within that chain. 
   "For now, we must implement and oversee an Intelligence Reform Act that is somewhat ambiguous with respect to the DNI's authorities and responsibilities. Ambassador, this ambiguity has created justifiable concern about whether you, as DNI, have the clear authorities you will need to meet your vast responsibilities. 
   "In other words, we have high expectations, but did we give you the tools you will need to meet them? 
   "President Bush has made some very forceful statements about the strong authority that the DNI will have in his administration. I am confident that when confirmed, you will have the strong support of the President. I am equally confident that you will have the same strong support from this committee. In other words, if you need help, let us know. 
   "But for now, you have a blank slate and any ambiguities in your authority will be up to you to resolve. 
   "This leads me to an important point. As the first DNI, you will establish historic precedents that will define all future DNIs, as well as set the course for the future of the entire Intelligence Community. We can legislate powerful authorities all day long, but as the history of the position of Director of Central Intelligence has shown, if the first DNI does not exercise his authorities, it will be difficult for any subsequent DNI to do so. 
   "Exercising the authorities of the DNI will not be easy. Setting the precedent of a strong DNI will likely mean stepping on more than a few toes along the way. I am confident, however, that you are the right man for the job. 
   "It is my hope that as the Director of National Intelligence, you will be independent of the interests of any one intelligence agency, and that you will achieve a better flow of information in our government. To me, this means that intelligence information will be passed to decision makers not because it comes from a particular agency, but because it represents the best work from any agency. 
   "This also means that we must reject the concept of 'information sharing' in favor of what I call 'information access.' I believe, as does the WMD Commission, that 'information sharing' is a limited idea that falsely implies that the data collector is also the data owner. The concept of 'information sharing' relies on collectors to push information to those analysts who they deem need it. 
   We need new thinking on this issue. While we must continue to protect sources and methods, cleared analysts with a need to know should be able to pull information by searching all intelligence databases, without waiting for any one agency to deem them worthy. 
   "This is a challenging proposition. I can assure you that the intelligence collection agencies will not greet such efforts with much enthusiasm. 
   "Even with the intelligence failures of 9/11 and Iraq WMD hanging over us, and the staggering willful inability to share information associated with those failures, achieving a free flow of intelligence information has still proved elusive. Mr. Ambassador, it is my hope that you will be able to provide leadership, and a kick in the pants when necessary, to get our collection agencies to finally perfect the concept of information access. 
   "As you know, in Washington politics, turf is a zero sum game. Just by showing up on your first day of work you will already have stepped on quite a few toes. I am confident, however, that you will perform your duties in a manner that will have us soon wondering how we ever got along without a Director of National Intelligence. 
   "When we get to that point, and I hope it happens sooner rather than later, we can begin moving toward what I believe must be the ultimate goal: a more rationally organized Intelligence Community, with a clear chain of command and the accountability that comes with it."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 