SEN. ROBERTS: FUND MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS; CRITICAL FOR GROWTH AT FT. RILEY
  Sen. Pat Roberts today urged the Senate to approve critical funding for construction projects at Kansas military installations. Funding is especially important for Ft. Riley where construction is critical for the return of the First Infantry Division and the quality of life for soldiers and their families that call the post home.  
   "It is ridiculous for the Congress to delay funding vital to our nation's military, stalling projects important to our men and women in uniform," Senator Roberts said. "It is no secret that construction of new facilities and barracks are key to the rapid growth in troop numbers at Ft. Riley after the return of the headquarters of the 'Big Red One, not to mention the effect on the daily lives of those that live and work at Ft. Riley."
   When the 109th Congress adjourned in December, several federal government spending bills for Fiscal Year 2007 were not approved by the full Congress. The Congress then passed a Continuing Resolution in order to fund the government at fiscal year 2006 levels until February 15, 2007. The Continuing Resolution does not allow the Department of Defense to proceed with over $17 billion in new construction and BRAC projects authorized by Congress.
   Senator Roberts joined Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) and a bipartisan group of Senators in introducing S. 113, a bill to make appropriations for military construction and family housing projects for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2007. 
   "Our men and women in uniform are trying to accomplish this year's mission with last year's resources. They already sacrifice so much in the protection of the nation. Let's provide them with the facilities to get the job done."
    The incoming Chairmen of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, Rep. David Obey (D-WI) and Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-WV) recently announced that it is their intention to pass a CR that will last through the remainder of the 2007 federal fiscal year, which ends on September 30, 2007. They also indicated that they intend to craft another Continuing Resolution that will fund government programs at their 2006 levels.
   "I am deeply disappointed in both parties for failing to come together to develop a budget and spending bills that allow the federal government to serve the people. The failure to complete this task last year and possibly this year too represents a failure in leadership by both parties. It is my strong hope that those of us in the new Congress can come together, do the people's business and get the 2008 funding bills passed."
   Senator Roberts, a former Marine, is a strong advocate for the armed forces. He is a past Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and looked out for the interests of Kansas on the Senate Committee on Armed Services for ten years.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 