SEN. ROBERTS RECEIVES ?LEADERSHIP IN THE FIGHT AGAINST HUNGER' AWARD
  Sen. Pat Roberts received honors from the Friends of the World Food Program for his lifetime work in the battle against hunger at an awards ceremony in Washington Tuesday night. Sen. Roberts was presented with the "Leadership in the Fight Against Hunger" Award by former Kansas Sen. Robert Dole. 
   Senator Roberts said, "I am humbled to be presented with this award. I strongly believe that our efforts to combat hunger, both here at home and overseas, do more to promote peace and stability in an often hungry and troubled world than any other form of assistance we provide. Food should be used as a tool for peace, not as a weapon of war."
   In presenting the award, Senator Dole highlighted Senator Roberts' role as a national leader in the fight against hunger throughout his time in Congress. Roberts has worked to expand the U.S. school breakfast and lunch programs and to strengthen the Food Stamp Program. The Senator has also built bipartisan support for the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program that has made a difference in the lives of millions of children around the world.
   Senator Roberts said, "The McGovern-Dole program provides children across the globe with not only a meal for the day but with the opportunity to achieve an education- an opportunity that more than 100 million children worldwide do not have. This program also competes directly with the efforts of terrorists. Parents, desperate to provide the basics for their children, often fall prey to those offering a meal or financial assistance in return for a child's attendance at an extremist school, or worse, at a terrorist training camp. Our feeding programs have long been a successful part in winning the peace."
   Friends of the World Food Program (WFP) is a non-profit organization dedicated to alleviating world hunger. Its goal is to foster the public commitment and political leadership necessary to address hunger around the globe. Through advocacy and fundraising efforts, Friends of the WFP supports the U.N. World Food Program, and other hunger relief efforts in the mission to feed the world's hungriest people. The World Food Program is the largest international food aid organization in the world, feeding nearly 110 million people in 82 countries last year.
   Contact: Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 