SENS. ROBERTS, BROWNBACK INTRODUCE MINING LEGISLATION TO ADDRESS ABANDONED MINES IN KANSAS
  Today, U.S. Senators Pat Roberts and Sam Brownback (R-KS) introduced mining legislation to allow Kansas to more aggressively address health and safety issues from abandoned mines. 
   "Many of these abandoned mines result in health and safety issues that threaten the daily lives of Kansans," Senator Roberts said. "Passage of my bill, will result in immediate efforts and funds to address these concerns and protect Kansans sooner rather than later."
   Senator Brownback said, "I am pleased to join my colleagues in the Kansas delegation to support this surface mining legislation. The health and safety of Kansans, and all Americans, should be our number one priority. This bill will go a long way to address vital safety concerns by enhancing efforts to reclaim abandoned mines throughout Kansas."
   Senator Roberts is the lead sponsor and Senator Brownback is an original co-sponsor of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act along with Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK), introduced today in the Senate. The bill would allow "minimum program states" like Kansas to receive full funding levels of $3 million starting in 2008, instead of requiring the minimum states to follow the percentage distribution formula. This legislation will assist several other states including Missouri, Iowa, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Alaska and Maryland.
   According to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE), Kansas currently has over 350 abandoned coal mine sites identified with health and safety problems. Kansas has an Abandoned Mine Land (AML) inventory - the fourth largest AML inventory in the nation- which contains well over $200 million in hazards which need to be reclaimed to project the health and safety of Kansas citizens.
   Last December, Congress passed amendments to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act in the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 to extend the Abandoned Mines Land Trust Fund for 15 additional years. These amendments established a new distribution formula that works through a four year program that phases in funding. Unfortunately, there are currently seven states that do not meet the active mining threshold to meet the minimum funding threshold.
   Rep. Nancy Boyda (D-KS) introduced similar legislation in the House of Representatives. Funds are distributed by the United States Department of the Interior.
   Also in November, Senator Roberts and Rep. Boyda introduced companion legislation in the House and Senate to authorize a federal buyout for Treece, Kansas which provides for a voluntary relocation program for residents and properties in the community. The proposal is necessary due to the threat of collapsing, abandoned mines in Treece.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 