SEN. ROBERTS PAYS TRIBUTE TO SEN. DOLE ON TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF END OF HIS SENATE TENURE
  Sen. Pat Roberts today paid tribute to Sen. Bob Dole on the tenth anniversary of the end of his exemplar service to Kansas and the nation in the U.S. Senate.
   Senator Roberts said, "It does not seem possible that it has been ten years since Bob's tenure as our Majority Leader ended, a tenure by the way that represents the longest serving Senate leader of our Republican Party since the founding of the Grand Old Party in 1854. During those 12 years of leadership, there were difficult and challenging times but Bob Dole's legacy was and is legislative accomplishment - always in Bob Dole's style; a unique mixture of principle, compromise when necessary, comity, his great gift of wit and humor and good old Kansas common sense. 
   "In 1968, when Bob first ran for the Senate, his theme song was, "Let a Leader Lead the Way" and he did.
   "Mr. President, it would be impossible to list all of Bob's legislative achievements but the Dole Institute at the University of Kansas provides some highlights and I ask unanimous consent they be inserted in the record at this point.
   "These accomplishments were of direct benefit to the daily lives and pocketbooks of Americans and represent programs and reforms that we now take for granted. I think Bob is most proud of the fact he led the way for disabled Americans, for our nation's school lunch program, not to mention the World Food Program where food and education combine as the most effective long term answer in our current fight against terrorism. 
   "Mr. President, I have special memories and personal perspective of the Bob Dole days in the Senate for I was in the House, having the privilege of representing Bob's former congressional district, the "Big First." Knowing Bob Dole since his friendship with my father and later during my service as administrative assistant both for Bob's predecessor in the Senate - Frank Carlson - and successor in the House - Keith Sebelius - many assumed that whatever I was for, Bob was for. I would always emphasize that Bob Dole was riding shotgun with me whether he was or not. That was like having Wyatt Earp, Bat Masterson, Doc Holiday, and Matt Dillon by your side during any legislative shootout. 
   "Of course, if we won, I had to come over to the Senate and let him know WE won. If we lost, I came over to ask him to help. Either way, when the chips were down, it was a win, win with Bob on your side.
   "Mr. President, in Kansas our State Society named Dwight David Eisenhower the Kansan of the 20th century. We are all proud of and still "Like Ike" and historians have ensconced our favorite son as one of our greatest presidents. 
   "The fact is that the Eisenhower legacy lives on with Bob Dole. Ike was his hero and by following his example, Bob has been accurately described as a towering figure and the most enduring Republican leader of the 20th century with a distinguished record of public service that has made a tremendous positive impact on America. 
   "And, Mr. President, following his elected public service Bob has continued to contribute, lead and achieve. I dare say without Bob Dole, the World War II Memorial would not be the centerpiece of the Mall in our nation's capitol. Most deserving of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, he has been and is an international emissary for peace and freedom and is involved in countless projects and causes. 
   "When I go back to our home state, Kansans always ask, what do you hear from Bob, how's he doin'? I tell them he is still on the go doing what he has always done; that we still tote buckets together and don't spill much. Simply put, Bob Dole continues to be a leader that leads the way."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 