SEN. ROBERTS: SENATE PASSES IDEA BILL - IMPROVES SPECIAL EDUCATION LAW
  Sen. Pat Roberts today praised the Senate for passing the renewal of the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act (IDEA) by a 95-3 vote. 
   The special education law, known as IDEA, was first enacted in 1975 to assist states in meeting their Constitutional obligation to provide a free appropriate public education to children with special needs. Through the reauthorization process, the law has been revised several times, most recently in 1997. In 2002, 6.5 million children with disabilities were served through IDEA.
   "I voted for this legislation because it strikes a fair balance between protecting the educational rights of children with disabilities while making IDEA work for parents, teachers, school administrators and school districts," Roberts said.
   The passage of IDEA will reduce the burden of bureaucratic paperwork for teachers. An amendment by Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) was unanimously approved to create a 15-State demonstration program to give States the opportunity to find ways to reduce paperwork burdens associated with IDEA requirements in order to give teachers more time and resources available for instruction of students with special needs. Senator Roberts said, "I've heard from many special education teachers across Kansas who are overwhelmed by paperwork and I'm pleased Congress is taking a step in the right direction to addressing this issue."
   But, Roberts noted that the bill was not perfect. "I am disappointed the Senate did not approve an amendment, which I cosponsored, that would have guaranteed full funding for IDEA over the next six years. Without this guarantee, our state and local governments will continue to shoulder a financial burden. Congress made a promise to our schools and our children nearly 30 years ago when IDEA was first created to share the cost of special education. The promise was simple - the federal government would pay 40 percent of the excess cost of educating a special needs child. Sadly, we have not fulfilled that promise."
   A House bill to reauthorize IDEA was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives on April 30. The Senate and House bills now go to a conference to iron out the differences between the Senate and House bills.
   Senator Roberts is a key member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and has been an outspoken advocate of the need to fully fund IDEA since his years as a U.S. Representative.
   Contact: Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 