MEMBERS OF KANSAS DELEGATION URGE FEMA TO MOVE VACANT TRAILERS, MAKE ROOM FOR WORKERS
  U.S. Senators Pat Roberts and Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Representatives Jerry Moran (R-KS) and Todd Tiahrt (R-KS) today sent the following letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to request that vacant trailer lots be released from their lease so that companies can install mobile homes for use as work force housing while Greensburg continues to rebuild:
   "This past May, a category EF5 tornado struck the town of Greensburg destroying 95 percent of the city and killing 13 people. The storm traveled rapidly through the contiguous area, causing significant damage in 23 counties and resulting in the deaths of two more Kansans. As a result, the vast majority of public infrastructure was damaged or destroyed and individual losses reached overwhelming levels. 
   "We all traveled to the area in the wake of these storms. What we saw was heartbreaking. Based on the utter destruction of everything in this storm's path, we can only be thankful that more people were not injured. And while there was great despair among the residents, we also saw hope. As has been proven time and again, Kansans are some of the most resilient and generous people around. Residents, first responders, FEMA representatives, the National Guard, and many others instantly began to pitch in to help each other - and they vowed to return and rebuild.
   "In the days since, we have seen this spirit grow. In fact, we believe Kansas has set a model for the nation. Not only have the residents affected by this storm shown courage and determination in their desire to rebuild, but FEMA, the National Guard, and our first responders have given completely of themselves in order to help others.
   "We write today to ask you to further enable those who have already given so much to ensure that Greensburg is able to rebuild. Recently, FEMA received letters from Greensburg City Administrator Steve Hewitt and other community leaders in which they request that FEMA release vacant trailer lots from their lease, to be made available to private lease companies which will allow for the installation of privately owned mobile homes. Mr. Hewitt's request is based on two vital needs of the community. One, Greensburg does not have the resident population to complete all of the construction and infrastructure projects needed to rebuild the community. Nor does Greensburg have housing to accommodate incoming workers. Two, the disaster left Greensburg with literally no tax base or utility revenue with which to work.
   "Allowing empty lots to be leased through the private sector will help Greensburg solve both the issue of work force housing and allow the community to begin to rebuild their tax and utility base. Given that this community has worked consistently and productively with the federal government on a number of levels, we would like to see FEMA continue to support them in their efforts. Greensburg residents have truly made every effort at the local and state levels to pick themselves up and continue with their lives in rural Kansas. Please support their effort by approving their request."
   City Administrator Steve Hewitt and other community leaders from Greensburg requested this action. Senator Roberts has been an tireless advocate of helping the community of Greensburg rebuild since the tornado hit that destroyed most of the town in May.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 