SEN. ROBERTS: SENATE APPROVES FARM BILL ROBERTS CONTINUES TO FIGHT FOR KANSAS FARMERS AND RANCHERS
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) today remarked on the Senate passage of the Farm Bill:
   "I am pleased the Senate approved the Farm Bill this year. While it is not the best possible bill, it was the best bill possible. I am pleased we were able to prevent the passage of several amendments that would have done great harm to Kansas agriculture. I will continue to fight for my priorities as the legislative process continues.
   AWe have two major victories in the commodity title: this bill leaves direct payment rates alone. I would prefer to see these payments increased to help producers meet rising input costs. However, in this budget climate, I am happy we have been successful in preventing cuts to the only commodity title program that provides direct assistance to producers when they have no crop to harvest. I am also pleased that we were able to leave the crop insurance largely intact as a solid program that our producers and their lenders can count on. 
   "I am pleased the Farm Bill includes an important provision I strongly support which recognizes the unique needs of our rural hospitals. This provision provides money to small and rural hospitals to assist with their reconstruction and rehabilitation needs, which will allow these facilities to continue to provide high quality health care to all Kansans.
   "I am pleased that a number of my proposals to reform the Rural Utilities Service's Broadband Loan program were also included in the bill. These provisions represent a bipartisan effort to bring broadband Internet to a greater number of Kansans by more effectively targeting our unserved rural areas.
   AWe still have a lot of work to do, so rest assured I will work with my colleagues to continue the fight to protect the programs that work for Kansas farmers and ranchers, including direct payments, crop insurance and the EQIP program.
   "I am concerned with provisions in this bill impacting our livestock industry. Fortunately on the Senate floor, two of my amendments were agreed to in an effort to mitigate unintended effects of the livestock portion of this bill. Further improvements must be made in the final Farm Bill that will be passed by the Congress.
   AI am thankful we were able to defeat two amendments that would have been extremely detrimental to Kansas producers. The first amendment would have put at risk the innovations and advancements in the livestock industry over the past 20 years. The second amendment would have jeopardized the crop insurance program as we now know it. It would have cut billions of dollars from crop insurance and made it less accessible to farmers in high risk agriculture areas like Kansas. I was proud to lead the fight against these amendments on behalf of Kansas farmers and ranchers.
   "Contained in the nutrition section of the bill is a grain pilot program I worked to include. Eligible elementary and secondary schools can offer grain products to students like crackers and bread at after school programs. This program will help improve the diet and health of our nation's children.
   AAlso included in the Farm Bill is significant tax relief to individuals and businesses in counties declared disaster areas after the May 4 storms in Greensburg. These tax provisions will help people get back on their feet and rebuild their communities for future generations. I will continue to look for ways to support the city of Greensburg and other areas affected by the storms.
   The Farm bill passed the Senate by a 79-14 vote. The bill now goes to a conference committee with the House of Representatives to iron out the differences between the House and Senate passed bills.
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee and former Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 