SEN. ROBERTS RESPONDS TO SENS. BIDEN, DODD ON BOLTON NOMINATION
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence today sent the following letter to Sens. Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Biden (D-DE) regarding the nomination of Under Secretary John Bolton to be the United States Representative to the United Nations.  
   At issue was the request by Senators Biden and Dodd to disclose the names of U.S. citizens in National Security Agency intercepts legally and appropriately reviewed by Under Secretary Bolton at the U.S. Department of State. 
   "At the request of my colleagues," Chairman Roberts said, "I have directed staff to examine Under Secretary Bolton's use of intelligence and after careful review, the Senate Intelligence Committee continues to find no evidence of abuse. I am prepared to assist in any reasonable effort to examine the facts, but an examination of upwards of 40 names appears to be an effort to preserve the issue, not to resolve it." 
   The following is the text of the letter: 
   "I am writing to bring you both up to date regarding efforts to resolve questions relating to the nomination of Under Secretary John Bolton to be the United States Representative to the United Nations. In April 2005, Chairman Lugar wrote to me requesting assistance with some intelligence issues related to your committee's consideration of Mr. Bolton's nomination. Chairman Lugar noted that questions had arisen with regard to requests by Mr. Bolton for the names of U.S. persons that were redacted in intelligence intercept reports. In my response to Senator Lugar, which I copied to Senator Biden, I explained why I believed that Mr. Bolton's requests were not only entirely appropriate, but routine. As far I as could determine, that was the end of the matter. Now, based on statements by you and some of your colleagues, concerns about Mr. Bolton's requests for identities have apparently expanded to include whether Under Secretary Bolton sought these identities to exact some form of retribution against certain government officials. Although the Committee's Minority Report and statements made by minority members seem to indicate that the universe of these officials is very small, I was surprised to see in your recent letter that the universe is indeed expanding to include approximately three dozen 'names of concern.' 
   "In the Committee's Minority Views, I can find reference to only six government officials that Mr. Bolton is alleged to have either sought to remove or displayed 'abusive behavior' toward. Two of these individuals are not identified in the report and their names do not appear to have been provided to the Foreign Relations Committee. This leaves a total of four named individuals I believe your Committee would want to cross reference with the redacted intercept names. 
   "Intelligence Committee staff contacted your respective staffs to attempt to clarify this matter. Senator Biden's staff was unable to provide any additional information about the need for three dozen names except that the names may include non-government officials as well. Senator Dodd's staff said that a larger list of names was necessary because of numerous issues raised during the nomination process regarding Libya, North Korea, and China, in addition to the Cuba matter. My staff was informed by Senator Dodd's representative that reading the Foreign Relations Minority Views would illustrate these points. I asked my staff to once again examine the Minority Views. 
   "Upon review, my staff did not find any references to other individuals against whom Mr. Bolton is alleged to have sought retribution. The Minority Views did not highlight any issues related to Libya, other than the repeated unsubstantiated assertion that the Libya success resulted because 'Mr. Bolton was kept off the case.' On North Korea, the Minority Views noted only that Mr. Bolton may not have made all of the changes to a speech on North Korea suggested by the former U.S. Ambassador to South Korea and described an exchange between the two in which the former Ambassador thanked the Under Secretary for making the changes that he did. Finally, the issues described related to China involved a member of Mr. Bolton's staff, not Mr. Bolton who was out of the country at the time. There is no indication in the report that Mr. Bolton even took an interest in the matter after his return. If there is any additional information that may justify approximately three dozen 'names of concern' of which I am not aware, I would be happy to receive it. Absent such additional information, I cannot support a request which suggests that three dozen names are pertinent to the intercept issue. 
   "While I cannot recommend this proposal to the Director of National Intelligence, as we discussed, I could recommend a more focused request that is consistent with your public statements and Minority Views. Such a request may be a basis for moving this process forward, a goal that we all share. Once again, I am at a complete loss as to how your list of 'names of concern' could have grown to nearly forty. I urge you to reconsider the scope of your request and determine which names are actually supported by the findings of your committee. I stand ready to assist any reasonable effort to resolve intelligence-related matters as they pertain to Under Secretary Bolton's nomination."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 