SEN. ROBERTS ISSUES STATEMENT ON NOMINATION OF REP. GOSS AS DIRECTOR OF CIA
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today held a hearing on the nomination of Rep. Porter Goss (R-FL) to be the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. The following are Chairman Roberts' opening remarks:  
   "The role of Director of Central Intelligence is of paramount importance to the security of this nation. It is also one of the most challenging jobs in the executive branch today. 
   "This nation is currently engaged in a war where intelligence defines the front line. We are not fighting against nation-states but against a network of disparate terrorist groups who operate not only in the shadows, but, at times, right in our midst. 
   "Whether in Afghanistan, Iraq or here at home, defeating this enemy depends largely upon the ability of our intelligence services to locate, penetrate and destroy these terrorist cells. In short, we are involved in a world war which requires timely and actionable intelligence to ensure victory. The Director of Central Intelligence is responsible for producing this intelligence. 
   "As we fight the threat posed by Islamic terror, there remain unabated numerous other worldwide threats against which our nation must also guard. Among them are: 
   * The development of nuclear programs by adversary regimes such as exist in Iran and North Korea; 
   * The steady growth of Communist China into an Asiatic power and its greater influence over Taiwan and the region, and; 
   * The continued worldwide proliferation of WMD technology. 
   "The Director of Central Intelligence is also responsible for producing intelligence to keep policymakers informed about many other threats. 
   "If that isn't daunting enough, Congressman Goss has been nominated for a position which is not likely to exist for much longer. The President and many in the Congress now support the creation of a new National Intelligence Director. 
   "There is now a great deal of discussion among my colleagues on how best to ensure that the creation of a National Intelligence Director is something more than a name change. 
   "Most of the debate outside this committee has centered on how to grant increased authority to the new National Intelligence Director while leaving undisturbed the structural status quo. Many on this committee believe that you can't get there from here. In other words, it will take significant structural change to affect real reform. 
   "I believe strongly that we must create a new structure that accommodates the diverse activities of the various intelligence agencies by giving direct responsibility and control of the primary intelligence disciplines and the corresponding agencies to a truly empowered National Intelligence Director and his assistants. "True empowerment includes both "budget authority" and the authority to direct and control the activities of the intelligence agencies. One without the other will once again leave us with an intelligence head who can neither succeed nor be held accountable. 
   "This is an unacceptable outcome. 
   "We don't know how or when reform will be enacted. Until then, we need a strong Director of Central Intelligence with the necessary skills to manage a Community which is in dire need of a leader. 
   "The unique background of Congressman Goss will serve him well as he meets these and many other challenges while directing our Intelligence Community. 
   "For over 40 years Porter Goss has been serving his nation, his state and his local community of Sanibel, Florida. 
   "Whether as an Army intelligence officer, clandestine CIA case officer, newspaper man, county commissioner, U.S. Representative or Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Porter Goss has done his duty with skill, honor and integrity. 
   "His experience makes him uniquely suited to serve as the Director of Central Intelligence. The President has selected an outstanding public servant to be his principal advisor on intelligence and we look forward to working with him as the next Director of Central Intelligence."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 