CHAIRMAN ROBERTS ISSUES STATEMENT ON NAMES IN BOLTON INTERCEPT REQUESTS
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence today made the following statement on the Senate floor: 
   "I come to the floor today in an attempt, once again, to resolve an intelligence-related issue regarding the nomination of Under Secretary John Bolton to be the United States Representative to the United Nations.  
   "As my colleagues are probably aware, I have been, for some time now, engaged in an effort to assist colleagues on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with some concerns they have regarding Mr. Bolton and his requests for U.S. persons identities contained in certain intelligence reports. 
   "The last time I came to the floor, I spoke at length about Mr. Bolton's requests. 
   "After reviewing the actual reports and examining the process whereby he was provided the information he sought, it was apparent to me that Mr. Bolton's requests were not only appropriate, but routine. 
   "Mr. President, as far as I was concerned that was the end of the matter and I so indicated in my response to the Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Lugar. 
   "Now, based on statements by some of my colleagues, concerns about Mr. Bolton's requests for identities have apparently expanded to include whether the Under Secretary sought these identities to exact some form of retribution against certain government officials. 
   "Although the Foreign Relations Committee's Minority Views and statements made by minority members seem to indicate that the universe of these officials is very small, it is now clear that the universe is indeed expanding. 
   "In fact, in a response I received from the distinguished Ranking Member, Senator Biden and Senator Dodd we have gone from the inner most planets in our solar system to include the entire Milky Way! 
   "I have informed my colleagues that I could not support such a request because it appears to be more of an effort to preserve the issue than an effort to resolve it. 
   "I also informed Senators Biden and Dodd, however, that I could recommend a more focused request that is consistent with their public statements and Minority Views. I believed such a request could be a basis for moving this process forward, a goal that I hoped we all shared. 
   "In the interest of moving forward, I urged my colleagues to reconsider the scope of their request. The response, Mr. President, quite frankly, was "no thank you." I believe their bottom line is now, "Give us all of the names or no deal." 
   "As members of the legislative branch, we have all been in the position of requesting information from the executive branch and being told "no." We understand that there are limits to what we can demand and expect to receive. That is just a fact of life as we negotiate the separation of powers between the branches. 
   "My colleagues know full well that an absolutist stance will inevitably lead to a stalemate. That is why we try to work in good faith to address our concerns while recognizing each branch's prerogatives. In my experience, a middle ground is usually achievable. 
   "In this case, I believed the Administration was willing to meet my colleagues half-way. In other words, if they would provide a reasonable list of names, based on actual findings by the Committee, perhaps they could be assured that those names were NOT contained in the reports and their concerns would be allayed, while at the same time permitting the Executive to preserve its prerogative to control dissemination of sensitive information. 
   "Once again, Mr. President, the middle ground proved elusive. 
   "I am sympathetic to my colleagues desire to see information they deem necessary to their consideration of Mr. Bolton's nomination. I do not believe, however, that they should be imposing their standard on the entire Senate. 
   "The last cloture vote demonstrated that a clear majority believes that the Senate possesses sufficient information to vote on Mr. Bolton's nomination, and vote we should. 
   "With that said, Mr. President, I am prepared to go one step further in one last good faith effort to alleviate the concerns expressed by my colleagues. 
   "Because my colleagues would not share their list of names with me, I have taken what may be viewed as the somewhat unorthodox step of compiling a list of names that I believe reflect the universe of individuals that fall within the parameters set by my colleague's public statements and their Minority Views. 
   "I want my colleagues to know that I have done this in a sincere effort to move this process forward. I do not in any way wish to substitute my judgment for my colleagues, but I do hope that we can reach some sort of accommodation. 
   I have submitted my list of names to the Director of National Intelligence and he has assured me that NONE of them are among the names requested by Under Secretary Bolton. 
   "The names I submitted included: 
   ? Carl Ford, Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence and Research . . . NOT in the intercepts. 
  ? Christian Westermann, INR . . . NOT in the intercepts. 
  ? The individual known as "Mr. Smith". . . NOT in the intercepts. 
  ? Rexon Ryu, State Department Official . . . NOT in the intercepts. 
  ? Charles L. Pritchard, Special Envoy for Negotiations with North Korea . . . NOT in the intercepts. 
  ? There were also two other individuals referenced in the Minority Views who's names have not been made public and I will not do so now. However, I did submit their names and they were NOT in the intercepts. I am more than willing to share the two names with my colleagues on the Foreign Relations Committee, but I will not discuss them publicly. 
   "Finally, Mr. President, the Foreign Relations Committee's Minority Views also referenced two other unnamed individuals. I understand, however, that the Committee itself is not aware of who these people are and therefore, it is highly unlikely that those names would be a part of anyone's list. They certainly were not on mine. 
   "Mr. President, I strongly believe that this compromise represents the middle ground and should more than satisfy the concerns of my colleagues, unless, of course, they are not interested in being satisfied. If that is the case, there is nothing further anyone can do to move this process forward. 
   "Mr. President, it is high time we vote on this nomination, up or down, whichever way the chips fall. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to take the next step whether they are in favor of Mr. Bolton's nomination or opposed. 
   "We have made some strides recently in moving nominations to a vote, we should continue that trend with Mr. Bolton's nomination and get on with the business of the Senate."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774; Bill Duhnke, 202/224-1700.
 
 