SEN. ROBERTS ATTENDS SIGNING CEREMONY OF ARMY'S RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITIES INITIATIVE AT FT. RILEY
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee today joined Geoffrey Prosch, Acting Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations and Management at the signing ceremony of the Army's Residential Communities Initiative (RCI) at Ft. Riley.  
   RCI is the Army's program to alleviate housing shortages and eliminate sub-standard military housing by using private sector expertise to privatize family housing at Army installations located throughout the nation. 
   The following are Senator Roberts' remarks: 
   "Ladies and Gentlemen, the news for Ft. Riley just keeps getting better and better. 
   "With the signing of today's agreement, we are ensuring that our soldiers and their families will have the newest and most modern housing in the Army. Our men and women in uniform and their families deserve no less. 
   "I want to thank Secretary Prosch who oversees Army family housing. On the plane ride here, I was reminded just how much he cares about providing adequate family housing to each and every family in the Army. 
   "I would also like to thank the amazing leadership team at Fort Riley - General Dennis Hardy and Colonel Jay Simpson - and John Picerne with Picerne Real Estate Group. They all continue to play incredibly important roles in bringing the reality of the Residential Community Initiative to Ft. Riley. 
   "I also want to thank the men and women from Kansas who serve. When I consider the sacrifices that you and your families make on a daily basis, supporting programs like RCI, which will virtually eliminate all substandard military family housing in the Army, is a no-brainer. 
   "The Residential Communities Initiative is a critical component of the Army's effort to eliminate inadequate family housing in the United States. Prior to the RCI program passing into law in 1996, we saw a growing backlog, or deficit, in quality housing. Unfortunately, we were falling further and further behind in maintaining a housing standard consistent with what the warfighter, and their family, deservs. The backlog in revitalizing old and outdated housing made it difficult to sustain adequate housing at Army installations across the country. 
   "In 1996, Congress and the Army worked together to come up with important legislation that provided alternative authorities for the construction and improvement of military housing. With this new authority, the Army is able to attract private capital in an effort to improve the quality of life for our soldiers and their families. By leveraging private interest in military housing, the Army is able to dramatically improve family housing units at Fort Riley by teaming with Picerne to rebuild or refurbish old and antiquated units. This is a truly innovative idea. 
   "Last year, I was pleased Congress was able to eliminate the cap on Department of Defense investments in military housing privatization. By doing so, we cleared the way for additional Army installations, including Fort Riley, to take part in the RCI process. By solving the cap issue in Congress, we helped avoid costly and inefficient delays to the privatization program at several installations, including Fort Riley. 
   "For Fort Riley, RCI could not have come at a more important time. As the post is set to receive a new Brigade Combat Team later this year, along with significant increases in troops from the Department of Defense's BRAC recommendations, it is essential that we work together to renovate the family housing at Fort Riley. 
   "This signing is a significant step in our efforts to provide the soldiers here today, and those coming in the next few years, with the type of quality residential housing and communities they deserve. From newer houses to community centers to parks, this is but one small way we can show our appreciation for the jobs the men and women at Fort Riley do every day. 
   "I am glad I could be here for this important signing. We have all worked hard over the last couple of years to bring the RCI program to Fort Riley, and now it is here. 
   "Let's go to work!"
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 