SEN. ROBERTS: EASTERN KANSAS SHOULD BE DESIGNATED A NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA
  Sen. Pat Roberts called on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources to designate an area in Eastern Kansas a National Heritage Area, showcasing the importance of the region's contributions to the struggle for equality in the nation.  
   In a statement to the Committee, Senator Roberts said, "I want to thank you for holding this hearing on what I believe is an important piece of legislation designating the Bleeding Kansas and the Enduring Struggle for Freedom National Heritage Area. This project has joined communities throughout eastern Kansas in an effort to document, preserve and celebrate Kansas' significant role in the political struggle that led to the Civil War and in other historic struggles for equality that took place in our state." 
   National Heritage Areas are regions in which residents, businesses, and local governments have joined together to conserve and celebrate heritage and special landscapes. Congress has established 24 National Heritage Areas around the country, in which conservation, interpretation and other activities are managed by partnerships among federal, state, and local governments and the private sector. 
   According to the National Park Service, each National Heritage Area is a settled landscape that tells the story of its residents. It is a landscape in which the land and the local environment, over time, have shaped traditions and cultural values in the people who live there, and where the residents' use of the land has, in turn, created and sustained a landscape that reflects their cultures. 
   Earlier this year, Senators Roberts and Sam Brownback (R-KS) introduced legislation to designate 24 counties in Eastern Kansas the Bleeding Kansas and the Enduring Struggle for Freedom National Heritage Area. 
   "This bill, and this chapter in our nation's history, are of particular importance to me," Roberts said. "My great grandfathers were Mr. A. G. Patrick and Mr. John Wesley Roberts. They were Kansas pioneers, frontier newspapermen and political rabble-rousers during the mid 1800s. 
   "In 1856, standing with his son on the northern banks of the Ohio River, Mr. Roberts looked south into Kentucky where slaves worked the fields. It was a powerful and moving sight. 'Fired with interest in the struggle to make Kansas Territory a free state,' as one historical account put it, Mr. Roberts shipped a flatbed press by rail and steamboat to Ft. Leavenworth, where it was taken by wagon to Oskalaoosa. The Independent survives today as the state's second oldest newspaper. 
   "John Wesley Roberts knew fear and lived with violence. Guerillas and bushwhackers bent on exterminating free-state men threatened daily. When Quantrill sacked Lawrence in 1863, John Wesley and his family watched smoke darken the sky. When he and other riders arrived in Lawrence, it was a terrible sight that his son, my grandfather, never forgot. 
   "Though far from the main campaigns, this massacre made Bleeding Kansas a prominent symbol in the fight for the freedom of all people, and the state would become a battleground over the question of slavery. 
   "Meanwhile, Mr. Patrick , who arrived in Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas, in 1856 by way of Indiana and Kentucky, was also caught up in the fight against slavery. Mr. Patrick was the son of American Revolutionary printers. When he caught the pro-slavery men of Leavenworth stuffing the ballot box, he sent a graphic account to newspapers in Indiana, which wired them back to newspapers in Leavenworth. He later joined Captain Wright's Stranger Creek Company of free-staters. 
   In closing Roberts said, "Mr. Patrick and Mr. Roberts were united in their efforts, their idealism, and their vision of the future. Together, and with thousands of others like them, they built Kansas and molded their communities. They saw the frontier not as it was, but as the promised land it could be. It is this struggle, and those of generations to come, that deserve to be linked through designation of the Bleeding Kansas and the Struggle for Enduring Freedom National Heritage Area. 
   Senators Roberts and Brownback are also working with the Lawrence Convention and Visitor Bureau, the Lawrence City Commission, the Douglas County Commission, and the Lawrence Chamber of Commerce. 
   The bill awaits further Committee action.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 