SEN. ROBERTS: SENATE CLOSES LOOPHOLE BARRING BTK KILLER FROM BURIAL IN VETERAN CEMETERIES
  The U.S. Senate today passed legislation, backed by Sen. Pat Roberts, to close a loophole that allows convicted capital criminal offenders--such as the serial killer BTK--to be buried in veteran's national cemeteries. The provision was an amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill passed today.  
   Senator Roberts said, "I find it unconscionable that the serial murderer, Dennis Rader, whose heinous crimes terrorized Kansans over three decades would be granted a hero's funeral. I am pleased that the Senate has quickly responded with this important amendment which I strongly support. We need to close this loophole for good." 
   The measure also prohibits military funeral honors to veterans convicted of a capital crime. The amendment was authored by Sen. Larry Craig (R-ID) and also cosponsored by Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS). 
   The Senate Veteran's Affairs Committee, chaired by Senator Craig, recently held a hearing to study this loophole that allows honorably discharged veterans who are both capital offenders and eligible for parole to be buried in veteran's national cemeteries. 
   Because Dennis Rader, otherwise known as the BTK killer, was not convicted of a state capital crime, which holds a sentence of the death penalty or life without parole, he is technically eligible to be buried in a national cemetery or receive funeral honors at a private cemetery. Rader's sentence of 10 life imprisonment with parole makes it technically possible that he could be honored with burial in the grounds holding men and women who've fought with honor for our nation. 
   Congressman Todd Tiahrt (R-KS) is working on similar legislation in the House. Congressman Tiahrt remarked that, "Our nation's military cemeteries are filled with national heroes. This hallowed ground should be preserved and protected," said Tiahrt. "Someone like Dennis Rader does not deserve to be buried in such a sacred place."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 