SEN. ROBERTS MEETS WITH OUTSTANDING K-STATE PROFESSORS
  Senator Roberts commends Dr. Littrell and Dr. Sorenson from K-State on being U.S. Professors of the Year WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) today met with two outstanding U.S. professors both from Kansas State University - Dr. Christopher Sorenson and Dr. David Littrell. 
   "Dr. Littrell and Dr. Sorenson have distinguished themselves as prominent educators in Kansas, and they are most deserving of this national recognition," Senator Roberts said.
   The Carnegie Foundation and the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) recognizes professors across the country as undergraduate professors of the year. This year Kansas had two professors chosen from over 300 top professors in the country.
   This year's national winner is Dr. Christopher Sorenson. Sorenson is a physics professor at K-State and has earned the University Distinguished Professorship in the Department of Physics and Chemistry. He has been at the forefront of encouraging students to enter science fields. In addition, he holds several patents, has authored hundreds of scholastic papers and is routinely invited to lecture in the United States and Europe. Sorenson is also the faculty advisor for the men's and women's rugby clubs.
   This year's Kansas winner is Dr. David Littrell. Littrell is Professor of Music at K-State where he conducts the University Orchestra and teaches many instruments. He is also the Director of String Fling and the Gold Orchestra. Littrell has toured England, Seattle and British Columbia, and performed twice in Carnegie Hall. He has served as the editor of several string music publications, and has received many awards including the Undergraduate Teaching Award at KSU (twice) and the American String Teachers Association Certificate of Merit. Littrell has also served as the President of the American String Teachers Association.
   Senator Roberts is a graduate of Kansas State University and a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 