SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR STRICTER ENFORCEMENT OF IMMIGRATION LAWS
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts urges Congress to pass three bills to give law enforcement officers more tools to enforce the nation's immigration laws. 
   "These three bills are common sense proposals to strengthen enforcement of the nation's immigration laws," Senator Roberts said. "I have heard from many, many Kansans and local law enforcement officers who are frustrated with illegal immigrants detained time and again, openly violating our laws."
   Senator Roberts has cosponsored three bills to do the following:
   * BETTER ENABLE STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT TO ENFORCE IMMIGRATION LAWS
   S. 2717: This legislation clarifies the authority of state and local law enforcement to investigate, identify, apprehend, or transfer to federal custody illegal immigrants to enforce federal immigration laws. It also requires U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to transfer to the National Crime Information Center the names of aliens subject to a final order of removal or voluntary departure agreement. The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to take an illegal alien into custody within 72 hours of being apprehended or arrested by local or state law enforcement officers. It also requires the department to designate at least one prison or jail within each state as the central facility for law enforcement entities to transfer custody of criminal or illegal immigrants. In addition, the bill requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to reimburse state and local entities for all reasonable expenses associated with the detention and transportation of criminal and illegal immigrants.
   * REQUIRE THE SECURE FENCE TO BE COMPLETED
   S. 2712, the Complete the Fence Act: Under this bill, the 700 miles of fencing required by the Secure Fence Act must be completed by December 31, 2010. It specifies that vehicle barriers and virtual fencing cannot be used to fulfill the 700 mile requirement. In addition, the legislation requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to submit a report to Congress on the fencing.
   * INCREASE CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION
   S. 2709: The bill increases the criminal penalties for illegally entering the United States.
   Senator Roberts opposes amnesty for illegal aliens and is an outspoken advocate for securing the nation's borders before further immigration reform.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 