SEN. ROBERTS, REP. TIAHRT INVITE SENIOR AIR FORCE OFFICIALS TO 'AMERICA'S NEWEST INTELLIGENCE CENTER'
  Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today attended a ribbon cutting ceremony for a new intelligence processing facility designed to host the Kansas Air National Guard's 161st Intelligence Operations Group at McConnell Air Force Base. "America's Newest Intelligence Center" is the largest in the Air National Guard.
   The 161st is already providing intelligence support for the war fight, but the new intelligence facility at McConnell greatly enhances the imagery processing and battlefield support Kansas Guardsmen will provide to our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines.
   Senator Roberts and Congressman Tiahrt have worked tirelessly over the last several years to secure funding for this facility, including $7.4 million for construction in 2003; $5.6 million for sensitive equipment last year; and $5 million and $7.5 million, respectively, in this years House and Senate Defense Appropriations bills. Debate and final passage of the defense spending bills is expected later this year.  
   Additionally, Senator Roberts and Congressman Todd Tiahrt (R-Goddard) invited senior Air Force officials to attend today's event. Among others, Roberts and Tiahrt were joined by Lieutenant General Craig McKinley, Director of the Air National Guard, and Lieutenant General Stephen Wood, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Strategic Plans and Programs. 
   Senator Roberts said, "I am pleased the Air Force and the Air National Guard recognize the unwavering dedication and support our Kansas Guardsmen provide for our national security. This new facility, and the high-tech, state-of-the-art intelligence support equipment housed inside, enables the Kansas Air National Guard to play a direct role in bringing our full military assets and capabilities to bear on the battlefield. I am pleased to have partnered with Congressman Tiahrt to secure critical funds to bring this mission to Kansas."
   Senator Roberts delivered the following speech at the event:
   "Thank you for that kind introduction. And to General Bunting, Colonel Roebuck and the 184th Air Refueling Wing, thank you for hosting this important event to dedicate this new, state-of-the-art Intelligence Facility. 
   "We are all excited about the incredible capabilities this facility brings to the table, allowing the hard working men and women of the Kansas Air National Guard to further enhance their contribution to the war fight.
   "Considering the distinguished crowd here today, thanking everyone who works hard in support of McConnell, Wichita, and the surrounding community would take some time, but I would like to take a moment to thank General Wood and General McKinley for accepting our invitation and taking time out of their busy schedules to be here today. I told them on the plane this morning that after spending time in Kansas, they may not go back. We'll see if they board their plane later today.
   "But on a serious note, I appreciate their service and their dedication to defending the ideals of freedom and liberty - ideals that make this country great. Their presence here today speaks volumes about the Air Force and Air National Guard's commitment to providing timely, accurate, and consistent intelligence support to our troops. 
   "I also want to thank the service men and women here today, those not here, and their families for their unwavering commitment and daily sacrifices. On behalf of this former Marine, thank you. 
   "Everyone here today is familiar with the important contributions of the Kansas Air National Guard. We are also familiar with their resilience and adaptability. Whether it's B-1 Bombers, Tankers, or any other previous mission, the 184th is up for meeting any challenge, conducting any mission, and answering any call to service. 
   "In the War on Terror, where our enemies constantly shift tactics that challenge the traditional characteristics of war, resilience and adaptability are rare commodities. In fact, they are invaluable to executing a successful strategy against the asymmetrical tactics of insurgent and terrorist fighters.
   "And now the Air Force and Air National Guard are calling on the 184th to fill an important role providing battlefield intelligence support to our troops on the ground. 
   "Over the last few years, Congressman Tiahrt and I have worked hard to bring this mission to McConnell. That effort took a major step forward when Congressman Tiahrt secured $7.4 million for construction in 2003. Last year, Todd and I worked together to add $5.6 million for sensitive equipment for the building. 
   "This year we have inserted another $5 million in the House and $7.5 million in the Senate for additional equipment. We expect that bill to come before Congress for final passage later this year. These funds ensure that the 184th maintains a unique intelligence analysis and dissemination capability - a critical tool for our troops in the field. 
   "So why is this building, this equipment, and the mission it houses so important? From lessons learned, we know that the best hardware, software, and weapons platforms provide our troops with a clear advantage in any large force on force conflict. And there is no doubt that we have highly trained and educated service men and women who will be victorious on any traditional battlefield. 
   "But in today's threat environment, it is critical to maintain the combat and intelligence support activities that allow us to bring our full military might to bear on all spectrums of warfare. In such an environment, this facility is a force multiplier for our troops overseas. Its importance can not be overstated.
   "Military leaders like General Wood and General McKinley intimately understand the new dynamics our military faces today. To maintain a constant state of readiness, and to respond to any enemy, General Wood and General McKinley are working to expand our intelligence support capabilities so that we may be successful wherever our military forces are engaged. 
   "They must have heard about the track record of the Kansas Guard in excelling at whatever mission they are asked to perform, because they decided to make McConnell and the 184th a cornerstone of our combat and intelligence support architecture.
   "As we continue to face an organized insurgency in Iraq that is capable of conducting coordinated attacks; a deposed regime in Afghanistan bent on disrupting the rule of law; state sponsored terrorism with countries like Iran; and more traditional threats from countries like North Korea, the Department of Defense must constantly reassess military requirements to enable our troops to respond to the challenges they face in the field. They can find that capability here at McConnell as the Kansas Air National Guard leads the way by providing direct imagery analysis support to our military forces.
   "In closing, I want to reiterate how proud I am to represent the 184th and the entire Kansas Army and Air National Guard. General Bunting's leadership is second to none and I know that he, and the folks here at McConnell, are up to the mission. 
   "As the 184th continues their proud tradition of performing missions absolutely essential to our national defense, they are again leading the way in next generation war fighting capabilities. They have much to be proud of. Thank you."
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 