SEN. ROBERTS SPEAKS ON 9/11 REFORM AT SENATE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Pat Roberts today attended a hearing of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs to discuss intelligence reforms recommended by the 9/11 Commission. The following is the text of his remarks:  
   "Let me begin by saying that Chairwoman Collins has invited the Senate Intelligence Committee to provide input to this Committee's work and we will provide a draft bill for your consideration this week. 
   "That draft bill is guided by the 9/11 Commission's report, which contains important recommendations. Translating those important ideas, some of which are long overdue, into legislative language is complicated, however. As they say, the devil is in the details. 
   "In addition to the 9/11 Commission's report recommendations, the draft bill that will be provided to this Committee is also the result of the discussion and debate over intelligence reform that has gone on over the last several decades. 
   "The products of that debate include the recent report of the Senate Intelligence Committee on the U.S. Intelligence Community's prewar assessments regarding Iraq, the many legislative proposals such as Senator Feinstein's bill and Congresswoman Harman's bill, and the many commissions, investigations and studies that have been convened over the years. 
   "The draft bill that will be provided to this Committee provides for a National Intelligence Director (or NID) that is empowered with the authorities to really lead the Intelligence Community, as proposed in the 9/11 Commission's recommendations. Those authorities include the ability to hire and fire as well as the ability to exercise control over the budgets of those agencies. 
   "As Congress moves toward legislating intelligence reform, guided by the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission report and many of the other various proposals for change, we must keep in mind that we should first do no harm and avoid, as best we can, the law of unintended consequences. 
   "For example, one of the key issues to be resolved is how much control the NID should have over the Department of Defense intelligence elements. There are many good things about the way the Department of Defense conducts its intelligence operations that we must ensure are not undermined by the intelligence reform process. Take for example, a special forces team supported by a military intelligence specialist. 
   "If that team is operating on the field of battle in Iraq during Operation Iraqi Freedom, it seems pretty clear that the team's intelligence specialist is a tactical asset that needs to be controlled by the local military chain of command, and the NID probably doesn't want or need to become involved. 
   "Move that same team to Afghanistan, however, outside the cave where Usama Bin Laden is hiding, and I would argue that the team's intelligence specialist has become a strategic national asset that may require the support and leadership of the NID. The line between the tactical and the strategic military operations gets blurrier every day, complicating the job of defining the NID's authorities. 
   "I am confident that you will find, however, that the draft bill that we will provide to this Committee contains some innovative ways of addressing that problem. 
   "Sadly, many of the Intelligence Community problems described in the 9/11 Commission's report are not unique. The Senate Intelligence Committee's report on prewar intelligence assessments regarding Iraq also describes major problems in the Intelligence Community. The need for significant change is clear, but Congress should focus its efforts on fixing clearly identified problems in our Intelligence Community, and not legislate change merely for the sake of change. 
   "As we consider reform of the Intelligence Community, I feel strongly that we must also insure that we institutionalize change as a continuous process in the Intelligence Community. We can't make the mistake of rearranging the organizational chart to meet the current threat and stop there. 
   "Rather, we must leave in place a system that will continue to adapt to the new threats. International terrorism is a serious threat to the United States and our allies, but I am confident that it will not be the last threat this nation faces. Even today we can see in the headlines that nations like Iran and North Korea continue to work busily on their weapons of mass destruction programs. 
   "I am hopeful that a National Intelligence Director will be able to focus more on running the entire Intelligence Community, and thus will be able to spend more time ensuring that the Intelligence Community continues to adapt to future threats. Otherwise, it will fall again to Congress to conduct reform. 
   "I would note, however, that while the Congress is moving today with impressive determination to conduct what I hope will be real reform, it took the tragedies of 9/11 and the deeply flawed pre-war Iraq intelligence assessments to overcome the obstacles to change that exist here in Congress. 
   "I will leave you with this last thought: as the reform movement gathers momentum to enact the change that is long overdue, we must not forget to also strengthen Congressional oversight so that as new threats emerge and evolve, it will not take another national tragedy to give us the political will to reform the Intelligence Community if it is required again." 
   Senator Roberts is the Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and is a senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross, 202/224-4774.
 
 