SEN. ROBERTS, REP. BOYDA INTRODUCE LEGISLATION FOR FEDERAL BUYOUT FOR TREECE
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Rep. Nancy Boyda (D-KS) today introduced companion legislation in the House and Senate to authorize a federal buyout for Treece, Kansas. The legislation provides for a voluntary relocation program for residents and properties in the community. This proposal is necessary due to the threat of collapsing, abandoned mines in Treece. 
   "This is a major step forward for the community of Treece," Senator Roberts said. "Without the EPA's assistance, residents of Treece may not be able to voluntarily relocate to another town of their choosing, while they continue to face daily safety concerns. They deserve safety and stability."
   The federal government has offered relocation help to several mining towns in Oklahoma, while just across the state border, Treece residents have wondered whether their turn would ever come," said Rep. Boyda. "This legislation finally offers Treece residents hope. They know now that they haven't been left behind. Passing this bill will still take a great deal of hard work, but I am so pleased the wheels are in motion."
   This legislation authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to provide $6 million to the state of Kansas for a voluntary federal buyout of certain properties and the relocation of residents of Treece.
   Treece, population 140, is located in Cherokee County, which encompasses 115 square miles of former mining areas dating back to the early 1900s. At one time it contained the richest lead and zinc ore production in the world. Mining operations in Cherokee County stopped in 1970, but the effects of over 60 years of mining can be seen for miles around in the form of mountains of milling waste. Below these mountains and in surrounding areas are enormous holes and hidden shafts that represent a daily threat to the safety of Treece residents.
   Congresswoman Boyda and Senator Roberts plan to work with state officials to help this legislation progress. The Kansas legislature passed a bill earlier this year that was signed by Governor Sebelius and includes $680,000 in matching state funds for the Treece buyout.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 