SEN. ROBERTS ANNOUNCES SERVICE ACADEMY NOMINATIONS
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts today released the names of the young Kansans who will receive his nomination for appointments to U.S. Service Academies. 
   "I am very pleased to announce this year's nominees," Senator Roberts said. "These men and women are outstanding representatives of Kansas in every way."
   In making the nominations, Senator Roberts followed the recommendations of his Academy Screening Board. The nonpartisan Board is comprised of seven volunteers from across Kansas and is overseen by Karin Wisdom, Senator Roberts' District Director in Wichita. As part of the decision-making process, board members conduct personal interviews with the applicants, as well as review their written applications, G.P.A, and standardized test scores.
   Once nominated by Senator Roberts, the applicants then must meet the individual admission requirements of each academy. The academies will make the final decision on who will receive an appointment of admission. Due to the limited number of openings at each academy, not every nominee will receive an appointment. The academies this spring will announce appointments for the class entering in June 2008. Senator Roberts' nominees are as follows: 
   Air Force Academy: (Colorado Springs, CO)
   Amanda Bolton: Overland Park
  Claire Christie: Overland Park
  Travis Deckert: Wichita
  Kira Gonzalez: Olathe
  Jami Larson: Dodge City
  Katherine Meinig: Paola
  Tyler Neuhedel: Overland Park
  Paul Sang-Do: Wichita
  Michael Stacks: Louisburg
  Trent Wiens: Meade
   United States Military Academy: (West Point, NY)
   Henry Collett: Marion
  David Faerber: Salina
  James Kite III: Overland Park
  Anthony Kleinsorge: Colby
  Christopher Nelson: Leavenworth
  Matt Otterstedt: Overland Park
  Douglas Rosendahl: Leavenworth
   Naval Academy: (Annapolis, MD)
   Sarah Enterkin: Valley Center
  Colleen Fallon: Overland Park
  Adam Goetz: Olathe
  Jeff Gorn: Overland Park
  Elise Harms: Wichita
  Matthew Keith: Maple Hill
  Shaun Kelsey: Parsons
  Haley King: Shawnee
  Tyler Levy: Wichita
  Connor McCarthy: Overland Park
  Edward Round: Leawood
  Katie Schaetzel: Lawrence
  David Shelton: Prairie Village
   Merchant Marine Academy: (Kings Point, NY)
   Luke Goudy: Deerfield
  Kevin Cullen: McPherson
   Senator Roberts will begin accepting applications in March for nominations to academy classes entering in June 2009. Applications at that time should be directed to Karin Wisdom at Senator Roberts' Wichita office (155 North Market St., Suite 120, Wichita, KS 67202 or 316-263-0416).
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 