SEN. ROBERTS, REP. MORAN ANNOUNCE USDA RELEASE OF $1 MILLION IN PLANNING FUNDS FOR RECOVERY, REBUILDING OF GREENSBURG
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts and First District U.S. Congressman Jerry Moran today announced that the United States Department of Agriculture has released $5.9 million to assist Greensburg in the rebuilding and recovery process. This is the first allotment of the $40 million dollars that Roberts and Moran, along with U.S. Senator Sam Brownback and Fourth District U.S. Congressman Todd Tiahrt, secured in May for recovery efforts. 
   Of these funds, $1 million will be available to Greensburg and the surrounding area for recovery planning efforts. The remaining funds will be used for housing, business and community redevelopment efforts.
   "I have heard repeatedly from local officials that planning funds were desperately needed before Greensburg could truly begin the rebuilding process," Senator Roberts said. "With the release of the $1 million for planning purposes, the community can now access resources to accelerate the recovery and rebuilding process. The remaining $40 million will be released as these priorities are developed where they should be - at the local level by community leaders. The announcement of these funds is especially timely with FEMA's release of its "Long Term Community Recovery Plan" to local officials this past Wednesday evening."
   Congressman Moran said, "The residents of Kiowa County have been hard at work these past few months removing debris and laying the groundwork for putting their community back together. The release of this funding will accelerate the process and provide local leaders with additional means to move forward in the development and rebuilding of the community."
   Senator Roberts added, "When President Bush visited Greensburg he committed that the federal government would do everything it could to help rebuild the community. This is an important down payment on that effort."
   Senator Roberts will meet with Greensburg community leaders and USDA Rural Development officials in Greensburg, Saturday August 18, 2007.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 