SEN. ROBERTS INTRODUCES BILL TO PROTECT WICHITA WATER SUPPLY
  Sen. Pat Roberts recently introduced legislation to ensure an ample water supply for the Wichita area. Sen. Roberts' bill is a companion proposal to legislation introduced by Congressman Todd Tiahrt (R-KS). Rep. Tiahrt's legislation was included in a broader bill, H.R. 540, which passed the House late Monday, authorizing the Bureau of Reclamation to assist in a critical water resources project in south-central Kansas. The measure authorizes water recharging of the Equus Beds Division - a vital part of Wichita's comprehensive and integrated water supply strategy.  
   "I am glad to team up with Congressman Tiahrt, who has already shepherded the bill through the house," Roberts said. 
   According to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, the equus beds aquifer is the eastern most extension of the high plains aquifer system. The equus beds are sediments containing an important source of ground water in parts of Harvey, McPherson, Reno, and Sedgwick counties. 
   "This bill will ensure that there is plenty of water and secures the economic future of Wichita-area citizens and businesses through at least 2050," Senator Roberts said. "The beds currently provide half of the Wichita regional municipal water supply and are also vital to the agricultural economy." 
   Recharging the aquifer includes the capture of above base flow water (water from rainfall runoff that exceeds the base river flows established by Kansas) from the Little Arkansas River. The water is then injected into the equus beds. The multi-year project is estimated to cost $110 million. The legislation authorizes federal funding for the lesser of: 25 percent of the total project's cost or $30 million. The Equus Beds Division will be operated and maintained by the City of Wichita. 
   The project also provides environmental protection of the aquifer, which when raised, will slow the salt water intrusion from the Arkansas River and the Burton Oil Fields.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 