THE ROBERTS REPORT - NOVEMBER
  SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION VISIT
   Senator Roberts invited the new U.S. Secretary of the Department of Transportation, Mary Peters to visit the "Air Capital of the World" in Kansas. Joined by Congressman Todd Tiahrt (R-KS), Senator Roberts and the Secretary toured the Cessna Aircraft Company's factory to learn more about the General Aviation industry in Wichita. Secretary Peters comes to the U.S. Department of Transportation at an important time. Next year Congress will renew the Federal Aviation Administration's authority and will examine how the Air Traffic Control system is funded. In Kansas, Roberts encouraged Ms. Peters to consider the effects any policy change would have on the General Aviation community and to work with them to develop a fair and efficient proposal. Following the tour of Cessna, the Secretary and Senator Roberts traveled to Olathe to visit the FAA's Air Traffic Control center to see firsthand how the nation's air traffic controllers keep the airways safe. 
   PAT ROBERTS HALL AT KANSAS STATE
   Senator Roberts was privileged and honored to have a building named after him at his alma mater, Kansas State University. The Roberts family was joined by hundreds of friends from the K-State community at the ribbon cutting ceremony for the new Biosecurity Research Institute. In the event of an agricultural disaster, be it man-made or naturally occurring, this institute will be critical to detect, deter and if necessary, minimize and manage the danger. Kansas State will not only contribute to the security of Kansans, it will lend critical research and protections to the nation and beyond.
   VETERANS DAY
   Honoring Veterans Day this month, Senator Roberts made the following statement:
   "Our nation should be reminded of what it means to be a free people. Our inherent rights are protected by the men and women who have worn and are wearing the uniform. Many have given their full measure in the protection of our freedom. All have sacrificed. Let us take time to remember that if it weren't for these quiet heroes, America would not be America. We would not be free.
   "We can also look to the members of the Patriot Guard, for shielding mourning military families from protesters, for protecting the memory of fallen service members and for preserving the dignity of their service. We should all be guided by their example. With gratitude from one veteran to all others, Semper fi. America, always faithful."
   HONORING WICHITA SRS
   A long-time supporter of food and nutrition programs, Senator Roberts commended the Wichita Regional Office of Social and Rehabilitation Services (SRS) for receiving a 2006 Food Stamp Hunger Champion Honorable Mentors Award given by the United States Department of Agriculture. This award honors local food stamp offices that have provided exemplary service to eligible clients. As one of only seven in the nation to win this award, Senator Roberts applauds the Wichita office for their dedication and commitment to Kansas citizens. If you are in need of nutrition assistance, or know someone who is, please visit: www.foodstamps-step1.usda.gov or call 1-888-369-4777.
 
 