SEN. ROBERTS' BILL TO PRESERVE OPERATIONS AT BOSTWICK, WEBSTER IRRIGATION DISTRICTS PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced that late last night, the Senate passed legislation to preserve current operations at two Kansas Irrigation Districts, Bostwick and Webster, effecting more than 450 farmers in Republic, Jewell, Smith and Osborne Counties. 
   "I am pleased the Senate was able to approve this legislation so that the Bostwick and Webster Irrigation Districts are able to continue providing vital services to farmers," Senator Roberts said. "Along with farmers, these districts provide economic benefits for 12 counties. They are the backbone of these rural communities which can ill afford more hardship due to drought." 
   Irrigation districts purchase water rights from the U.S. Department of Interior. Districts then charge farmers who irrigate for water delivered in order to repay their debt to the Department of Interior. Due to three years of prolonged drought, these farmers have received a diminished supply, or none at all.
   Because of this lack of income, these irrigation districts cannot make their payments to the Department of Interior.
   The Bill, introduced by Senator Roberts with Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Ben Nelson (D-NE) extends the repayment program of four irrigation districts for 10 years. The four districts include: Bostwick and Webster in Kansas, and two districts in Nebraska including: Nebraska Bostwick and Frenchman Cambridge. These districts together serve more than 1000 producers.
   The Bill, introduced by Senator Roberts with Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Chuck Hagel (R-NE) and Ben Nelson (D-NE) extends the repayment program of four irrigation districts for 10 years. The four districts include: Bostwick and Webster in Kansas, and two districts in Nebraska including: Nebraska Bostwick and Frenchman Cambridge. These districts together serve more than 1000 producers.
  By extending the amount of time the districts may repay their loans, annual payments would be reduced allowing districts to meet their repayment responsibilities.
   An identical bill, introduced by First District Congressman Jerry Moran (R-KS), passed the House. The legislation now goes to the president to be signed into law.
   An identical bill, introduced by First District Congressman Jerry Moran (R-KS), passed the House. The legislation now goes to the president to be signed into law.
   Senator Roberts is a key member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 