SEN. ROBERTS SHOWCASES UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS MEDICAL CENTER'S RESEARCH FACILITIES ON TOUR WITH NIH DIRECTOR
  Sen. Pat Roberts today showcased key biomedical research conducted at the University of Kansas Medical Center to National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director Dr. Elias Zerhouni, MD during a tour of the Hoglund Brain Imaging Center and other research facilities.  
   "I am pleased Dr. Zerhouni has taken the time to come out to Kansas to see first hand what I have been boasting about in Washington," Senator Roberts said. "Kansas City can be proud of a great partnership with local and federal governments, private enterprise and our universities building an exciting future in the area based on life science research. We already have top notch research facilities in Kansas and Missouri like Hoglund, Midwest Research Institute, Stowers, National Institute of Aviation Research in Wichita and Kansas State's National Agriculture Biosecurity Center just to name a few." 
   Upon touring KUMC, Senator Roberts said, "What anchors this endeavor is a research hospital and medical school, giving laboratory researchers, doctors, and nurses, an opportunity to participate in the treatment and healing of patients with new drugs and technologies. Every time I visit the Med Center I am amazed at their expertise, not only in research, but in treating patients." 
   "The Hoglund Center and the new Biomedical Research Center, which is now under construction thanks in part to proceeds from the Legislature's bonding bill, have made Kansas more competitive and have helped increase collaboration from researchers across the state," Senator Roberts said. "Last year, NIH supported over $78 million in vital health care research in Kansas. I look forward to the day when we surpass $100 million in research because of the state's combined research initiatives." 
   As part of Senator Roberts' efforts to increase the federal investment in research infrastructure in Kansas, he obtained $1.8 million in federal funds to purchase imaging equipment for Hoglund. 
   Senator Roberts stressed the benefits from an economy driven by research, saying, "Today we observed first hand how NIH research returns priceless benefits to Kansans, giving health care providers new tools and drugs to heal and give hope to individuals. The more Kansas commits to research, it becomes more competitive in national research grants. Not only is our state's economy becoming more diversified, but we are improving our state's health care." 
   "Dr. Zerhouni and I discussed his roadmap plan to improve and expand NIH research," Senator Roberts noted. "Kansas is responding. Many of the schools across Kansas are collaborating; and, researchers are teaming up and providing expertise across many different scientific disciplines. Top researchers from the K-State Veterinary School have a $10 million NIH grant to conduct cell research and some of their research partners are located here at the Med Center. Researchers at Emporia State and Wichita State are making contributions too." 
   Senator Roberts is known as an outspoken advocate for increased investment in science and technology research infrastructure in Kansas and the rest of the nation. He has testified before the state legislature calling for the research bonding authority and is an active participant in the Kansas City Life Sciences initiative. Roberts was named the 2003-2004 Legislator of the Year by the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) for his support of strong investment in biotechnology and scientific research. In 1997, Roberts created an Advisory Committee on Science, Technology and the Future to advise him on these critical issues. The committee found that without some major effort to improve Kansas research facilities, the state would fall farther and farther behind in providing high-level, high tech jobs for future generations.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 