CHAIRMAN ROBERTS HOLDS HEARING ON 9/11 COMMISSION'S RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INTEL REFORM
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today held a rare recess hearing on the 9/11 Commission's Recommendations for Intelligence Reform. 
   Witnesses for the hearing included: Dr. Amy Zegart, UCLA School of Public Affairs, Dr. David Kay, Potomac Institute for Policy Studies, and General Charles G. Boyd, Business Executives for National Security (BENS).  
   The following are Senator Robert's remarks: 
   "Today the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence meets in open session to continue our examination of intelligence reform issues. 
   "Since the Congress adjourned on July 22nd, 11 Committees have held or intend to hold a total of 21 hearings on the topic of intelligence reform. I welcome my colleagues on other Committees as they begin to examine the issues with which this committee has wrestled for over 27 years. 
   "As anyone who is familiar with the Intelligence Community well knows, it reaches across many government agencies and disciplines. So it is appropriate that other Committees within the Senate and House take an interest in the facets that touch upon their respective areas of responsibility. 
   "There is, however, one Committee whose jurisdiction and mandate encompasses every facet of this topic and that is the Senate Intelligence Committee. It is this Committee that must weigh not only the interests of the national users of intelligence, but also the military users. We must, by necessity, balance the needs of each without presuming the primacy of either. 
   "As this Committee has attempted reforms over the years, many of which were intended to accomplish the same goals we are discussing the day, we have found that other committees of jurisdiction often hold the keys to success. 
   "It is with that in mind that we intend to work very closely with our counterparts on other Committees to ensure that they have the full benefit of this Committee's long history and experience. 
   "As I stated publicly on Monday, we are working to draft legislation that we will share with the appropriate Committees when we have reached general agreement among our own ranks. I believe that we can accomplish that within a relatively short period of time. 
   "Our goal is to address the major concerns outlined by the 9-11 Commission, as well as those of the Joint House and Senate Inquiry into 9-11, our report on prewar intelligence on Iraq, and this Committee's collective experience over the past two decades. 
   "Translating those important ideas, some of which are long overdue, into legislative language is complicated, however. As they say, the devil is in the details. 
   "As members of this committee well know, the missions of the intelligence community are as diverse as the 15 intelligence community members themselves. While counter-terrorism rightly stands foremost among our concerns, we mustn't legislate reform that "hard-wires" an intelligence community to fight a single threat as we did with the Cold War. 
   "Terrorism will not be the last threat this nation faces. 
   "Therefore, we must provide a legal framework and provide ample resources to allow the executive branch the flexibility required of the demanding and changing threats. Congress should then be prepared to provide its required oversight. Our ability to do so effectively should also be examined closely as recommended by the Commission. 
   "In this discourse on reform, many of the terms used to craft the "lanes in road" and justify the missions of particular agencies are ambiguous -- even to the experts -- and some may even be obsolete. I would challenge anyone to clearly define the boundary between national intelligence and military intelligence; or where strategic intelligence ends and tactical intelligence begins. 
   "The light infantry forces fighting us in Viet Nam were a tactical concern; the light infantry forces fighting us in Tora Bora are of national interest in our global war on terrorism. The small boat that killed our sailors on the USS Cole may have been a tactical concern to the Cole's commander, but it was of great strategic concern to our national policymakers. 
   "How we consider tactical elements as both consumers and collectors of intelligence, and vice versa for national entities, is central to much of this debate. 
   "We must also seriously discuss whether the constructs of the past have any meaning for the future. By this I am referring to the primacy of the Department of Defense vis-B-vis the defense agencies such as the National Security Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the National Reconnaisance Office and so on. 
   "Why would a National Intelligence Director with actual budget and line authority over these agencies be any less responsive to the needs of the Department of Defense than the Secretary of Defense? They both must answer to the same President and achieve jointly the same goals. 
   "I suspect the answer lies in realizing that easy delineations are no longer feasible, and this will provide even further impetus to breaking down institutional structures, biases and cultures, often referred to as "stovepipes." These divisions exist not only between agencies but between the concepts of strategic versus tactical, and national versus military. 
   "Reflecting these ambiguities and divisions are intelligence budgets which are often similarly vague. The National Foreign Intelligence Program or N-FIP funds all non-DoD intelligence activities, as well as four national entities resident within DoD. 
   "The Joint Military Intelligence Program or JMIP [jay-mip] funds DoD-level activities of interest to more than one service and/or the unified commands. 
   "And the military services' Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities, or TIARA, fund their individual intelligence activities. Yet JMIP and TIARA monies also help fund national agencies. Budget lines are often as fuzzy as functional lines. 
   "As we deliberate granting further NFIP budget authorities to a NID, we must be certain to understand the often nuanced ramifications to DoD's "other" intelligence budgets, the JMIP and TIARA. 
   "We must also clearly understand what budget authority means and how we intend to distinguish it from the authorities already granted the Director of Central Intelligence in the National Security Act of 1947. 
   "Underlying actual statutory authorities is a bureaucratic and political dynamic, and as General Richard Myers said yesterday, a corporate culture that I believe we will never be able to legislate away. In other words, we should be realistic in what we can expect even if we make significant changes, and how long it will take for those changes to work their way down to the working level. 
   "The fact that such changes will take time to take effect is, however, only more reason for Congress to act quickly. 
   "One thing is certain. We are in a window of opportunity that should not be squandered. Rarely does the President and the entire Congress focus on a single issue with such intensity. 
   "If the elected officials of the executive and legislative branches of government are once again unable to change the bureaucracies that they manage and oversee, respectively, we have done a grave disservice to the people who bestowed this high honor upon us. 
   "I hope that today's hearing will illustrate that necessity and provide further insights into these difficult issues."
   Contact: Sarah Ross, 202/224-4774.
 
 