SEN. ROBERTS, REP. TIAHRT: NEW MISSIONS FOR KANSAS AIR GUARD TO PROVIDE CRITICAL INTEL FOR TROOPS
  Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Rep. Todd Tiahrt (R-Goddard) today welcomed a new chapter in the storied history of the Kansas Air National Guard with the announcement of two mission expansions, a Distributed Ground System (DGS) and intelligence support mission for the 184th Air Refueling Wing at McConnell, and an Air Support Operations Squadron (ASOS) at Smoky Hill Weapons Range near Salina. 
   DISTRIBUTED GROUND SYSTEM (DGS) 
   The DGS mission processes multi-sensory intelligence support to the men and women conducting operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and elsewhere overseas. The DGS mission is an important component of our battlefield combat and intelligence support architecture.
   Senator Roberts said, "Facing new and emerging threats, with terrorists and other extremists conducting insurgency warfare on our service men and women, we must bring all of our intelligence and military assets and capabilities to bear to enhance the eyes and ears, and battlefield awareness, of our troops on the ground. This mission leverages McConnell's unparalleled intelligence capability, along with state-of-the-art facilities and equipment Congressman Tiahrt and I partnered to secure, to ensure our troops receive the support necessary to accomplish the mission. Working together with Todd for several years to bring new and robust missions to McConnell and the Kansas Air National Guard, I am pleased this is now a reality."
   Congressman Tiahrt said, "The men and women of the 184th have consistently proven they will excel at whatever task they are asked to perform. This important new mission expansion is recognition by the Pentagon that the 184th plays a significant role in our national defense. The Kansas delegation has worked tirelessly to strengthen and grow the 184th. Bringing the Intel missions to McConnell in 2001 laid the groundwork for these new missions, and we look forward to continuing to build on this development."
   Senator Roberts and Congressman Tiahrt have worked tirelessly over the last several years to secure funding for this mission. In 2003, Congressman Tiahrt secured $7.4 million for the construction of the facility. Additionally, Roberts and Tiahrt secured $5.6 million last year to purchase sensitive equipment required for the mission. Roberts and Tiahrt are also working to secure additional funds for equipment purchases in this year's Defense Appropriations Bill. The Fiscal Year 2007 House and Senate Defense Appropriations bills have $5 million and $7.5 million, respectively, for this purpose. Debate and final passage of these bills is expected later this year following the Congressional recess. 
   AIR SUPPORT OPERATIONS SQUADRON (ASOS)
   Senator Roberts and Congressman Tiahrt are also pleased with the announcement for the Air Support Operations Squadron (ASOS), which will significantly enhance Smoky Hill's ability to coordinate air combat support to troops on the ground. When deployed, the ASOS will enable critical air support for our troops in theater and, when home, the ASOS will greatly enhance the scope of training for Fort Riley and other units utilizing Smoky Hill's training and maneuver assets. With over 36,000 acres, Smoky Hill is the Air National Guard's largest weapons range. 
   Senator Roberts said, "I am pleased with the announcement of the new Air Support Operations Squadron (ASOS). This mission further validates Smoky Hill as one of the premier training installations in the country, and serves as a joint force training multiplier for military units utilizing the training range's expansive capabilities."
   Congressman Tiahrt said, "We are pleased to have the ASOS mission in Kansas. This is an important first step in realizing the full potential of Smoky Hill and it is great for the entire state."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 