SENS. ROBERTS, BROWNBACK ANNOUNCE NEW TROOPS AT FORT RILEY
  U.S. Senators Pat Roberts and Sam Brownback (R-KS) today announced the Army's decision to station an Engineering Battalion at Fort Riley as part of the services' Grow the Force initiative. 
   "I am extremely proud of the work the men and women at Fort Riley perform in defense of our nation," Senator Roberts said. "The Army's decision to station more troops at the Fort, on top of what we received through BRAC, is continued proof of their fine work and the support they receive from our Kansas communities."
   In total, over 1,300 soldiers will be added to Fort Riley in the coming years as part of the Engineering Battalion and additions to other units at Fort Riley. The men and women of the Engineering Battalion will be responsible for maintaining and resetting valuable equipment as it returns from Iraq and Afghanistan.
   When combined with the 2005 BRAC results, over 20,000 soldiers and 3 Brigade Combat Teams will be stationed at Fort Riley. Additionally, Fort Leavenworth will receive almost 274 Military Police as part of the Army's Grow the Force initiative.
   "I'm very pleased that the Army continues to recognize that Kansas is a great place to station new soldiers and build new capabilities," Senator Brownback said. "Kansas communities have done an outstanding job hosting the First Infantry Division, one of the Army's premier units. We look forward to growing with the Army in and around Fort Riley."
   In October, the entire Kansas Congressional delegation sent a letter to the Chief of Staff of the Army, General George Casey, in support of a new Infantry Brigade Combat Team to be hosted at Ftort Riley. The letter was signed by Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Representatives Nancy Boyda (D-KS), Dennis Moore (D-KS), Jerry Moran (R-KS) and Todd Tiahrt (R-KS). In November, Senator Roberts met with United States Secretary of the Army, Pete Geren, to recommend the Army place a new Infantry Brigade Combat Team at Fort Riley as part of the Army's Grow the Force initiative.
   The estimated economic impact of Kansas's military installations is over $2 billion to the Kansas economy each year. Adding additional staff to Fort Riley will further contribute to the Kansas economy.
   Senator Roberts is a former Marine and former Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 