SEN. ROBERTS URGES USDA TO EXPAND RELEASE OF CRP LAND FOR EMERGENCY HAYING, GRAZING
  Sen. Pat Roberts sent a letter late yesterday to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, Michael Johanns, requesting an expansion of counties eligible for emergency haying and grazing of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP)acreage in Kansas. 
  The following is the text of the letter:
   "I write to request your assistance in expanding emergency haying and grazing of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acreage to farmers and ranchers in additional counties in Kansas. This expansion would include producers with operations in counties bordering those already approved for emergency haying and grazing. 
   "I have heard from producers facing severe drought conditions in many of these border counties. The dividing line between those with adequate moisture and those facing severe drought conditions is often only a matter of miles and is not defined by county lines.
   "There are many reports of hay shortages and deteriorating pasture conditions that will soon force some producers to begin liquidating a portion of their herds. The release of CRP for emergency haying and grazing would be a strong step in helping to alleviate this problem. While I understand that the Drought Monitor may not currently show severe or extreme drought in these counties, on the ground reports from many producers indicate extreme drought conditions and forage losses. 
   "In addition, I have heard concerns from many producers regarding the ability of producers in approved counties to go out up to a 150 mile radius to obtain emergency haying and grazing CRP. Many producers in border counties see this as a severe inequity. To help address the concerns of these producers in border counties I ask you to use any and all flexibility available to you to help provide assistance and approve these counties for emergency haying and grazing.
   "I also recommend lowering the reduction in rental rate from 25 percent to 10 percent for managed haying and grazing in counties already approved for emergency activities. This would open up additional forage in those counties and would help alleviate the need for producers to go to nonapproved border counties for hay. Finally, I also request an extension to September 30 for emergency grazing in approved counties and contiguous counties.
   "The drought situation in many areas is prolonged and severe. I appreciate your attention to this matter and thank you for any efforts you can take to help alleviate the stress of drought conditions for farmers and ranchers."
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 