SEN. ROBERTS INTRODUCES BILL TO MAKE QUALITY CHILD CARE AVAILABLE TO MORE AMERICANS
  In order to help meet critical child care challenges facing families, Sen. Pat Roberts today introduced "The Caring for Children Act," important legislation to improve the availability of quality child care in America. 
   "The 'Caring for Children Act' expands child care opportunities without unnecessary government intervention or mandates," Senator Roberts said. "This legislation will help working families who want quality child care for their children, child care providers who aim to provide the highest quality of care, and small businesses who currently may not have the resources to provide child care for their employees."
   The legislation includes a short-term, flexible grant program to encourage small businesses to work together or with other local child care agencies to provide child care services for employees. Small businesses will be eligible for grants up to $250,000 for start-up costs, training, scholarships, or other related activities. Businesses, however, will be required to match federal funds to encourage self-sustaining facilities well into the future. The businesses will also be required to meet state health and safety requirements. This grant program takes the necessary steps to ensuring small businesses and other local organizations are able to work together to provide child care for employees.
   The "Caring for Children Act" also addresses another key component of quality child care: child care training. It creates a new grant program to allow organizations to develop and operate distance learning child care training and to develop model technology-based training courses for child care providers. These opportunities will enable child care providers to receive the training, education and support they need to improve the quality of child care they provide. The bill encourages grantees to work with secondary schools, institutions of higher education, state and local governments, and child care organizations to promote networking, information sharing, and resource sharing. These grants will be targeted to those areas with the fewest training opportunities for child care providers. 
   "Child care is an issue that impacts many of us," Senator Roberts said. "While parents continue to struggle to meet the constant demand of work and family, we must continue to do our part to expand child care options and protect our nation's most valuable resource, our children."
   Senator Roberts is a member of the Senate Health, Education Labor and Pensions Committee. He is an outspoken advocate for increased funding for child care initiatives.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.  
 
 