SEN. ROBERTS REACTS TO PRESIDENT'S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS
  Sen. Pat Roberts issued the following statement following President Bush's State of the Union address: 
   "I think the President showed much of what we saw in Kansas during his visit last week - an optimism about the challenges we face in our nation - and a real resolve in his efforts to lead this country in the global fight against terrorism.  
   "I agree with the President that debate on critical issues, especially our national security, has descended into anger and partisanship. I have said for some time that words have consequences. They effect the morale of our troops in the midst of war - more importantly, the terrorists who question our resolve. I hope that my colleagues will learn from his example and return to constructive discussions on the challenges facing our nation. 
   "As Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I was impressed with the President's comprehensive approach to our homeland security. Our nation has made a choice to engage our enemies - no matter how far from our own shores - to ensure that we aren't attacked again at home. Part of this decision to fight and lead the war on terror means using every constitutional tool including the National Security Agency's terrorism surveillance program. As the President has said, if someone in the United States is talking overseas to a suspected al qaeda operative - we want to know about that. Usama Bin Ladin made it clear just a few weeks ago and again yesterday with a message from his top deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri: that Terrorists want to attack us again - with weapons of mass destruction. If al Qaeda has collaborators and associates in the United States, our Commander-in-Chief needs to know about it as soon as possible. He needs to use every constitutional tool at his disposal to find and capture or kill the enemies of this nation. 
   "I was also pleased with the President's emphasis on economic competitiveness. We know about this issue in Kansas. I have long maintained that the key to the economic future and stability of Kansas is investment in science, technology and research. 
   "We cannot simply stand by and watch other countries compete or even surpass the U.S. in producing qualified talent and in developing new technologies, cures, or innovations. With limited federal resources, it is imperative that we make smart investments and target funding to those areas that are critical to our nation's future. This is why, several years ago, I authored the Math and Science Partnerships Program, which is included in the No Child Left Behind Act: 
   "The Math and Science Partnerships program provides grants to states for funding innovative partnerships to strengthen math and science instruction and to enhance math and science learning at the elementary and secondary levels. This program encourages partnerships between universities, local businesses and elementary and secondary schools in communities across the nation to develop strong math and science coursework to improve student achievement. 
   "I am encouraged and pleased with President Bush's comments on health care. As a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, I am committed to improving our health care infrastructure and making the system more affordable for all Kansans. 
   "I agree with President Bush's efforts to integrate health information technology into our health care system. In fact, I am a cosponsor of legislation to do just that. The Wired for Health Care Quality Act lays the foundation for cutting-edge health information technology to improve health care and facilitate information sharing among doctors, hospitals, and insurers. It will improve patient care, reduce medical errors, and make health care more efficient. I am pleased the Senate unanimously approved this legislation last year and I look forward to the House considering similar legislation later this year. 
   "I applaud President Bush's call to alleviate the high health care costs facing our small businesses. I frequently hear from small business owners across Kansas that one of their biggest concerns in running their business is trying to provide affordable health insurance to their employees. Association Health Plans (AHPs) would allow small businesses to pool together to either purchase their health insurance from a provider in order to offer lower cost coverage to employers, employees and their families. 
   "I have been working with Chairman Enzi and other members of the HELP Committee over the past few months to craft legislation that reduces the burdens placed on our small businesses, while at the same time addressing the concerns of those groups who have traditionally opposed AHPs. It is my hope the HELP Committee will soon consider this compromise legislation so we can finally provide real relief to small businesses across Kansas and across the nation."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 