SEN. ROBERTS: ARMY'S LEWIS AND CLARK CENTER TO TEACH FUTURE GENERATIONS TO DEFEND LIBERTY
  Sen. Pat Roberts today helped the Army break ground on the Lewis and Clark Center, the new home of its Command and General Staff College.  
  "This project is about much more than replacing an old building," Sen. Roberts said. "As the intellectual center of the Army, Fort Leavenworth's education of Army leaders is absolutely critical to the success of the Army's transformation, the Army's future and our National Security."
   The Command and General Staff College (CGSC) is the senior educational institution for teaching tactics and staff procedures for the United States Army. Within the four schools of the college more than 22,000 resident and nonresident officers are trained annually, including Army active and reserve components, international officers, and officers from other U.S. armed services. 
   Senator Roberts' involvement in the ground breaking began in April 2001, when, after speaking to the CGSC, he was given a tour of Bell Hall, the old facility for the college. 
   "At one point along the way, Mr. Russell, Chief of Maintenance, reached up into the ceiling and pulled down a piece of the building's water system - it was the most corroded and rusted piece of pipe I'd ever seen. That pipe became Exhibit "A" as we insisted on action to replace Bell Hall at the Pentagon and on Capitol Hill. Bell Hall looked OK from the outside but was falling apart on the inside - this - the premier instructional facility within the intellectual center of the United States Army." 
   In 2001, Senator Roberts began to work with Lieutenant General Steele to support his efforts to replace Bell Hall. Shortly thereafter, working with Lieutenant General Riley, Senator Roberts secured the design funding for the Lewis and Clark Center, and then last year, with Lieutenant General Wallace's leadership, secured funding for construction of this project. 
   "When you begin to appreciate the importance of the education and the international relationship that is achieved here can you begin to appreciate the importance of this project," Senator Roberts said. "I am proud to have played a small role in this achievement. The defense of liberty and individual freedom falls to every generation. I know that the Lewis and Clark Center will help the Army safely pass the torch to future generations."
   Contact: Sarah Ross, 202/224-4774.
 
 