SEN. ROBERTS LEADS DELEGATION IN SUPPORTING ARMY CORPS APPROVED 32ND ST. FOR SOUTH LAWRENCE TRAFFICWAY
  Sen. Pat Roberts, in a strong show of support for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' approved 32nd Street route for the South Lawrence Trafficway, sent a letter signed by members of the Kansas Congressional delegation to the Federal Highway Administration. Sen. Sam Brownback, Reps. Jim Ryun, Jerry Moran and Todd Tiahrt joined Roberts in signing the letter. 
   In the letter, the members of Congress said, "Currently, Kansas Highway 10 is routed through city streets in Lawrence, creating congested and unsafe driving conditions. Furthermore, as northeast Kansas residential and business interests continue to grow, so do regional demands on the existing transportation infrastructure. A safe and efficient transportation system will help this development benefit the entire state."
   Recently, the Federal Highway Administration announced their intent to adopt the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers regarding the 32nd Street alignment. 
   The letter sent by members of the Kansas Congressional delegation was submitted as part of a public comment period regarding the Federal Highway Administration's intent to adopt the Corps' work.
   The Douglas County Commission, The K-10 Association, The Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce, Kansas State University, The City of Tonganoxie, The City of Overland Park, The City of Lenexa, The Olathe Chamber of Commerce, and the Kansas Association of Realtors also submitted letters of support during the public comment period.
   The Corps completed exhaustive and thorough work to reach their decision. They reached out to all communities involved (including over 500 American Indian Tribes) and examined multiple routes for the project (including a south of the Wakarusa River route). After all of this work, the Corps determined the 32nd Street route, along with a mitigation package creating over 300 acres of new wetlands, was the best use of taxpayer dollars.
   "Progress on the Corps' approved 32nd Street route for the South Lawrence Trafficway, connecting the southern Kansas City area to I-70, is critical for safety and the development of the Kansas Technology Corridor," Senator Roberts said. "We must look to the future and make this investment to help create the bio-science and high-tech corridor from Manhattan to Topeka to Lawrence to Kansas City."
   Senator Roberts secured $1.5 million for the SLT's Corps approved 32nd Street route in the 2005 Transportation Appropriations Bill and is an outspoken advocate for increased federal, state and local investment in science and technology research and development infrastructure.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 