THE ROBERTS REPORT - NOVEMBER
  Veterans Day Weekend - Kansas City, Lawrence, Wichita, Topeka and Leavenworth
   To celebrate the Marine Corp's 232nd birthday, Senator Roberts attended the Globe and Anchor Society's Marine Corp Birthday Celebration in Kansas City, KS. As a former Marine, Senator Roberts was honored to be the Guest of Honor and speak to this group. He also spoke at the Marine Corp Birthday Celebration in Lawrence at the Dole Institute of Politics.
   Senator Roberts was the Co-Grand Marshall in the Wichita Veterans' Day Parade with Governor Sebelius, Rep. Tiahrt, General Bunting and MG Broadway. He also attended the Great Overland Station Veterans' Day Event Sponsored by the American Legion Riders and the Patriot Guard in Topeka. Roberts also participated in the Leavenworth County Veterans Day Parade in Leavenworth - organizers say this is the oldest and largest Veterans Day Parade in the nation. Senator Roberts said, "On Veterans Day and everyday, let us give heartfelt thanks to our brave veterans for their service and sacrifice. From this former veteran Marine, Semper fidelis - always faithful." 
   Grow the Force at Ft. Riley
   Continuing his efforts to bring a new brigade to Ft. Riley, Senator Roberts personally urged the United States Secretary of the Army, Pete Geren, to place a new Infantry Brigade Combat Team at Ft. Riley as part of the Army's Grow the Force initiative.
   Last month, Senator Roberts and the entire Kansas Congressional Delegation sent a letter to General George Casey, Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army, in support of the Army's consideration of Fort Riley under the "Grow the Force" plan to place new brigades across the country. The Army will make their first round of cuts in early December for this new initiative. The estimated economic impact of Kansas's military installations is over $2 billion each year. Adding another brigade to Ft. Riley would further contribute to the Kansas economy. 
   Farm Bill
   As a member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Senator Roberts has been busy working on the Farm Bill this month. Senator Roberts said:
   "I am disappointed that Senate consideration of the new Farm Bill has been blocked since the Majority leadership used a parliamentary tactic to prohibit any additional amendments to the Farm Bill. This is not the way to run the Senate and our producers deserve better. I am frustrated with Senators blaming each other and putting politics before our farmers and ranchers.
   "The Senate needs to complete a Farm Bill and I hope this standoff comes to an end soon. I plan to work with my colleagues to continue the fight to protect the programs in the Farm Bill that work for Kansas farmers and ranchers, including direct payments and crop insurance."
   Groundbreaking at Ft. Riley
   Senator Roberts participated in the groundbreaking ceremony for the new Kansas State Veterans' Cemetery at Ft. Riley on Veterans Day. The new cemetery will serve more than 30,000 veterans and their family members living in the area. Senator Roberts said, "We truly owe our military members a debt of gratitude and for those who pay the ultimate sacrifice, this is an honor that our country should provide."
   Senators Brownback and Roberts announced a $4.3 million grant was awarded from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs to establish this cemetery at Ft. Riley. The grant covers costs of infrastructure, administration and maintenance buildings, roads, utilities, landscaping and irrigation, a memorial walkway, assembly area and service shelter.
 
 