SEN. ROBERTS TO HOST SENATE AG COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN CHAMBLISS AT STATE FAIR
  Sen. Pat Roberts is pleased to announce that Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry has accepted his invitation to attend the Kansas State Fair in Hutchinson on Saturday, September 9, 2006 to visit with Kansas producers about the new Farm Bill and general agriculture policy. 
   The following events are open to the media:
   Saturday, September 9, 2006
   10:00 am 
   CSTSenator Roberts and Chairman Chambliss participate in an Agriculture Forum moderated by 580 WIBW/Kansas Agriculture Network's Greg Akagi
   Gottschalk Park Gazebo stage, Kansas State Fairgrounds, Hutchinson
   10:50 am 
   CSTSenator Roberts and Chairman Chambliss hold Media Availability following Agriculture Forum. The Senators will be on hand for interviews.
   Near Gottschalk Park Gazebo stage, Kansas State Fairgrounds, Hutchinson
   "I am pleased that Chairman Chambliss will visit Kansas to provide insight on current agriculture policy and his outlook for the next Farm Bill. Having served as House Agriculture Committee Chairman, I know that preparing for a Farm Bill is no easy task. Chairman Chambliss has been an outstanding champion for our agriculture producers, and I am pleased that he has agreed to come sit on the wagon-tongue with Kansas farmers and ranchers. It is an honor to be able to host him at this annual showcase of the best Kansas has to offer," Senator Roberts said.
   "Pat's experience through six farm bills, his commitment to agriculture, his integrity and loyalty to the American farmer and rancher always encourages a clear and positive conversation about agriculture's future," said Senator Chambliss. "In addition to being a great friend of the American farmer, Pat is my good friend so sharing a discussion with Kansas producers at the State Fair with Pat Roberts is an invitation I look forward to with great excitement."
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 