SEN. ROBERTS CONTINUES AS CHAIRMAN OF INTELLIGENCE
  Sen. Pat Roberts was selected by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN) to continue as Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence to further critical reforms to the nation's intelligence community. Senator Roberts will also retain his membership on committees important to Kansas including: Agriculture Nutrition and Forestry, Armed Services, Health Education Labor and Pensions (HELP) and the Senate Ethics Committee.  
   "As Chairman of the Intelligence Committee," Senator Roberts said. "I look forward to continuing my work on the critical national security challenges we face as a nation. As always I will continue to look for ways to improve the daily lives and pocket books of Kansans whether it is protecting our food supply on the Agriculture Committee, improving the quality of life for our men and women in uniform and their families on the Armed Services Committee or fighting for better education for our children on the HELP Committee." 
   In the 108th Congress, Senator Roberts led the Intelligence Committee through one of the toughest assessments ever conducted on the U.S. intelligence community in its review of pre-war intelligence on Iraq. Roberts discovered many fundamental intelligence failures that must be addressed in the 109th Congress. "First," Senator Roberts said, "We will monitor the implementation of the 9/11 Intelligence Reform legislation just signed in to law. This will include getting a Director of National Intelligence confirmed and working with that person to ensure that the new structure is effective. Second, we will have to monitor implementation of the bill to detect any unintended consequences. Finally, we must be prepared to make further incremental changes to the structure of the Intelligence Community, as required. The forthcoming report by the President's Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Commission will be helpful in determining the need for further reforms." 
   Senator Roberts will remain a senior member of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry Committee. "Chief among my concerns for agriculture will be continuing to protect the nation's food security," Roberts said. "We have come a long way in setting up rapid response systems and research facilities, but we can do much more. We will also improve our efforts to deal with BSE. We need to monitor the new animal identification process at USDA. We will take a look at other trade and WTO issues like the fallout from the Brazilian cotton case. We may also get into hearings on the next Farm Bill where I am anxious to roll up my sleeves and get to work." 
   As a former Marine, Senator Roberts will continue his efforts on behalf of the nation's armed forces. "From my position on the Armed Services Committee, I will not only ensure that our uniformed men and women have the equipment, training, and resources they need to succeed in the Global War on Terrorism, but also will work to ensure that we build and maintain the right type and mix of forces needed to ensure our supremacy over the threats we anticipate in the near future," Roberts said. In addition, Senator Roberts will focus on the continuing threat posed by advanced weapons proliferation. 
   The Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee is slated to re-authorize the Head Start program. Senator Roberts is an outspoken advocate for the Head Start program. Last year, Roberts fought hard to block a proposal to create a Head Start demonstration project to allow states to administer the Head Start program. "I am against this proposal," Senator Roberts said, "because it sets the stage for all states to take over this successful federal-to-local program and threatens to unravel the good work our Head Start programs have done since 1965." 
   Roberts will also review proposals to increase the accountability of Head Start programs after the recent discovery of Head Start administrative salary abuses in Kansas City, MO. Senator Roberts supported a proposal to place a cap on salaries and successfully called for an annual administrative review of each Head Start center. 
   "It's frustrating that the actions of one administrator in Kansas City, Missouri have cast a black cloud over the excellent and vital Head Start programs across the country. Head Start provides invaluable services to children and parents to the benefit of the entire community. I saw this first hand in centers I visited in Kansas," Roberts said. 
   "President Bush has presented the Congress with an aggressive domestic and international agenda," Senator Roberts said. "I intend to work with my colleagues on issues like Social Security reform, medical malpractice, tax code simplification and an energy bill while continuing our efforts in Iraq, the Global War on Terror and at home in Kansas."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 