SEN. ROBERTS: 32ND ST. SLT IS ONLY FEASIBLE, PRUDENT SOLUTION
  Sen. Pat Roberts today said the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' approved 32nd Street route with the accompanying mitigation package for the South Lawrence Trafficway is the only feasible and prudent solution addressing the region's safety and transportation needs.  
   Roberts led the Kansas delegation in sending a second letter dated December 19, 2006, to the Federal Highway Administration regarding their most recent analysis (draft Section 4(f) Evaluation) of alternatives that address the traffic and safety needs of Kansas Highway 10. U.S. Senator Sam Brownback, U.S. Representatives Jim Ryun, Jerry Moran and Todd Tiahrt joined Roberts in signing the letter.
   In the letter the members of Congress said, "The time has long come to move forward with this project in a way that addresses the state's safety, efficiency and environmental concerns. The 32nd Street alternative achieves these goals. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), the Kansas Department of Transportation, the Kansas State Historic Preservation Officer, Baker University, Douglas County and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation agreed on a mitigation package that protects the environment by creating a net increase of 259 acres of wetlands. Such an agreement does not exist for the 42nd Street alternative. Additionally, the 32nd Street alternative is projected to cost $52.7 million less than the 42nd Street alternative. While the cost should not be the sole determining factor of the project's location, it most certainly is significant when considering the feasibility of the project and appropriate use of taxpayer dollars.
   "Failure to take any action will not solve the safety and traffic concerns along K-10 and does not address future growth concerns. Furthermore, the 42nd Street alternative lacks fiscal restraint, the generous mitigation package and according to USACE 'will result in greater long-term cumulative adverse impacts to Baker Wetlands.' In evaluating the three main alternatives, we find the only feasible and prudent alternative is to complete the SLT according to the 32nd Street package."
   In May, Senator Roberts sent a another, similar letter signed by the delegation in a strong show of support for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' Final Environmental Impact Statement and Record of Decision which approved the 32nd Street route for the South Lawrence Trafficway.
   Senator Roberts secured $1.5 million for the SLT's Corps approved 32nd Street route in the 2005 Transportation Appropriations Bill and is an outspoken advocate for increased federal, state and local investment in science and technology research and development infrastructure.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 