SEN. ROBERTS' AGENDA IN NEW CONGRESS FOCUSED ON TERRORISM, ECONOMY, EDUCATION
  Sen. Pat Roberts today outlined a broad agenda for action in the 109th Congress that will include strong leadership in the fight against terrorism as well as efforts to improve education and the Kansas economy.  
   "As we witness the 55th Presidential Inaugural, I ask that we remember our men and women in uniform serving abroad, fighting for the freedom of our nation. We look to this day as a prime example of what they are fighting for: a government for the people and by the people," Senator Roberts said. 
   Senator Roberts was selected by Senate leadership to remain chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. "Priority one is stability in Iraq and safeguarding America from terrorism. As the Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, I will continue to work on vital reforms necessary to improve our Intelligence Community and as a result, the safety of all Americans. 
   "The Committee will examine the new 9/11 reforms enacted last year. I want to ensure that these reforms are indeed taking that important first step to improving our intelligence and our security. My personal focus on intelligence reform will be looking for ways to improve our information sharing, analysis and intelligence capabilities. 
   This year the agriculture community faces many challenges with trade, budget reconciliation and BSE. 
   "As a senior member of the Senate Ag. Committee," Senator Roberts said, "my first priority is to resume the trade of beef with Japan. I have already written a letter to the president requesting that this topic be included in every trade and foreign policy discussion that occurs between United States and Japan. I look forward to working on all issues facing our farmers and ranchers in Kansas."
   "President Bush has laid out an aggressive domestic agenda for his second term including education initiatives calling for increased funds for the Math and Science Partnership program," Senator Roberts said, "As the author of this program, I am glad to see the president has recognized the crucial need for our schools to take the lead in science and technology."
   "I will work with President Bush and my colleagues in Congress on the many other initiatives to improve our lives, our pocketbooks and our future," Roberts said, "Our plate is full. It promises to be an exciting year. I look forward to your advice, suggestions and support."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 