SEN. ROBERTS ISSUES STATEMENT ON INTELLIGENCE REFORM AT SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE HEARING
  The following is the text of Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS), Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence's statement at today's open hearing on reforms to the Intelligence Community: 
   "The Committee meets today in open session to begin what I hope will be a continuing discussion of the state of our intelligence agencies. In the wake of this Committee's report on prewar intelligence and the upcoming release of the 9-11 Commission's report, intelligence reform should be and once again is center stage.  
   "Today's hearing will be the first in a series where we will not only hear from Members of Congress on specific proposals for reform, but also from noted experts including current and former intelligence community officials. 
   "I have said many times that while the Committee's Iraq report cries out for reform, we will approach the issue deliberately and responsibly. We will examine closely all proposals for change and subject them to the rigors of reality and pragmatism. 
   "It is far more important to do this right rather than quickly. 
   "As stated in the Joint Inquiry's report of 2002, and with the impending release of the 9/11 Commission's report, it is also clear there were significant problems with U.S. intelligence before 9/11. 
   "Unlike most congressional or commission reports, however, our Iraq report contains no reform recommendations. I believe very strongly that the issues involved are so complex and of such import that it is incumbent on the Committee and Congress to think very carefully and deliberately about the question of reform. 
   "A number of important reform ideas are being widely discussed. One of the important issues that will guide this Committee's intelligence reform deliberations is the question of resources. Contrary to conventional wisdom, I do not believe that reform necessarily means more resources. 
   "It involves issues such as information sharing, better management and leadership, and being more aggressive and innovative in the way the Intelligence Community does its work. The Intelligence Community has had a significant increase in funding since 9/11, and the question is now less a matter of "do they have enough" than "are they spending it wisely?" 
   "For example, both the President and Senator Kerry have proposed improving our human intelligence, or HUMINT, capabilities. I agree that better HUMINT is needed, better HUMINT is always needed. It is important to note, however, that our HUMINT programs have already had a significant increase in funding since 9/11. 
   "Our Iraq report points out that the CIA had zero sources in Iraq reporting on WMD after 1998. How much funding and personnel do you need to develop one source? 
   "Certainly, if the CIA is serious about changing the way it does business, it doesn't need more money and more people. It should be able to make changes using the financial resources it already receives. 
   "Our Iraq report notes that many of the problems we found in HUMINT efforts directed against Iraq stem from a broken corporate culture and an overabundance of caution that will not be solved by additional funding and personnel. 
   "It is important to note that our report does not say that individual CIA officers are timid. It says that they work in an organization with a risk-averse, broken, corporate culture - there is a very big difference between the two. If CIA had asked for volunteers in 1998 to infiltrate Baghdad, I don't think there would have been any shortage of volunteers. Whether they would have been properly trained and capable of executing that mission is another question entirely. 
   "We continue to spend money on increasing intelligence collection when we still don't have the ability to fully analyze what we already collect. The Intelligence Community has made strides in developing automated tools to help analysts manage the mountains of intelligence data we collect every day, but we must do more. 
   "If we are serious about keeping the Intelligence Community at the cutting edge of change, we can no longer budget unnecessarily billions of dollars for new collection programs while dedicating far less for analytical tools. 
   "The President has also recently called for improved coordination among the intelligence agencies. I agree. The most pressing coordination problem is the issue of information sharing. There has been much improvement in information sharing since 9/11 but we have a long way to go. 
   "Our Iraq report describes a stunning lack of information sharing by the CIA's Directorate of Operations. The CIA has made some improvements in this area. The next DCI needs to explain to the Directorate of Operations that it has an obligation to share its intelligence with appropriately cleared people across the entire Intelligence Community, not just within CIA. 
   "The public debate over intelligence reform has focused lately on the creation of a Director of National Intelligence or DNI. 
   "I believe that a number of questions need to be answered before we consider such an approach. "For example: 
   * What problems have we identified that will be solved by such an approach?
   * What is the current DCI unable to do that he will be able to do as a DNI?
   * Why would we move authority away from the Secretary of Defense who is responsible for fighting and winning wars to a DNI who is not?
   * Why is it a good thing to strip Departmental heads of the authority to manage their own intelligence elements?
   * What is it about the intelligence mission that compels us to elevate it to cabinet level representation?
   * Is the Intelligence Community really a community and should we further facilitate this construct or should we embrace a different approach?" 
   "I believe that there is a consensus on this Committee that the Intelligence Community needs fresh thinking and fresh leadership. Many in the Intelligence Community agree and understand where they can and must do better. There are others, however, that have yet to appreciate the full extent of its problems. 
   "To say that "we get it" and then imply that the problems with the Intelligence Community's WMD assessments were reasonable "at the time," or to state that the problems with the pre-war Iraq assessments were isolated "shortcomings" says to me that there are still those that don't "get it." 
   "We need fresh thinking and a willingness to look in the mirror and honestly examine the Community's performance over the last decade. It is my hope that the appointment of a new DCI, our Iraq report, and the 9/11 Commission's report later this week, will facilitate that process. 
   "This Committee's examination of intelligence reform will not focus exclusively on the executive branch, however. We will also look carefully at the way Congress conducts its oversight of the Intelligence Community. 
   "We took an important first step on this front with a provision in our Intelligence Authorization bill this year that eliminates term limits for Committee members. This will end the practice of forcing members off the Committee just as they are becoming knowledgeable enough to serve as effective overseers of the Intelligence Community. There is wide bipartisan support for this measure and I am hopeful that the Intelligence Authorization bill will be brought up and passed by the Senate soon. 
   "As we consider reform of the Intelligence Community, I feel strongly that we must insure that we institutionalize change as a continuous process. We can't make the mistake of rearranging the organizational chart to meet the current threat and stop there. We must leave in place a system that will continue to adapt to new threats.
   Contact: Sarah Ross, 202/224-4774; Bill Duhnke, 202/224-1700.
 
 