SEN. ROBERTS: HELP COMMITTEE APPROVES HIGHER ED ACT; INCREASES STUDENT AID FUNDING
  Sen. Pat Roberts today said the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee approved a bill reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, expanding federal student aid to disadvantaged students and strengthening institutions of higher education. The bill contains Roberts amendments to provide need-based scholarships for spouses and children of veterans or active duty members of the military and one to offer scholarships for the study of math and science. 
   "I am pleased the Committee has voted to increase funding for federal student aid while expanding it to more students in need. My amendment to create a scholarship for family members of veterans and members of the military will be an excellent tribute to the sacrifices our men and women in uniform make in behalf of our nation," Senator Roberts said.
   The Military Family Members Scholarship amendment, introduced by Senators Roberts and Richard Burr (R-NC), establishes need-based scholarships for spouses and children with the maximum award for each academic year being $5,000. The scholarship was the brainchild of ThanksUSA, a non-partisan, charitable effort to mobilize Americans of all ages to "thank" the men and women of the United States armed forces by providing college, technical and vocational school scholarships for their children and spouses. Senator Roberts closely worked with this organization on the amendment.
   Members of the military will also benefit from the following provisions: the value of on-base military housing or basic allowance for housing is excluded from need analysis for financial aid calculations; the three year limitation on the period for which certain military members may receive deferments on their student loan interest payments is eliminated, and the deferment period is extended to cover 180 days after demobilization; and special combat pay shall not be included in a student's calculation of need for federal student financial assistance, and shall not be treated as financial assistance.
   Building on Senator Roberts' efforts to promote math and science education, he included an amendment establishing the "Mathematics and Science Scholars Program," a competitive matching grant to states to provide scholarships to 1st and 2nd year college students who have completed a rigorous secondary school curriculum in math or science. The maximum award is $1,000.
   The bill expands the Pell Grant program by increasing family income levels under which students are automatically eligible for the maximum Pell Grant from $20,000 to $30,000.
   Among many increases to the Pell Grant program, individual Pell Grants will grow to $5,400 for 2008-2009. Grants will then increase by $300.00 every two years through 2012 to $6, 300.
   The bill now goes before the full Senate for consideration.
   Senator Roberts is a key member of the Senate Committee on Health Education Labor and Pensions.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 