SEN. ROBERTS INTRODUCES BILL TO CHANGE IRS RULE TO BENEFIT DEPLOYED RESERVISTS, GUARDSMEN
  Sen. Pat Roberts introduced legislation to change an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) ruling that places an undue burden on citizen soldiers deployed around the world.  
   "With our Reserve and Guard units playing increasingly important roles in the war on terror and in Iraq," Senator Roberts said, "it is unacceptable to make them jump through any unnecessary hurdles." 
   At issue is a 36 year-old IRS ruling that requires deployed men and women in the Reserves and the National Guard to file quarterly tax returns if they receive differential pay from their employers. Differential pay is the difference in pay between active duty military pay and an employee's civilian pay. 
   Senator Roberts joined Senators Judd Gregg (R-NH) and Lamar Alexander (R-TN) in introducing S. 1401, The Uniformed Services Differential Pay Protection Act. The bill amends the IRS code to treat differential wage payments as a regular payment of wages for tax purposes and retirement plans. 
   In February, Senator Roberts sent a letter to Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance, to enlist his support in crafting a solution to this problem. 
   Senator Roberts said in the letter, "Across the country, many employers recognize the value of their employees who serve in the National Guard and military reserves. As a result, these employers, including two of Kansas' largest employers, Westar Energy and Sprint, have made the decision to support their employees serving in the Guard and reserves by providing differential pay. I commend those employers who have demonstrated their commitment to our men and women in uniform by taking the morally responsible action of providing differential pay." 
   "This income is critical to many families who, faced with the loss of income because a wage-earner is called to active duty, now have greater financial security while their family member is deployed," Roberts said. "It means the difference between paying the mortgage or car payment or struggling to make up the loss in income. It means that a Guardsman or Reservist can better focus on their mission without the added stress of wondering if their family is financially secure. It is unacceptable, however, that the IRS is seeking to further complicate these individual's lives through burdensome reporting requirements of this pay." 
   Senator Roberts, a former Marine, is Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 