THE ROBERTS REPORT - SEPTEMBER
  STATE FAIR IN HUTCH
   Earlier this month, Senator Roberts joined Senator Brownback, Congressman Moran, Congresswoman Boyda and special guest House Agriculture Chairman Congressman Peterson of Minnesota, to participate in WIBW Radio's Farm Bill Form moderated by Kelly Lenz at his annual visit to the Kansas State Fair in Hutchinson. Senator Roberts also spoke to the Kansas Farm Bureau Leadership Breakfast.
   FIGHT AGAINST METH 
   Understanding the serious methamphetamine problem in our country, Senator Roberts recently encouraged industry and federal officials to continue the progress that has been made in Kansas and nationwide on fighting the production and distribution of meth. He has worked as a sponsor of the Agricultural Business Security Tax Credit Act of 2007, which would provide tax credits to improve security measures for businesses that sell and store agricultural products and chemicals.
   Senator Roberts said, "Methamphetamine production and use is a growing problem for Kansas law enforcement. The fight against meth takes a comprehensive approach including prevention, enforcement, and treatment. While the number of meth lab incidents has significantly decreased over the past few years, we still face an uphill battle in the fight against meth and other drugs. I commend our Kansas law enforcement for their hard work."
   ACADEMY NOMINATIONS
   Senator Roberts is accepting applications for nominations to a United States service academy for the class entering in June 2008. As a former Marine, Senator Roberts is committed to supporting young people who are seriously interested in pursuing a career in the military service and who intend to build the foundation of that career with an education from one of the academies. Each year, his nonpartisan board selects a group of outstanding young Kansans for admission to the Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine academies.
   The application deadline is October 5th - questions should be directed to Karin Wisdom at Senator Roberts' Wichita office (155 North Market St., Suite 120, Wichita, KS 67202 or 316-263-0416). The application can be found at: http://roberts.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=StudentCenter.AcademyNominations .
   HEAD START GRANTS IN KANSAS CITY AND JUNCTION CITY
   A longtime champion of Head Start, Senator Roberts was on hand in Kansas City, KS with officials from the U.S. Department of Education to announce a $3.4 million Early Reading First Grant to Wyandotte County, KU Juniper Garden Children's Project and KU Med Center's Project EAGLE. The grant will implement a literacy curriculum for high risk children ages 3-5 years-old and will focus on instruction and professional development for early childhood educators. Roberts had the opportunity to see this program at work firsthand - he toured two preschool classrooms and joined the children for lunch.
  Also for early education, Roberts was in Junction City this month to award a $3.3 million Early Reading First Grant to Geary County USD 475 Head Start and Ft. Riley's Child and Youth Services program, a reading cooperative in Geary County. The grant will implement a proven, easy-to-teach literacy curriculum for children ages 3-5. To continue his reading promotion, Senator Roberts enjoyed reading Minerva Louise Goes to School to a Head Start class after the event.
   Senator Roberts was recently named the 2007 Kansas State Champion for the Head Start Association.
   MENTAL HEALTH PARITY
   As a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, Senator Roberts was pleased the Senate recently passed the Mental Health Parity Act, of which he is a cosponsor. This legislation requires equal health insurance coverage for both mental health benefits and medical or surgical benefits, unless comparable limitations are imposed on medical and surgical benefits. This coverage includes deductibles, copayments, coinsurance, out-of-pocket expenses and annual and lifetime limits. 
   Senator Roberts said, "It is time we address the disparity between mental health care and medical care. People requiring mental health care need the same protections, care and understanding as those individuals suffering from physical illnesses. I am confident that this proposal, which has the support of employers, insurance companies and mental health providers, is a step in the right direction."
 
 