SEN. ROBERTS OPPOSES SEN. LEVIN'S AMENDMENT
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today issued the following statement regarding his strong opposition to proposals for a premature and reckless troop withdrawal from Iraq:
   "I stand in opposition to this amendment because, while those in support claim it ends American involvement without harm to the future of Iraq, the requirement of a timetable for withdrawal is reckless, and will setback the progress we have realized in Iraq over the last few years. I caution my colleagues - such a departure from basic common sense will have long lasting consequences. 
   "While we may wish otherwise, the blunt truth of it is there is no exit from either Iraq or the Global War on Terrorism but through success.
   "Why would we tie our own hands, committing to an early, premature withdrawal when Iraqi Security Forces are assuming more control every day?
   "Pursuing a strategy of retreat and defeat could not come at a worse time. With more Iraqis capably and competently fighting alongside coalition forces everyday, with a unity government now formed - a government that allows the participation of all Iraqi's - and with high level leaders of Al Qaeda in Iraq and other insurgency groups either killed or on the run, now is not the time to embolden those who wish to destabilize and terrorize Iraq. Now is not the time to allow Iraq to fall into ethnic chaos, and become a poverty stricken haven for terrorist organizations like Al Qaeda.
   "I am concerned that at times my colleagues forget the progress evident in Iraq. In three years, the world has seen the Iraqi people successfully elect a transitional government, draft a Constitution, approve a referendum on that Constitution, elect a permanent government, and, most recently, form a unity government.
   "But these political achievements would not have been possible without the steady, consistent security assistance from the United States. Political achievements in Iraq are inextricably tied to its security against those who wish to destabilize the process through continual acts of terrorism. 
   "So I ask my colleagues - what of the millions in Iraq who have taken part in these elections? What of the Iraqi Security Forces, well over 250,000 now, trained and operating alongside Coalition forces? What of the Iraqi leaders, who, with threats of torture and assassination attempts on themselves, their family, and their friends, continue to persevere in establishing a free and fair government, responsive to the people of Iraq?
   "What of the men and women who have sacrificed dearly, some of whom have made the ultimate sacrifice, to bring freedom and liberty to those who previously knew nothing but torture, pain and despair at the hands of a totalitarian despot? These troops, who continue to valiantly serve, are sowing the seeds of stability. Because of their efforts, much of the country is relatively stable, but there is still work to be done. 
   "The soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines that I speak with know that their cause is noble. Yet here we are, debating an amendment that flies in the face of their service and their sacrifices. 
   "Lets talk about the one thing missing in this often heated and partisan debate - consequences. It should be obvious, that if we just withdraw, staged or otherwise, the terrorists will simply wait us out, in stages or otherwise, and the aftermath of our premature departure would be chaotic not only in Iraq, but worldwide. 
   "Calling for withdrawal is one thing; facing the consequences of that action and the responsibility for it, is another. 
   "If we withdraw our troops, and Iraq, unable yet to provide for their full and complete security, should fall into chaos and disarray, I wonder what those supporting this withdrawal would say. In the face of Iraq becoming a safe haven for terrorists plotting attacks against the United States and our allies, I wonder what those supporting this proposal would say. 
   "Last year, we received an intercepted letter that Usama Bin Laden's deputy sent to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi which urged Zarqawi to prepare for what the terrorists clearly believe will be a U.S. retreat from Iraq. Ironically, while the terrorists are preparing for what they hope will be a premature U.S. retreat, we are making real, tough, step by step progress, highlighted with the recent killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
   "In a paradox of enormous consequence and irony, we stand here today debating this withdrawal commensurate with the predicted retreat by al-Zarqawi and his terrorist associates.
   "Now is not the time to abandon our momentum and retreat. Such a retreat would do more than encourage the Bin Ladens of the world. Jihadist terrorist cells throughout the world - and in our own country - would be re-thinking their attack plans with ominous repercussions. 
   "Let us not ignore the very nature of our adversaries. They think of us a dust, and they will not give up.
   "This proposal has consequences. Introducing it on the floor of the Senate has consequences, debating it has consequences, and voting for it has consequences. 
   "Setting an artificial timetable will send the wrong message to the Iraqi people, who need to know that America will not leave before the job is done, and our troops, who must know that we are serious about the mission that they are risking their lives to achieve. 
   "I urge my colleagues to reject a premature withdrawal and stand fast in their support for the Iraqi people by opposing this ill conceived proposal."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 