SEN. ROBERTS: $5 MILLION GRANT TO SOUTH CENTRAL KANSAS WIRED REGION FOR WORKFORCE INNOVATION DEVELOPMENT
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced ten counties in South Central Kansas will receive a $5 million Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED) grant to integrate education, economic and workforce development activities and resources around research and new technologies for composites and engineered materials associated with aerospace, aviation, medical devises and other commercial applications. The $5 million in funds are granted over a three year period. 
   Senator Roberts wrote a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Elaine Chao in support of the South Central Kansas grant proposal.
   Roberts said in the letter, "Wichita, Kansas and the surrounding area is the aviation capital of the United States. The importance of advancing entrepreneurial and innovative partnerships is critical to the aviation industry. The South Central Kansas proposal catalyzes these partnerships by providing transitional support for regional manufacturers, educators, and employers addressing the technology shift occurring in the aviation industry. This proposal creates a seamless transition from workforce development to composite aircraft component design and fabrication."
   "I am pleased the South Central Kansas proposal was chosen to receive this critical $5 million federal investment," Senator Roberts said. "The clear and concise plan for South Central Kansas will ultimately maintain Wichita's prowess as the aviation capital of the U.S. while creating additional manufacturing opportunities and jobs for the region."
   The ten counties include: Cowley, Sumner, Harper, Kingman, Sedgwick, Butler, Reno, Harvey, McPherson and Marion.
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and an outspoken advocate of technology and innovation in the workplace.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 