SEN. ROBERTS BEGINS YEAR-LONG EFFORT TO PROMOTE READING IN KANSAS SCHOOLS
  Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) today kicked off a year-long effort to promote reading in Kansas schools by reading "George Washington's Teeth" at a school wide assembly at Community Elementary School in Coffeyville. 
   "I plan to continue reading to Kansas schoolchildren in an effort to promote literacy," Senator Roberts said. "I am proud of what they are doing here in Coffeyville with the Reading is Fundamental Program. One-hundred and eleven schools in Kansas are participating in this worthwhile program and I hope to team up with their efforts this year."
   Reading is Fundamental (RIF) was founded in 1966 and has provided over 300 million books to children and their families. These free books go to students who might not otherwise own their own books. The federal government provides funding for this program, but requires a 25 percent local match for the cost of the books.
   In Kansas, Reading is Fundamental provided $323,211 in federal funds with $157,000 earned locally in 2005. Kansas has 111 RIF programs serving 81,451 students in our state. The Community Elementary School in Coffeyville is a Reading is Fundamental Program Excellence Honoree. 301,000 books were distributed for free to Kansas students in 2005.
   The National Book Program is a RIF initiative that pairs community reading, motivational events, and book distribution, which Senator Roberts participated in today in Coffeyville. As part of the Senator's efforts to read and promote RIF in Kansas, the Senator read to Washington Elementary in Wichita yesterday.
   In addition to the Reading is Fundamental program, Kansas also participates in the Reach Out and Read program. This program primarily facilitated in pediatric exam rooms, also promotes early literacy and provides advice to parents about the importance of reading. 
   "Reading is the backbone of a solid education and I am proud of our state and these worthwhile reading programs that help put books into the hands of young Kansans," Senator Roberts said.
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 