SENS. ROBERTS, BROWNBACK, REP. TIAHRT INTRODUCE RESOLUTIONS TO SHIELD BRAC CONSTRUCTION FUNDS FROM POLITICS
  Sens. Pat Roberts and Sam Brownback today introduced a Resolution to protect funding for Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) construction projects, including several critical to Kansas' military installations, which were left to be funded in the controversial Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill. Rep. Todd Tiahrt (R-KS) is introducing a similar resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives.
   "The House and Senate Leadership have allowed this important funding to become mired in a partisan debate about the war and deadlines for troop withdrawal," Senator Roberts said. "These are important debates we should have, but as controversial as they are, attaching them to the supplemental bill with our BRAC funding could deny funding for our troops. Once again, political games are wreaking havoc with our national defense capabilities. The American people do not want the Congress to play games with resources for our military." 
   The Senators' resolution expresses a Sense of the Senate that Congress should not include provisions that provoke veto threats from the President in bills that appropriate funds for the implementation of the recommendations of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission.
   At issue is the failure of the new majority to fully fund BRAC construction projects. The House Leadership has included the remaining projects in an Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill that contains controversial and highly charged partisan language regarding the Iraq War.
   Earlier this month, Senator Roberts predicted that although some in Congress said the remaining projects left unfunded would be included in the Supplemental bill, he was concerned the bill would be a vehicle to score political points on Iraq, and was not certain to be widely supported.
   Kansas' military installations are receiving the third largest increase in troop strength in the nation as part of the military's transformation, known as BRAC. As a result, Ft. Leavenworth and Ft. Riley have many new construction needs in order to accommodate troops, missions and overall base operations.
   The Army has indicated it will fund four Kansas BRAC construction projects, but the remaining projects, totaling more than $100 million remain in jeopardy:
   * Regional Corrections Facility at Fort Leavenworth: $68 million 
   * Battle Command Training Center at Fort Riley: $27 million 
   * Child Care Center at Fort Riley: $5.7 million 
   "The importance of these facilities cannot be understated," Roberts said. "Fort Riley currently needs the Battle Command Training Center to prepare our troops for action they will see in the field. This center is necessary for training command, control and communication functions that are critical to the training of brigade and division staffs.
   "The Army needs to build the Joint Regional Corrections Facility to house prisoners from around the nation that are to be moved to Kansas. Currently, the Army is stretched to its limit and needs these new beds for prisoners- or there will simply be nowhere for them to go.
   "Obviously, the Child Care Center at Ft. Riley is critical to the families of our men and women in uniform. Knowing that their children are safe and prospering at home while they fulfill their duties is an immeasurable boost to troop moral and wellbeing." 
   Senator Roberts, a former Marine, was a member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services during the BRAC consideration process and made it his highest priority to ensure Kansas military installations continue to serve a vital role in the national security of the United States. He is an outspoken advocate for men and women in uniform and their families.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 