SEN. ROBERTS: CONGRESS PASSES IDEA BILL, IMPROVES EDUCATION FOR ALL KANSAS CHILDREN
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced that the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), a bill that provides funding to states for special education, was given final congressional approval and now goes to the President to be signed into law. The House of Representatives adopted the conference report by a 397-3 vote early on November 19th, and the Senate cleared the measure by voice vote later that night.  
   "I voted for this legislation because it strikes a fair balance between protecting the educational rights of children with disabilities while making IDEA work for parents, teachers, school administrators and school districts," Roberts said. 
   Senator Roberts, an outspoken advocate for fully funding IDEA, was a member of the conference committee working over the past few months to resolve differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. 
   IDEA was first enacted in 1975 to assist states in meeting their Constitutional obligation to provide a free public education to children with special needs. IDEA is responsible for many of the significant gains and achievements made in recent years by children with disabilities. 
   This legislation includes steps to alleviate financial burdens on local schools. One provision says that for any school year where the school receives an increase in federal funds, the bill allows local schools to reduce their expenditures on special education by 50% of the new funding. In other words, this provision frees up local spending on special education in order to give local schools the flexibility to spend their dollars as they see fit. 
   The legislation also allows each state to create a risk pool for high need special education kids. Each state is given the flexibility to determine the best way to structure their risk pool to get maximum relief to local schools. "These risk pools should be especially beneficial in rural areas where the cost of educating one or multiple high need kids can prove to be a difficult task on a small school budget," Senator Roberts said. 
   This bill reduces the heavy burden of teacher paperwork, and among other provisions, creates a 15-State demonstration program to give states the flexibility to find ways to reduce paperwork burdens associated with IDEA requirements to give teachers more time and resources available for instruction of students with special needs. 
   Senator Roberts said, "While this bill is a step in the right direction, some areas are still in need of significant reform. Federal funding for IDEA must be increased. Nearly 30 years ago, Congress made a promise to our schools to share the cost of special education. The promise was simple - the federal government pays 40% of the excess cost of educating a special needs child. Sadly, we have yet to fulfill that promise and I believe it is well beyond time that Congress relieves our state and local governments of the financial burden they have been forced to shoulder." Senator Roberts is a key member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and has been working to fully fund IDEA since his years as a U.S. Representative.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 