SEN. ROBERTS: ARMY'S 1ST BRIGADE, 1ST INFANTRY DIVISION DEPLOYMENT TO IRAQ CANCELLED
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced that the First Brigade, First Infantry Division based at Ft. Riley, has received word that their deployment to Iraq, set for this month, was cancelled. This means approximately 3,500 soldiers associated with the brigade will be able to stay home with their families for the holidays. 
  "This represents the first time since combat operations began that the rotational schedule has been altered to allow for the long-term draw down of the U.S. military presence in Iraq," Senator Roberts said. "With the success of the Iraqi elections on December 15, and the constant improvement in the numbers and quality of Iraqi security forces, this move represents the increasing responsibility that Iraqi forces are assuming, allowing the United States to achieve our mission of bringing freedom and stability to the Iraqi people." 
   However, this does present several challenges for Ft. Riley and the local community. Because of the BRAC 2005 decisions, Ft. Riley is set to gain several thousand soldiers and their families over the next couple of years. Due to this tremendous growth, Ft. Riley has identified significant construction needs to provide for the housing and well being of soldiers and their families, for construction of administration and storage facilities and new training ranges. 
   With the decision not to deploy the First Brigade, First Infantry Division, these challenges are even more acute. "I am working closely with army officials to expedite the more than $1 billion in military construction funds Ft. Riley needs to facilitate this growth and to enable soldiers to do their mission and maintain the post as one of the nation's premier maneuver and training army facilities," Senator Roberts said. 
   Although good news, it also represents a challenge for local communities. Senator Roberts is working with local leaders to address several quality of life issues for soldiers and their families. 
   "As a former Marine and a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee," Roberts said, "I have worked over the last five years to ensure that our soldiers conducting operations away from home in Afghanistan and Iraq have received the best equipment, the best training and the best support possible to see their missions through. I am particularly proud of what these soldiers from Ft. Riley have accomplished during these conflicts." 
   "I am happy for the troops in the First Brigade, First Infantry Division who will now be able to spend the holidays at home with their families. We ask our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines to sacrifice so much to defend our freedoms and liberties that it is my pleasure to share in this news with them today."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 