SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR END OF BEEF EMBARGO IN LETTER TO JAPANESE AMBASSADOR
  Sen. Pat Roberts, a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, today joined a bipartisan group of 19 Senators in urging the Japanese government to end their trade embargo on American beef in a letter sent to Ryozo Kato, Japanese Ambassador to the United States.  
  "Our Government has acted in good faith with Japanese officials to implement appropriate safeguards using internationally recognized science," the Senators said in the letter. "Regrettably, these attempts have been rejected repeatedly by some in your government who are intent on stopping any resolution of this issue by using unrealistic requirements and dubious science." 
   Within days of the announcement in December 2003 that a Washington State dairy cow tested positive for BSE (bovine spongiform encephalopathy) most importing countries halted imports of some or all U.S. beef and cattle. Of the major markets, both Mexico and Canada have reopened their borders to some U.S. beef and veal. Japan and Korea remain closed. Prior to the December 2003 finding, Japan was the leading importer of United States beef. 
   The beef sector is a $5 billion a year sector of the Kansas economy. Cattle production accounts for 20 percent of U.S. farm sales annually. Exports of U.S. beef and other cattle products are critical to long-term market growth. The value of beef and beef variety meat exports was estimated at $3.9 billion in 2003 (or about 10 percent of farm value for cattle/calves). Four countries bought approximately 90 percent of these exports: Japan ($1.394 billion), South Korea ($816 million), Mexico ($877 million), and Canada ($331 million). 
   "In light of this situation," the Senators said, "if the Japanese government fails to lift the ban expeditiously, we are afraid that the U.S. Congress may pursue equitable, retaliatory economic actions against Japan." 
   During a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing on the nomination of Michael Johanns to be Secretary of Agriculture, Senator Roberts urged members of the Committee to join him in sending a letter to the president and the incoming secretaries of state, commerce and agriculture to insist that this be a top issue in all discussions with Japan. Senator Roberts commented, "This is an issue of economic importance to the entire United States Beef industry. The president and every United States official involved in any discussion with Japan needs to take every available opportunity to insist that this issue be addressed and fixed."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 