SEN. ROBERTS PARTICIPATES IN FARM BILL FIELD HEARING IN GEORGIA
  Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) today will join Senate Agriculture Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) to participate in the first field hearing for the 2007 Farm Bill in Albany, GA.  
   Senator Roberts made the following remarks at the hearing: 
   "Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to join you here today for the first of what is an aggressive schedule of Farm Bill hearings as we prepare to write the next Farm Bill in 2007. 
   "I do not envy the task you are in charge of as you work to put together this important legislation, while also making every effort to address the needs and complexities of agriculture production throughout this nation. 
   "I have served as a Chairman. I have put together a Farm Bill. And, it is no easy task. You have my commitment to work with you and all the members of the committee to write the best bill possible. 
   "Mr. Chairman, I thank you for holding field hearings throughout the nation. I have always believed that the most important thing we can do when crafting agriculture policy is to get out of Washington, travel out to the country and sit on the wagon tongue with our farmers and ranchers and find out exactly what they need to keep their operations profitable and to also allow the next generation of producers to enter the business. 
   "This is exactly what we are doing here today. And, I look forward to the testimony from our witnesses. 
   "Mr. Chairman, I again thank you for taking us out of Washington and bringing us to speak first hand with the producers that feed and clothe not only this nation, but also a troubled and hungry world. 
   "Finally, Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for your strong and active leadership of this Committee. I want the farmers and people in the rural communities of Georgia to know that they could have no stronger champion in Washington than Saxby Chambliss. Your efforts on behalf of not only Georgia's, but all of America's producers, is second to none." 
   To listen live to the hearing on Friday, visit http://agriculture.senate.gov at 9am EST. The hearing will be held in the Academic Building Auditorium of the Albany State University n Albany, GA at 9am Eastern. 
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 