SENATE PASSES CHILD NUTRITION BILL; FUNDS PROGRAMS CRITICAL TO WELL-BEING OF CHILDREN
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced that late last night, the Senate passed the Child Nutrition Bill renewing programs vital to the well-being of the nation's children.  
   Senator Roberts said, "This legislation is critical to supporting hard-working families who are having trouble making ends meet. The school lunch and breakfast programs are important for the health and well-being of needy children. Sometimes, school breakfast or lunch is the only nutrition they receive." 
   The Child Nutrition Bill funds the National School Lunch and School Breakfast programs, the Women Infants and Children Special Supplementary program (WIC), and the Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP). These programs provide children with increased access to food and nutrition assistance. The bill will help to simplify program operations and improve program management. 
   In Kansas, 500,000 children are eligible for the school lunch program. On average 91,000 free lunches are given to Kansas students. 
   The bill creates a pilot program to allow a greater number of needy children to receive free meals. At issue is the "reduced price" category in the school lunch and breakfast programs. Under current law, families with incomes between 130-185% of federal poverty guidelines qualify for reduced price meals. These families must pay 40 cents for each school lunch and 30 cents for each breakfast. The pilot program would be extended to five states to serve free meals to children eligible for reduced price meals in all or parts of the state, waiving the 40 and 30 cent fees and effectively doing away with the reduced price category. Last year, Senators Roberts and Elizabeth Dole (R-NC) introduced a bill to do away with the reduced price criteria completely. 
   "Although I would like to see more families able to take advantage of the school lunch and breakfast programs to better prepare their children for the school day, this pilot program is a good first step." 
   The bill also includes several provisions aimed at reducing financial and administrative burdens for food service providers in rural areas. One such provision is a pilot project to award competitive grants to food service authorities to find innovative approaches to limited transportation in rural areas. The bill now awaits action in the House of Representatives. Senator Roberts is a key member of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee and is a long supporter of the school lunch and breakfast programs.
   Contact: Sarah Ross, 202/224-4774.
 
 