SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR BETTER ACCESS TO EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES IN RURAL AREAS
  Sen. Pat Roberts today joined Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) in introducing legislation to ensure rural communities have access to quality emergency medical services.  
   "More and more these days," Senator Roberts said, "you hear of emergency medical services (EMS) experiencing difficulty serving rural areas. Rural EMS's experience unique circumstances including varying numbers of patients and further destinations to travel." 
   Kansas has 175 EMS providers including hospital based providers, fire departments, law enforcement, stand alone local government providers and private companies. 
   The Rural American Emergency Services Act contains the following provisions: 
   * Creates a demonstration project in three states to explore innovative ways to integrate EMS systems with state and local health care systems including activities such as piloting EMS-based community health services, creating flexible training models, and assuring the availability and access to quality medical direction; 
   * Allows Critical Access Hospitals to receive cost-based Medicare reimbursement when providing services or when contracting for services from another ambulance provider, regardless of the distance between service provider and hospital; 
   * Clarifies the "prudent layperson" standard to ensure that ambulance services are appropriately reimbursed, no matter what the final diagnosis. Currently, Medicare sometimes denies payment for ambulance services if the diagnosis is not as serious as the layperson who called for the ambulance believed. 
   "If a person is in distress and needs emergency medical attention, then an ambulance should respond quickly to the call for help," said Senator Roberts, "The EMS provider should not be penalized because the friend or family member calling is not a medical professional and did not make an accurate diagnosis." 
   Senator Roberts is an outspoken member of the Senate Rural Health Care Caucus and a member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 