SEN. ROBERTS TO CHINESE VICE PREMIER WU YI: 'HOW DO WE GET U.S. BEEF BACK IN CHINESE STORES?'
  In a meeting of the Senate Committee on Finance with Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi, Sen. Pat Roberts today appealed for an end to the continued ban on U.S. beef in China. 
   In 2003, China was the United State's 9th largest market, importing nearly 26.5 million pounds of U.S. beef and beef products valued at over $28 million. With the discovery of a U.S. BSE case in December, 2003, China, and other nations, closed their markets to U.S. beef.
   "We have come a long way since the December 2003," Senator Roberts said. "Just this week, the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) designated the United States as a 'controlled risk' for BSE, providing international validation of the U.S. system of safeguards and protections."
   Addressing a question to Vice Premier Wu Yi, Senator Roberts said, "Unfortunately, there is no trade of U.S. beef to China, despite the announcement last June to resume trade. There are 22 hurdles that exporters must clear before they will import U.S. beef products. China, as a member of the World Trade Organization, has agreed to observe international scientific standards. How do we resolve this problem and get safe and delicious U.S. beef in Chinese grocery stores?"
   In the meeting, a member of the Chinese delegation acknowledged the importance scientific standards in their decision making. He also acknowledged a conversation they had with U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns regarding the controlled risk designation made earlier this week. He went on to say they expected to work at an accelerated pace to resume U.S. beef trade and expect a positive result.
  In the meeting, a member of the Chinese delegation acknowledged the importance scientific standards in their decision making. He also acknowledged a conversation they had with U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns regarding the controlled risk designation made earlier this week. He went on to say they expected to work at an accelerated pace to resume U.S. beef trade and expect a positive result.
   "The discussions today were productive and were helpful in understanding their perspective," Senator Roberts said. "With this information in mind, I intend to do all that I can to make sure the markets are reopened."
   Senator Roberts is a member of the Senate Committee on Finance which has jurisdiction over all trade agreements. He is also a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture Nutrition and Forestry.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 