OPEN FIELDS BILL A BIG BOOST FOR RURAL AMERICA; LAWMAKERS INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO OPEN LAND TO OUTDOORSMEN
  Sen. Kent Conrad (D-ND) and Sen. Pat Roberts (R-KS) today announced the introduction of their bipartisan Open Fields legislation, which provides incentives to farmers and ranchers who voluntarily open their land to hunting, fishing and other wildlife-related activities.  
   "Hunting and fishing are a part of our heritage. They are national traditions as old as America itself," Senator Conrad said. "Today, however, America 's anglers and hunters have been limited in their access to open land because, all too often, it is on closed, private land. Open Fields will change that by offering farmers and ranchers incentives to open their lands." 
   "This bill is a classic win-win-win situation," Senator Roberts said. "Those who enjoy outdoor recreation spend their dollars in rural communities, improving local economies, while gaining access to additional lands for hiking, fishing and hunting. By allowing this access, farmers and ranchers can take advantage of beneficial incentive programs." 
   If adopted into law, Open Fields would direct the USDA to provide federal funding to those states with existing programs that encourage private landowners - particularly farmers and ranchers - to open their property for hunting, fishing and other outdoor recreational activities. The modest payments are designed to be a financial boost to rural America. There are 21 states with access programs. 
   "The leading reason that active sportsmen become former sportsmen is that they lose their places to hunt and fish," said James Range, chairman of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership. "This happens for a number of reasons, and sprawl seems to be at least on most folks' lists. Open Fields would bring back some of what sprawl has taken from us." 
   North Dakota Congressman Earl Pomeroy and Kansas Congressman Jerry Moran joined today's announcement and said they will introduce a companion bill to Open Fields in the House of Representatives.
   " North Dakota boasts vast expanses of land that are rich in diverse wildlife," Congressman Pomeroy said. "This legislation will provide an opportunity for more North Dakotans to enjoy one of our state's greatest resources while rewarding farmers and ranchers for opening their land to hunters, anglers and wildlife enthusiasts."
   "Anyone who has driven through a rural community in the fall has seen the 'Welcome Hunters' signs in front of Main Street restaurants and local motels," Congressman Moran said. "But more and more, reduced access to hunting ground is threatening the future of the sport and the dollars it brings to rural America. This legislation will help continue our nation's outdoor heritage, boost rural economies and provide additional income to our farmers and ranchers."
   Senator Conrad and Senator Roberts first introduced Open Fields in the fall of 2003. The bipartisan initiative has grown in popularity and has received the support of more than of 22 U.S. Senators in the 109th Congress. In addition, Open Fields has been endorsed by a long list of sportsman's, conservation, and farming groups, including the National Rifle Association and the National Farmers Union.
   Nearly 100 million Americans participate in wildlife-related recreation annually, spending in excess of $100 billion each year on their outdoor activities.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 