SEN. ROBERTS ISSUES STATEMENT ON USA PATRIOT ACT
  Sen. Pat Roberts, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, today chaired the Committee's third open hearing on the USA PATRIOT Act. The Senator made the following statement at the hearing:  
   "The draft bill of the PATRIOT Act that we provided our witnesses, reflects a balanced approach, addressing both concerns about the use of existing authorities and identified gaps in investigative tools. 
   "The draft legislation accomplishes three simple goals. First, it permanently authorizes nine intelligence-related provisions set to expire at the end of the year. I believe there is strong bipartisan support for these provisions. Second, it extends to national security investigators tools already used in federal criminal cases. It does not create new authority. And, third, it addresses some of the concerns expressed by critics of the PATRIOT Act by establishing new reporting requirements and standards for use of certain tools under the act. 
   "Let me emphasize that the investigative tools that this bill extends to FBI national security investigators are the same tools that have been used by federal criminal investigators for years to access information relevant to their investigations. 
   "For example, the 'mail cover' provision is simply the statutory authorization of an authority which the FBI has had under Postal Service regulations for 30 years. 
   "Additionally, the administrative subpoena provision is similar to 335 other legislatively-enacted administrative subpoenas currently being used by the Executive branch. 
   "Such administrative subpoenas have been upheld against Constitutional challenges for over 50 years. In fact, the Secretary of Labor can use administrative subpoenas to enforce the Fair Labor Standards Act; the Federal Maritime Commission can issue administrative subpoenas to support its investigations; and federal criminal investigators can use administrative subpoenas in health care fraud, child pornography, and narcotics cases. 
   "Federal investigators, however, cannot use them to investigate spies and international terrorists. The Secret Service can issue an administrative subpoena to investigate threats against the President, but the President can not use an administrative subpoena to investigate threats against America posed by terrorists and spies. 
   "I have yet to hear one compelling reason to deprive national security investigators of well established and long used investigative tools. 
   "We expect the men and women of the FBI to protect us and yet some advocate constraints that would tie their hands unnecessarily. 
   "I believe that national security investigators should be able to use every Constitutional tool at their disposal to protect the United States. 
   "This is the Committee's fourth hearing on the USA PATRIOT Act this year. In prior hearings, the Committee has received testimony from: panels of outside experts, law enforcement and intelligence officials who have used PATRIOT Act tools in the field, and the Attorney General, the Director of the FBI, and the Director of the CIA. 
   "Moreover, with regard to the specific provisions being discussed and considered by this Committee, I have gone out of my way to ensure that every member has had the opportunity to be fully informed of the provisions included in the draft legislation. 
   "Our General Counsel has briefed the members' designated staff and has been available to meet with any member to discuss concerns about any provision of the bill. 
   "Additionally, last week, the Committee held a briefing for all members at which counsel from both sides of the aisle went through the legislation and were available for questions. 
   "Finally, at my direction, the Committee staff have worked diligently with those who have concerns about provisions in the bill in an effort to resolve those concerns. As a result, the staff have been able to reach a number of agreements that may be presented at mark-up as amendments or considered as part of a managers' amendment. 
   "More than three and half years have passed since enactment of the PATRIOT Act. Members of Congress have had ample opportunity to inquire into the implementation of these authorities and to debate and consider the reauthorization of the expiring provisions. 
   "While fundamental differences will, no doubt, remain, I am committed to working with any member of this Committee in an effort to address his or her concerns prior to mark-up."
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 