SEN. ROBERTS APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF AMERICA COMPETES ACT
  Sen. Pat Roberts today supported the America Competes Act, a bill to recapture America's prowess in the global economy. The Senate approved the measure late Wednesday.  
   "The demand for talented persons in the areas of science, technology, engineering, mathematics and critical foreign language far exceeds the supply in the United States," Senator Roberts said. "The likelihood of finding a job in these high need areas after college is almost guaranteed, yet we find ourselves still lagging behind other countries in producing these graduates. America ranks number 24 out of industrialized nations in mathematical literacy for children entering high school. Right now, China is graduating four times the number of engineers as the United States with India not far behind."
   Roberts has been an outspoken advocate for the need to invest in science, math and technology education and research. In 1997, Roberts formed his Advisory Committee on Science, Technology, and the Future. This committee finds ways to align federal and state initiatives to enhance science and technology in the state. The advisory committee has been instrumental in identifying high-need, high-tech jobs in the state while focusing on ways to educate, train and attract talented persons into these fields. 
   Kansas continues to be a state rich with high-tech industry. Wichita is the aviation capitol of the United States, producing approximately 50 percent of all US general aviation. This industry needs aviation researchers, engineers and skilled technicians. Kansas is also rapidly growing in the areas of bioscience, including drug discovery, new treatments for disease, food safety, animal health, and renewable energy. The Roberts Advisory Committee has recognized that while these industries are growing, they have a limited pool of talented employees to chose from. 
   "Like many states," Roberts said, "Kansas is facing a shortage of math and science teacher applicants. I agree with my advisory committee that global competitiveness lies with our younger generation. It is imperative that we provide them with an education from science and math teachers possessing a solid knowledge base and effective teaching skills. We also need to find ways to spark students' interests in math, science, and technology while they are in the early years of education."
   The America Competes Act addresses these needs by strengthening the skills of math and science teachers, creating partnerships between National Laboratories and high-need high schools, facilitating the expansion of Advanced Placement programs, and increasing the number of students who study foreign languages Roberts said.
   Additionally, the bill provides an increase in research investment by doubling the funding for the National Science Foundation (NSF).
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 