KANSAS CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION RENEWS REQUEST FOR PRESIDENT TO APPROVE FEMA DISASTER AID
  U.S. Senator Pat Roberts today joined the rest of the Kansas Congressional Delegation, led by Congressman Todd Tiahrt, in sending the following letter to the President to reiterate their support for authorization of FEMA assistance to Kansas due to the multiple winter storms: 
   "We again write in concern about the large ice storms that spread throughout Kansas in December and support the Governor of Kansas' request for Public Assistance (PA) for 60 counties, direct Federal assistance, and Hazard Mitigation (HM) statewide. We appreciate your swift declaration of a state of emergency on December 12th and are hopeful that you will also heed this latest request. 
   "As you know, severe winter storms hit Kansas during the period of December 6-19, 2007 and affected all 105 counties. This event was made worse by consecutive days of precipitation and dropping temperatures, which quickly solidified ice on power lines and trees. The damage included wide scale power outages and a great deal of property damage. Public, residential and commercial property have all been affected. In addition to hazardous road conditions, downed trees and limbs caused significant infrastructure damage in many communities.
   "This latest disaster striking our state comes as disheartening news for Kansans who already endured a blizzard that destroyed infrastructure and endangered livestock, a tornado that wiped an entire town off the map, and floods that compounded with an oil spill to destroy grave amounts of property and businesses - all in 2007. 
   "Thank you for your consideration of this important request which we wholeheartedly support. The federal government, including FEMA and the National Guard, deserve endless amounts of credit for their rapid and effective responses in Kansas this year. Please let us know if we can be of any assistance as you assess the damage in the state of Kansas."
   The letter was signed by Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS) and Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Representatives Nancy Boyda (D-KS), Dennis Moore (D-KS), Jerry Moran (R-KS) and Todd Tiahrt (R-KS). This letter is in addition to a similar letter the delegation sent in December, 2007.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 