SEN. ROBERTS CALLS FOR PROTECTION OF PLAYA LAKES
  Sen. Pat Roberts called for playa lakes to be included in the Conservation Reserve Program to conserve wildlife habitat and to recharge the Ogallala Aquifer.  
   In a letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman, Senator Roberts said, "In support of President Bush's Earth Day announcement to protect three million acres of wetlands over the next five years, I encourage you to allow the enrollment of playa lakes in the Great Plains region into the Conservation Reserve Program's (CRP) pilot for the enrollment of wetlands and buffer acreage." 
   Last November, Senator Roberts introduced legislation to allow the enrollment of playa lakes in CRP. The bill has been referred to the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry where it awaits further action. Congressman Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) introduced similar legislation in the House. 
   Playa serve an important role in improving water quality, recharging the Ogallala Aquifer and in providing important habitat for migratory birds. The playa lakes stretch from the Texas Panhandle through parts of Oklahoma, New Mexico, Kansas, Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming. Playas are the most common wetland in these areas and cover approximately 500,000 acres in the seven states. 
   "Allowing the enrollment of playa lakes in this program will create enormous wildlife benefits," Senator Roberts said, "The playas support 37 mammal species, 185 bird species and 340 plant species. They also provide temporary shelter for migrating and wintering birds, including some 400,000 Sandhill Cranes along with 2.5 million ducks and geese." 
   "In addition," Senator Roberts said, "one of the most critical resource issues is the continued decline of the Ogallala Aquifer. Research indicates that playas can be a significant source of recharge for parts of the Ogallala." 
   Senator Roberts noted the change to the pilot program will not result in additional spending from the federal treasury. The 2002 Farm Bill already provides mandatory funding for up to one million acres of wetlands enrollment in the CRP nationwide, with a limit of 100,000 acres in any state. 
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. He has been a strong supporter of voluntary conservation programs.
   Contact: Sarah Ross, 202/224-4774.
 
 