SEN. ROBERTS' CHILD CARE BILL TO BECOME LAW; A BIG WIN FOR WORKING FAMILIES
  Sen. Pat Roberts today announced his bill to encourage small businesses to work together to provide access to affordable, quality child care for their employees is on its way to the President's desk to be signed into law. 
   Roberts' Small Business Child Care Act was added to the Supplemental Appropriations Act, approved earlier in the week by the House, and by the Senate late last night.
   "This is a big win for working families," Senator Roberts said. "Child care is a top concern for parents who are struggling to balance work with family. We want to know our children are safe and thriving while we work to provide for them. Now Main Street businesses will have opportunities to give employees new child care options."
   Senator Roberts' proposal creates a short-term, flexible grant program to encourage small businesses to work together or with other local child care agencies to provide child care services for employees. Small businesses will be eligible for grants up to $500,000 for start-up costs, training, scholarships, or other related activities. Businesses, however, will be required to match federal funds to encourage self-sustaining facilities well into the future. The program is authorized at $50 million over five years and sunsets in 2012.
   "In many small Kansas towns such as Dodge City," Roberts said, "the availability of child care options is often limited. This amendment would alleviate the strain on working families who often have to close the door on the opportunity to expand their income because of the lack of child care options in their communities."
   Small businesses employ half of all private sector employees and created between 60 and 80 percent of net new jobs annually over the last decade, according to the Small Business Administration.
   "I have talked to many employers with limited resources that would like to help employees find quality child care for their employees. They know this kind of investment makes it easier for their employees to come to work, ready to be productive. Everyone wins."
   Senator Roberts is a member of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 