SEN. ROBERTS ISSUES STATEMENT ON BIOFUELS INDUSTRY
  Sen. Pat Roberts today made the following statement at the Senate Agriculture Committee's hearing on the biofuels industry: 
   "I am pleased the alarm bell has gone off and the American people are taking a hard look at the way we consume fuel in this country and around the world.
   "We need to be very concerned about our future dependence on countries like Iran and Venezuela for our energy. This is a matter of cost for consumers - but it's also a matter of national security. The 2005 Energy bill and the development of biofuels is a step in the right direction. But, in terms of biofuels, we have a real 'chicken and egg' problem.
   "Why would you buy a flex fuel vehicle if you can't buy biofuels at your local station? And if you're a station owner, why would you dedicate a pump for biofuel if you don't have customers that can use it?
   "We need to be sure that as we continue building the biofuel industry, that we do so using sound economic principles. We have to strike a balance between market potential and economic viability. And, we have to be able to get these fuels from the countryside to the coasts.
   "To ensure success, it is important that local communities have the resources and education to make realistic, financially sound investments in this fuel technology.
   "As we get closer to discussing what the next farm bill will look like, we need to keep in mind that any incentives or policy changes we make on the energy side do not come at the expense of food-based agriculture.
   "We need to think carefully about the law of unintended consequences. Specifically, we must consider how our commodity, conservation, and energy programs work together. Changing one title at the expense of another is not the answer.
   "Kansas is a leader in the biofuels industry. With seven operating ethanol plants, and several more on the way, we are growing closer to providing viable alternatives to traditional gasoline and diesel fuels.
   "I hope we can continue to develop the technology and resources needed to sustain this industry for the long term."
   Senator Roberts is a senior member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774.
 
 