SENS. BROWNBACK, ROBERTS: NATION SHOULD SHOWCASE HERITAGE OF BLEEDING KANSAS
  Sens. Pat Roberts (R-KS) and Sam Brownback (R-KS) today introduced legislation renewing their efforts to designate 24 counties in Eastern Kansas a National Heritage Area, showcasing the importance of the region?s contributions to the struggle for equality in the nation. 
   "By establishing the Bleeding Kansas and the Enduring Struggle for Freedom National Heritage Area," Senator Brownback said, "we will ensure that our history and the legacy of our state live on and remind the nation of the sacrifices and triumphs of Kansans. Kansas has always been at the forefront of the issues that forged this nation - battles over civil rights and slavery, education and national unity - and we are a nation united in freedom for all people."
   The legislation creates the Bleeding Kansas and the Enduring Struggle for Freedom National Heritage Area. It joins communities throughout eastern Kansas to document, preserve and celebrate Kansas' significant role in the political struggle that led to the Civil War and in other historic struggles for equality that took place in the state. 
   "Though far from the main campaigns, Bleeding Kansas became a prominent symbol in the fight for the freedom of all people, and the territory would become a battleground over the question of slavery," Senator Roberts said. "Almost 100 years later, Kansas was the battleground once again, as Oliver Brown fought to prove that separate among the people of this great nation is not equal. These are but two of the many stories that will make up this heritage area, marking an important era in our nation's history." 
   The Kansas delegation in the House of Representatives introduced a companion bill in the House again this year. 
   National Heritage Areas are regions in which residents, businesses, and local governments have joined together to conserve and celebrate heritage and special landscapes. Congress has established 24 National Heritage Areas around the country, in which conservation, interpretation and other activities are managed by partnerships among federal, state, and local governments and the private sector. 
   According to the National Park Service, each National Heritage Area is a settled landscape that tells the story of its residents. It is a landscape in which the land and the local environment, over time, have shaped traditions and cultural values in the people who live there, and where the residents' use of the land has, in turn, created and sustained a landscape that reflects their cultures. 
   Senators Brownback and Roberts' efforts echo the work done by the Lawrence City Commission, the Douglas County Commission, The Kansas State Historical Society, the Territorial Kansas Heritage Alliance and the Lawrence Chamber of Commerce, who are also working diligently on the federal heritage area designation.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little, 202/224-4774; Brian Hart, 202/224-6521.
 
 