SEN. ROBERTS: MISSION CLIFFS DEVELOPMENT TO HELP TRANSFORM SOUTHEASTERN WYANDOTTE COUNTY
  Sen. Pat Roberts today attended the dedication of the first phase of City Vision Ministries' Mission Cliffs project, a federal, local and private partnership to help bring quality housing and economic opportunity to Southeastern Wyandotte County. 
   "While we can be proud of the tremendous success and growth of Western Wyandotte County," Roberts said, "we must not forget the many opportunities which exist in the eastern end of the county. The longstanding commitments of General Motors, Environmental Protection Agency, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Unified Government, the University of Kansas Medical Center (KUMED), The University of Kansas Hospital (KU Hospital), and others have sustained Kansas City, Kansas for many years. 
   "Yet, for most of that time, attractive housing options eluded those wanting to work and live in Kansas City, Kansas."
   Local non-profit agencies and church organizations have stepped forward to create the type of housing that fosters the support services that transform a cluster of neighborhoods into a thriving community.
   One such organization is City Vision Ministries. In their 15 year history at Mission Cliffs, City Vision, under the leadership of John Harvey, has invested time, talent and considerable resources in revitalizing housing on the eastern side of Wyandotte County. From former drug houses to historic buildings, City Vision Ministries has created beautiful homes for an economically diverse clientele.
   The Mission Cliffs development is the first, high quality new housing development in the Rosedale community in nearly 40 years. The first phase of the development includes 47 single family attached town homes ranging in value from $180,000 to $240,000, as well as 19 single family free standing homes priced at market rate.
   "I am proud to have partnered with City Vision in transforming southeastern Wyandotte County. Through some hard work and a little luck, I was able to help secure about $500,000 in federal funds for Mission Cliffs for a portion of the infrastructure costs. The money was used to refurbish streets, gutters and sidewalks, the 'building block's' of any successful housing development," Roberts said.
   The second and third phases will complete the 115 home community, which is within walking distance of KUMED and the KU Hospital, two of Wyandotte County's largest employers.
   Contact: Sarah Ross Little and Molly Mueller, 202/224-4774.
 
 